FILE:HRB/HRB-8K-20060607164821.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20549
______________
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (date of earliest event reported): June 7, 2006
 
H&R BLOCK, INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in charter)
 
            
4400 Main Street, Kansas City, MO
      
64111
(Address of Principal Executive Offices)
                 
(Zip Code)
 
(816) 753-6900
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
 
Not Applicable
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
 
 
 
On June 7, 2006, the Company issued a press release regarding the Company's results of operations for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2006. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
H&R BLOCK, INC.
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
News Release
 
For Further Information
Linda McDougall, 816-932-7542,
Media Relations:
lmcdougall@hrblock.com
Scott Dudley, 816-932-8342,
Investor Relations:
scott.dudley@hrblock.com
 
 
H&R BLOCK REPORTS FOURTH QUARTER AND FISCAL YEAR RESULTS
 
Record Revenues for Quarter and Year;
Earnings Reduced by Lower Mortgage Results and Litigation Settlement Costs
 
Fiscal 2007 Earnings Guidance at $1.80 to $2.05 per Share
 
Board Increases Quarterly Dividend and Share Repurchase Authorization
 
FOR RELEASE June 7, 2006 4 p.m. EDT
 
KANSAS CITY, Mo.  H&R Block Inc. (NYSE: HRB) today reported that revenues increased 6 percent to $2.5 billion in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, and rose 10 percent to $4.9 billion for the fiscal year ended April 30. Both were records for the company.
 
Net income for the quarter was $587.5 million, or $1.77 per diluted share, including an after tax charge of $6.4 million, or 2 cents per share, for a previously announced restructuring of its mortgage operations to further lower the cost of origination in the coming year.
 
For the fiscal year, net income was $490.4 million, or $1.47 per diluted share. The results include after tax charges totaling $49.1 million, or 15 cents per diluted share, for the previously announced settlement of refund anticipation loan litigation and associated legal costs, and the mortgage restructuring.
 
"With significant industry change occurring in each of our three leading businesses, we demonstrated the importance of our multi-channel tax services strategy, took decisive action in our mortgage business, and emerged as the clear middle-market leader in business services," said Mark A. Ernst, chairman and chief executive officer.
 
"Our Tax Services business recovered from a poor start to the season to finish the year strongly, while positioning H&R Block for growth and leadership through coming industry change," Ernst said. "Mortgage Services maintained pricing discipline in the face of declining industry origination volumes and also lowered costs to help it
 
 
- more -
 
H&R Block Reports Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year Results/Page 2
 
 
compete in a more challenging environment this year. And RSM McGladrey, our Business Services operation, emerged as the clear leading alternative to the Big 4 accounting firms to serve middle-market companies in the United States."
 
Tax Services gained momentum in the digital market by serving 23 percent more clients, Ernst said, and in U.S. retail tax added 1,000 office locations to enhance client convenience and support future client growth. In Mortgage Services, as the industry shifts its focus from volume to cost-efficient origination and profit improvement, he noted that the company is maintaining its emphasis on delivering superior service at the same time it reduces loan origination costs.
 
Fiscal 2007 Outlook
 
The company announced that earnings per share for fiscal 2007 are expected to be in the range of $1.80 to $2.05. "We expect solid growth in both Tax Services and Business Services and a more stable environment for operating margins in Mortgage Services. In our newly created Consumer Financial Services segment, we expect continued significant improvement from H&R Block Financial Advisors and a meaningful contribution from the new H&R Block Bank," Ernst said. "Ultimately, our results will depend on strong execution in Tax Services and our ability to operate effectively in the volatile mortgage market as the interest rate environment often creates unpredictable operating and competitive challenges."
 
Board Actions
 
Reflecting the company's business outlook, the Board of Directors has approved an 8 percent increase in the quarterly cash dividend to 13.5 cents per share. The increase is effective with the dividend to be paid Oct. 2, 2006, to shareholders of record Sept. 11, 2006. This payment will be the company's 176
th
consecutive quarterly dividend and marks the ninth consecutive year of increase.
 
The Board also authorized the company to repurchase up to 20 million of its shares, in addition to the shares remaining on its June 2004 authorization.
 
"Given our strong cash generation ability, we continue to view dividends and share repurchases as important ways to return value to shareholders," Ernst said. In fiscal 2006 the company paid $160 million in dividends and repurchased approximately 9 million shares for $254 million.
 
Business Segment Performance
 
Tax Services
 
Revenues for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 increased nearly 4 percent to $1.8 billion, and for the full year were up 4 percent to $2.5 billion.
 
Pretax income rose more than 4 percent for the quarter to $883.5 million, but for the year decreased to $589.8 million, including a pretax charge of $70.2 million for litigation settlements and associated legal costs.
 
 
- more -
 
H&R Block Reports Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year Results/Page 3
 
 
Total clients served in H&R Block's U.S. retail and digital tax business grew 2.1 percent to 19.5 million for the 2006 fiscal year. Net average fee per retail client served increased 5.8 percent to $155.21.
 
"After early season challenges, we performed as anticipated in the second half of the tax season," Ernst said. "Retail office client growth in the second half demonstrated the strength of both the H&R Block brand and our people in serving the full range of client needs in the marketplace.
 
"We saw especially strong results during the fiscal year in digital tax, where we grew 23 percent in clients and gained market share," Ernst continued. "We also served a greater share of taxpayers in the Free File Alliance.
 
"H&R Block is the only firm that effectively allows clients to choose the type of service they need as their tax lives change," Ernst noted. "We've begun to see increased growth in the blending of digital services with tax professional assistance, an emerging market category in which H&R Block clearly leads."
 
H&R Block expanded its U.S. retail office network to 12,165 company-owned and franchise locations for the 2006 tax season, an increase of just over 1,000. "As competition for clients in the retail channel grows, our ability to meet client needs for convenience continues to be a distinct competitive priority for H&R Block," Ernst said.
 
Also contributing to this year's results were ongoing enhancements in client service, resulting in continued strength in reported client and price/value satisfaction. Strong performance by the international tax operations also benefited results.
 
Mortgage Services
 
In Mortgage Services  which included Option One Mortgage and H&R Block Mortgage in fiscal 2006  revenues declined 20 percent to $304.1 million in the fourth quarter versus last year and held steady at $1.2 billion for the year. Pretax income declined to $73.5 million in the fourth quarter and to $321.6 million for the year. The full year results include a pretax charge of $12.6 million for restructuring costs.
 
"The mortgage industry has slowed from its fast pace of recent years, largely because of rising interest rates and a softening U.S. housing market," Ernst said. "Our mortgage originations peaked during the first half of fiscal 2006. In step with the industry, our volumes seem to be settling in at lower, but more sustainable levels as we enter fiscal 2007." Loan origination volume of $8.3 billion for the fourth quarter was within the company's expected range of $8 billion to $9 billion.
 
"We're pleased with the progress we've made in lowering our cost of origination, and we're working to become even more cost effective," Ernst said. Consolidations have reduced office locations and staffing to further align capacity with volume. Option One and H&R Block Mortgage also are investing in technology to streamline and automate processes to reduce costs.
 
Net gain-on-sale gross margin improved to 2.10 percent in the fourth quarter versus1.86 percent in the third quarter, as loan sale premiums strengthened. For the
 
- more -
 
H&R Block Reports Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year Results/Page 4
 
year, net gain-on-sale gross margin declined to 1.76 percent, and total gain on sales dropped to $714 million. Cost of origination improved to 1.96 percent for the quarter versus 2.12 percent during the 2006 third quarter, and to 1.91 percent for the year versus 2.23 percent during 2005.
 
Option One's mortgage servicing portfolio was $73 billion at the end of the fiscal year, up from a year ago, but off slightly from the end of the third quarter. For the year, servicing contributed revenues of $399 million and pretax income of $76 million.
 
The company realized a net write-up to residuals of $35.3 million for fiscal 2006, including a net write-down of $3.7 million in the fourth quarter, which was recorded in other comprehensive income, net of deferred taxes. The company also recorded $34 million of impairments for the year, which is recorded as a reduction in gains on sales of mortgage assets in the income statement.
 
Business Services
 
Business Services revenues increased 72 percent to $347.8 million for the fourth quarter and improved 53 percent for the year to $877.3 million. The American Express Tax and Business Services unit (Amex TBS) acquired effective Oct. 1, 2005, contributed $135.1 million to revenues for the quarter and $251.3 million for the year.
 
Pretax income rose 63 percent for the quarter to $63.3 million and climbed 79 percent for the year to $53.4 million. Excluding Amex TBS, pretax income was down 4 percent for the quarter and up 24 percent for the year.
 
"Adding Amex TBS to our RSM McGladrey business made us the clear leading accounting, tax and consulting firm serving midsized companies, and the combination has been delivering both the financial and early strategic benefits we expected," Ernst said. "At the same time, revenues are growing rapidly in our emerging wealth management and financial process outsourcing businesses, and we continue to invest in their potential."
 
RSM McGladrey will announce tomorrow morning that it has entered into an agreement to create affiliate tax, accounting and business services offices in Germany, the United Kingdom, Russia, mainland China, Poland, Hungary, Romania and the Czech Republic. The agreement creates RSM McGladrey UK Ltd., a wholly owned international consulting subsidiary that provides the foundation for global tax and cross-border transaction support. It is a collaboration with RSM Hemmelrath Gruppe, a legal and tax firm based in Munich, Germany. Like RSM McGladrey, it is a member of the RSM International affiliation of separate and independent legal entities.
 
"The needs of middle-market businesses increasingly require the sophisticated tax and global capabilities that RSM McGladrey has been providing through its RSM International affiliation. This transaction will strengthen our ability to ensure that clients receive the quality service they need as their businesses become more interconnected globally," said Ernst. Terms of the transaction will not be disclosed.
 
Investment Services
 
- more -
 
H&R Block Reports Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year Results/Page 5
 
 
Revenues for Investment Services rose 10 percent for the quarter to $76.8 million and increased over 20 percent for the year to $288 million.
 
The business achieved its fifth consecutive quarter of improvement over the prior-year period, reducing its pretax loss by 33 percent to $9.7 million. The annual loss of $32.8 million was less than half of the prior year (down 56 percent) and includes $36.6 million of intangible amortization.
 
"H&R Block Financial Advisors delivered the kind of year we were expecting," Ernst said. "We saw the benefits from a 2005 reorganization, as well as our cost management discipline and initiatives to increase advisor productivity."
 
Ernst noted that Investment Services has become part of the new Consumer Financial Services business segment that H&R Block established after year end. "In fiscal 2007, we are bringing together three businesses  H&R Block Financial Advisors, H&R Block Mortgage and the new H&R Block Bank  that offer complementary financial services and products to consumers under the H&R Block brand."
 
H&R Block Bank began operations May 1, with headquarters and its single branch location in Kansas City. By providing essential, affordable banking products and services to clients who currently have limited access, the bank will help differentiate H&R Block in the consumer marketplace. It will also serve as an in-house depositary for certain assets belonging to H&R Block and its subsidiaries.
 
Conference Call
H&R Block will host a conference call for analysts, institutional investors and shareholders at 5 p.m. EDT (4 p.m. CDT) on Wednesday, June 7. Mark Ernst and William L. Trubeck, executive vice president and chief financial officer, will discuss the quarter and year-end results and future expectations, as well as respond to analysts' questions. To access the call, please dial the number below approximately five to 10 minutes prior to the scheduled starting time:
The call will be webcast in a listen-only format for the media and public. The link to the webcast can be obtained at . Supplemental financial and statistical information will be available in connection with the webcast, or can be accessed directly on H&R Block's Investor Relations Web site at following close of the NYSE market.
www.hrblock.com
www.hrblock.com/about/investor
A replay of the call will be available beginning at 6 p.m. EDT June 7 and continuing until 12 a.m. EDT June 16, by dialing (800) 642-1687 (U.S./Canada) or (706) 645-9291 (International). The replay access code is 2013276. A replay of the webcast will also be available on the company's Web site at
www.hrblock.com/about/investor
.
 
 
 
- more -
 
H&R Block Reports Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year Results/Page 6
 
 
Except for historical information contained herein, the matters set forth in this press release are forward-looking statements based upon current information and expectations.  Such statements speak only as of the date on which they are made, are not guarantees of future performance, and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially from what is expressed, implied or forecast in such forward-looking statements. 
 
Such differences could be caused by a number of factors, including, but not limited to: the uncertainty that the company will achieve or exceed its revenue, earnings, and earnings-per-share growth goals or expectations for fiscal year 2007; the uncertainty of the company's ability to purchase shares of its common stock pursuant to the board's authorization; the uncertainty of the effect of any share repurchases upon the company and its shareholders; changes in interest rates; changes in the company's effective income tax rate; changes in economic, political or regulatory environments; changes in competition; litigation involving the company and its subsidiaries; and risks described from time to time in reports and registration statements filed by H&R Block Inc. and its subsidiaries with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Readers should take these factors into account in evaluating such forward-looking statements.
 
About H&R Block
H&R Block Inc. (NYSE: HRB) is a leading provider of tax, financial, mortgage, accounting and business consulting services and products. H&R Block is the world's largest tax services provider, having prepared more than 400 million tax returns since 1955. The company and its subsidiaries generated revenues of $4.9 billion and net income of $490 million in fiscal year
2006. In fiscal year 2007, it is operating in four principal business segments: Tax Services (income tax preparation and advice via in-office, online and software solutions); Mortgage Services (wholesale mortgage originations and loan servicing); Consumer Financial Services (investment and financial advisory services, retail mortgage loans, and banking products and services); and Business Services (tax, accounting and consulting services for midsized businesses). Headquartered in Kansas City, Mo., H&R Block markets its services and products under three leading brands  H&R Block, Option One and RSM McGladrey. For more information visit our Online Press Center at . 
www.hrblock.com
 
(Tables Follow)
 
 
- more -
 
 
 
 
KEY OPERATING RESULTS
Unaudited, amounts in thousands, except per share data
 
 
 
 
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
On June 8, 2005, our Board of Directors declared a two-for-one stock split of the Company's Common Stock in the form of a 100% stock distribution, effective August 22, 2005, to shareholders of record as of the close of business on August 1, 2005. All share and per share amounts have been adjusted to reflect the retroactive effect of the stock split.
Basic earnings per share is based on the weighted average number of shares outstanding. The dilutive effect of potential common shares is included in diluted earnings per share except in those periods with a loss.
Certain reclassifications have been made to prior year amounts to conform to the current period presentation. These reclassifications had no effect on the results of operations or stockholders' equity as previously reported.
 
 
 
 
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
Unaudited, amounts in thousands, except share data
 
 
 
 
 
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
Unaudited, amounts in thousands
 
 
 
 
 
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS
Unaudited, amounts in thousands, except per share data
 
 
 
 
 
 
SELECTED OPERATING DATA
Unaudited
 
(1)
Represents non-prime production only.
 
 
(2)
Includes only trades on which revenues are earned ("revenue trades"). Revenues, defined as trading revenues, are earned on both transactional and annuitized trades.
(3)
Calculated as trading revenues divided by revenue trades.
(4)
Includes only accounts with a positive period-end balance.
 
 
 
 
 
U.S. TAX OPERATING DATA
 
(1)
Prior year numbers have not been reclassified between company-owned and franchise offices for offices which commenced company-owned operations during fiscal year 2006.
(2)
Includes federal Taxcut software units sold, online completed and paid federal returns, and paid state returns and e-filings only when no payment was made for a federal return.
(3)
Calculated as gross tax preparation and related fees divided by clients served.
(4)
Calculated as gross tax preparation and related fees less coupons and discounts, divided by clients served.
(5)
Shared office locations include offices located within Wal-Mart, Sears and other third-party businesses.
 
 
 
 


