FILE:HRB/HRB-8K-20070222171553.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20549
______________
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (date of earliest event reported): February 22, 2007
 
H&R BLOCK, INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in charter)
 
One H&R Block Way, Kansas City, MO 64105
(Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code)
 
(816) 854-3000
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
 
Not Applicable
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
Item 2.02.
  
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On February 22, 2007, H&R Block, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release regarding the Company's results of operations for the fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2007. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
H&R BLOCK, INC.
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 

 
For Further Information
Investor Relations:
Scott Dudley, 816-854-4505,
scott.dudley@hrblock.com
 
H&R BLOCK ANNOUNCES FISCAL 2007 THIRD QUARTER RESULTS
 
Strong Start to Tax Season Drives 11 Percent Consolidated Revenue Growth
 
Sale Process for Mortgage Business Proceeding as Planned; Mortgage Results Reported as Discontinued Operations
 
FOR RELEASE Feb. 22, 2007 4:00 p.m. EST
 
KANSAS CITY, Mo.  H&R Block Inc. (NYSE: HRB) today reported earnings from continuing operations of $25.0 million, or 8 cents per basic and diluted share, for the fiscal 2007 third quarter ended Jan. 31, compared with a loss from continuing operations of $30.2 million, or 9 cents per share, in the year-ago quarter. The prior period included an after-tax charge of $43.3 million, or 13 cents per share, for litigation settlement and associated legal costs.
 
Revenues from continuing operations rose 11 percent in the quarter to $955.1 million from $860.3 million in the prior-year period, driven by solid gains in the Tax Services segment and strong performance in Consumer Financial Services.
 
"Our tax businesses started the season strongly with a 13 percent growth in total retail and digital clients served through Jan. 31, 2007. We achieved solid gains in each of these businesses," said Mark A. Ernst, chairman and chief executive officer. "The outstanding early success of the new H&R Block Emerald Prepaid MasterCard
contributed to strong results in our Consumer Financial Services segment."
 
H&R Block has progressed as planned in the process announced last November to evaluate strategic alternatives, including a sale, for its Option One Mortgage business. The company expects to announce the results of the process in March. Consistent with this progress, mortgage results have been reported as discontinued operations. For the fiscal 2007 third quarter, discontinued operations posted a loss of $69.7 million, or 22 cents per share, compared with earnings of $42.4 million, or 13 cents per share, for the same period a year ago.
 
The loss from discontinued operations reflects an increase in loan loss reserves of approximately $111 million, with approximately $93 million of the reserves related to loans originated in previous quarters, due primarily to increases in the company's
 
- more -
H&R Block Announces Fiscal 2007 Third Quarter Results/page 2
 
estimated loss severity assumption. Despite the increase in reserves, early payment default trends improved reflecting the company's efforts to tighten underwriting criteria. The 30-day first payment default rate at January 31 was 3.13 percent, down from 3.83 percent at October 31.
 
"First payment default rates are the best we've seen since June of last year," Ernst said. "We view this as a good early indicator that actions taken at Option One are improving overall loan quality and payment characteristics. During the course of the sales process, we have continued to make decisions for the business that we believe will best position it for long-term success."
 
Net loss for the third quarter of fiscal 2007 was $44.7 million, or 14 cents per share, compared with net earnings of $12.1 million, or 4 cents per share, a year ago.
 
For the nine months ended Jan. 31, 2007, H&R Block reported a net loss from continuing operations of $229.0 million, or 71 cents per share, versus a net loss from continuing operations of $252.5 million, or 77 cents per share, in the prior-year period. Discontinued operations posted a net loss of $103.5 million, or 32 cents per share, versus net income of $155.3 million, or 47 cents per share.
 
Consolidated net loss for the nine months just ended was $332.5 million, or $1.03 per share, versus a net loss of $97.1 million, or 30 cents per share, in the prior-year period. Nine-month revenues from continuing operations increased 19 percent to $1.7 billion in fiscal 2007 from $1.4 billion in the same period of fiscal 2006.
 
Tax Services
 
Third quarter fiscal 2007 revenues rose 15 percent to $628.1 million from $548.5 million in the prior-year period. Pretax earnings of $59.3 million compared with a loss of $6.3 million in last fiscal year's third quarter, which included a pretax charge of $71.7 million for litigation settlement and related legal costs.
 
Third quarter 2007 revenues and earnings reflect strong client growth, increased net average retail fees and the impact of a new agreement with lending partner HSBCNorth America. Current year quarterly earnings also reflect the incremental costs of opening offices early and adding 330 locations to the office network, an increase in marketing activity, and costs to establish and launch the company's early season Instant Money Advance Loan (IMAL) product.
 
"We've done well in executing our strategy to regain leadership in the early tax season," Ernst said. "The combination of market leading early season loan products, H&R Block Bank's Emerald Card, timely opening of tax offices and outstanding execution in the early season have combined for a good start to our tax season.
 
"H&R Block Bank's Emerald Card provides our clients a lower-cost bank account opened for free and helps many clients lower the cost of receiving their tax refunds. We expect to double our original target of opening 1 million bank accounts this tax season," Ernst said.
 
- more -
H&R Block Announces Fiscal 2007 Third Quarter Results/page 3
 
For the third quarter ended Jan. 31, 2007, the company's 14 percent gain in total retail clients versus the prior-year period includes some clients who have taken an early season loan but have not yet returned for tax preparation. Adjusting for those early season clients yet to return for tax services after January 31, normalized retail client growth would be approximately 7 percent.
 
For the first nine months of fiscal 2007, revenues grew 13 percent to $776.2 million from $686.5 million last fiscal year. A pretax loss of $261.3 million compared with a loss of $293.7 million in the year-ago period, which included the previously mentioned $71.7 million pretax charge.
 
Consumer Financial Services
 
The Consumer Financial Services segment includes H&R Block Financial Advisors and H&R Block Bank. The segment's continuing operations had third quarter revenues of $107.5 million versus $73.2 million last year. The segment earned pretax income for the quarter of $11.0 million compared with a pretax loss of $7.7 million in the year ago period, reflecting the operation of H&R Block Bank effective May 1, 2006, and a swing to profitability by H&R Block Financial Advisors.
 
"We've had noteworthy improvement in Consumer Financial Services," Ernst said. "We expect to continue on the path of improvement as Financial Advisors delivers results in line with its business plan and the Bank grows further."
 
H&R Block Financial Advisors experienced an 18 percent increase in average advisor productivity versus prior year. Despite a challenging advisor recruiting environment, Ernst said, retention of recently recruited advisors is up substantially.
 
"In the third quarter, H&R Block Bank continued to grow its deposits and investments, while playing a major role in our initiative to open low-cost bank accounts for tax clients," Ernst said.
 
For the segment during the first nine months of fiscal 2007, revenues from continuing operations advanced to $267.9 million from $211.2 million in the fiscal 2006 period. Pretax earnings from continuing operations of $5.6 million in the 2007 period compared with a pretax loss of $23.1 million in the prior-year period.
 
Business Services
 
Business Services revenues declined 8 percent to $215.9 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2007 from $235.8 million a year earlier. Revenues were down slightly from last year after adjusting for the integration of certain audit and attest businesses, obtained through the fiscal 2006 acquisition of American Express Tax and Business Services, into an affiliated and unconsolidated entity. The shift had no impact on earnings.
 
The segment's pretax loss of $1.4 million in the fiscal 2007 third quarter compared with a $1.0 million loss a year ago. The current quarter results include incremental spending to build awareness of the RSM McGladrey brand and continued
 
- more -
H&R Block Announces Fiscal 2007 Third Quarter Results/page 4
 
losses in several extended businesses, which the company plans to exit, outside the core tax and accounting operations.
 
Nine-month revenues increased to $650.1 million from $529.5 million in last year's period. The fiscal year-to-date pretax loss was $34.7 million versus a loss of $9.9 million in the prior-year period. The larger loss reflects losses in the extended businesses, the seasonality of RSM McGladrey's tax and accounting operations, and higher off-season costs from growth in the overall size of the business.
 
Dividend Approved
 
H&R Block's board of directors yesterday approved a quarterly cash dividend of 13.5 cents per share, payable April 2, 2007, to shareholders of record March 12, 2007. The payment will be the company's 178 consecutive quarterly dividend.
th
 
Other
 
Income taxes for continuing operations in the third quarter of fiscal 2007 included benefits of $5.7 million related to an investment in a foreign subsidiary and a net $7.9 million for routine adjustments of tax reserves and accruals.
 
Pretax loss from corporate and eliminations increased to $50.0 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2007 from $30.0 million in the year-earlier period due to higher interest expense, legal costs, and other costs primarily related to compensation and benefits.
 
During the first nine months of fiscal 2007, the company reacquired 8.5 million shares of its common stock at a total cost of $188.6 million, or an average purchase price of $22.27 per share.
 
The company anticipates that fiscal 2007 earnings from continuing operations will range from $1.15 to $1.25 per share.
 
Conference Call
 
H&R Block will host a conference call for analysts, institutional investors and shareholders at 5 p.m. EST (4 p.m. CST) on Thursday, Feb. 22. Mark Ernst, chairman and chief executive officer, and Bill Trubeck, executive vice president and chief financial officer, will discuss third quarter results and future expectations as well as respond to analysts' questions. To access the call, please dial the number below approximately five to 10 minutes prior to the scheduled starting time:
 
 
The call will be webcast in a listen-only format for the media and public. The link to the webcast can be obtained at www.hrblock.com. A supporting slide presentation will be available in connection with the webcast and can be accessed directly on H&R Block's Investor Relations Web site, at www.hrblock.com, by clicking on Company, then Block Investors.
 
- more -
H&R Block Announces Fiscal 2007 Third Quarter Results/page 5
 
 
A replay of the call will be available beginning at 6 p.m. EST Feb. 22 and continuing until 12:00 p.m. EST March 9, 2007, by dialing (888) 286-8010 (U.S./Canada) or (617) 801-6888 (International). The replay access code is 80868899. A replay of the webcast will also be available on the company's Web site at
www.hrblock.com
.
 
Forward Looking Statement
The information contained in this press release may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such statements are based upon current information and management's expectations regarding the company, speak only as of the date on which they are made, are not guarantees of future performance, and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual outcomes and results could materially differ from what
is expressed, implied or forecast in such forward-looking statements.
 
Such differences could be caused by a number of factors including, but not limited to, the uncertainty of the entry by the company into an agreement regarding any sale or public market alternative involving the separation of Option One Mortgage Corp.; the uncertainty regarding the completion of any such transaction; the uncertainty that the
company will achieve or exceed its revenue, earnings, and earnings-per-share growth goals or expectations for fiscal year 2007; the uncertainty of the number of clients who obtained an IMAL who will return to H&R Block for tax return preparation services; the uncertainty of the company's ability to purchase shares of its common stock pursuant to the board of directors' authorization; the uncertainty of the impact and effect of changes in the non-prime mortgage market, including changes in interest rates, loan origination volume and levels of early payment defaults and resulting loan repurchases; changes in the company's effective income tax rate; litigation involving the company and its subsidiaries; changes in market, economic, political or regulatory environments; changes in management and strategies; and risks described from time to time in reports and statements filed by the company and its subsidiaries with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
About H&R Block
H&R Block Inc. (NYSE: HRB) is a leading provider of tax, financial, and accounting and business consulting services and products.  H&R Block is the world's largest tax services provider, having prepared more than 400 million tax returns since 1955.  The company and its subsidiaries generated revenues of $3.6 billion and net income of $287 million from continuing operations in fiscal year 2006.  The company currently operates in three principal business segments: Tax Services (income tax preparation and advice via in-office, online and software solutions); Business Services (accounting, tax and business consulting services for midsized companies); and Consumer Financial Services (investment and financial advisory services and banking services). Headquartered in Kansas City, Mo., H&R Block markets its continuing services and products under two leading brands  H&R Block and RSM McGladrey.  For more information visit our Online Press Center at
www.hrblock.com
.
 
Tables follow
 
- more -
 
 
 
KEY OPERATING RESULTS
Unaudited, amounts in thousands, except per share data
 
 
 
 
 
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Basic earnings per share is based on the weighted average number of shares outstanding. The dilutive effect of potential common shares is included in diluted earnings per share except in those periods with a loss from continuing operations.
Certain reclassifications have been made to prior year amounts to conform to the current period presentation. These reclassifications had no effect on the consolidated results of operations or stockholders' equity as previously reported.
In March 2006, the Office of Thrift Supervision approved the charter of H&R Block Bank. The bank commenced operations on May 1, 2006, at which time we realigned our segments to reflect a new management reporting structure.
On November 6, 2006 we announced we would evaluate strategic alternatives for Option One Mortgage Corporation (OOMC), including a possible sale or other transaction through the public markets. As of January 31, 2007, we have met the criteria to present the assets and liabilities of OOMC and H&R Block Mortgage Corporation (HRBMC) as "held for sale" and their financial results as discontinued operations in the condensed consolidated financial statements for all periods presented.
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
Amounts in thousands, except share data
 
 
 
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS
Unaudited, amounts in thousands, except per share data
 
 
 
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
Unaudited, amounts in thousands
 
 
 
 
SELECTED OPERATING DATA
Unaudited
 
 
 
Includes only accounts with a positive period-end balance.
(1)
Non-interest expenses divided by total revenue less interest expense. See reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures.
(2)
Annualized net interest revenue divided by average assets. See reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures.
(3)
Annualized pretax banking income divided by average assets. See reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures.
(4)
 
RECONCILIATION OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
Unaudited, dollars in thousands
 
 
 
 
Preliminary U.S. Tax Operating Data
 
 
 
Gross tax preparation and related fees less coupons and discounts.
(1)
Prior year numbers have been reclassified between company-owned and franchise offices for offices which
(2)
Tax preparation clients for which revenue was earned plus Instant Money Advance Loan (IMAL) clients.
(3)
Calculated as the percentage change in tax preparation clients for which revenue was earned and an estimate of IMAL clients
(4)
Calculated as net tax preparation and related fees divided by retail tax preparation and related clients served.
(5)
 
 
 


