FILE:HRB/HRB-8K-20100308161458.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02.                      Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On March 8, 2010, the Company issued a press release regarding the Companys results of operations for the fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2010.  A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 9.01.                      Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
                     
Exhibit 99.1 
Press Release Issued March 8, 2010.

Exhibit 99.1
 
News Release
 
H&R Block Reports Fiscal 2010 Third Quarter Results
For Immediate Release March 8, 2010
KANSAS CITY, Mo.  H&R Block, Inc. (NYSE: HRB) today reported consolidated net income for the fiscal third quarter ended Jan. 31, 2010 of $50.6 million, or 15 cents per share, up 6.9 percent from the prior period of $47.4 million.  Third quarter revenues declined 5.9 percent to $934.9 million, primarily driven by fewer tax returns prepared. Income from continuing operations of $53.6 million, or $0.16 per share, fell 19.8 percent from $66.8 million, or $0.20 per share, in the prior year period.
1
While we are disappointed with our early results this tax season, we remain committed to improving our performance as the remainder of the season unfolds.  We expect to outperform our competitors regardless of the external factors like unemployment rates, but we have not done so to-date, said Russ Smyth, President and Chief Executive Officer of H&R Block. We continue to believe that our focus on increasing client satisfaction, improving the quality of our service, enhancing our value perception and continuing to reduce our cost structure is the right formula for success, added Mr. Smyth.
Tax Services
Total segment revenues fell 6.2 percent year-over-year to $747.7 million, primarily reflecting a 7.1 percent decline in total retail tax returns prepared.  Pretax income of $131.2 million for the third quarter was essentially flat compared with pretax income of $133.5 million a year ago, despite the decline in revenues.
Interim Tax Results through Feb. 28
 
1
 
All per share amounts are based on fully diluted shares
 
 
 
Based upon various industry-wide sources, the company believes that total IRS filings are down 4 to 5 percent through Feb. 28, partially due to weather-related slowness in February.  The company anticipates that by the end of the tax season total IRS filings will decline approximately 2.5 to 3.5 percent over the prior year, or only approximately half the rate of decline seen in the period through Feb. 28.  However, this decline would nonetheless be nearly double the companys original estimate of lower returns.
The shift from assisted preparation to internet based or other do-it-yourself (DIY) tax preparation methods has accelerated in the early part of this tax season compared with previous years.  Historically late season filers, who tend to have higher incomes, have shifted to DIY at a slower rate than early season filers.
For the fiscal 2010 tax season through Feb. 28, the companys same-office tax returns prepared in retail operations fell 6.8 percent compared to the prior-year period.  Total retail tax returns prepared through Feb. 28 were down 9.4 percent.
Digital returns prepared by H&R Block were down 4.4 percent, although online returns grew 2.5 percent.  The aggregate number of digital returns including the Free File Alliance fell 3.8 percent. Software-based returns declined by 12.1 percent due to the companys decision to exit two unprofitable distribution channels.
2
Total tax preparation revenues through Feb. 28 fell $124.1 million, or 7.1 percent over the comparable period in 2009.  This reflects a 9.4 percent decline in total retail returns prepared, partially offset by the impact of an increase of 2.4 percent in net average fees per retail return.
Our initiatives to improve service levels have resulted in stabilizing client retention levels through February after years of steady declines.  However, our efforts to drive new client growth so far this year have not met our expectations, said Mr. Smyth. We are focused on improving our top line results for the remainder of the year, while we continue to reduce expenses. We have already demonstrated an ability to reduce our cost structure without negatively affecting client experience, and we believe we can continue to do even more in the future, added Mr. Smyth.
RSM McGladrey
RSM McGladrey (RSM) reported a third quarter pretax loss of $11.2 million compared to pretax income of $10.7 million a year ago.  The largest component of this change was due to a $15.0 million goodwill impairment related to RSMs capital markets business.
Third quarter revenues fell $6.7 million, or 3.6 percent, compared to the prior year period.  The drop in revenues mainly stems from the impact of the overall weak economic environment, which continues to pressure billable rates and hours within the industry.
 
2
 
Digital returns consist of online and desktop software products, excluding Free File Alliance returns.
 
 
 
In February, RSM and McGladrey & Pullen, LLP entered into new definitive agreements concerning their alternative practice structure, which renewed the long-standing business relationship between these two firms.  This ends an uncertain period that had adversely affected RSMs ability to participate in proposals for new client engagements. RSM also incurred legal and consulting expenses related to these negotiations of $3.3 million in the third quarter and $6.2 million fiscal year-to-date.
Corporate
Corporate operations includes corporate support department costs, such as finance and legal, as well as net interest margin and other gains/losses associated with H&R Block Banks declining mortgage portfolio.  For the third quarter ended Jan. 31, 2010, Corporate operations reported a pretax loss of $22.5 million, compared to a loss of $42.4 million in the prior year.  This represented an improvement of nearly 47 percent. Reduced expenses in the fiscal third quarter included reductions in self-insured liabilities, lower interest expense on corporate borrowings and reduced loss provisions on mortgage loans held for investment.
 
Share Repurchases and Financing Developments
 
The company repurchased and retired 6.8 million shares during the third quarter at an aggregate price of $150.0 million.  On March 4, the Company closed a new $1.7 billion committed line of credit (CLOC) with a consortium of banks led by Bank of America, N.A., Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. and BNP Paribas.  This facility replaces the companys prior aggregate $2 billion CLOCs and will mature in July, 2013.  The $650 million quarter-end net worth covenant remains unchanged.  Full details concerning the terms of the new CLOC will be included in the companys Form 10-Q for the third quarter of fiscal 2010. 
Conference Call
At 4:30 p.m. EST today, the company will host its fiscal third quarter conference call for analysts, institutional investors and shareholders.  To access the call, please dial the number below approximately five to 10 minutes prior to the scheduled starting time:
U.S./Canada (877) 247-6355 or International (706) 679-0371
Conference ID: 57298613
The call also will be webcast in a listen-only format for the media and public.  The link to the webcast can be accessed directly at .
http://investor-relations.hrblock.com
A replay of the call will be available beginning at 6 p.m. EST on March 8, and continuing until March 30, by dialing (800) 642-1687 (U.S./Canada) or (706) 645-9291 (international).  The conference ID is 57298613  The webcast will be available for replay beginning on March 9 at
.
http://investor-relations.hrblock.com
 
 
 
Forward Looking Statements
This announcement may contain forward-looking statements, which are any statements that are not historical facts. These forward-looking statements, as well as the Companys guidance, are based upon the Companys current expectations and there can be no assurance that such expectations will prove to be correct. Because forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties and speak only as of the date on which they are made, the Companys actual results could differ materially from these statements. These risks and uncertainties relate to, among other things, uncertainties regarding the Companys ability to attract and retain clients; meet its prepared returns targets; uncertainties and potential contingent liabilities arising from our former mortgage loan origination and servicing business; uncertainties in the residential mortgage market and its impact on loan loss provisions; uncertainties pertaining to the commercial debt market; competitive factors; the Companys effective income tax rate; litigation; uncertainties regarding the level of share repurchases; and changes in market, economic, political or regulatory conditions. Information concerning these risks and uncertainties is contained in Item 1A of the Companys 2009 annual report on Form 10-K and in other filings by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company does not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
About H&R Block
 
H&R Block Inc. (NYSE: HRB) is the worlds preeminent tax services provider, having prepared more than 500 million tax returns since 1955. In fiscal 2009, H&R Block had annual revenues of $4.1 billion and prepared more than 24 million tax returns worldwide, utilizing more than 100,000 highly trained tax professionals. The Company provides tax return preparation services in person, through H&R Block At Home online and desktop software products, and through other channels. The Company is also one of the leading providers of business services through RSM McGladrey. For more information, visit our Online Press Center at .
www.hrblock.com
 
For Further Information
                             
Investor Relations
Derek Drysdale, 816. 854.4513,
derek.drysdale@hrblock.com
                                Gene King, 816.854.4672,
Media Relations
gene.king@hrblock.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     Basic earnings per share is computed using the two-class method and is based on the weighted average number of shares outstanding.  The dilutive effect of potential common shares is included in diluted earnings per share, except in those periods with a loss from continuing operations.
     Certain reclassifications have been made to prior year amounts to conform to the current year presentation. Effective May 1, 2009, we realigned certain segments of our business to reflect a new management reporting structure. The operations of H&R Block Bank, which were previously reported as the Consumer Financial Services segment, have now been reclassified, with activities that support our retail tax network included in the Tax Services segment, and income and expenses of our static portfolio of mortgage loans held for investment and related assets included in Corporate. These reclassifications had no effect on our total operating expenses, results of operations or stockholders equity as previously reported.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


