FILE:HRB/HRB-8K-20120905161225.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02.                      Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On September 5, 2012, the Company issued a press release regarding the Companys results of operations for the fiscal quarter ended July 31, 2012.  A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 9.01.                      Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
                      
Exhibit 99.1
Press Release Issued September 5, 2012.

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
News Release
For Immediate Release: Sept. 5, 2012
H&R Blocks Net Loss From Continuing Operations Improves 11 Percent; Improves 6 Percent on Adjusted Basis
KANSAS CITY, Mo.  H&R Block, Inc. (NYSE: HRB) today announced financial results for its fiscal first quarter ended July 31, 2012.  The company typically reports a first quarter operating loss due to the seasonality of its core U.S. tax business.
First Quarter 2013 Highlights
1
First Quarter Results  From Continuing Operations
 
*Adjusted amounts and EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) are non-GAAP financial measures.  See About Non-GAAP Financial Measures below for more information regarding financial measures not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
Company Perspective
During the second half of fiscal 2012, we completed a thorough review of our organization and made some difficult decisions to reduce our cost structure and to
 
1
 
Unless otherwise noted, all growth rates refer to the current period compared to the prior year period.
 
2
 
All per share amounts are based on fully diluted shares.
 
 
 
drive efficiency, said Bill Cobb, H&R Blocks President and CEO. The improvement in our first quarter results and lower operating expenses in part reflects the impact of our cost reduction initiatives.  We expect these initiatives will add $85 to $100 million of pretax earnings in fiscal 2013, leading to earnings and margin expansion.
Business Segment Results and Highlights
Tax Services
Corporate
 
Discontinued Operations
 
 
Share Repurchases
As previously announced on June 26, 2012, the company repurchased and retired 21.3 million shares during the first quarter at an aggregate price of $315 million, or $14.82 per share. At July 31, 2012, 271 million shares were outstanding compared to 306 million shares outstanding at July 31, 2011.
 
Dividends
A previously announced quarterly cash dividend of 20 cents per share is payable on October 1, 2012 to shareholders of record as of September 14, 2012.  The October 1 payment marks the 50th anniversary of H&R Blocks first dividend payment and represents its 200th consecutive quarterly dividend since the company went public in
 
 
 
1962. H&R Block has paid a total of $3.5 billion in dividends to shareholders since 1962.
 
Im very proud to be affiliated with a company which has a long track record of returning capital to shareholders, added Cobb.  Since Henry and Richard Bloch took the company public 50 years ago, the resiliency and consistency of our business has allowed us to generate substantial free cash flow, and that has enabled us to continue this dividend streak.  We expect to deliver appropriate returns of capital to shareholders for many years to come.
Conference Call
 
At 4:30 p.m. Eastern today, the company will host a conference call for analysts, institutional investors and shareholders. To access the call, please dial the number below approximately 5 to 10 minutes prior to the scheduled starting time:
 
U.S./Canada (877) 809-6980 or International (706) 758-0071
 
Conference ID: 20280160
 
The call will also be webcast in a listen-only format for the media and public. The link to the webcast can be accessed directly at .
http://investors.hrblock.com
 
A replay of the call will be available beginning at 6:30 p.m. Eastern on September 5 and continuing until October 5, 2012, by dialing (855) 859-2056 (U.S./Canada) or (404) 537-3406 (International). The conference ID is 20280160. The webcast will be available for replay beginning on September 7 at.
 
http://investors.hrblock.com
 
About H&R Block
H&R Block, Inc. (NYSE: HRB) is the worlds largest tax services provider, having prepared more than 600 million tax returns worldwide since 1955.  In fiscal 2012, H&R Block had annual revenues of $2.9 billion and prepared 25.6 million tax returns worldwide. Tax return preparation services are provided in company-owned and franchise retail tax offices by nearly 100,000 professional tax preparers, and through H&R Block At Home digital products. H&R Block Bank provides affordable banking products and services. For more information, visit the .
H&R Block Online Press Center
About Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This press release and the accompanying tables include non-GAAP financial measures. For a description of these non-GAAP financial measures, including the reasons management uses each measure, and reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, please see the section of the accompanying tables titled "About Non-GAAP Financial Measures.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the securities laws. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. They often include words or variation of words such as expects, anticipates, intends, plans, believes, seeks, estimates, projects, forecasts, targets, would, will, should, could or may or other similar expressions.  Forward-looking statements provide management's
 
 
 
current expectations or predictions of future conditions, events or results. All statements that address operating performance, events or developments that we expect or anticipate will occur in the future are forward-looking statements.  They may include estimates of revenues, income, earnings per share, capital expenditures, dividends, liquidity, capital structure or other financial items, descriptions of managements plans or objectives for future operations, products or services, or descriptions of assumptions underlying any of the above. All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made and reflect the Companys good faith beliefs, assumptions and expectations, but they are not guarantees of future performance or events. Furthermore, the Company disclaims any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement to reflect changes in underlying assumptions, factors, or expectations, new information, data or methods, future events or other changes, except as required by law. By their nature, forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited to, a variety of economic, competitive and regulatory factors, many of which are beyond the Companys control and which are described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2012 in the section entitled Risk Factors, as well as additional factors we may describe from time to time in other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors and, consequently, you should not consider any such list to be a complete set of all potential risks or uncertainties.
For Further Information
Investor Relations:
                  Derek Drysdale, (816) 854-4513, derek.drysdale@hrblock.com
Media Relations:
                      Gene King(816) 854-4672, gene.king@hrblock.com
,
 
 
 
 
 
KEY OPERATING RESULTS
Unaudited, amounts in thousands, except per share data
 
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
     Basic earnings per share is computed using the two-class method and is based on the weighted average number of shares outstanding.  The dilutive effect of potential common shares is included in diluted earnings per share, except in those periods with a loss from continuing operations.
     Our discontinued operations consist of our former Business Services segment and Sand Canyon Corporation, previously known as Option One Mortgage Corporation, and its subsidiaries (SCC). We sold RSM McGladrey, Inc. (RSM) and McGladrey Capital Markets in fiscal year 2012. SCC exited its mortgage business in fiscal year 2008. As of July 31, 2012, the results of operations of these businesses are presented as discontinued operations in the consolidated financial statements. All periods presented in our statements of operations have been reclassified to reflect our discontinued operations.
 
 
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
Unaudited, amounts in thousands, except per share data
 
 
 
 
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
Unaudited, amounts in thousands, except per share data
 
 
 
 
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
Unaudited, amounts in thousands
 
 
 
 
 
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
Unaudited, amounts in thousands, except per share amounts
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
About Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
The accompanying press release contains non-GAAP financial measures.  Non-GAAP financial measures, including EBITDA, net loss from continuing operations  as adjusted and earnings per share from continuing operations  as adjusted, should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP).  Because EBITDA, and adjusted pretax, after-tax and per share results from continuing operations are not measures of financial performance under GAAP and are susceptible to varying calculations, they may not be comparable to similarly titled measures in other companies.
 
We exclude the following items from all of our non-GAAP financial measures:
 
 
 
 
 
We also exclude discrete tax reserve and related adjustments from non-GAAP net income (loss) and diluted net income (loss) per share. We may consider whether other significant items that arise in the future should also be excluded from our non-GAAP financial measures.
 
The Company considers these non-GAAP financial measures to be a useful metric for management and investors to evaluate and compare the ongoing operating performance of the Companys business on a consistent basis across reporting periods, as it eliminates the effect of items that are not indicative of the Companys core operating performance.
 
The following are descriptions of the items we exclude from our non-GAAP financial measures:
 
 We exclude from our non-GAAP financial measures litigation charges we incur.  This does not include normal legal defense costs.
Litigation charges
 
 We exclude from our non-GAAP financial measures non-cash charges to adjust the carrying values of goodwill, intangible assets, other long-lived assets and investments to their estimated fair values.
Impairments of goodwill, intangible assets, other long-lived assets and available-for-sale investments
 
 We exclude from our non-GAAP financial measures severance and other restructuring charges in connection with the termination of personnel, closure of facilities and related costs.
Severance and other restructuring charges
 
 We exclude from our non-GAAP financial measures the gains and losses on business dispositions, including investment banking, legal and accounting fees.
Gains and losses on business dispositions, including any related professional fees
 
 We exclude from our non-GAAP financial measures the effects of discrete income tax reserve and related adjustments recorded in a specific quarter.
Discrete tax adjustments
 


