Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview Our Business We are the largest online movie rental subscription service providing more than 2,600,000 subscribers access to a comprehensive library of more than 35,000 movie, television and other filmed entertainment titles. Our standard subscription plan of $17.99 per month allows subscribers to have up to three titles out at the same time with no due dates, late fees or shipping charges. Subscribers select titles at our Web site (www.netflix.com) aided by our proprietary recommendation service, receive them on DVD by U.S. mail and return them to us at their convenience using our prepaid mailers. After a title has been returned, we mail the next available title in a subscribers queue. Key Business Metrics For the year ended December 31, 2004, we generated total revenues of $506.2 million and net income of $21.6 million. Management periodically reviews certain key business metrics in order to evaluate the effectiveness of our operational strategies, allocate resources and maximize the financial performance of our business. These key business metrics include the following: Churn: Churn is a monthly measure defined as customer cancellations in the quarter divided by the sum of beginning subscribers and gross subscriber additions, then divided by three months. Customer cancellations in the quarter include cancellations from gross subscriber additions, which is why we include gross subscriber additions in the denominator. We grow our subscriber base either by adding new subscribers or by retaining existing subscribers. Churn is the key metric which allows management to evaluate whether we are retaining our existing subscribers in accordance with our business plans. An 12 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements increase in churn may signal a deterioration in the quality of our service, or it may signal an unfavorable behavioral change in the mix of new subscribers. Lower churn means higher customer retention, faster revenue growth and lower marketing expenses as a percent of revenues for any given level of subscriber acquisition. Subscriber Acquisition Cost: Subscriber acquisition cost is defined as total marketing expense divided by total gross subscriber additions. Management reviews this metric closely to evaluate how effective our marketing programs are in acquiring new subscribers on an economical basis. Gross Margin: Management reviews gross margin in conjunction with churn and subscriber acquisition cost to target a desired operating margin. For example, movie rentals per average paying subscriber may increase, which depresses our gross margin. However, increased movie rentals per average paying subscriber may result in higher subscriber satisfaction, which reduces churn and increases word of mouth advertising about our service. As a result, marketing expense may fall as a percentage of revenues and operating margins rise, offsetting the impact of a reduction in gross margin. We can also make trade offs between our DVD library investments which have an inverse relationship with churn and subscriber acquisition cost. For example, an increase in our DVD library investments may improve customer satisfaction and lower churn, and hence increase the number of new subscribers acquired via word of mouth. This in turn may allow us to accelerate our subscriber growth for a given level of marketing spending. Please see Results of Operations below for further discussion on these key business metrics. Recent Developments and Initiatives We continue to experience aggressive direct competition from Blockbuster. In particular, Blockbuster cut its standard subscription price twice during the last quarter of 2004 and currently has a price $3 below our standard price. In addition, Blockbuster has begun television advertising of its online offering. We also anticipate that other entrants, such as Amazon.com, will offer competing services, either directly or in conjunction with others. Despite this dynamic competitive landscape, we do not intend to lose our leadership position. While we aim to maintain domestic market leadership in the face of aggressive competition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively. If we are unable to successfully or profitably compete with current and new competitors, our business will be adversely affected and we may not be able to increase or maintain market share, revenues or profitability. We continue to invest resources to develop solutions for downloading movies to consumers. Our core strategy has been and remains to grow a large DVD subscription business; however, as technology and infrastructure develop to allow effective and convenient delivery of movies over the Internet, we intend to offer our subscribers the choice under one subscription of receiving their movies on DVD or by downloading, whichever they prefer. Although our solutions may be well in advance of meaningful demand for downloading services and we expect only modest consumer interest for the near term, we believe the demand for this technology will grow steadily over the next ten years. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The Securities and Exchange Commission has defined a companys critical accounting policies as the ones that are most important to the portrayal of a companys financial condition and results of operations, and which require a company to make its most difficult and subjective judgments. Based on this definition, we have identified the critical accounting policies and judgments addressed below. Although we believe that our estimates, assumptions and judgments are reasonable, they are 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements based upon information presently available. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions, judgments or conditions. Amortization of DVD Library and Upfront Costs We acquire DVDs from studios and distributors through either direct purchases or revenue sharing agreements. The revenue sharing agreements enable us to obtain DVDs at a lower upfront cost than under traditional direct purchase arrangements. Under the revenue sharing agreements, we share a percentage of the actual net revenues generated by the use of each particular title with the studios over a fixed period of time, or the Title Term, which is typically twelve months for each DVD title. At the end of the Title Term, we generally have the option of returning the DVD title to the studio, destroying the title or purchasing the title. In addition, we remit an upfront payment to acquire titles from the studios and distributors under revenue sharing agreements. This payment includes a contractually specified initial fixed license fee that is capitalized and amortized in accordance with our DVD library amortization policy. In some cases, this payment also includes a contractually specified prepayment of future revenue sharing obligations that is classified as prepaid revenue sharing expense and is charged to expense as future revenue sharing obligations are incurred. We amortize our DVD library, less estimated salvage value, on a sum of the months accelerated basis over its estimated useful life. The useful life of the new release DVDs and back catalogue DVDs is estimated to be 1 year and 3 years, respectively. In estimating the useful life of our DVD library, we take into account library utilization as well as an estimate for lost or damaged DVDs. Prior to July 1, 2004, we amortized the cost of our entire DVD library, including the capitalized portion of the initial fixed license fee, on a sum of the months accelerated basis over one year. However, based on our periodic evaluation of both new release and back catalogue utilization for amortization purposes, we determined that back catalogue titles have a significantly longer life than previously estimated. As a result, we have revised our estimate of useful life for the back catalogue DVD library from a sum of the months accelerated method using a one year life to the same accelerated method of amortization using a three year life. The purpose of this change is to more accurately reflect the productive life of these assets. In accordance with APB 20, the change in life has been accounted for as a change in accounting estimate on a prospective basis from July 1, 2004. New releases will continue to be amortized over a one year period. As a result of the change in the estimated life of the back catalogue library, total cost of revenues was $10.9 million lower, net income was $10.9 million higher and net income per diluted share was $0.17 higher for the year ended December 31, 2004. We believe the use of the accelerated method is appropriate for the amortization of our DVD library and the initial fixed license fee because it approximates DVD utilization. In addition, we have also determined that we are selling fewer previously rented DVDs than estimated but at an average selling price higher than historically estimated. We have therefore revised our estimate of salvage values, on direct purchase DVDs. For those direct purchase DVDs that we estimate we will sell at the end of their useful lives, a salvage value of $3.00 per DVD has been provided effective July 1, 2004. For those DVDs that we do not expect to sell, no salvage value is provided. Simultaneously with the change in estimate of expected salvage value we recorded a write off of approximately $1.9 million related to non recoverable salvage value. As a result of this write off, total cost of revenues was $1.9 million higher, net income was $1.9 million lower and net income per diluted share was $0.03 lower for the year ended December 31, 2004. We will continue to periodically evaluate the useful lives and salvage values of our DVD library. Stock Based Compensation We account for stock based compensation expenses in accordance with the fair value recognition provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements as amended by SFAS No. 148, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure, an Amendment of FASB Statement No. 123. During 2002, 2003 and 2004, we recorded total stock based compensation expenses of $8.8 million, $10.7 million and $ 16.6 million, respectively. The application of SFAS No. 123 requires significant judgment, including the determination of the expected life and volatility for stock options. To determine the expected life, we review the historical pattern of exercises of stock options as well as the terms and vesting periods of the options granted. Prior to the third quarter of 2003, we granted stock options, which generally vest over three to four year periods. Since the third quarter of 2003, we began granting fully vested stock options to our employees on a monthly basis. As a result, we changed the expected life from 3.5 years to 1.5 years. In the second quarter of 2004, we revised our estimate of expected life based on our review of historical patterns for exercises of stock options. We bifurcated our option grants into two employee groupings who exhibited different exercise behavior and changed the estimate of the expected life from 1.5 years for all option grants in the first quarter of 2004 to 1 year for one group and 2.5 years for the other group beginning in the second quarter of 2004. In addition, our stock price has fluctuated significantly in recent periods. In estimating expected volatility, we consider historical volatility, volatility in market traded options on our common stock and other relevant factors in accordance with SFAS No. 123. The Black Scholes option pricing model, used by us, requires the input of highly subjective assumptions, including the options expected life and the price volatility of the underlying stock. Changes in the subjective input assumptions can materially affect the estimate of fair value of options granted. Income Taxes We record a tax provision for the anticipated tax consequences of our reported results of operations. In accordance with SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, the provision for income taxes is computed using the asset and liability method, under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, and for operating losses and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the currently enacted tax rates that apply to taxable income in effect for the years in which those tax assets are expected to be realized or settled. We record a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is believed more likely than not to be realized. Our deferred tax assets, primarily the tax benefits of these loss carryforwards, have been offset by a full valuation allowance because of our history of losses through the first quarter of 2003, limited profitable quarters to date and the competitive landscape of online DVD rentals. If we subsequently determine that some or all deferred tax assets that were previously offset by a valuation allowance are realizable, the result would be a positive adjustment to earnings in the period such determination is made. Descriptions of Statement of Operations Components Subscription Revenues: We generate all our subscription revenues in the United States. We derive substantially all of our revenues from monthly subscription fees and recognize subscription revenues ratably during each subscribers monthly subscription period. We record refunds to subscribers as a reduction of revenues. In addition to our standard service of $17.99 per month, we offer other service plans with different price points that allow subscribers to keep either fewer or more titles at the same time. As of December 31, 2004, more than 95 percent of our paying subscribers paid $17.99 or more per month. Cost of Subscription Revenues: We acquire titles for our library through traditional direct purchase and through revenue sharing agreements with content providers. Traditional buying methods normally result in higher upfront costs than titles obtained through revenue sharing agreements. Cost of subscription revenues consists of revenue sharing expenses, 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements amortization of our library, amortization of intangible assets related to equity instruments issued to certain studios in 2000 and 2001 and postage and packaging costs related to shipping titles to paying subscribers. Costs related to free trial subscribers are allocated to marketing expenses. Revenue Sharing Expenses. Our revenue sharing agreements generally commit us to pay an initial upfront fee for each DVD acquired and also a percentage of revenue earned from such DVD rentals for a defined period of time. A portion of the initial upfront fees are non recoupable for revenue sharing purposes and capitalized and amortized in accordance with our DVD library amortization policy. The remaining portion of the initial upfront fee represents prepaid revenue sharing and this amount is expensed as revenue sharing expenses as DVDs subject to revenue sharing agreements are shipped to subscribers. Other than the initial upfront payment for DVDs acquired, we are not obligated to pay any minimum revenue sharing fee on DVDs that are not shipped to subscribers. We characterize these payments to the studios as revenue sharing expenses. Amortization of DVD Library. On July 1, 2004, we revised the estimate of useful life for the back catalogue DVD library from one to three years. New releases will continue to be amortized over a one year period. We also revised our estimate of salvage values, on direct purchase DVDs. For those direct purchase DVDs that we expect to sell at the end of their useful lives, a salvage value of $3.00 per DVD has been provided effective July 1, 2004. For those DVDs that we do not expect to sell, no salvage value is provided. Amortization of Intangible Assets. In 2000, in connection with signing revenue sharing agreements with Columbia TriStar Home Entertainment, Dreamworks International Distribution and Warner Home Video, we agreed to issue to each of these studios our Series F Non Voting Preferred Stock equal to 1.204 percent of our fully diluted equity securities outstanding. In 2001, in connection with signing revenue sharing agreements with Twentieth Century Fox Home Entertainment and Universal Studios Home Video, we agreed to issue to each of the two studios our Series F Non Voting Preferred Stock equal to 1.204 percent of our fully diluted equity securities outstanding. As of December 31, 2001, the aggregate of Series F Non Voting Preferred Stock granted to these five studios equaled 6.02 percent of our fully diluted equity securities outstanding. Our obligation to maintain the studios equity interests at 6.02 percent of our fully diluted equity securities outstanding terminated immediately prior to our initial public offering in May 2002. The studios Series F Preferred Stock automatically converted into 3,192,830 shares of common stock upon the closing of our initial public offering. We measured the original issuances and any subsequent adjustments using the fair value of the securities at the issuance and any subsequent adjustment dates. The fair value was recorded as an intangible asset and is amortized to cost of subscription revenues ratably over the remaining term of the agreements which initial terms were either three or five years. Postage and Packaging. Postage and packaging expenses consist of the postage costs to mail titles to and from our paying subscribers and the packaging and label costs for the mailers. The rate for first class postage was $0.34 prior to June 29, 2002 and increased to $0.37 thereafter. It is currently anticipated that the U.S. Postal Service will seek an increase in the rate of first class postage and that any such increase would likely be effective starting in 2006. Operating Expenses: Fulfillment. Fulfillment expenses represent those expenses incurred in operating and staffing our shipping and customer service centers, including costs attributable to receiving, inspecting and warehousing our library. Fulfillment expenses also include credit card fees. Technology and Development. Technology and development expenses consist of payroll and related expenses we incur related to testing, maintaining and modifying our Web site, our recommendation service, developing solutions for downloading movies to subscribers, telecommunications systems and infrastructure and other internal use software systems. Technology and development expenses also include depreciation of the computer hardware and capitalized software we use to run our Web site and store our data. 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Marketing. Marketing expenses consist of payroll and related expenses and advertising expenses. Advertising expenses include marketing program expenditures and other promotional activities, including revenue sharing expenses, postage and packaging expenses and library amortization related to free trial periods. General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses consist of payroll and related expenses for executive, finance, content acquisition and administrative personnel, as well as recruiting, professional fees and other general corporate expenses. Stock Based Compensation. During the second quarter of 2003, we adopted the fair value recognition provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, as amended by SFAS No. 148, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure, an Amendment of FASB Statement No. 123, for stock based compensation. We elected to apply the retroactive restatement method under SFAS No. 148 and all prior periods presented have been restated to reflect the compensation costs that would have been recognized had the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123 been applied to all awards granted. During the third quarter of 2003, we began granting stock options to our employees on a monthly basis. The vesting periods provide for options to vest immediately, in comparison with the three to four year vesting periods for stock options granted prior to the third quarter of 2003. As a result of immediate vesting, all stock based compensation expense determined under SFAS No. 123 is fully recognized upon the grant of the stock option. For those stock options granted prior to the third quarter of 2003 with three to four year vesting periods, we continue to amortize the deferred compensation related to those stock options over the remaining vesting periods. 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Results of Operations The following table sets forth, for the periods presented, the line items in our Statements of Operations as a percentage of total revenues. The information contained in the table below should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and notes thereto included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Year Ended December 31, 2002 2003 2004 Revenues: Subscription 98.7 % 99.3 % 98.9 % Sales 1.3 0.7 1.1 Total revenues 100.0 100.0 100.0 Cost of revenues: Subscription 50.4 54.3 54.0 Sales 0.7 0.2 0.6 Total cost of revenues 51.1 54.5 54.6 Gross profit 48.9 45.5 45.4 Operating expenses: Fulfillment 12.7 11.5 11.2 Technology and development 9.6 6.6 4.5 Marketing 23.4 18.3 19.4 General and administrative 4.4 3.5 3.2 Stock based compensation 5.8 4.0 3.3 Total operating expenses 55.9 43.9 41.6 Operating income (loss) (7.0 ) 1.6 3.8 Other income (expense): Interest and other income 1.1 1.0 0.5 Interest and other expense (7.8 ) (0.2 ) Net income (loss) before income taxes (13.7 ) 2.4 4.3 Provision for income taxes Net income (loss) (13.7 )% 2.4 % 4.3 % Revenues Year Ended December 31, 2002 PercentChange 2003 PercentChange 2004 (in thousands, except percentages and average monthlysubscription revenue per paying subscriber) Revenues: Subscription $ 150,818 79.3 % $ 270,410 85.1 % $ 500,611 Sales 1,988 (7.8 )% 1,833 206.4 % 5,617 Total revenues $ 152,806 78.2 % $ 272,243 85.9 % $ 506,228 Other data: Average number of paying subscribers 626 78.1 % 1,115 78.3 % 1,988 Average monthly subscription revenue per paying subscriber $ 20.08 0.6 % $ 20.21 3.8 % $ 20.98 We currently generate all of our revenues in the United States. We derive substantially all of our revenues from monthly subscription fees and recognize subscription revenues ratably during each subscribers monthly subscription period. In addition, we generate a small portion of our revenues from the sale of used DVDs and recognize such revenues when the DVDs are shipped. 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The increase in our subscription revenues in 2004 as compared to 2003 was primarily as a result of substantial growth in the average number of paying subscribers and to a lesser extent, due to a slight increase in average monthly subscription revenue per paying subscriber. We believe the increase in the number of paying subscribers was driven by the continuing consumer adoption of DVD players, increased consumer awareness of our service and continuing improvements in our service. The increase in the average monthly subscription revenue per paying subscriber was a result of the price increase implemented in the second quarter of 2004. In June 2004, we increased the monthly subscription price of our standard service from $19.95 to $21.99. However, effective November 2004, in response to the changing competitive landscape, we lowered the price of our standard service to $17.99. As a result of the price decrease, we expect the average monthly subscription revenue per paying subscriber to decrease in 2005. The increase in our subscription revenues in 2003 as compared to 2002 was primarily attributable to an increase in the average number of paying subscribers. We believe the increase in the number of paying subscribers was driven by the continuing consumer adoption of DVD players, increased consumer awareness of our service and continuing improvements in our service. Churn declined to 4.4 percent in the fourth quarter of 2004 from 4.8 percent in the same period of 2003 and from 6.3% in the same period of 2002. We believe the decline was primarily attributable to three reasons: First, the reduction in the price of our standard subscription plan to from $21.99 per month to $17.99 per month effective November 1, 2004. Prior to that, in June 2004, we experienced an increase in churn when we increased the price of our standard subscription plan from $19.95 per month to $21.99 per month. As we grow, the ratio of new subscribers to total subscribers declines, leading to an increase in the average duration, or age, of the subscriber base. New subscribers are actually more likely to cancel their subscriptions than older subscribers, and therefore, an increase in subscriber age tends to lead to reductions in churn. Lastly, we continued to make improvements in a number of key areas, including increasing the in stock rate and selection of titles as we expanded our DVD library and enhancing our Web site and recommendation service. We believe these improvements to our service increased subscriber satisfaction, which resulted in lower churn. We anticipate that churn will increase in face of competition from existing competitors and other potential new entrants in the online movie rental subscription business. In particular, we face intense competition from Blockbuster, which introduced its in store subscription program on a nationwide basis in May 2004, launched its online subscription service in August 2004, reduced the price of its online subscription service to $14.99 per month in December 2004, and eliminated late fees for in store rentals in January 2005. If we are unable to compete effectively against Blockbuster and our other existing competitors as well as against potential new entrants into the online movie rental subscription business such as Amazon, in both retaining our existing subscribers and attracting new subscribers, our churn will likely increase and our business will be adversely affected. The following table presents our ending subscriber information: As of December 31, 2002 PercentChange 2003 PercentChange 2004 (in thousands, except percentages) Subscribers: Free subscribers 61 71 124 As a percentage of total subscribers 7.1 % 4.8 % 4.8 % Paid subscribers 796 1,416 2,486 As a percentage of total subscribers 92.9 % 95.2 % 95.2 % Total subscribers 857 73.5 % 1,487 75.5 % 2,610 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Cost of Revenues Year Ended December 31, 2002 PercentChange 2003 PercentChange 2004 (in thousands, except percentages) Cost of revenues: Subscription $ 77,044 91.8 % $ 147,736 85.1 % $ 273,401 Sales 1,092 (42.9 )% 624 389.9 % 3,057 Total cost of revenues $ 78,136 89.9 % $ 148,360 86.3 % $ 276,458 The increase in cost of subscription revenues in 2004 as compared to 2003 was primarily attributable to the following factors: The number of DVDs mailed to paying subscribers increased 102 percent, which was driven by a 78 percent increase in the number of average paying subscribers coupled with a 13 percent increase in monthly movie rentals per average paying subscriber. Postage and packaging expenses increased by $55.3 million, representing a 93 percent increase. This increase was primarily attributable to the increase in the number of average paying subscribers and the number of DVDs mailed to paying subscribers, partially offset by a decrease in the per unit postage and packaging cost. DVD amortization increased by $34.8 million, representing an 87 percent increase. This increase was primarily attributable to increased acquisitions for our DVD library partially offset by the change in estimate related to back catalogue useful lives of $10.9 million. Revenue sharing expenses increased by $36.5 million, representing a 80 percent increase. This increase was primarily attributable to the increase in the number of average paying subscribers and the number of DVDs mailed to paying subscribers, partially offset by a decrease in the percentage of DVDs subject to revenue sharing agreements mailed to paying subscribers. The increase in cost of subscription revenues in absolute dollars in 2003 as compared to 2002 was primarily attributable to the following factors: The number of DVDs mailed to paying subscribers increased 111 percent, which was driven by a 78 percent increase in the number of average paying subscribers coupled with a 19 percent increase in monthly movie rentals per average paying subscriber. We believe the increase in monthly movie rentals was primarily attributable to the decrease in delivery time due to the expansion of our nationwide network of shipping centers. Postage and packaging expenses increased by $30.1 million, representing a 103 percent increase. This increase was primarily attributable to the increase in the number of average paying subscribers and the number of DVDs mailed to paying subscribers, partially offset by a modest reduction in postage rate per DVD shipped as a result of an increased utilization of postal sorters on outbound mail. DVD amortization increased by $24.4 million, representing a 157 percent increase. This increase was primarily attributable to increased acquisitions for our DVD library. Revenue sharing expenses increased by $16.1 million, representing a 55 percent increase. This increase was primarily attributable to the increase in the number of average paying subscribers and the number of DVDs mailed to paying subscribers, partially offset by a decrease in the percentage of titles subject to revenue sharing agreements mailed to paying subscribers. 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Gross Margin Year Ended December 31, 2002 PercentChange 2003 PercentChange 2004 (in thousands, except percentages) Gross profit $ 74,670 65.9 % $ 123,883 85.5 % $ 229,770 Gross margin 48.9 % 45.5 % 45.4 % Gross margin for 2004 declined slightly in 2004 as compared to 2003. This decline was attributable to the decline in revenue per paid shipment offset almost wholly by the change in estimate related to the useful life of our back catalogue DVD library. If movie rentals per average paying subscriber increases, additional erosion in our gross margin will occur. The decline in gross margin in 2003 as compared to 2002 was primarily due to a higher percentage of DVD amortization as a result of increased acquisitions for our library, coupled with a higher percentage of postage and packaging expenses as a result of an increase in movie rentals per average paying subscriber. The decrease in gross margin was partially offset by a lower percentage of revenue sharing expenses as a result of our rental mix shifting proportionately in favor of purchased titles and away from titles subject to revenue sharing agreements. Operating Expenses: Fulfillment Year Ended December 31, 2002 PercentChange 2003 PercentChange 2004 (in thousands, except percentages) Fulfillment $ 19,366 61.5 % $ 31,274 81.0 % $ 56,609 As a percentage of revenues 12.7 % 11.5 % 11.2 % The increase in fulfillment expenses in absolute dollars in 2004 as compared to 2003 was primarily attributable to an increase in personnel related costs resulting from the higher volume of activities in our customer service and shipping centers, coupled with an increase in credit card fees as a result of the increase in subscriptions. In addition, the increase in fulfillment expenses was attributable to an increase in facility related costs resulting from the relocation or expansion of certain of our shipping centers and the addition of new ones. As a percentage of revenues, fulfillment expenses decreased slightly primarily due to a combination of an increasing revenue base and efficiencies that reduced the fulfillment costs per paid shipment by approximately 10 percent. The increase in fulfillment expenses in absolute dollars in 2003 as compared to 2002 was primarily attributable to an increase in personnel related costs resulting from the higher volume of activities in our customer service and shipping centers. In addition, our credit card fees increased significantly in 2003 compared to 2002 as a result of the increase in subscriptions. As a percentage of revenues, fulfillment expenses decreased in 2003 compared to 2002, primarily due to a combination of an increasing revenue base and improvements in our fulfillment productivity due to our continuous efforts to refine and streamline our fulfillment operations. Technology and Development Year Ended December 31, 2002 PercentChange 2003 PercentChange 2004 (in thousands, except percentages) Technology and development $ 14,625 22.3 % $ 17,884 28.1 % $ 22,906 As a percentage of revenues 9.6 % 6.6 % 4.5 % The increase in technology and development expenses in absolute dollars in 2004 as compared to 2003 was primarily the result of an increase in personnel related costs. As a percentage of revenues, technology and 21 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements development expenses decreased primarily due to a greater increase in revenues than technology and development expenses. The increase in technology and development expenses in absolute dollars from 2002 to 2003 was primarily the result of an increase in personnel related costs, partially offset by a modest decrease in the depreciation of computer hardware and capitalized software. As a percentage of revenues, technology and development expenses decreased primarily due to a greater increase in revenues than technology and development expenses. We continuously research and test a variety of potential improvements to our internal hardware and software systems in an effort to improve our productivity and enhance our subscribers experience. Additionally, we are developing solutions for downloading movies to subscribers. As a result, we expect our technology and development expenses will continue to increase in absolute dollars in 2005. Marketing Year Ended December 31, 2002 PercentChange 2003 PercentChange 2004 (in thousands, except percentages andsubscriber acquisition cost) Marketing $ 35,783 39.6 % $ 49,949 96.3 % $ 98,027 As a percentage of revenues 23.4 % 18.3 % 19.4 % Other data: Gross subscriber additions 1,140 37.8 % 1,571 72.9 % 2,716 Subscriber acquisition cost $ 31.39 1.3 % $ 31.79 13.5 % $ 36.09 The increase in marketing expenses in absolute dollars in 2004 as compared to 2003 was primarily attributable to an increase in marketing program costs, primarily television and online advertising, to attract new subscribers. In addition, personnel related costs increased in order to support the higher volume of marketing activities. As a percentage of revenues, the increase in marketing expenses was primarily due to a greater increase in marketing expenses than revenues. Subscriber acquisition cost increased in 2004 compared to 2003 as a result of an increase in marketing program spending, primarily the introduction of television advertising as an acquisition channel and increases in online advertising rates. The increase in marketing expenses in absolute dollars in 2003 as compared to 2002 was primarily attributable to an increase in the number of new subscriber additions, which resulted in higher marketing program costs. In addition, personnel related costs increased in order to support the higher volume of marketing activities. Subscriber acquisition cost increased in 2003 as compared to 2002 primarily as a result of an increase in certain marketing program payments, partially offset by the continued growth of word of mouth as a source of subscriber acquisitions and lower personnel related costs on a per acquired subscriber basis. As a percentage of revenues, the decrease in marketing expenses was primarily due to a greater increase in revenues than marketing expenses. We anticipate that our marketing expense will increase in absolute dollars in 2005 as we grow our business. General and Administrative Year Ended December 31, 2002 PercentChange 2003 PercentChange 2004 (in thousands, except percentages) General and administrative $ 6,737 42.3 % $ 9,585 69.9 % $ 16,287 As a percentage of revenues 4.4 % 3.5 % 3.2 % The increase in general and administrative expenses in absolute dollars in 2004 as compared to 2003 was primarily attributable to an increase in personnel related costs, as well as an increase in professional fees to 22 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements support our growing operations and compliance requirements. As a percentage of revenues, the decrease in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to a greater increase in revenues than general and administrative expenses. The increase in general and administrative expenses in absolute dollars in 2003 as compared to 2002 was primarily attributable to an increase in the number of personnel, as well as an increase in insurance costs and professional fees, to support our growing business. As a percentage of revenues, the decrease in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to a greater increase in revenues than general and administrative expenses. We expect our general and administrative expenses will continue to increase in absolute dollars in 2005 in order to support our growing operations. Stock Based Compensation Year Ended December 31, 2002 PercentChange 2003 PercentChange 2004 (in thousands, except percentages) Stock based compensation $ 8,832 21.4 % $ 10,719 54.7 % $ 16,587 As a percentage of revenues 5.8 % 4.0 % 3.3 % We adopted the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123 for stock based employee compensation in the second quarter of 2003. We elected to apply the retroactive restatement method under SFAS No. 148 and all prior periods presented have been restated to reflect the compensation costs that would have been recognized had the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123 been applied to all awards granted to employees. We began granting fully vested stock options to our employees on a monthly basis beginning in the third quarter of 2003. Stock based compensation expenses associated with these stock options are recognized immediately. For stock options granted prior to the third quarter of 2003 with three to four year vesting periods, we continue to amortize the deferred compensation associated with these stock options over their remaining vesting periods. We apply the Black Scholes option pricing model to value our stock option grants. The Black Scholes option pricing model, used by us, requires the input of highly subjective assumptions, including the options expected life and the price volatility of the underlying stock. Changes in the subjective input assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate. The increase in stock based compensation expenses in absolute dollars in 2004 as compared to 2003 was primarily due to higher expenses resulting from larger grants, higher average grant prices and higher volatility assumptions in the current year than in the prior year. The increase in stock based compensation expenses in absolute dollars in 2003 as compared to 2002 was primarily due to higher compensation expenses as a result of the fully vested monthly stock option grants, coupled with a rising stock price. In addition, the increase was also attributable to higher compensation expenses associated with shares of common stock issued under our employee stock purchase plan. Interest and Other Income Year Ended December 31, 2002 PercentChange 2003 PercentChange 2004 (in thousands, except percentages) Interest and other income $ 1,697 44.8 % $ 2,457 5.5 % $ 2,592 As a percentage of revenues 1.1 % 1.0 % 0.5 % Interest and other income consists primarily of interest earned on our cash and cash equivalents and short term investments, prior to the liquidation of our short term investments during the second quarter of 2004. 23 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The increase in interest and other income in 2004 as compared to 2003 was primarily due to an increase in interest and other income as a result of higher average interest earning balances. The increase in interest and other income in 2003 compared to 2002 was primarily attributable to an increase in interest income as a result of higher average cash and investment balances. Interest and Other Expense Year Ended December 31, 2002 PercentChange 2003 PercentChange 2004 (in thousands, except percentages) Interest and other expense $ (11,972 ) (96.5 )% $ (417 ) (59.2 )% $ (170 ) As a percentage of revenues (7.8 )% (0.2 )% (0.0 )% Interest and other expense consist primarily of interest expense related to our interest bearing obligations. The decline in interest and other expense in 2004 as compared to 2003 was primarily due to lower interest expense as a result of a reduction in interest bearing obligations. Interest and other expense in 2002 included a one time charge of $10.7 million associated with our early repayment, following our initial public offering in May 2002, of all outstanding indebtedness under our subordinated promissory notes related to the acceleration of the accretion of the unamortized discount. Excluding the one time charge of $10.7 million incurred in 2002, interest and other expense decreased in 2003 as compared to 2002 primarily due to a reduction in interest bearing obligations, some of which were repaid following our initial public offering in May 2002. Liquidity and Capital Resources Since inception, we have financed our activities primarily through a series of private placements of convertible preferred stock, subordinated promissory notes, our initial public offering and net cash generated from operating activities. As of December 31, 2004, we had cash and cash equivalents of $174.5 million. We have generated net cash from operations during each quarter since the second quarter of 2001. In order to continue to generate cash from our operations, we must increase our revenues while controlling our operating expenses. Many factors will impact our ability to grow revenues including, but not limited to, the number of subscribers who sign up for our service, the growth or reduction in our subscriber base, and our ability to develop new revenue sources. In addition, we may have to lower our prices and increase our marketing expenses in response to the aggressive competition from Blockbuster and other potential entrants in the market. Although we currently anticipate that cash flows from operations, together with our available funds, will be sufficient to meet our cash needs for the foreseeable future, we may require or choose to obtain additional financing. Our ability to obtain financing will depend on, among other things, our development efforts, business plans, operating performance and the condition of the capital markets at the time we seek financing. We cannot assure you that additional financing will be available to us on favorable terms when required, or at all. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity linked or debt securities, those securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to the rights of our common stock, and our stockholders may experience dilution. Key Components of Cash flow: The following table summarizes our cash flow activities: Year Ended December 31, 2002 PercentChange 2003 PercentChange 2004 (in thousands, except percentages) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 40,114 123.8 % $ 89,792 64.3 % $ 147,571 Net cash used in investing activities (67,301 ) (3.9 )% (64,677 ) 5.7 % (68,381 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 70,870 (93.0 )% 4,965 12.8 % 5,599 24 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Operating activities: Net cash provided by operating activities increased by $57.8 million in 2004 as compared to 2003. The increase was primarily attributable to an increase in net income adjusted for an increase in non cash amortization of our DVD library as a result of increased purchases of titles, an increase in stock based compensation expense and an increase in deferred revenue due to a larger subscriber base. The increase in net cash provided by operating activities in 2003 as compared to 2002 was primarily attributable to net income generated in 2003 as compared to a net loss incurred in 2002, adjusted for an increase in the amortization of our DVD library as a result of increased purchases of titles during 2003, an increase in accounts payable as a result of our growing operations, an increase in deferred revenue due to a larger subscriber base and an increase in stock based compensation expenses. This increase in net cash was partially offset by the decrease in non cash interest expense in 2003. Non cash interest expense included a one time charge of $10.7 million related to an early debt repayment in 2002. Investing activities: Net cash used in investing activities increased slightly in 2004 as compared to 2003. The increase was primarily attributable to increased purchases of titles for our DVD library to support our larger subscriber base and increased purchases of property and equipment to support our growing operations in 2004 as compared to 2003. However, the increase was partially offset by net proceeds of $45.0 million from the sale of our short term investments. The decrease in net cash used in investing activities in 2003 as compared to 2002 was primarily attributable to substantially smaller purchases of short term investments in 2003. Purchases of short term investments were significantly higher in 2002 as a result of the proceeds from our initial public offering in May 2002. This decrease in net cash was partially offset by an increase in both the purchases of property and equipment to support our growing business, and the acquisitions of DVD titles for our library to support our larger subscriber base in 2003. Financing activities: Net cash provided by financing activities increased slightly in 2004 as compared to 2003. The increase was primarily attributable to a decrease in the repayment of debt and other obligations offset partially by lower proceeds from issuance of common stock under our employee stock plans. The decrease in net cash provided by financing activities in 2003 as compared to 2002 was primarily attributable to substantially smaller proceeds from the issuance of common stock in 2003. Proceeds from the issuance of common stock were significantly higher in 2002 as a result of our initial public offering. This decrease was partially offset by a decrease in the repayment of debt and other obligations in 2003. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our contractual obligations at December 31, 2004 (in thousands): Payments due by period Contractual Obligations: Total Less than1 year 13 years 35 years More than5 years Capital lease obligations $ 80 $ 80 $ $ $ Operating lease obligations 29,291 5,946 10,710 6,234 6,401 Capital purchase obligations (1) 13,220 7,220 4,000 2,000 Other purchase obligations (2) 8,677 8,677 Total $ 51,268 $ 21,923 $ 14,710 $ 8,234 $ 6,401 (1) Capital purchase obligations include commitments for construction or purchase of property, plant and equipment. They were not recorded as liabilities on our balance sheet as of December 31, 2004, as we had not yet received the related goods or taken title to the property. (2) Other purchase obligations relate to acquisitions for our DVD library. Our purchase orders are based on our current needs and are generally fulfilled by our vendors within short time horizons. 25 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements For the purposes of this table, contractual obligations for purchase of goods or services are defined as agreements that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. The expected timing of payment of the obligations discussed above is estimated based on current information. Timing of payments and actual amounts paid may be different depending on the time of receipt of goods or services or changes to agreed upon amounts for some obligations. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements As part of our ongoing business, we do not engage in transactions that generate relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities. Accordingly, our operating results, financial condition and cash flows are not subject to off balance sheet risks. Indemnifications In the ordinary course of business, we enter into contractual arrangements under which we agree to provide indemnification of varying scope and terms to business partners and other parties with respect to certain matters, including, but not limited to, losses arising out of our breach of such agreements and out of intellectual property infringement claims made by third parties. In addition, we have entered into indemnification agreements with our directors and certain of our officers that will require us, among other things, to indemnify them against certain liabilities that may arise by reason of their status or service as directors or officers. The terms of such obligations vary. Generally, a maximum obligation is not explicitly stated, so the overall maximum amount of the obligations cannot be reasonably estimated. To date, we have not incurred material costs as a result of such obligations and have not accrued any liabilities related to such indemnification obligations in our financial statements. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In September 2004, the Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) reached a consensus on EITF Issue 04 8, The Effect of Contingently Convertible Instruments on Diluted Earnings per Share, which requires the inclusion of shares related to contingently convertible debt instruments for computing diluted earnings per share using the if converted method, regardless of whether the market price contingency has been met. EITF 04 8 will be effective for all periods ending after December 15, 2004 and includes retroactive adjustment to historically reported diluted earnings per share. The adoption of EITF Issue No. 04 8 does not currently have an impact on our operating results or financial position. In November 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 151, Inventory Costs, an amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4. SFAS 151 clarifies that abnormal inventory costs such as costs of idle facilities, excess freight and handling costs, and wasted materials (spoilage) are required to be recognized as current period charges. The provisions of SFAS 151 are effective for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. The adoption of SFAS 151 is not expected to have a significant impact on our operating results or financial position. In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 153, Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets, which eliminates the exception for nonmonetary exchanges of similar productive assets and replaces it with a general exception for exchanges of nonmonetary assets that do not have commercial substance. SFAS No. 153 will be effective for nonmonetary asset exchanges occurring in fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2005. The adoption of SFAS No. 153 does not currently have an impact on our operating results or financial position. In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123(R), Share Based Payment, which establishes standards for transactions in which an entity exchanges its equity instruments for goods or services. This standard replaces 26 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements SFAS No. 123 and supersedes APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock based compensation. This Standard requires a public entity to measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the grant date fair value of the award. This eliminates the exception to account for such awards using the intrinsic method previously allowable under APB Opinion No. 25. SFAS No. 123(R) will be effective for interim or annual reporting periods beginning on or after June 15, 2005. We previously adopted the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, in the second quarter of 2003, and restated prior periods at that time. Accordingly we believe SFAS No. 123(R) will not have a material impact on our balance sheet or operating results. Factors That May Affect Future Results of Operations If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business If our efforts to attract subscribers are not successful, our revenues will be affected adversely. We must continue to attract new subscribers. To succeed, we must continue to attract a large number of subscribers who have traditionally used video retailers, video rental outlets, cable channels, such as HBO and Showtime, pay per view and VOD for in home filmed entertainment. In addition, direct competition to our service, namely from services like Blockbuster Online, has increased significantly over the past year and will likely impact our ability to attract subscribers. Our ability to attract subscribers will depend in part on our ability to consistently provide our subscribers a high quality experience for selecting, viewing, receiving and returning titles, including providing accurate recommendations through our recommendation service. Furthermore, if our competitors are able to offer similar service levels at lower prices, our ability to attract subscribers will be adversely affected. If consumers do not perceive our service offering to be of high quality, or if we introduce new services that are not favorably received by them, we may not be able to attract subscribers. In addition, many of our new subscribers originate from word of mouth advertising and referrals from existing subscribers. If our efforts to satisfy our existing subscribers are not successful, we may not be able to attract new subscribers, and as a result, our revenues will be affected adversely. If we experience excessive rates of churn, our revenues and business will be harmed. We must minimize the rate of loss of existing subscribers while adding new subscribers. Subscribers cancel their subscription to our service for many reasons, including a perception that they do not use the service sufficiently, delivery takes too long, the service is a poor value, competitive services provide a better value and or experience, and customer service issues are not satisfactorily resolved. We must continually add new subscribers both to replace subscribers who cancel and to grow our business beyond our current subscriber base. If too many of our subscribers cancel our service, or if we are unable to attract new subscribers in numbers sufficient to grow our business, our operating results will be adversely affected. Further, if excessive numbers of subscribers cancel our service, we may be required to incur significantly higher marketing expenditures than we currently anticipate to replace these subscribers with new subscribers. If we are unable to compete effectively, our business will be affected adversely. The market for in home filmed entertainment is intensely competitive and subject to rapid change. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. The rapid growth of our online entertainment subscription business since our inception may continue to attract direct competition from larger companies with significantly greater financial resources and national brand recognition. For example, we have seen increased direct competition from Blockbuster, which launched its online service in August 2004, and could 27 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements face competition from potential new entrants into the online DVD rental market such as Amazon.com. If we are unable to successfully or profitably compete with current and new competitors, our business will be adversely affected, and we may not be able to increase or maintain market share, revenues or profitability. In addition, many consumers maintain simultaneous relationships with multiple in home filmed entertainment providers and can easily shift spending from one provider to another. For example, consumers may subscribe to HBO, rent a DVD from Hollywood Entertainment, buy a DVD from Wal Mart and subscribe to Netflix, or some combination thereof, all in the same month. New competitors may be able to launch new businesses at relatively low cost. DVDs represent only one of many existing and potential new technologies for viewing filmed entertainment. In addition, the growth in adoption of DVD technology is not mutually exclusive from the growth of other technologies. If we are unable to successfully compete with current and new competitors and technologies, we may not be able to achieve adequate market share, increase our revenues or maintain profitability. Our principal competitors include, or could include: online DVD subscription rental sites, such as Blockbuster Online and Walmart.com; video rental outlets, such as Blockbuster and Hollywood Entertainment; movie retail stores, such as Best Buy, Wal Mart and Amazon.com; subscription entertainment services, such as HBO and Showtime; pay per view and VOD services; Internet movie providers, such as Movielink, CinemaNow.com and MovieFlix; cable providers, such as AOL Time Warner and Comcast; and direct broadcast satellite providers, such as DIRECTV and Echostar. Some of our competitors have adopted, and may continue to adopt, aggressive pricing policies and devote substantially more resources to marketing and Web site and systems development than we do. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively against current or new competitors at our new pricing levels or at even lower price points in the future. Furthermore, we may need to adjust the level of service provided to our subscribers and or incur significantly higher marketing expenditures than we currently anticipate. As a result of this increased competition, we have seen and may continue to see a reduction in operating margins and market share. If we are unable to offset increased demand for titles with increased subscriber retention or operating margins, our operating results may be affected adversely. There is no established limit to the number of movies that subscribers may rent. Historically, we have seen the average number of movies rented per subscriber increase on an annual basis. We believe that this increase in usage is influenced by improvements to our service as well as consumer usage habits. We have established a nationwide network of distribution centers which provides subscribers with fast delivery of their rented DVDs. We are continually enhancing our service in ways that may impact subscriber movie usage. Such improvements include new product features on our Website as well as software and process upgrades. In addition, demand for titles may increase for a variety of reasons beyond our control, including promotion by studios and seasonal variations or shifts in consumer movie watching. Our subscribers may continue to increase their usage of our service, which would increase our operating costs. If our subscriber retention does not increase or our operating margins do not improve to an extent necessary to offset the effect of increased operating costs, our operating results will be adversely affected. In addition, our subscriber growth and retention may be affected adversely if we attempt to increase our monthly subscription fees to offset any increased costs of acquiring or delivering titles. 28 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements If our subscribers select titles that are more expensive for us to acquire and deliver more frequently, our expenses will increase. Certain titles cost us more to acquire or result in greater revenue sharing expenses, depending on the source from whom they are acquired and the terms on which they are acquired. If subscribers select these titles more often on a proportional basis compared to all titles selected, our revenue sharing and other DVD acquisition expenses could increase, and our gross margins could be adversely affected. If our efforts to build strong brand identity and improve subscriber satisfaction and loyalty are not successful, we may not be able to attract or retain subscribers, and our operating results will be affected adversely. The Netflix brand is relatively new, and we must continue to build strong brand identity. To succeed, we must continue to attract and retain a large number of owners of DVD players who have traditionally relied on store based rental outlets and persuade them to subscribe to our service through our Web site. In addition, we will have to compete for subscribers against other brands which have greater recognition than ours, such as Blockbuster and Wal Mart. We believe that the importance of brand loyalty will only increase in light of competition both for online subscription services and other means of distributing titles, such as VOD. From time to time, our subscribers express dissatisfaction with our service, including among others things, our inventory allocation and delivery processing. To the extent such dissatisfaction is widespread or not adequately addressed, our brand may be adversely impacted. If our efforts to promote and maintain our brand are not successful, our operating results and our ability to attract and retain subscribers will be affected adversely. If we are unable to manage the mix of subscriber acquisition sources, our subscriber levels may be affected adversely and our marketing expenses may increase. We utilize a mix of incentive based and fixed cost marketing programs to promote our service to potential new subscribers. We obtain a large portion of our new subscribers through our online marketing efforts, including third party banner ads, pop under placements, direct links and permission based e mails as well as our active affiliate program. In addition, we have engaged in various offline marketing programs, including television and radio advertising, consumer package insertions as well as point of sale programs with retailers. We also acquire a number of subscribers who rejoin our service having previously cancelled their membership. While we opportunistically adjust our mix of incentive based and fixed cost marketing programs, we attempt to manage the marketing expenses to come within a prescribed range of acquisition cost per new subscriber. If we are unable to maintain or replace our sources of subscribers with similarly effective sources, or if the cost of our existing sources increases, our subscriber levels may be affected adversely and our marketing expenses may increase. If we are unable to continue using our current marketing channels, our ability to attract new subscribers may be affected adversely. We may not be able to continue to support the marketing of our service by current means if such activities are no longer available to us or are adverse to our business. If companies that currently promote our service decide to enter our business or a similar business or decide to exclusively support our competitors, we may no longer be given access to such channels. In addition, laws and regulations impose restrictions on the use of certain channels, including commercial e mail and direct mail. We may limit or discontinue use or support of e mail and other activities if we become concerned that subscribers or potential subscribers deem such activities intrusive, which could affect our goodwill or brand. If the available marketing channels are curtailed, our ability to attract new subscribers may be affected adversely. If we are not able to manage our growth, our business could be affected adversely. We have expanded rapidly since we launched our Web site in April 1998. We anticipate further expanding our operations to help grow our subscriber base and to take advantage of favorable market opportunities. Any 29 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements future expansion will likely place significant demands on our managerial, operational, administrative and financial resources. If we are not able to respond effectively to new or increased demands that arise because of our growth, or, if in responding, our management is materially distracted from our current operations, our business may be affected adversely. In addition, if we do not have sufficient breadth and depth of the titles necessary to satisfy increased demand arising from growth in our subscriber base, our subscriber satisfaction may be affected adversely. Our operating results are difficult to predict due to a number of factors that also will affect our long term performance. We expect our operating results to fluctuate in the future based on a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control and difficult to predict. In particular, we have a limited operating history and have faced limited direct competition. As a result, period to period comparisons of our operating results may not be a good indicator of our future or long term performance. The following factors may affect us from period to period and may affect our long term performance: changes by our competitors to their product and service offerings and new entrants into our business; price competition; our ability to improve or maintain gross margins in our business; our ability to effectively manage the development of new business segments and markets; our ability to maintain and develop new and existing marketing relationships; the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure; our ability to manage our fulfillment processes to handle significant increases in the number of subscribers and subscriber selections; our ability to maintain an adequate breadth and depth of titles; our ability to manage our inventory levels; changes in promotional support offered by studios; our ability to maintain, upgrade and develop our Web site, our internal computer systems and our fulfillment processes and efficiently utilize our shipping centers; fluctuations in consumer spending on DVD players, DVDs and related products; fluctuations in the use of the Internet for the purchase of consumer goods and services such as those offered by us; technical difficulties, system downtime or Internet disruptions; our ability to attract new and qualified personnel in a timely and effective manner and retain existing personnel; our ability to successfully manage the integration of operations and technology resulting from acquisitions; governmental regulation and taxation policies; and general economic conditions and economic conditions specific to the Internet, online commerce and the movie industry. In addition to these factors, our operating results may fluctuate based upon seasonal fluctuations in DVD player sales and in the use of the Internet. During our limited operating history, we have experienced greater additions of new subscribers during late fall and the winter months, and these seasonal fluctuations may continue in future periods. 30 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We rely heavily on our proprietary technology to process deliveries and returns of our DVDs and to manage other aspects of our operations, and the failure of this technology to operate effectively could adversely affect our business. We use complex proprietary software to process deliveries and returns of our DVDs and to manage other aspects of our operations. Our proprietary technology is intended to allow our nationwide network of shipping centers to be operated on an integrated basis. We continually enhance or modify the software used for our distribution operations. We cannot be sure that any enhancements or other modifications we make to our distribution operations will achieve the intended results or otherwise be of value to our subscribers. If we are unable to maintain and enhance our technology to manage the processing of DVDs among our shipping centers in a timely and efficient manner, our ability to retain existing subscribers and to add new subscribers may be impaired. If we experience delivery problems or if our subscribers or potential subscribers lose confidence in the U.S. mail system, we could lose subscribers, which could adversely affect our operating results. We rely exclusively on the U.S. Postal Service to deliver DVDs from our shipping centers and to return DVDs to us from our subscribers. We are subject to risks associated with using the public mail system to meet our shipping needs, including delays caused by bioterrorism, potential labor activism and inclement weather. For example, in the fall of 2001 terrorists used the U.S. Postal Service to deliver envelopes containing Anthrax, following which mail deliveries around the United States experienced significant delays. Our DVDs are also subject to risks of breakage during delivery and handling by the U.S. Postal Service. The risk of breakage is also impacted by the materials and methods used to replicate our DVDs. If the entities replicating our DVDs use materials and methods more likely to break during delivery and handling or we fail to timely deliver DVDs to our subscribers, our subscribers could become dissatisfied and cancel our service, which could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, increased breakage rates for our DVDs will increase our cost of acquiring titles. Increases in the cost of delivering DVDs could adversely affect our gross profit and marketing expenses. Increases in postage delivery rates will adversely affect our gross profit if we elect not to raise our subscription fees to offset the increase. The U.S. Postal Service has announced that it will seek an increase in the rate for first class postage in 2006. The extent of this rate increase is not yet known. In addition, the U.S. Postal Service has announced long term plans to reduce its costs and make its service more efficient. If the U.S. Postal Service were to change any policies relative to the requirements of first class mail, including changes in size, weight or machinability qualifications of our DVD envelopes, such changes could result in increased shipping costs for our DVDs and our gross margin could be affected adversely. Also, if the U.S. Postal Service curtails its services, such as discontinuing or reducing Saturday delivery service, our ability to timely deliver DVDs could diminish, and our subscriber satisfaction could be affected adversely. Currently, most filmed entertainment is packaged on a single lightweight DVD. Our delivery process is designed to accommodate the delivery of one DVD to fulfill a selection. Because of the lightweight nature of a DVD, we generally mail one envelope containing a title using standard U.S. postage. Studios occasionally provide additional content on a second DVD or may package a title on two DVDs. In addition, the studios have recently announced plans to release certain films in high definition format on either HD DVDs or BluRay DVDs. These new DVDs have characteristics that are different than those currently in circulation. These high definition format DVDs may be heavier and or more fragile than current DVDs. If packaging of filmed entertainment on multiple DVDs were to become more prevalent, if the weight of DVDs were to increase, or the durability of DVDs deteriorate, our costs of delivery and fulfillment processing would increase and our costs of replacing damaged DVDs may rise materially which would depress gross margins and profitability and adversely affect free cash flow. If we are unable to effectively utilize our recommendation service, our business may suffer. Based on proprietary algorithms, our recommendation service enables us to predict and recommend titles and effectively merchandize our library to our subscribers. We believe that in order for our recommendation 31 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements service to function most effectively, it must access a large database of user ratings. We cannot assure you that the proprietary algorithms in our recommendation service will continue to function effectively to predict and recommend titles that our subscribers will enjoy, or that we will continue to be successful in enticing subscribers to rate enough titles for our database to effectively predict and recommend new or existing titles. We are continually refining our recommendation service in an effort to improve its predictive accuracy and usefulness to our subscribers. We may experience difficulties in implementing such refinements. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to make and implement meaningful refinements to our recommendation service. If our recommendation service does not enable us to predict and recommend titles that our subscribers will enjoy or if we are unable to implement meaningful improvements, our personal movie recommendation service will be less useful, in which event: our subscriber satisfaction may decrease, subscribers may perceive our service to be of lower value and our ability to attract and retain subscribers may be affected adversely; our ability to effectively merchandise and utilize our library will be affected adversely; and our subscribers may default to choosing titles from among new releases or other titles that cost us more to provide, and our margins may be affected adversely. If we do not correctly anticipate our short and long term needs for titles our subscriber satisfaction and results of operations may be affected adversely. If we do not acquire sufficient copies of titles, we may not satisfy subscriber demand, and our subscriber satisfaction and results of operations could be affected adversely. Conversely, if we attempt to mitigate this risk and acquire more copies than needed to satisfy our subscriber demand, our inventory utilization would become less effective and our gross margins would be affected adversely. If consumer adoption of DVD players slows, our business could be adversely affected. The rapid adoption of DVD players has been fueled by strong retail and studio support and falling DVD player prices. If retailers or studios reduce their support of the DVD format, or if manufacturers raise prices, continued DVD adoption by consumers could slow. If new or existing technologies were to become more popular at the expense of the adoption or use of DVD technology, consumers may delay or avoid purchasing DVD players. Our subscriber growth will be substantially influenced by future consumer adoption of DVD players, and if such adoption slows, our subscriber growth may also slow. We depend on studios to release titles on DVD for an exclusive time period following theatrical release. Our ability to attract and retain subscribers is related to our ability to offer new releases of filmed entertainment on DVDs prior to their release to other distribution channels. Except for theatrical release, DVDs currently enjoy a significant competitive advantage over other distribution channels, such as pay per view and VOD, because of the early distribution window for DVDs. The window for DVD rental and retail sales is generally exclusive against other forms of non theatrical movie distribution, such as pay per view, premium television, basic cable and network and syndicated television. The length of the exclusive window for movie rental and retail sales varies. Our business could suffer increased competition if: the window for rental were no longer the first following the theatrical release; or the length of this window was shortened. The order, length and exclusivity of each window for each distribution channel is determined solely by the studio releasing the title, and we cannot assure you that the studios will not change their policies in the future in a manner that would be adverse to our business and results of operations. 32 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements In addition, any conditions that adversely affect the movie industry, including constraints on capital, financial difficulties, regulatory requirements and strikes, work stoppages or other disruptions involving writers, actors or other essential personnel, could adversely affect the availability of new titles, consumer demand for filmed entertainment and our business. If we are unable to renegotiate our revenue sharing agreements when they expire on terms favorable to us, or if the cost of purchasing titles on a wholesale basis increases, our gross margins may be affected adversely. Since 2000, we have entered into numerous revenue sharing arrangements with studios and distributors. These revenue sharing agreements generally have terms of up to five years. The length of time we share revenue on each title is a fixed period. As our revenue sharing agreements expire, we may be required to negotiate new terms that could be disadvantageous to us. During the course of our revenue sharing relationship with studios and distributors, various contract administration issues arise. To the extent that we are unable to resolve any of these issues in an amicable manner, our relationship with the studios and distributors may be adversely impacted. Titles that we do not acquire under a revenue sharing agreement are purchased on a wholesale basis from studios or other distributors. If the price of purchased titles increases, our gross margin will be affected adversely. If the sales price of DVDs to retail consumers decreases, our ability to attract new subscribers may be affected adversely. The cost of manufacturing DVDs is substantially less than the price for which new DVDs are generally sold in the retail market. Thus, we believe that studios and other resellers of DVDs have significant flexibility in pricing DVDs for retail sale. If the retail price of DVDs decreases significantly, consumers may choose to purchase DVDs instead of subscribing to our service. If VOD or other technologies are widely adopted and supported as a method of content delivery by the studios and consumers, our business could be adversely affected. Some digital cable providers and a limited number of Internet content providers have implemented technology referred to as VOD. This technology transmits movies and other entertainment content on demand with interactive capabilities such as start, stop and rewind. In addition to being available from a small number of cable providers, VOD has been introduced over the Internet, as high speed Internet access has greatly increased the speed and quality of viewing content, including feature length movies, on personal computers. In addition, other technologies have been developed that allow alternative means for consumers to receive and watch movies or other entertainment. If VOD or other technologies become affordable and viable alternative methods of content delivery widely supported by studios and adopted by consumers, our business could be adversely affected. We may need additional capital, and we cannot be sure that additional financing will be available. Historically, we have funded our operations and capital expenditures through proceeds from private equity and debt financings, equipment leases and cash flow from operations. Although we currently anticipate that the proceeds from our May 2002 initial public offering, together with our available funds and cash flow from operations, will be sufficient to meet our cash needs for the foreseeable future, we may require additional financing. Our ability to obtain financing will depend, among other things, on our development efforts, business plans, operating performance and condition of the capital markets at the time we seek financing. We cannot assure you that additional financing will be available to us on favorable terms when required, or at all. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity linked or debt securities, those securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to the rights of our common stock, and our stockholders may experience dilution. 33 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Any significant disruption in service on our Web site or in our computer systems could result in a loss of subscribers. Subscribers and potential subscribers access our service through our Web site, where the title selection process is integrated with our delivery processing systems and software. Our reputation and ability to attract, retain and serve our subscribers is dependent upon the reliable performance of our Web site, network infrastructure and fulfillment processes. Interruptions in these systems could make our Web site unavailable and hinder our ability to fulfill selections. Much of our software is proprietary, and we rely on the expertise of our engineering and software development teams for the continued performance of our software and computer systems. Service interruptions or the unavailability of our Web site could diminish the overall attractiveness of our subscription service to existing and potential subscribers. Our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break ins and similar disruptions, which could lead to interruptions and delays in our service and operations as well as loss, misuse or theft of data. Our Web site periodically experiences directed attacks intended to cause a disruption in service. Any attempts by hackers to disrupt our Web site service or our internal systems, if successful, could harm our business, be expensive to remedy and damage our reputation. Our general business disruption insurance does not cover expenses related to direct attacks on our Web site or internal systems. Efforts to prevent hackers from entering our computer systems are expensive to implement and may limit the functionality of our services. Any significant disruption to our Web site or internal computer systems could result in a loss of subscribers and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our communications hardware and the computer hardware used to operate our Web site are hosted at the facilities of a third party provider. Hardware for our delivery systems is maintained in our shipping centers. Fires, floods, earthquakes, power losses, telecommunications failures, break ins and similar events could damage these systems and hardware or cause them to fail completely. As we do not maintain entirely redundant systems, a disrupting event could result in prolonged downtime of our operations and could adversely affect our business. Problems faced by our third party Web hosting provider, with the telecommunications network providers with whom it contracts or with the systems by which it allocates capacity among its customers, including us, could impact adversely the experience of our subscribers. Our executive offices and our Sunnyvale based shipping center are located in the San Francisco Bay Area. In the event of an earthquake or other natural or man made disaster, our operations would be affected adversely. Our executive offices and our Sunnyvale based shipping center, which also houses our customer service operations, are located in the San Francisco Bay Area. Our business and operations could be adversely affected in the event of electrical blackouts, fires, floods, earthquakes, power losses, telecommunications failures, break ins or similar events. We may not be able to effectively shift our fulfillment and delivery operations due to disruptions in service in the San Francisco Bay Area or any other facility. Because the San Francisco Bay Area is located in an earthquake sensitive area, we are particularly susceptible to the risk of damage to, or total destruction of, our Sunnyvale based operations center and the surrounding transportation infrastructure. We are not insured against any losses or expenses that arise from a disruption to our business due to earthquakes. The loss of one or more of our key personnel, or our failure to attract, assimilate and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future, could harm our business and new service developments. We depend on the continued services and performance of our key personnel, including Reed Hastings, our Chief Executive Officer, President and Chairman of the Board, W. Barry McCarthy Jr., our Chief Financial Officer, Thomas R. Dillon, our Chief Operations Officer, Leslie J. Kilgore, our Chief Marketing Officer, Theodore A. Sarandos, Chief Content Officer, and Neil D. Hunt, our Chief Product Officer. In addition, much of our key technology and systems are custom made for our business by our personnel. The loss of these or other key personnel could disrupt our operations and have an adverse effect on our ability to grow our business. 34 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Privacy concerns could limit our ability to leverage our subscriber data. In the ordinary course of business, and in particular, in connection with providing our personal movie recommendation service, we collect and utilize data supplied by our subscribers. We currently face certain legal obligations regarding the manner in which we treat such information. Other businesses have been criticized by privacy groups and governmental bodies for attempts to link personal identities and other information to data collected on the Internet regarding users browsing and other habits. Increased regulation of data utilization practices, including self regulation, as well as increased enforcement of existing laws, could have an adverse effect on our business. Our reputation and relationships with subscribers would be harmed if our billing data were to be accessed by unauthorized persons. To secure transmission of confidential information obtained by us for billing purposes, including subscribers credit card or checking account data, we rely on licensed encryption and authentication technology. In conjunction with the payment processing companies, we take measures to protect against unauthorized intrusion into our subscribers data. If, despite these measures, we experience any unauthorized intrusion into our subscribers data, current and potential subscribers may become unwilling to provide the information to us necessary for them to become subscribers, and our business could be affected adversely. Similarly, if a well publicized breach of the consumer data security of any other major consumer Web site were to occur, there could be a general public loss of confidence in the use of the Internet for commerce transactions, which could adversely affect our business. In addition, because we obtain subscribers billing information on our Web site, we do not obtain signatures from subscribers in connection with the use of credit cards by them. Under current credit card practices, to the extent we do not obtain cardholders signatures, we are liable for fraudulent credit card transactions, even when the associated financial institution approves payment of the orders. From time to time, fraudulent credit cards are used on our Web site to obtain service and access our DVD inventory. Typically, these credit cards have not been registered as stolen and are therefore not rejected by our automatic authorization safeguards. While we do have a number of other safeguards in place, we nonetheless experience some loss from these fraudulent transactions. We do not currently carry insurance against the risk of fraudulent credit card transactions. A failure to adequately control fraudulent credit card transactions would harm our business and results of operations. Our relationship with subscribers and payment processing companies could be harmed if our billing software fails. In the past, we have experienced problems with our subscriber billing software, causing us to over bill subscribers. Although we have and will continue to credit the accounts of the subscribers we over bill, problems with our billing software may have an adverse effect on our subscriber satisfaction and may cause one or more of the major payment processing or credit companies to disallow our continued use of their payment products. In addition, if our billing software fails and we fail to bill subscribers, our cash flow and results of operations will be affected adversely. Increases in payment processing fees would increase our operating expenses and adversely affect our results of operations. Our subscribers pay for our subscription services predominately using credit cards, debit cards and electronic checks. Our acceptance of these payment methods requires our payment of certain fees. From time to time, these fees may increase. We expect some, if not all, of the payment processing companies will further increase their transaction fees in 2005. Such increase will adversely affect our results of operations if we elect not to raise our subscription rates to offset the increase. 35 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements If our trademarks and other proprietary rights are not adequately protected to prevent use or appropriation by our competitors, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished, and our business may be adversely affected. We rely and expect to continue to rely on a combination of confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties with whom we have relationships, as well as trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection laws, to protect our proprietary rights. Netflix is a registered trademark of Netflix, Inc. We have also filed trademark applications in the United States for the Netflix.com and CineMatch names and for the Netflix design logo, and have filed U.S. patent applications for certain aspects of our technology. We have also filed trademark applications in certain foreign countries for the Netflix name. From time to time we expect to file additional trademark and patent applications. Nevertheless, these applications may not be approved, third parties may challenge any patents issued to or held by us, third parties may knowingly or unknowingly infringe our patents, trademarks and other proprietary rights, and we may not be able to prevent infringement without substantial expense to us. If the protection of our proprietary rights is inadequate to prevent use or appropriation by third parties, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished, competitors may be able to more effectively mimic our service and methods of operations, the perception of our business and service to subscribers and potential subscribers may become confused in the marketplace and our ability to attract subscribers may be adversely affected. Intellectual property claims against us could be costly and result in the loss of significant rights related to, among other things, our Web site, our recommendation service, title selection processes and marketing activities. Trademark, copyright, patent and other intellectual property rights are important to us and other companies. Our intellectual property rights extend to our technology, business processes and the content on our Web site. We use the intellectual property of third parties in merchandising our products and marketing our service through contractual and other rights. From time to time, third parties allege that we have violated their intellectual property rights. As discussed in Item 3 Legal Proceedings, we have been sued for alleged patent infringement by BTG. If we are unable to obtain sufficient rights or develop non infringing intellectual property or otherwise alter our business practices on a timely basis in response to claims against us for infringement, misappropriation, misuse or other violation of third party intellectual property rights, our business and competitive position may be affected adversely. Many companies are devoting significant resources to developing patents that could potentially affect many aspects of our business. There are numerous patents that broadly claim means and methods of conducting business on the Internet. We have not exhaustively searched patents relative to our technology. Defending ourselves against intellectual property claims, whether they are with or without merit or are determined in our favor, results in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel. It also may result in our inability to use our current Web site or our recommendation service or inability to market our service or merchandise our products. As a result of a dispute, we may have to develop non infringing technology, enter into royalty or licensing agreements, adjust our merchandizing or marketing activities or take other actions to resolve the claims. These actions, if required, may be costly or unavailable on terms acceptable to us. If we are unable to protect our domain names, our reputation and brand could be affected adversely. We currently hold various domain names relating to our brand, including Netflix.com. Failure to protect our domain names could affect adversely our reputation and brand, and make it more difficult for users to find our Web site and our service. The acquisition and maintenance of domain names generally are regulated by governmental agencies and their designees. The regulation of domain names in the United States may change in the near future. Governing bodies may establish additional top level domains, appoint additional domain name registrars or modify the requirements for holding domain names. As a result, we may be unable to acquire or maintain relevant domain names. Furthermore, the relationship between regulations governing domain names and laws protecting trademarks and similar proprietary rights is unclear. We may be unable to prevent third 36 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. Because our business is accessed over the Internet, if the Internet infrastructure is not developed or maintained, we will lose subscribers. The Internet may not become a viable commercial marketplace for many potential subscribers due to inadequate development of network infrastructure and enabling technologies that address consumer concerns about: network performance; security; reliability; speed of access; Ease of use; and bandwidth availability. The Internet has experienced a variety of outages and delays as a result of damage to portions of its infrastructure, and it could face outages and delays in the future. These outages and delays could frustrate public use of the Internet, including use of our Web site. In addition, the Internet could lose its viability due to delays in the development or adoption of new standards and protocols to handle increased levels of activity or due to governmental regulation. If we become subject to liability for the Internet content that we publish or upload from our users, our results of operations would be affected adversely. As a publisher of online content, we face potential liability for negligence, copyright, patent or trademark infringement or other claims based on the nature and content of materials that we publish or distribute. We also may face potential liability for content uploaded from our users in connection with our community related content or movie reviews. If we become liable, then our business may suffer. Litigation to defend these claims could be costly and harm our results of operations. We cannot assure you that we are adequately insured to cover claims of these types or to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed on us. If government regulation of the Internet or other areas of our business changes or if consumer attitudes toward use of the Internet change, we may need to change the manner in which we conduct our business, or incur greater operating expenses. The adoption or modification of laws or regulations relating to the Internet or other areas of our business could limit or otherwise adversely affect the manner in which we currently conduct our business. In addition, the growth and development of the market for online commerce may lead to more stringent consumer protection laws, which may impose additional burdens on us. If we are required to comply with new regulations or legislation or new interpretations of existing regulations or legislation, this compliance could cause us to incur additional expenses or alter our business model. The manner in which Internet and other legislation may be interpreted and enforced cannot be precisely determined and may subject either us or our customers to potential liability, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The adoption of any laws or regulations that adversely affect the popularity or growth in use of the Internet could decrease the demand for our subscription service and increase our cost of doing business. 37 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements In addition, if consumer attitudes toward use of the Internet change, consumers may become unwilling to select their entertainment online or otherwise provide us with information necessary for them to become subscribers. Further, we may not be able to effectively market our services online to users of the Internet. If we are unable to interact with consumers because of changes in their attitude toward use of the Internet, our subscriber acquisition and retention may be affected adversely. We may be engaged in legal proceedings that could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses and could occupy a significant amount of our managements time and attention. From time to time, we are subject to litigation or claims that could negatively affect our business operations and financial position. Such disputes could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses, could occupy a significant amount of our managements time and attention, and could negatively affect our business operations and financial position. Recently enacted changes in securities laws and regulations have increased and may continue to increase our costs. Recently enacted changes in the laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 and rules promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission have increased and may continue to increase our expenses as we evaluate the implications of these rules and devote resources to respond to their requirements. The NASDAQ National Market, on which our common stock is listed, has also adopted comprehensive rules and regulations relating to corporate governance. These laws, rules and regulations have increased and will continue to increase the scope, complexity and cost of our corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices. We also expect these developments to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance in the future, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. Further, our board members, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. As a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which would adversely affect our business. Risks Related to Our Stock Ownership Our officers and directors and their affiliates will exercise significant control over Netflix. As of December 31, 2004, our executive officers and directors, their immediate family members and affiliated venture capital funds beneficially owned, in the aggregate, approximately 32 percent of our outstanding common stock, warrants and stock options that are exercisable within 60 days. In particular, Jay Hoag, one of our directors, beneficially owned approximately 21 percent and Reed Hastings, our Chief Executive Officer, President and Chairman of the Board, beneficially owned approximately 10 percent. These stockholders may have individual interests that are different from yours and will be able to exercise significant control over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, which could delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with us. Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. Our charter documents may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable because they: authorize our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock; 38 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements provide for a classified board of directors; prohibit our stockholders from acting by written consent; establish advance notice requirements for proposing matters to be approved by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and prohibit stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain Delaware anti takeover provisions. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15 percent or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. Our board of directors could rely on Delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us. Our stock price is volatile. The price at which our common stock has traded since our May 2002 initial public offering has fluctuated significantly. The price may continue to be volatile due to a number of factors including the following, some of which are beyond our control: variations in our operating results; variations between our actual operating results and the expectations of securities analysts, investors and the financial community; announcements of developments affecting our business, systems or expansion plans by us or others; Competition, including the introduction of new competitors, their pricing strategies and services; market volatility in general; and the operating results of our competitors. As a result of these and other factors, investors in our common stock may not be able to resell their shares at or above their original purchase price. Following certain periods of volatility in the market price of our securities, we became the subject of securities litigation. We may experience more such litigation following future periods of volatility. This type of litigation may result in substantial costs and a diversion of managements attention and resources. We record substantial expenses related to our issuance of stock options that may have a material negative impact on our operating results for the foreseeable future. During the second quarter of 2003, we adopted the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123 for stock based employee compensation. In addition, during the third quarter of 2003, we began granting stock options to our employees on a monthly basis. The vesting periods provide for options to vest immediately, in comparison with the three to four year vesting periods for stock options granted prior to the third quarter of 2003. As a result of immediate vesting, stock based compensation expenses determined under SFAS No. 123 is fully recognized in the same periods as the monthly stock option grants. In addition, we continue to amortize the deferred compensation of stock options with three to four year vesting periods granted prior to the third quarter of 2003 over the remaining vesting periods. Our stock based compensation expenses totaled $8.8 million, $10.7 million and $16.6 million during 2002, 2003 and 2004, respectively. We expect our stock based compensation expenses will continue to be significant in future periods, which will have an adverse impact on our operating results. The Black Scholes option pricing model, used by us, requires the input of highly subjective assumptions, including the options expected life and the price volatility of the underlying stock. Changes in the subjective input assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate. 39 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Financial forecasting by us and financial analysts who may publish estimates of our financial results will be difficult because of our limited operating history, and our actual results may differ from forecasts. As a result of our growth, our limited operating history and the changing competitive landscape it is difficult to accurately forecast our revenues, gross margin, operating expenses, number of paying subscribers, number of DVDs shipped per day and other financial and operating data. Our inability or the inability of the financial community to accurately forecast our operating results could cause our net income (losses) in a given quarter to be less (greater) than expected, which could cause a decline in the trading price of our common stock. We have a limited amount of meaningful historical financial data upon which to base planned operating expenses. We base our current and forecasted expense levels and DVD acquisitions on our operating plans and estimates of future revenues, which are dependent on the growth of our subscriber base and the demand for titles by our subscribers. As a result, we may be unable to make accurate financial forecasts or to adjust our spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected shortfalls in revenues. We believe that these difficulties in forecasting are even greater for financial analysts who may publish their own estimates of our financial results. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal, while at the same time maximizing income we receive from investments without significantly increased risk. Some of the securities we invest in may be subject to market risk. This means that a change in prevailing interest rates may cause the principal amount of the investment to fluctuate. For example, if we hold a security that was issued with a fixed interest rate at the then prevailing rate and the prevailing interest rate later rises, the value of our investment will decline. To minimize this risk, we intend to maintain our portfolio of cash equivalents in a variety of securities. Our cash equivalents are generally invested in money market funds, which are not subject to market risk because the interest paid on such funds fluctuates with the prevailing interest rate. 
 
