Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview Our Business We are the largest online movie rental subscription service providing more than 4,200,000 subscribers access to a comprehensive library of more than 55,000 movie, television and other filmed entertainment titles. Our most popular subscription plan allows subscribers to have up to three titles out at the same time with no due dates, late fees or shipping charges for $17.99 per month. In addition, we offer a number of other subscription plans to accommodate a variety of movie watching preferences. Subscribers select titles at our Web site aided by our proprietary recommendation service, receive them on DVD by U.S. mail and return them to us at their convenience using our prepaid mailers. After a title has been returned, we mail the next available title in a subscribers queue. The terms and conditions by which subscribers utilize our service and a more detailed description of how our service works can be found at www.netflix.com/TermsOfUse. We derive substantially all of our revenues from monthly subscription fees. Our business has grown rapidly since inception, resulting in substantially increased revenues. Our growth has been fueled by the rapid adoption of DVDs as a medium for home entertainment as well as increased awareness of online DVD rentals. We expect that our business will continue to grow as the market for online DVD rentals continues to grow, a reflection of both the convenience and value of the subscription rental model. We continued to see strong growth and financial results in 2005, with revenues achieving double digit growth from a year ago. This growth can be attributed to an expanding subscriber base. We added approximately 1.6 million net new subscribers in 2005, growing from 2.6 million to 4.2 million subscribers at December 31, 2005. Our operating income was lower in 2005 as compared to 2004 primarily as a result of having lowered the subscription price of our most popular service plan in the fourth quarter of 2004 while increasing marketing spending in a competitive environment. 23 Table of Contents Recent Developments and Initiatives We continue to face direct competition from Blockbuster. It remains possible that other potential entrants will offer competing services, either directly or in conjunction with others or that Blockbuster will gain more traction in its current business. We continue to focus on retaining our leadership position and growing our business. We launched two new revenue initiatives in 2005: retail sales of previously viewed DVDs and our Ad Sales program. We also continue to invest resources to develop solutions for downloading movies to consumers. Our core strategy has been and remains to grow a large DVD subscription business. However, as technology and infrastructure develop to allow effective and convenient delivery of movies over the Internet and when meaningful content becomes available, we intend to offer our subscribers the choice of receiving their movies on DVD or by downloading, whichever they prefer. Key Business Metrics Management periodically reviews certain key business metrics, within the context of our articulated performance goals, in order to evaluate the effectiveness of our operational strategies, allocate resources and maximize the financial performance of our business. The key business metrics include the following: Churn: Churn is a monthly measure defined as customer cancellations in the quarter divided by the sum of beginning subscribers and gross subscriber additions, then divided by three months. Management reviews this metric to evaluate whether we are retaining our existing subscribers in accordance with our business plans. Subscriber Acquisition Cost: Subscriber acquisition cost is defined as total marketing expense divided by total gross subscriber additions. Management reviews this metric to evaluate how effective our marketing programs are in acquiring new subscribers on an economical basis in the context of estimated subscriber lifetime value. Gross Margin: Management reviews gross margin to monitor variable costs and operating efficiency. Management believes it is useful to monitor these metrics together and not individually as it does not make business decisions based upon any single metric. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The Securities and Exchange Commission has defined a companys critical accounting policies as the ones that are most important to the portrayal of a companys financial condition and results of operations, and which require a company to make its most difficult and subjective judgments. Based on this definition, we have identified the critical accounting policies and judgments addressed below. Although we believe that our estimates, assumptions and judgments are reasonable, they are based upon information presently available. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions, judgments or conditions. Amortization of DVD Library and Upfront Costs We acquire DVDs from studios and distributors through either direct purchases or revenue sharing agreements. We acquire DVDs for the purpose of renting them to our subscribers and earning subscription rental revenues and as such, we consider our DVD library to be a productive asset, and classify our DVD Library as a non current asset. Additionally, in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 95 Statement of Cash Flows (SFAS 95), we classify cash outflows for the acquisition of the DVD Library, including any upfront non refundable payments required under revenue sharing agreements, as cash flows from investing activities on our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. 24 Table of Contents We amortize our DVD library, less estimated salvage value, on a sum of the months accelerated basis over its estimated useful life. The useful life of the new release DVDs and back catalogue DVDs is estimated to be 1 year and 3 years, respectively. In estimating the useful life of our DVD library, we take into account library utilization as well as an estimate for lost or damaged DVDs. Volume purchase discounts received from studios on the purchase of titles are recorded as a reduction of DVD library inventory when earned. Prior to July 1, 2004, we amortized the cost of our entire DVD library, including the capitalized portion of the initial fixed license fee, on a sum of the months accelerated basis over one year. However, based on our periodic evaluation of both new release and back catalogue utilization for amortization purposes, we determined that back catalogue titles have a significantly longer life than previously estimated. As a result, we revised our estimate of useful life for the back catalogue DVD library from a sum of the months accelerated method using a one year life to the same accelerated method of amortization using a three year life. The purpose of this change is to more accurately reflect the productive life of these assets. In accordance with APB 20, the change in life has been accounted for as a change in accounting estimate on a prospective basis from July 1, 2004. New releases will continue to be amortized over a one year period. We believe the use of the accelerated method is appropriate for the amortization of our DVD library and the initial fixed license fee because it approximates DVD utilization. In the third quarter of 2004, we determined that we were selling fewer previously rented DVDs than estimated but at an average selling price higher than historically estimated. We therefore revised our estimate of salvage values, on direct purchase DVDs. For those direct purchase DVDs that we estimate we will sell at the end of their useful lives, a salvage value of $3.00 per DVD has been provided effective July 1, 2004. For those DVDs that we do not expect to sell, no salvage value is provided. The revenue sharing agreements enable us to obtain DVDs at a lower upfront cost than under traditional direct purchase arrangements. Under the revenue sharing agreements, we share a percentage of the actual net revenues generated by the use of each particular title with the studios over a fixed period of time, or the Title Term, which is typically 12 months for each DVD title. At the end of the Title Term, we generally have the option of returning the DVD title to the studio, destroying the title or purchasing the title. In addition, we remit an upfront payment to acquire titles from the studios and distributors under revenue sharing agreements. This payment includes a contractually specified initial fixed license fee that is capitalized and amortized in accordance with our DVD library amortization policy. In some cases, this payment also includes a contractually specified prepayment of future revenue sharing obligations that is classified as prepaid revenue sharing expense and is charged to expense as future revenue sharing obligations are incurred. We will continue to periodically evaluate the useful lives and salvage values of our DVD library. Stock Based Compensation We account for stock based compensation expenses in accordance with the fair value recognition provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, as amended by SFAS No. 148, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure, an Amendment of FASB Statement No. 123. We use the Black Scholes option pricing model which requires the input of highly subjective assumptions, including the options expected life and the price volatility of the underlying stock. Changes in the subjective input assumptions can materially affect the estimate of fair value of options granted and our results of operations could be materially impacted. In light of the guidance in Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107 (SAB 107), we re evaluated the assumptions used to estimate the value of stock options beginning in the second quarter of 2005. Expected volatility: We determined that implied volatility of publicly traded options in our common stock is expected to be more reflective of market conditions and, therefore, can reasonably be expected to be a better indicator of expected volatility than historical volatility of our common stock. Therefore, we revised the volatility factor used to estimate the fair value of stock based compensation awards beginning in the second quarter of 2005 to be based on a blend of historical volatility of our common 25 Table of Contents stock and implied volatility of tradable forward call options to purchase shares of our common stock. Prior to the second quarter of 2005, we estimated expected volatility based on historical volatility of our common stock over the most recent period commensurate with the estimated expected life of our stock options. Expected Life: Prior to the third quarter of 2003, we granted stock options, which generally vested over three to four year periods. Since the third quarter of 2003, we began granting fully vested stock options to our employees on a monthly basis. As a result, we changed the expected life from 3.5 years to 1.5 years. In the second quarter of 2004, we revised our estimate of expected life based on our review of historical patterns for exercises of stock options. We bifurcated our option grants into two employee groupings (executive and non executive) based on exercise behavior and changed the estimate of the expected life from 1.5 years for all option grants in the first quarter of 2004 to 2.5 years for one group and 1 year for the other group beginning in the second quarter of 2004. In the second quarter of 2005, in light of the guidance in SAB 107, we further refined our estimate of expected life for option grants to 4 years for one group and 3 years for the other group from 2.5 years and 1 year, respectively. In determining the estimate, we considered several factors, including the historical option exercise behavior of our employees and the terms and vesting periods of the options granted. We shall continue to monitor the assumptions used to measure stock based compensation. Income Taxes We record a tax provision for the anticipated tax consequences of our reported results of operations. In accordance with SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, the provision for income taxes is computed using the asset and liability method, under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, and for operating loss carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the currently enacted tax rates that apply to taxable income in effect for the years in which those tax assets are expected to be realized or settled. We record a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is believed more likely than not to be realized. As of December 31, 2004, our deferred tax assets, primarily the tax benefits of loss carryforwards, were offset in full by a valuation allowance because of our history of losses through the first quarter of 2003, limited profitable quarters to date and the competitive landscape of online DVD rentals. As a result of our analysis of expected future income at December 31, 2005, it was considered more likely than not that a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets was no longer required resulting in the release of a previously recorded allowance generating a $34.9 million tax benefit. Deferred tax assets do not include the tax benefits attributable to approximately $65 million of excess tax deductions related to stock options. These benefits will only be recorded when realized on tax returns and will be credited to equity at that time. In evaluating our ability to recover our deferred tax assets, in full or in part, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including our past operating results, the existence of cumulative losses in the most recent fiscal years and our forecast of future market growth, forecasted earnings, future taxable income, the mix of earnings in the jurisdictions in which we operate and prudent and feasible tax planning strategies. The assumptions utilized in determining future taxable income require significant judgment and are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using to manage the underlying businesses. We believe that the deferred tax assets recorded on our balance sheet will ultimately be realized. In the event we were to determine that we would not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would be charged to earnings in the period in which we make such determination. 26 Table of Contents Descriptions of Statement of Income Components Revenues: Revenues include subscription revenues and, for 2005, revenues from the sale of advertising, which were not material. We generate all our subscription revenues in the United States. We derive substantially all of our revenues from monthly subscription fees and recognize subscription revenues ratably over each subscribers monthly subscription period. We record refunds to subscribers as a reduction of revenues. In addition to our most popular service of $17.99 per month, we offer other service plans with different price points that allow subscribers to keep either fewer or more titles at the same time. Cost of Revenues: Subscription: We acquire titles for our library through traditional direct purchase and through revenue sharing agreements with content providers. Traditional buying methods normally result in higher upfront costs than titles obtained through revenue sharing agreements. Cost of subscription revenues consists of revenue sharing expenses, amortization of our DVD library, amortization of intangible assets related to equity instruments issued to certain studios in 2000 and 2001 and postage and packaging costs related to shipping titles to paying subscribers. Costs related to free trial subscribers are allocated to marketing expenses. Revenue Sharing Expenses. Our revenue sharing agreements generally commit us to pay an initial upfront fee for each DVD acquired and also a percentage of revenue earned from such DVD rentals for a defined period of time. A portion of the initial upfront fees are non recoupable for revenue sharing purposes and are capitalized and amortized in accordance with our DVD library amortization policy. The remaining portion of the initial upfront fee represents prepaid revenue sharing and this amount is expensed as revenue sharing expenses as DVDs subject to revenue sharing agreements are shipped to subscribers. The terms of some revenue sharing agreements with studios obligate us to make minimum revenue sharing payments for certain titles. We amortize minimum revenue sharing prepayments (or accrete an amount payable to studios if the payment is due in arrears) as revenue sharing obligations are incurred. A provision for estimated shortfall, if any, on minimum revenue sharing payments is made in the period in which the shortfall becomes probable and can be reasonably estimated. Additionally, the terms of some revenue sharing agreement with studios provide for rebates based on achieving specified performance levels. We accrue for these rebates as earned based on historical title performance and estimates of demand for the titles over the remainder of the title term. Amortization of DVD Library. On July 1, 2004, we revised the estimate of useful life for the back catalogue DVD library from one to three years. New releases will continue to be amortized over a one year period. We also revised our estimate of salvage values, on direct purchase DVDs. For those direct purchase DVDs that we expect to sell at the end of their useful lives, a salvage value of $3.00 per DVD has been provided effective July 1, 2004. For those DVDs that we do not expect to sell, no salvage value is provided. Amortization of Studio Intangible Assets. In 2000 and 2001, in connection with signing revenue sharing agreements with certain studios, we agreed to issue to each of these studios our Series F Non Voting Preferred Stock. The studios Series F Preferred Stock automatically converted into 3,192,830 shares of common stock upon the closing of our initial public offering. We measured the original issuances and any subsequent adjustments using the fair value of the securities at the issuance and any subsequent adjustment dates. The fair value was recorded as an intangible asset and is amortized to cost of subscription revenues ratably over the remaining term of the agreements which initial terms were either three or five years. As of December 31, 2005, all studio intangible assets were fully amortized. Postage and Packaging. Postage and packaging expenses consist of the postage costs to mail titles to and from our paying subscribers and the packaging and label costs for the mailers. The rate for first class postage was $0.37 between June 29, 2002 and January 7, 2006. The U.S. Postal Service increased the rate of first class 27 Table of Contents postage by 2 cents to $0.39 effective January 8, 2006. We receive discounts on outbound postage costs related to our mail preparation practices. Fulfillment expenses: Fulfillment expenses represent those expenses incurred in operating and staffing our shipping and customer service centers, including costs attributable to receiving, inspecting and warehousing our library. Fulfillment expenses also include credit card fees. Operating Expenses: Technology and Development. Technology and development expenses consist of payroll and related expenses we incur related to testing, maintaining and modifying our Web site, our recommendation service, developing solutions for downloading movies to subscribers, telecommunications systems and infrastructure and other internal use software systems. Technology and development expenses also include depreciation of the computer hardware and capitalized software we use to run our Web site and store our data. Marketing. Marketing expenses consist of payroll and related expenses and advertising expenses. Advertising expenses include marketing program expenditures and other promotional activities, including revenue sharing expenses, postage and packaging expenses and library amortization related to free trial periods. General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses consist of payroll and related expenses for executive, finance, content acquisition and administrative personnel, as well as recruiting, professional fees and other general corporate expenses. Stock Based Compensation. During the second quarter of 2003, we adopted the fair value recognition provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, as amended by SFAS No. 148, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure, an Amendment of FASB Statement No. 123, for stock based compensation. We elected to apply the retroactive restatement method under SFAS No. 148 and all prior periods presented have been restated to reflect the compensation costs that would have been recognized had the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123 been applied to all awards granted. During the third quarter of 2003, we began granting stock options to our employees on a monthly basis. The vesting periods provide for options to vest immediately, in comparison with the three to four year vesting periods for stock options granted prior to the third quarter of 2003. As a result of immediate vesting, all stock based compensation expense determined under SFAS No. 123 is fully recognized upon the grant of the stock option. For those stock options granted prior to the third quarter of 2003 with three to four year vesting periods, we continue to amortize the deferred compensation related to those stock options over the remaining vesting periods. Gain on disposal of DVDs. Gain on disposal of DVDs represents the difference between proceeds from sales of DVDs and associated cost of DVD sales. Cost of DVD sales includes the net book value of the DVDs sold, shipping charges and, where applicable, a contractually specified percentage of the sales value for the DVDs that are subject to revenue sharing agreements. 28 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table sets forth, for the periods presented, the line items in our Statements of Income as a percentage of total revenues. The information contained in the table below should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and notes thereto included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Year Ended December 31, 2003 2004 2005 Revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenues: Subscription 54.6 54.6 57.7 Fulfillment expenses 11.6 11.3 10.4 Total cost of revenues 66.2 65.9 68.1 Gross profit 33.8 34.1 31.9 Operating expenses: Technology and development 6.6 4.6 4.5 Marketing 18.5 19.6 20.8 General and administrative 3.5 3.3 4.3 Stock based compensation 3.9 3.2 2.2 Gain on disposal of DVDs (0.4 ) (0.5 ) (0.3 ) Total operating expenses 32.1 30.2 31.5 Operating income 1.7 3.9 0.4 Other income (expense): Interest and other income 0.9 0.4 0.9 Interest and other expense (0.2 ) (0.1 ) Income before income taxes 2.4 4.3 1.2 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes (5.0 ) Net income 2.4 % 4.3 % 6.2 % Revenues Year Ended December 31, 2003 PercentChange 2004 PercentChange 2005 (in thousands, except percentages and average monthlysubscription revenue per paying subscriber) Revenues $ 270,410 85.1 % $ 500,611 36.3 % $ 682,213 Other data: Average number of paying subscribers 1,115 78.3 % 1,988 59.4 % 3,169 Average monthly revenue per paying subscriber $ 20.21 3.8 % $ 20.98 (14.5 %) $ 17.94 We currently generate all of our revenues in the United States. We derive substantially all of our revenues from monthly subscription fees and recognize subscription revenues ratably during each subscribers monthly subscription period. In addition, in 2005, we generated a small portion of our revenues from the sale of advertising. The increase in our revenues in 2005 as compared to 2004 was primarily attributable to substantial growth in the average number of paying subscribers as summarized in the table above, offset in part by a decline in average monthly subscription revenue per paying subscriber. We believe the increase in the number of paying subscribers was driven primarily by increased consumer awareness of the benefits of online DVD rentals and 29 Table of Contents continuing improvements in our service. The decline in the average monthly subscription revenue per paying subscriber was a result of the price decrease of our most popular subscription plan coupled with the increased promotion of our lower cost subscription plans. In June 2004, we increased the monthly subscription price of our most popular subscription plan from $19.95 to $21.99. However, effective November 2004, we lowered the price of the most popular subscription plan to $17.99. In addition, we introduced new lower priced subscription plans in the second quarter of 2005. We expect the average revenue per paying subscriber to continue to decline as we promote our lower priced subscription plans. The increase in our revenues in 2004 as compared to 2003 was primarily as a result of substantial growth in the average number of paying subscribers and to a lesser extent, due to a slight increase in average monthly subscription revenue per paying subscriber. We believe the increase in the number of paying subscribers was driven by the continuing consumer adoption of DVD players, increased consumer awareness of our service and continuing improvements in our service. The increase in the average monthly subscription revenue per paying subscriber was a result of the price increases discussed above. Churn declined to 4.0 percent in the fourth quarter of 2005 from 4.4 percent in the same period of 2004 and from 4.8 percent in the same period of 2003. We believe the decline was primarily due to the following factors: The impact of pricing and the introduction of lower cost subscription plans. The reduction in the price of our most popular subscription plan from $21.99 per month to $17.99 per month effective November 1, 2004 caused a decline in churn. Prior to that, in June 2004, we experienced an increase in churn when we increased the price of our standard subscription plan from $19.95 per month to $21.99 per month. Additionally, the introduction of lower cost subscription plans also contributed to the decline in churn. Aging subscriber base. As we grow, the ratio of new subscribers to total subscribers declines, leading to an increase in the average duration, or age, of the subscriber base. New subscribers are actually more likely to cancel their subscriptions than older subscribers, and therefore, an increase in subscriber age helps overall reductions in churn. Service improvements. We continued to make improvements in a number of key areas, including increasing the selection of titles as we expanded our DVD library and enhancing our Web site and recommendation service. We believe these improvements to our service increased subscriber satisfaction, which resulted in lower churn. If we are unable to compete effectively against Blockbuster and our other existing competitors as well as against potential new entrants into the online movie rental subscription business, in both retaining our existing subscribers and attracting new subscribers, our churn will likely increase and our business will be adversely affected. The following table presents our ending subscriber information: As of December 31, 2003 PercentChange 2004 PercentChange 2005 (in thousands, except percentages) Free subscribers 71 124 153 As a percentage of total subscribers 4.8 % 4.8 % 3.7 % Paid subscribers 1,416 2,486 4,026 As a percentage of total subscribers 95.2 % 95.2 % 96.3 % Total Subscribers 1,487 75.5 % 2,610 60.1 % 4,179 30 Table of Contents Cost of Revenues Year Ended December 31, 2003 PercentChange 2004 PercentChange 2005 (in thousands, except percentages) Cost of revenues: Subscription $ 147,736 85.1 % $ 273,401 44.0 % $ 393,788 Fulfillment expenses 31,274 81.0 % 56,609 25.0 % 70,762 Total cost of revenues $ 179,010 84.4 % $ 330,010 40.8 % $ 464,550 As a percentage of revenues. 66.2 % 65.9 % 68.1 % Subscription The increase in cost of subscription for 2005 as compared to 2004 was primarily attributable to the following factors: The number of DVDs mailed to paying subscribers increased 53 percent, which was driven by a 59 percent increase in the number of average paying subscribers offset by a slight decline in monthly movie rentals per average paying subscriber. Postage and packaging expenses increased by 52 percent. This increase was primarily attributable to the increase in the number of average paying subscribers and the number of DVDs mailed to paying subscribers. DVD amortization increased by 23 percent primarily due to increased acquisitions for our DVD library partially offset by the impact in the current year of $7.8 million related to the change in estimate of useful life of our back catalogue DVD library made in the third quarter of 2004. Revenue sharing expenses increased by 54 percent. This increase was primarily attributable to the increase in the number of average paying subscribers coupled with a slight increase in the percentage of DVDs subject to revenue sharing agreements mailed to paying subscribers. The increase in cost of subscription in 2004 as compared to 2003 was primarily attributable to the following factors: The number of DVDs mailed to paying subscribers increased 102 percent, which was driven by a 78 percent increase in the number of average paying subscribers coupled with a 13 percent increase in monthly movie rentals per average paying subscriber. Postage and packaging expenses increased by 93 percent. This increase was primarily attributable to the increase in the number of average paying subscribers and the number of DVDs mailed to paying subscribers, partially offset by a decrease in the per unit postage and packaging cost. DVD amortization increased by 87 percent. This increase was primarily attributable to increased acquisitions for our DVD library partially offset by a reduction in amortization of $10.9 million as a result of the change in estimate related to back catalogue useful lives. Revenue sharing expenses increased by 80 percent. This increase was primarily attributable to the increase in the number of average paying subscribers and the number of DVDs mailed to paying subscribers, partially offset by a decrease in the percentage of DVDs subject to revenue sharing agreements mailed to paying subscribers. Fulfillment expenses The increase in fulfillment expenses in absolute dollars in 2005 as compared to 2004 was primarily attributable to an increase in credit card fees as a result of the increase in subscriptions, an increase in personnel 31 Table of Contents related costs resulting from the higher volume of activities in our customer service and shipping centers and an increase in facility related costs resulting from expansion of certain of our shipping centers and the addition of new ones. The increase in fulfillment expenses in absolute dollars in 2004 as compared to 2003 was primarily attributable to an increase in personnel related costs resulting from the higher volume of activities in our customer service and shipping centers, coupled with an increase in credit card fees as a result of the increase in subscriptions. In addition, the increase in fulfillment expenses was attributable to an increase in facility related costs resulting from the relocation or expansion of certain of our shipping centers and the addition of new ones. Gross Margin Year Ended December 31, 2003 PercentChange 2004 PercentChange 2005 (in thousands, except percentages) Gross profit $ 91,400 86.7 % $ 170,601 27.6 % $ 217,663 Gross margin 33.8 % 34.1 % 31.9 % In 2005, in light of discussions with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), we reclassified fulfillment expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Income as a component of Cost of revenues. In prior periods we had reported fulfillment expenses as a component of Operating expenses. Accordingly, Cost of revenues, Gross profit and Operating expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Income for 2003 and 2004 have been reclassified to conform to the 2005 presentation. (See Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). The decline in gross margin in 2005 as compared to 2004 was primarily attributable to the increase in cost of subscription, offset in part by a decrease in fulfillment expenses as a percentage of revenue. Cost of subscription increased due to a decline in revenue per paid shipment as a result of the price decrease of our most popular service plan implemented in the fourth quarter of 2004, offset partially by the change in estimate related to the useful life of our back catalogue DVD library and the rapid growth of lower priced plans which produce a higher margin than our most popular subscription plan of $17.99 per month. In addition, the gross margin for 2004 was favorably impacted by certain credits received from studios resulting from amendments to revenue sharing agreements. If movie rentals per average paying subscriber increases or if we see more shipments of DVDs subject to revenue share, additional erosion in our gross margin will occur. Additionally, the increase in postage rates effective January 8, 2006, may adversely impact our gross margin. Gross margin increased slightly in 2004 as compared to 2003. This increase was primarily attributable to a decline in fulfillment expenses as a percentage of revenues. Operating Expenses: Technology and Development Year Ended December 31, 2003 PercentChange 2004 PercentChange 2005 (in thousands, except percentages) Technology and development $ 17,884 28.1 % $ 22,906 35.1 % $ 30,942 As a percentage of revenues 6.6 % 4.6 % 4.5 % 32 Table of Contents The increase in technology and development expenses in absolute dollars for 2005 as compared 2004 was primarily the result of an increase in personnel related and systems infrastructure costs. As a percentage of revenues, technology and development expenses remained constant in 2005 as compared to 2004. The increase in technology and development expenses in absolute dollars in 2004 as compared to 2003 was primarily the result of an increase in personnel related costs. As a percentage of revenues, technology and development expenses decreased primarily due to a greater increase in revenues than technology and development expenses. We continuously research and test a variety of potential improvements to our internal hardware and software systems in an effort to improve our productivity and enhance our subscribers experience. Additionally, we are developing solutions for downloading movies to subscribers. As a result, we expect our technology and development expenses will continue to increase in absolute dollars in 2006. Marketing Year Ended December 31, 2003 PercentChange 2004 PercentChange 2005 (in thousands, except percentages andsubscriber acquisition cost) Marketing $ 49,949 96.3 % $ 98,027 44.9 % $ 141,997 As a percentage of revenues 18.5 % 19.6 % 20.8 % Other data: Gross subscriber additions 1,571 72.9 % 2,716 37.3 % 3,729 Subscriber acquisition cost $ 31.79 13.5 % $ 36.09 5.5 % $ 38.08 The increase in marketing expenses in absolute dollars in 2005 as compared to 2004 was primarily attributable to an increase in marketing program costs, primarily direct mail, radio, television and online advertising, to attract new subscribers. As a percentage of revenues, the increase in marketing expenses was primarily due to a greater increase in marketing expenses than revenues. Subscriber acquisition cost increased in 2005 as compared to 2004 due to an increase in overall marketing program spending and spending on a per acquired subscriber basis offset partially by a decrease in the cost of providing free trials associated with our new lower priced plans, and by a $2.1 million reduction in liability due to the final settlement of certain marketing programs. The increase in marketing expenses in absolute dollars in 2004 as compared to 2003 was primarily attributable to an increase in marketing program costs, primarily television and online advertising, to attract new subscribers. In addition, personnel related costs increased in order to support the higher volume of marketing activities. As a percentage of revenues, the increase in marketing expenses was primarily due to a greater increase in marketing expenses than revenues. Subscriber acquisition cost increased in 2004 compared to 2003 as a result of an increase in marketing program spending, primarily the introduction of television advertising as an acquisition channel and increases in online advertising rates. The competitive landscape, including the continued offering by Blockbuster of its online service, the potential entry of others into the online subscription rental business, could adversely impact our marketing expenditures as we seek to maintain and increase our market leadership. We anticipate that our marketing expense will increase in absolute dollars in 2006 as we grow our business. 33 Table of Contents General and Administrative Year Ended December 31, 2003 PercentChange 2004 PercentChange 2005 (in thousands, except percentages) General and administrative $ 9,585 69.9 % $ 16,287 80.5 % $ 29,395 As a percentage of revenues 3.5 % 3.3 % 4.3 % The increase in general and administrative expenses in absolute dollars in 2005 as compared to 2004 was primarily attributable to an increase in legal costs as well as an increase in personnel related costs, insurance costs and professional fees, to support our growing operations. General and administrative costs in 2005 included an accrual of $8.1 million (net of expected insurance proceeds for reimbursement of legal defense costs of $0.9 million) related to the proposed settlement costs of the Chavez vs. Netflix, Inc. lawsuit. As a percentage of revenues, the increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to a greater increase in general and administrative expenses than increase in revenues. The increase in general and administrative expenses in absolute dollars in 2004 as compared to 2003 was primarily attributable to an increase in personnel related costs, as well as an increase in professional fees to support our growing operations and compliance requirements. As a percentage of revenues, the decrease in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to a greater increase in revenues than general and administrative expenses. We expect our general and administrative expenses will continue to increase in absolute dollars in 2006 in order to support our growing operations. Stock Based Compensation Year Ended December 31, 2003 PercentChange 2004 PercentChange 2005 (in thousands, except percentages) Stock based compensation $10,719 54.7% $16,587 (13.6)% $14,327 As a percentage of revenues 3.9 % 3.2 % 2.2 % We adopted the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123 for stock based employee compensation in the second quarter of 2003. We elected to apply the retroactive restatement method under SFAS No. 148 and all prior periods presented have been restated to reflect the compensation costs that would have been recognized had the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123 been applied to all awards granted to employees. We began granting fully vested stock options to our employees on a monthly basis beginning in the third quarter of 2003. Stock based compensation expenses associated with these stock options are recognized immediately. For stock options granted prior to the third quarter of 2003 with three to four year vesting periods, we continue to amortize the deferred compensation associated with these stock options over their remaining vesting periods. We apply the Black Scholes option pricing model to value our stock option grants. The Black Scholes option pricing model, used by us, requires the input of highly subjective assumptions, including the options expected life and the price volatility of the underlying stock. Changes in the subjective input assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate. The decrease in stock based compensation expense in absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenues in 2005 as compared to 2004 was primarily due to a decrease in the expected volatility assumption used to estimate 34 Table of Contents the fair value of the stock options granted beginning in the second quarter of 2005. However, the impact of this decrease was partially offset by an increase in the expected life assumption used to estimate the fair value of the stock options granted beginning in the second quarter of 2005 and higher expense resulting from larger grants and higher average grant prices. The increase in stock based compensation expenses in absolute dollars in 2004 as compared to 2003 was primarily due to higher expenses resulting from larger grants, higher average grant prices and higher volatility assumptions in 2004 as compared to 2003. Gain on disposal of DVDs: Year Ended December 31, 2003 PercentChange 2004 PercentChange 2005 (in thousands, except percentages) Gain on disposal of DVDs $(1,209) 111.7% $(2,560) (22.4)% $(1,987) As a percentage of revenues (0.4 )% (0.5 )% (0.3 )% In prior periods, proceeds from sales of previously viewed DVDs and the related cost of DVDs sold were reported as Sales revenues and Cost of sales revenues, respectively, on our Consolidated Statements of Income. In 2005, in light of discussions with the SEC and consistent with the guidance in SFAS 95 and SFAS 144, we began to report the net gain on sales of DVDs as a separate line item within operating expenses. Accordingly, Sales revenues and Cost of sales revenues in the Consolidated Statements of Income for 2003 and 2004 were reclassified to conform to the 2005 presentation (see Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). The decrease in gain on disposal of DVDs in absolute dollars in 2005 as compared to 2004 was primarily attributable to an increase in the cost of DVD sales. The increase in gain on disposal of DVDs in absolute dollars in 2004 as compared to 2003 was primarily attributable to an increase in volume of DVDs sold, offset in part by an increase in cost of DVD sales. Interest and Other Income Year Ended December 31, 2003 PercentChange 2004 PercentChange 2005 (in thousands, except percentages) Interest and other income, net $ 2,457 5.5 % $ 2,592 122.0 % $ 5,753 As a percentage of revenues 0.9 % 0.4 % 0.9 % The increase in interest and other income in 2005 as compared to 2004 was primarily due to higher interest income earned on our cash and cash equivalents due to increased interest rates as well as higher average cash balances. The increase in interest and other income in 2004 as compared to 2003 was primarily due to an increase in interest and other income as a result of higher average interest earning balances. Provision for (benefit from) Income Taxes 2003 2004 2005 (in thousands, except percentages) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ $ 181 $ (33,692 ) Effective tax rate 0.0 % 0.8 % (404.2 )% 35 Table of Contents In 2005, we recorded an income tax benefit of $33.7 million on pretax income of $8.3 million. Our 2005 income tax benefit includes a tax benefit for the reduction in the valuation allowance of $34.9 million. We continuously monitor the circumstances impacting the expected realization of our deferred tax assets. In the fourth quarter of 2005 we reduced the valuation allowance after determining that substantially all deferred tax assets are more likely than not to be realizable due to expected future income. In 2004, we recorded an income tax provision of $0.2 million on a pre tax income of $21.8 million. Our effective tax rates for all years differ from the federal statutory rate of 35% primarily due to the valuation allowance in all years. We currently anticipate that our effective tax rate will be approximately 41% in 2006. The effective rate will be impacted, favorably or unfavorably, by the effect of book and tax stock option expenses in 2006. Liquidity and Capital Resources Since inception, we have financed our activities primarily through a series of private placements of convertible preferred stock, subordinated promissory notes, our initial public offering and net cash generated from operating activities. As of December 31, 2005, we had cash and cash equivalents of $212.3 million. We have generated net cash from operations during each quarter since the second quarter of 2001. Many factors will impact our ability to continue to generate and grow cash from our operations including, but not limited to, the number of subscribers who sign up for our service, the growth or reduction in our subscriber base, and our ability to develop new revenue sources. In addition, we may have to or otherwise choose to lower our prices and increase our marketing expenses in order to grow faster or respond to competition. Although we currently anticipate that cash flows from operations, together with our available funds, will be sufficient to meet our cash needs for the foreseeable future, we may require or choose to obtain additional financing. Our ability to obtain financing will depend on, among other things, our development efforts, business plans, operating performance and the condition of the capital markets at the time we seek financing. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity linked or debt securities, those securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to the rights of our common stock, and our stockholders may experience dilution. Key Components of Cash flow: The following table summarizes our cash flow activities: Year Ended December 31, 2003 PercentChange 2004 PercentChange 2005 (in thousands, except percentages) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 89,792 64.3% $ 147,571 10.4% $ 162,977 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ (64,677 ) 5.7% $ (68,381 ) 102.9% $ (138,718 ) Net cash provided by financing activities $ 4,965 12.8% $ 5,599 137.8% $ 13,314 Operating activities: Net cash provided by operating activities increased by $15.4 million in 2005 as compared to 2004. The increase in operating cash was primarily attributable to the increase in net income, the increase in amortization of DVD library as a result of increased purchases of titles, increase in depreciation of property and equipment, increase in deferred revenue due to a larger subscriber base and increase in gift subscriptions, and increases in accrued expenses as a result of our growing operations. Net cash provided by operating activities increased by $57.8 million in 2004 as compared to 2003. The increase was primarily attributable to an increase in net income adjusted for an increase in amortization of our DVD library as a result of increased purchases of titles, an increase in stock based compensation expense and an increase in deferred revenue due to a larger subscriber base. Investing activities: Net cash used in investing activities increased by $70.3 million in 2005 as compared to 2004. The increase was primarily because cash used in investing activities in 2004 included net proceeds of 36 Table of Contents $45.0 million from the sale of our short term investments. Excluding the impact of the net proceeds from the sale of our short term investments, cash used in investing activities increased by $25.3 million, primarily due to increased purchases of titles for our DVD library to support our larger subscriber base and increased purchases of property and equipment to support our growing operations in 2005 as compared to 2004. Net cash used in investing activities increased slightly in 2004 as compared to 2003. The increase was primarily attributable to increased purchases of titles for our DVD library to support our larger subscriber base and increased purchases of property and equipment to support our growing operations in 2004 as compared to 2003. However, the increase was partially offset by net proceeds of $45.0 million from the sale of our short term investments. Financing activities: Net cash provided by financing activities increased by $7.7 million in 2005 as compared to 2004 primarily due to an increase in proceeds from issuance of common stock under our employee stock plans. Net cash provided by financing activities increased slightly in 2004 as compared to 2003. The increase was primarily attributable to a decrease in the repayment of debt and other obligations offset partially by lower proceeds from issuance of common stock under our employee stock plans. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our contractual obligations at December 31, 2005 (in thousands): Payments due by period Contractual Obligations (in thousands): Total Less than1 year 1 3 years 3 5 years More than5 years Operating lease obligations $ 32,682 $ 9,555 $ 11,578 $ 6,476 $ 5,073 Capital purchase obligations (1) 254 254 Other purchase obligations (2) 15,552 15,552 Total $ 48,488 $ 25,361 $ 11,578 $ 6,476 $ 5,073 (1) Capital purchase obligations include commitments for purchase of equipment. They were not recorded as liabilities on our balance sheet as of December 31, 2005, as we had not yet received the related goods. (2) Other purchase obligations relate primarily to acquisitions for our DVD library. Our purchase orders are based on our current needs and are generally fulfilled by our vendors within short time horizons. For the purposes of this table, contractual obligations for purchase of goods or services are defined as agreements that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. The expected timing of payment of the obligations discussed above is estimated based on information available to us as of December 31, 2005. Timing of payments and actual amounts paid may be different depending on the time of receipt of goods or services or changes to agreed upon amounts for some obligations. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not engage in transactions that generate relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities. Accordingly, our operating results, financial condition and cash flows are not subject to off balance sheet risks. 37 Table of Contents Indemnifications In the ordinary course of business, we enter into contractual arrangements under which we agree to provide indemnification of varying scope and terms to business partners and other parties with respect to certain matters, including, but not limited to, losses arising out of our breach of such agreements and out of intellectual property infringement claims made by third parties. In addition, we have entered into indemnification agreements with our directors and certain of our officers that will require us, among other things, to indemnify them against certain liabilities that may arise by reason of their status or service as directors or officers. The terms of such obligations vary. Generally, a maximum obligation is not explicitly stated, so the overall maximum amount of the obligations cannot be reasonably estimated. To date, we have not incurred material costs as a result of such obligations and have not accrued any liabilities related to such indemnification obligations in our financial statements. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123(R), Share Based Payment, which establishes standards for transactions in which an entity exchanges its equity instruments for goods or services. This standard replaces SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation and supersedes APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock issued to Employees. This Standard requires a public entity to measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the grant date fair value of the award. This eliminates the exception to account for such awards using the intrinsic method previously allowable under APB Opinion No. 25. In March 2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) issued Staff Accounting Bulletin 107 (SAB 107) which summarizes the views of the SEC staff regarding the interaction between SFAS 123(R) and certain SEC rules and regulations and provides the staffs views regarding the valuation of share based payment arrangements for public companies. In April 2005, the SEC issued Release 33 8568 delaying the effective date of SFAS 123(R), and as such we will be required to implement the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R) beginning January 1, 2006. We previously adopted the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123 in the second quarter of 2003, and restated prior periods at that time. Accordingly, we believe SFAS No. 123(R) will not have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations. In accordance with SAB 107, effective January 1, 2006 we will no longer present stock based compensation separately on our statements of income. Instead, we will present stock based compensation in the same lines as cash compensation paid to the same individuals. Additionally, SFAS 123(R) requires that cash inflows from financing activities on our statement of cash flows include the cash retained as a result of the tax deductibility of increases in the value of equity instruments issued under share based payment arrangements in excess of any related stock based compensation recognizable for financial reporting purposes. These tax benefits shall be determined based on the individual award method. This cash benefit has been included in the determination of cash provided by operating activities on our statement of cash flows in 2004. The change in methods will not likely have a significant negative effect on our cash provided by operating activities in periods after adoption of SFAS 123(R). In March 2005, the FASB issued FIN 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations. FIN 47 clarifies that an entity must record a liability for a conditional asset retirement obligation if the fair value of the obligation can be reasonably estimated. The provision is effective for no later than the end of fiscal years ending after December 15, 2005. We do not expect the adoption of this standard to have a material effect on our financial position or results of operations. In June 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections. SFAS 154 replaces APB Opinion No. 20, Accounting Changes and SFAS No. 3, Reporting Accounting Changes in Interim Financial Statements. SFAS 154 requires that a voluntary change in accounting principle be applied 38 Table of Contents retrospectively with all prior period financial statements presented on the new accounting principle. SFAS 154 also requires that a change in method of depreciating or amortizing a long lived nonfinancial asset be accounted for prospectively as a change in estimate, and correction of errors in previously issued financial statements should be termed a restatement. SFAS 154 is effective for accounting changes and correction of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. In September 2005, the Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) issued EITF 05 06, Determining the Amortization Period for Leasehold Improvements after Lease Inception or Acquired in a Business Combination. EITF 05 06 requires that leasehold improvements acquired in a business combination be capitalized over the shorter of the useful life of the assets or a term that includes required lease periods and renewals that are deemed to be reasonably assured at the date of acquisition. EITF 05 06 also requires leasehold improvements that are placed in service significantly after and not contemplated at or near the beginning of the lease term should be amortized over the shorter of the useful life of the assets or a term that includes required lease periods and renewals that are deemed to be reasonably assured (as defined in paragraph 5 of Statement 13) at the date the leasehold improvements are purchased. EITF 05 06 is effective for leasehold improvements that are purchased or acquired in reporting periods beginning after June 29, 2005. Early adoption of the consensus is permitted in periods for which financial statements have not been issued. We do not expect the adoption of EITF 05 06 will have a material effect on our financial position or results of operations. In November 2005, the FASB issued FSP FAS 115 1 and FAS 124 1, The Meaning of Other Than Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments, which provides guidance on determining when investments in certain debt and equity securities are considered impaired, whether that impairment is other than temporary, and on measuring such impairment loss. FSP 115 1 also includes accounting considerations subsequent to the recognition of an other than temporary impairment and requires certain disclosures about unrealized losses that have not been recognized as other than temporary impairments. FSP 115 1 is required to be applied to reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2005. Although we will continue to evaluate the application of FSP 115 1 and FSP 124 1, we do not currently believe that the adoption of this standard will have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal, while at the same time maximizing income we receive from investments without significantly increased risk. Some of the securities we invest in may be subject to market risk. This means that a change in prevailing interest rates may cause the principal amount of the investment to fluctuate. For example, if we hold a security that was issued with a fixed interest rate at the then prevailing rate and the prevailing interest rate later rises, the value of our investment will decline. To minimize this risk, we intend to maintain our portfolio of cash equivalents in a variety of securities. Our cash equivalents are generally invested in money market funds, which are not subject to market risk because the interest paid on such funds fluctuates with the prevailing interest rate. 
 
