Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview Our Business We are the largest online movie rental subscription service providing more than 6,300,000 subscribers access to a comprehensive library of more than 70,000 movie, television and other filmed entertainment titles on DVD. We offer a variety of subscription plans, starting at $4.99 a month. There are no due dates, no late fees and no shipping fees. Subscribers select titles at our Web site aided by our proprietary recommendation service, receive them on DVD by U.S. mail and return them to us at their convenience using our prepaid mailers. After a DVD has been returned, we mail the next available DVD in a subscribers queue. The terms and conditions by which subscribers utilize our service and a more detailed description of how our service works can be found at www.netflix.com/TermsOfUse. We derive substantially all of our revenues from monthly subscription fees. Our business has grown rapidly since inception, resulting in substantially increased revenues. Our growth has been fueled by the rapid adoption of DVDs as a medium for home entertainment as well as increased awareness of online DVD rentals. We expect that our business will continue to grow as the market for online DVD rentals continues to grow, a reflection of both the convenience and value of the subscription rental model. We continued to see strong growth in 2006, with revenues achieving 46% growth from a year ago. This growth can be attributed to an expanding subscriber base. We added approximately 2.1 million net new subscribers in 2006, growing from 4.2 million at December 31, 2005 to 6.3 million subscribers at December 31, 2006. Recent Developments and Initiatives We continue to face direct competition from Blockbuster. It remains possible that other potential entrants will offer competing services, either directly or in conjunction with others or that Blockbuster will gain more traction in its current business. We continue to focus on retaining our leadership position and growing our business. Our core strategy is to grow a large DVD subscription business and to expand into Internet based movie delivery as that market develops. We believe that the DVD format, along with its successor formats of HD DVD 26 Table of Contents and Blu Ray, will continue to be the main vehicle for watching movies in the home for the foreseeable future and that by growing a large DVD subscription business, we will be well positioned to transition our subscribers and our business to Internet based movie delivery as it becomes a mainstream method for movie distribution. To this end, we introduced a new feature in January 2007 that allows subscribers to instantly watch movies and television series on their personal computers. We expect to roll out this instant viewing feature to all subscribers within six months from the date of launch, and we will continue to improve its quality, content and functionality. We intend to broaden the distribution capability of this service to multiple platforms over time. Key Business Metrics Management periodically reviews certain key business metrics, within the context of our articulated performance goals, in order to evaluate the effectiveness of our operational strategies, allocate resources and maximize the financial performance of our business. The key business metrics include the following: Churn: Churn is a monthly measure defined as customer cancellations in the quarter divided by the sum of beginning subscribers and gross subscriber additions, then divided by three months. Management reviews this metric to evaluate whether we are retaining our existing subscribers in accordance with our business plans. Subscriber Acquisition Cost: Subscriber acquisition cost is defined as total marketing expense divided by total gross subscriber additions. Management reviews this metric to evaluate how effective our marketing programs are in acquiring new subscribers on an economical basis in the context of estimated subscriber lifetime value. Gross Margin: Management reviews gross margin to monitor variable costs and operating efficiency. Management believes it is useful to monitor these metrics together and not individually as it does not make business decisions based upon any single metric. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The Securities and Exchange Commission has defined a companys critical accounting policies as the ones that are most important to the portrayal of a companys financial condition and results of operations, and which require a company to make its most difficult and subjective judgments. Based on this definition, we have identified the critical accounting policies and judgments addressed below. Although we believe that our estimates, assumptions and judgments are reasonable, they are based upon information presently available. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions, judgments or conditions. Amortization of DVD Library and Upfront Costs We acquire DVDs from studios and distributors through either direct purchases or revenue sharing agreements. We acquire DVDs for the purpose of renting them to our subscribers and earning subscription rental revenues and as such, we consider our DVD library to be a productive asset, and classify our DVD Library as a non current asset. Additionally, in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 95 Statement of Cash Flows (SFAS 95), we classify cash outflows for the acquisition of the DVD Library, net of changes in related Accounts payable, as cash flows from investing activities on our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. This is inclusive of any upfront non refundable payments required under revenue sharing agreements. We amortize our DVD library, less estimated salvage value, on a sum of the months accelerated basis over its estimated useful life. The useful life of the new release DVDs and back catalog DVDs is estimated to be 1 year and 3 years, respectively. In estimating the useful life of our DVD library, we take into account library utilization as well as an estimate for lost or damaged DVDs. Volume purchase discounts received from studios on the purchase of titles are recorded as a reduction of DVD library inventory when earned. 27 Table of Contents Prior to July 1, 2004, we amortized the cost of our entire DVD library, including the capitalized portion of the initial fixed license fee, on a sum of the months accelerated basis over one year. However, based on a periodic evaluation of both new release and back catalog utilization for amortization purposes, we determined that back catalog titles have a significantly longer life than previously estimated. As a result, we revised the estimate of useful life for the back catalog DVD library from a sum of the months accelerated method using a one year life to the same accelerated method of amortization using a three year life. The purpose of this change was to more accurately reflect the productive life of these assets. In accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 20, Accounting Changes (APB 20), the change in life has been accounted for as a change in accounting estimate on a prospective basis from July 1, 2004. New releases will continue to be amortized over a one year period. As a result of the change in the estimated life of the back catalog library, total cost of revenues was $10.9 million lower, net income was $10.9 million higher and net income per diluted share was $0.17 higher for the year ended December 31, 2004. In the third quarter of 2004, we determined that we were selling fewer previously rented DVDs than estimated but at an average selling price higher than historically estimated. We therefore revised our estimate of salvage values on direct purchase DVDs. For those direct purchase DVDs that we estimate we will sell at the end of their useful lives, a salvage value of $3.00 per DVD has been provided effective July 1, 2004. For those DVDs that we do not expect to sell, no salvage value is provided. Simultaneously with the change in accounting estimate of expected salvage values, we recorded a write off of approximately $1.9 million related to non recoverable salvage value in the third quarter of 2004. Revenue sharing agreements enable us to obtain DVDs at a lower upfront cost than under traditional direct purchase arrangements. Under revenue sharing agreements, we share a percentage of the actual net revenues generated by the use of each particular title with the studios over a fixed period of time, or the Title Term, which is typically between 6 and 12 months for each DVD title. At the end of the Title Term, we generally have the option of returning the DVD title to the studio, destroying the title or purchasing the title. In addition, we remit an upfront payment to acquire titles from the studios and distributors under revenue sharing agreements. This payment includes a contractually specified initial fixed license fee that is capitalized and amortized in accordance with our DVD library amortization policy. In some cases, this payment also includes a contractually specified prepayment of future revenue sharing obligations that is classified as prepaid revenue sharing expense and is charged to expense as future revenue sharing obligations are incurred. We periodically evaluate the useful lives and salvage values of our DVD library. Stock Based Compensation We adopted the provisions of SFAS 123R on January 1, 2006. Under the fair value recognition provisions of this statement, stock based compensation cost is estimated at the grant date based on the fair value of the awards expected to vest and is recognized as expense ratably over the requisite service period, which is the vesting period. We adopted the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, as amended by SFAS No. 148, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure, an Amendment of FASB Statement No. 123 in the second quarter of 2003, and restated prior periods at that time. Because the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS 123 and SFAS 123R were materially consistent under our equity plans, the adoption of SFAS 123R did not have a significant impact on our financial position or results of operations. We use the Black Scholes option pricing model to determine the fair value of stock options and employee stock purchase plan shares. The Black Scholes option pricing model requires the input of highly subjective assumptions, including the options expected life and the price volatility of the underlying stock. In light of the guidance in Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107 (SAB 107), we re evaluated the assumptions used to estimate the value of stock options beginning in the second quarter of 2005. Expected Volatility: Our computation of expected volatility is based on a blend of historical volatility of our common stock and implied volatility of tradable forward call options to purchase shares of our 28 Table of Contents common stock. Our decision to incorporate implied volatility was based on our assessment that implied volatility of publicly traded options in our common stock is expected to be more reflective of market conditions and, therefore, can reasonably be expected to be a better indicator of expected volatility than historical volatility of our common stock. Expected life: We bifurcate our option grants into two employee groupings (executive and non executive) based on exercise behavior and consider several factors in determining the estimate of expected life for each group, including the historical option exercise behavior and the terms and vesting periods of the options granted. From the second quarter of 2006 through the fourth quarter of 2006, we used an estimate of expected life of 4.5 years for one group and 3 years for the other group. We used an estimate of expected life of 4 years for one group and 3 years for the other group from the second quarter of 2005 through the first quarter of 2006. We grant stock options to our employees on a monthly basis. Such stock options are designated as non qualified stock options and vest immediately. As a result of immediate vesting, stock based compensation expense determined under SFAS 123R is fully recognized upon the stock option grants and no estimate is required for pre vesting option forfeitures. Income Taxes We record a tax provision for the anticipated tax consequences of our reported results of operations. In accordance with SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, the provision for income taxes is computed using the asset and liability method, under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, and for operating loss carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the currently enacted tax rates that apply to taxable income in effect for the years in which those tax assets are expected to be realized or settled. We record a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is believed more likely than not to be realized. At December 31, 2004, our deferred tax assets, primarily the tax benefits of loss carryforwards, were offset in full by a valuation allowance because of our history of losses through the first quarter of 2003, limited profitable quarters to date and the competitive landscape of online DVD rentals. As a result of our analysis of expected future income at December 31, 2005, it was considered more likely than not that a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets was no longer required resulting in the release of a previously recorded allowance generating a $34.9 million tax benefit. As of December 31, 2006, deferred tax assets do not include the tax benefits attributable to approximately $56 million of excess tax deductions related to stock options. These benefits will only be recorded when realized on tax returns and will be credited to equity at that time. In evaluating our ability to recover our deferred tax assets, in full or in part, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including our past operating results, the existence of cumulative losses in the most recent fiscal years and our forecast of future market growth, forecasted earnings, future taxable income, the mix of earnings in the jurisdictions in which we operate and prudent and feasible tax planning strategies. The assumptions utilized in determining future taxable income require significant judgment and are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using to manage the underlying businesses. We believe that the deferred tax assets recorded on our balance sheet will ultimately be realized. In the event we were to determine that we would not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would be charged to earnings in the period in which we make such determination. Descriptions of Statement of Operations Components Revenues: Revenues include subscription revenues and revenues from the sale of advertising. We generate all our revenues in the United States. We derive substantially all of our revenues from monthly subscription fees and 29 Table of Contents recognize subscription revenues ratably over each subscribers monthly subscription period. We record refunds to subscribers as a reduction of revenues. We offer a variety of subscription plans, starting at $4.99 a month, that allow subscribers to keep either fewer or more titles at the same time. Cost of Revenues: Subscription: We acquire titles for our library through traditional direct purchase and through revenue sharing agreements with content providers. Direct purchases of DVDs normally result in higher upfront costs than titles obtained through revenue sharing agreements. Cost of subscription revenues consists of revenue sharing expenses, amortization of our DVD library, amortization of intangible assets related to equity instruments issued to certain studios in 2000 and 2001 and postage and packaging costs related to shipping titles to paying subscribers. Costs related to free trial subscribers are allocated to marketing expenses. Revenue Sharing Expenses. Our revenue sharing agreements generally commit us to pay an initial upfront fee for each DVD acquired and also a percentage of revenue earned from such DVD rentals for a defined period of time. A portion of the initial upfront fees are non recoupable for revenue sharing purposes and are capitalized and amortized in accordance with our DVD library amortization policy. The remaining portion of the initial upfront fee represents prepaid revenue sharing and this amount is expensed as revenue sharing expenses as DVDs subject to revenue sharing agreements are shipped to subscribers. The terms of some revenue sharing agreements with studios obligate us to make minimum revenue sharing payments for certain titles. We amortize minimum revenue sharing prepayments (or accrete an amount payable to studios if the payment is due in arrears) as revenue sharing obligations are incurred. A provision for estimated shortfall, if any, on minimum revenue sharing payments is made in the period in which the shortfall becomes probable and can be reasonably estimated. Additionally, the terms of some revenue sharing agreement with studios provide for rebates based on achieving specified performance levels. We accrue for these rebates as earned based on historical title performance and estimates of demand for the titles over the remainder of the title term. Amortization of DVD Library. On July 1, 2004, we revised the estimate of useful life for the back catalog DVD library from one to three years. New releases will continue to be amortized over a one year period. We also revised our estimate of salvage values on direct purchase DVDs. For those direct purchase DVDs that we expect to sell at the end of their useful lives, a salvage value of $3.00 per DVD has been provided effective July 1, 2004. For those DVDs that we do not expect to sell, no salvage value is provided. Amortization of Studio Intangible Assets. In 2000 and 2001, in connection with signing revenue sharing agreements with certain studios, we agreed to issue to each of these studios our Series F Non Voting Preferred Stock. The studios Series F Preferred Stock automatically converted into 3,192,830 shares of common stock upon the closing of our initial public offering. We measured the original issuances and any subsequent adjustments using the fair value of the securities at the issuance and any subsequent adjustment dates. The fair value was recorded as an intangible asset and was amortized to cost of subscription revenues ratably over the remaining term of the agreements which initial terms were either three or five years. At December 31, 2005, all studio intangible assets were fully amortized. Postage and Packaging. Postage and packaging expenses consist of the postage costs to mail titles to and from our paying subscribers and the packaging and label costs for the mailers. The rate for first class postage was $0.37 between June 29, 2002 and January 7, 2006. The U.S. Postal Service increased the rate of first class postage by 2 cents to $0.39 effective January 8, 2006. We receive discounts on outbound postage costs related to our mail preparation practices. Fulfillment expenses: Fulfillment expenses represent those expenses incurred in operating and staffing our shipping and customer service centers, including costs attributable to receiving, inspecting and warehousing our library. Fulfillment expenses also include credit card fees. 30 Table of Contents Operating Expenses: Technology and Development. Technology and development expenses consist of payroll and related expenses we incur related to testing, maintaining and modifying our Web site, our recommendation service, developing solutions for the online delivery of content to subscribers, telecommunications systems and infrastructure and other internal use software systems. Technology and development expenses also include depreciation of the computer hardware and capitalized software we use to run our Web site and store our data. Marketing. Marketing expenses consist of payroll and related expenses and advertising expenses. Advertising expenses include marketing program expenditures and other promotional activities, including revenue sharing expenses, postage and packaging expenses and library amortization related to free trial periods. General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses consist of payroll and related expenses for executive, finance, content acquisition and administrative personnel, as well as recruiting, professional fees and other general corporate expenses. Stock Based Compensation. Effective January 1, 2006, we adopted the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004), Share Based Payment (SFAS 123R), using the modified prospective method. We had previously adopted the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, as amended by SFAS No. 148, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure, an Amendment of FASB Statement No. 123 in 2003, and restated prior periods at that time. During the third quarter of 2003, we began granting stock options to our employees on a monthly basis. The vesting periods provide for options to vest immediately, in comparison with the three to four year vesting periods for stock options granted prior to the third quarter of 2003. As a result of immediate vesting, all stock based compensation expense determined under SFAS No. 123 is fully recognized upon the grant of the stock option. For those stock options granted prior to the third quarter of 2003 with three to four year vesting periods, we continue to amortize the deferred compensation related to those stock options over the remaining vesting periods. Gain on disposal of DVDs. Gain on disposal of DVDs represents the difference between proceeds from sales of DVDs and associated cost of DVD sales. Cost of DVD sales includes the net book value of the DVDs sold, shipping charges and, where applicable, a contractually specified percentage of the sales value for the DVDs that are subject to revenue sharing agreements. 31 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table sets forth, for the periods presented, the line items in our Statements of Operations as a percentage of total revenues. The information contained in the table below should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and notes thereto included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Year Ended December 31, 2004 2005 2006 Revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenues: Subscription 54.6 57.7 53.4 Fulfillment expenses 11.6 10.6 9.5 Total cost of revenues 66.2 68.3 62.9 Gross profit 33.8 31.7 37.1 Operating expenses: Technology and development 5.9 5.2 4.9 Marketing 20.1 21.2 22.6 General and administrative 4.4 5.2 3.6 Gain on disposal of DVDs (0.5 ) (0.3 ) (0.5 ) Total operating expenses 29.9 31.3 30.6 Operating income 3.9 0.4 6.5 Other income (expense): Interest and other income 0.4 0.9 1.6 Interest and other expense (0.1 ) Income before income taxes 4.3 1.2 8.1 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes (5.0 ) 3.2 Net income 4.3 % 6.2 % 4.9 % Revenues Year Ended December 31, 2004 2005 2006 (in thousands, except percentages and average monthlysubscription revenue per paying subscriber) Revenues $ 500,611 $ 682,213 $ 996,660 Percentage change over prior period 36.3 % 46.1 % Other data: Average number of paying subscribers 1,988 3,169 5,083 Percentage change over prior period 59.4 % 60.4 % Average monthly revenue per paying subscriber $ 20.98 $ 17.94 $ 16.22 Percentage change over prior period (14.5 )% (9.6 )% We currently generate all of our revenues in the United States. We derive substantially all of our revenues from monthly subscription fees and recognize subscription revenues ratably during each subscribers monthly subscription period. In addition, we generate a small portion of our revenues from the sale of advertising. The increase in our revenues in 2006 as compared to 2005 was primarily a result of the substantial growth in the average number of paying subscribers, as summarized in the table above, offset in part by a decline in average monthly subscription revenue per paying subscriber. We believe the increase in the number of paying 32 Table of Contents subscribers was driven primarily by increased consumer awareness of the benefits of online DVD rentals and continuing improvements in our service. The decline in the average monthly revenue per paying subscriber was a result of the continued popularity of our lower cost subscription plans. We expect the average revenue per paying subscriber to continue to decline as we promote our lower priced subscription plans. The increase in our revenues in 2005 as compared to 2004 was primarily attributable to substantial growth in the average number of paying subscribers offset in part by a decline in average monthly subscription revenue per paying subscriber. We believe the increase in the number of paying subscribers was driven primarily by increased consumer awareness of the benefits of online DVD rentals and continuing improvements in our service. The decline in the average monthly subscription revenue per paying subscriber was a result of the price decrease of our most popular subscription plan coupled with the increased promotion of our lower cost subscription plans. In June 2004, we increased the monthly subscription price of our most popular subscription plan from $19.95 to $21.99. However, effective November 2004, we lowered the price of the most popular subscription plan to $17.99. In addition, we introduced new lower priced subscription plans in the second quarter of 2005. Churn declined to 3.9 percent in the fourth quarter of 2006 from 4.0 percent in the same period of 2005 and from 4.4 percent in the same period of 2004. We believe the decline was primarily due to the following factors: Aging subscriber base. As we grow, the ratio of new subscribers to total subscribers declines, leading to an increase in the average duration, or age, of the subscriber base. New subscribers are more likely to cancel their subscriptions than older subscribers, and therefore, an increase in subscriber age helps overall reductions in churn. The continued popularity of our lower cost subscription plans and the price parity of our subscription plans with those offered by competitors. Service improvements. We continued to make improvements in a number of key areas, including increasing the selection of titles as we expanded our DVD library and enhancing our Web site and recommendation service. We believe these improvements to our service increased subscriber satisfaction, which resulted in lower churn. The following table presents our ending subscriber information: As of December 31, 2004 2005 2006 (in thousands, except percentages) Free subscribers 124 153 162 As a percentage of total subscribers 4.8 % 3.7 % 2.6 % Paid subscribers 2,486 4,026 6,154 As a percentage of total subscribers 95.2 % 96.3 % 97.4 % Total Subscribers 2,610 4,179 6,316 Percentage change over prior period 60.1 % 51.1 % Cost of Revenues Subscription Year Ended December 31, 2004 2005 2006 (in thousands, except percentages) Subscription $ 273,401 $ 393,788 $ 532,621 As a percentage of revenues 54.6 % 57.7 % 53.4 % Percentage change over prior period 44.0 % 35.3 % 33 Table of Contents The increase in cost of subscription in absolute dollars for 2006 as compared to 2005 was primarily attributable to the following factors: The number of DVDs mailed to paying subscribers increased 42 percent, which was driven by a 60 percent increase in the number of average paying subscribers offset by a slight decline in monthly movie rentals per average paying subscriber attributed to the increased popularity of our lower priced plans. Postage and packaging expenses increased by 48 percent. This increase was primarily attributable to the increase in the number of average paying subscribers and the number of DVDs mailed to paying subscribers, as well as the first class postage rate increase of 2 cents that was effective January 8, 2006. DVD amortization increased by 47 percent primarily due to increased acquisitions for our DVD library. Revenue sharing expenses increased by 10 percent. This increase was primarily attributable to the increase in the number of average paying subscribers offset by a decrease in the percentage of DVDs subject to revenue sharing agreements mailed to paying subscribers. The increase in cost of subscription in absolute dollars for 2005 as compared to 2004 was primarily attributable to the following factors: The number of DVDs mailed to paying subscribers increased 53 percent, which was driven by a 59 percent increase in the number of average paying subscribers offset by a slight decline in monthly movie rentals per average paying subscriber. Postage and packaging expenses increased by 52 percent. This increase was primarily attributable to the increase in the number of average paying subscribers and the number of DVDs mailed to paying subscribers. DVD amortization increased by 23 percent primarily due to increased acquisitions for our DVD library partially offset by the impact in 2005 of $7.8 million related to the change in estimate of useful life of our back catalog DVD library made in the third quarter of 2004. Revenue sharing expenses increased by 54 percent. This increase was primarily attributable to the increase in the number of average paying subscribers coupled with a slight increase in the percentage of DVDs subject to revenue sharing agreements mailed to paying subscribers. Fulfillment expenses Year Ended December 31, 2004 2005 2006 (in thousands, except percentages) Fulfillment expenses $ 58,311 $ 71,987 $ 94,364 As a percentage of revenues 11.6 % 10.6 % 9.5 % Percentage change over prior period 23.5 % 31.1 % The increase in fulfillment expenses in absolute dollars in 2006 as compared to 2005 was primarily attributable to an increase in personnel related costs resulting from the higher volume of activities in our customer service and shipping centers, coupled with an increase in credit card fees as a result of the increase in subscriptions. In addition, the increase in fulfillment expenses was attributable to an increase in facility related costs resulting from the expansion of certain of our shipping centers and the addition of new ones. We anticipate that fulfillment expenses will increase in 2007, as new shipping centers are added. The increase in fulfillment expenses in absolute dollars in 2005 as compared to 2004 was primarily attributable to an increase in credit card fees as a result of the increase in subscriptions, an increase in personnel related costs resulting from the higher volume of activities in our customer service and shipping centers and an increase in facility related costs resulting from expansion of certain of our shipping centers and the addition of new ones. 34 Table of Contents Gross Margin Year Ended December 31, 2004 2005 2006 (in thousands, except percentages) Gross profit $ 168,899 $ 216,438 $ 369,675 Percentage change over prior period 28.1 % 70.8 % Gross margin 33.8 % 31.7 % 37.1 % The increase in gross margin in 2006 as compared to 2005 was primarily due to a decrease in revenue sharing cost per paid shipment, which includes a decline in the percentage of DVDs subject to revenue sharing agreements mailed to paying subscribers, as well as an increase in revenue per paid shipment as a result of a decline in overall usage and the continued popularity of our lower priced plans. The increase in postage rates by 2 cents effective January 8, 2006 negatively impacted gross margin, however, this impact was offset by a decline in fulfillment costs as a result of increased operational efficiencies. The decline in gross margin in 2005 as compared to 2004 was primarily attributable to the increase in cost of subscription, offset in part by a decrease in fulfillment expenses as a percentage of revenue. Cost of subscription increased due to a decline in revenue per paid shipment as a result of the price decrease of our most popular service plan implemented in the fourth quarter of 2004, offset partially by the change in estimate related to the useful life of our back catalog DVD library and the rapid growth of lower priced plans which produce a higher margin than our most popular subscription plan of $17.99 per month. In addition, the gross margin for 2004 was favorably impacted by certain credits received from studios resulting from amendments to revenue sharing agreements. If movie rentals per average paying subscriber increases or if we see more shipments of DVDs subject to revenue sharing and the revenue sharing cost per shipment does not decline, erosion in our gross margin will occur. Additionally, in 2006, the U.S. Postal Service proposed an increase in the rate of first class postage in the amount of 3 cents. If approved, the increase is expected to take place in mid 2007. The anticipated increase in postage rates is expected to reduce our gross margin. In January 2007, we introduced our instant viewing feature which is being made available to subscribers in a phased roll out. During 2007, we anticipate incurring at least $40 million in additional expenses related to our instant viewing feature. As a result, we anticipate that cost of subscription will increase as a percentage of revenue, resulting in a decline in gross margin in 2007. Operating Expenses: Technology and Development Year Ended December 31, 2004 2005 2006 (in thousands, except percentages) Technology and development $ 29,467 $ 35,388 $ 48,379 As a percentage of revenues 5.9 % 5.2 % 4.9 % Percentage change over prior period 20.1 % 36.7 % The increase in technology and development expenses in absolute dollars for 2006 as compared to 2005 was primarily the result of an increase in personnel and facility related costs, as well as to the development of our instant viewing feature. As a percentage of revenues, technology and development expenses decreased from 2006 as compared to 2005 primarily due to a greater increase in revenues than technology and development expenses. The increase in technology and development expenses in absolute dollars for 2005 as compared 2004 was primarily the result of an increase in personnel related and systems infrastructure costs. As a percentage of revenues, technology and development expenses decreased in 2005 as compared to 2004 primarily due to a greater increase in revenues than technology and development expenses. 35 Table of Contents We continuously research and test a variety of potential improvements to our internal hardware and software systems in an effort to improve our productivity and enhance our subscribers experience. Additionally, we continue to develop and enhance solutions for the online delivery of content to our subscribers. As a result, we expect our technology and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars in 2007. Marketing Year Ended December 31, 2004 2005 2006 (in thousands, except percentages and subscriber acquisition cost) Marketing $ 100,534 $ 144,562 $ 225,524 As a percentage of revenues 20.1 % 21.2 % 22.6 % Percentage change over prior period 43.8 % 56.0 % Other data: Gross subscriber additions 2,716 3,729 5,250 Percentage change over prior period 37.3 % 40.8 % Subscriber acquisition cost $ 37.02 $ 38.77 $ 42.96 Percentage change over prior period 4.7 % 10.8 % The increase in marketing expenses in absolute dollars in 2006 as compared to 2005 was primarily attributable to an increase in marketing program costs, which included direct mail, online advertising and television advertising, to attract new subscribers. As a percentage of revenues, marketing expenses increased primarily due to a greater increase in marketing expenses than revenues. Subscriber acquisition cost increased in 2006 as compared to 2005 primarily due to an increase in marketing program spending offset in part by a decrease in cost of providing free trials associated with our lower priced plans coupled with a slight decline in personnel related costs. The increase in marketing expenses in absolute dollars in 2005 as compared to 2004 was primarily attributable to an increase in marketing program costs, primarily direct mail, radio, television and online advertising, to attract new subscribers. As a percentage of revenues, the increase in marketing expenses was primarily due to a greater increase in marketing expenses than revenues. Subscriber acquisition cost increased in 2005 as compared to 2004 due to an increase in overall marketing program spending and spending on a per acquired subscriber basis offset partially by a decrease in the cost of providing free trials associated with our new lower priced plans, and by a $2.1 million reduction in liability due to the final settlement of certain marketing programs. We anticipate that our marketing expense will increase in absolute dollars in 2007 as we grow our business. General and Administrative Year Ended December 31, 2004 2005 2006 (in thousands, except percentages) General and administrative $ 22,104 $ 35,486 $ 36,155 As a percentage of revenues 4.4 % 5.2 % 3.6 % Percentage change over prior period 60.5 % 1.9 % The increase in general and administrative expenses in absolute dollars in 2006 as compared to 2005 is primarily attributable to an increase in costs related to ongoing legal proceedings, personnel costs and professional fees to support our growing operations. As a percentage of revenues, the decrease in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to a greater increase in revenues than general and administrative expenses. 36 Table of Contents The increase in general and administrative expenses in absolute dollars in 2005 as compared to 2004 was primarily attributable to an increase in legal costs as well as an increase in personnel related costs, insurance costs and professional fees, to support our growing operations. General and administrative costs in 2005 included an accrual of $8.1 million (net of expected insurance proceeds for reimbursement of legal defense costs of $0.9 million) related to the proposed settlement costs of the Chavez vs. Netflix, Inc. lawsuit. As a percentage of revenues, the increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to a greater increase in general and administrative expenses than increase in revenues. We expect our general and administrative expenses will continue to increase in absolute dollars in 2007 in order to support our growing operations. Gain on disposal of DVDs Year Ended December 31, 2004 2005 2006 (in thousands, except percentages) Gain on disposal of DVDs $ (2,560 ) $ (1,987 ) $ (4,797 ) As a percentage of revenues (0.5 )% (0.3 )% (0.5 )% Percentage change over prior period (22.4 )% 141.4 % The increase in gain on disposal of DVDs in absolute dollars in 2006 as compared to 2005 was primarily attributable to an increase in volume of DVDs sold, offset in part by an increase in the cost of DVD sales. The decrease in gain on disposal of DVDs in absolute dollars in 2005 as compared to 2004 was primarily attributable to an increase in the cost of DVD sales. Interest and Other Income Year Ended December 31, 2004 2005 2006 (in thousands, except percentages) Interest and other income, net $ 2,592 $ 5,753 $ 15,904 As a percentage of revenues 0.4 % 0.9 % 1.6 % Percentage change over prior period 122.0 % 176.4 % The increase in interest and other income in 2006 as compared to 2005 was primarily due to higher interest income earned on our cash and cash equivalents due to increased interest rates as well as higher average cash balances resulting from a net increase in cash flows and net proceeds of $101.1 million from the secondary public offering of our common stock in May 2006. The increase in interest and other income in 2005 as compared to 2004 was primarily due to higher interest income earned on our cash and cash equivalents due to increased interest rates as well as higher average cash balances. Provision for (benefit from) Income Taxes 2004 2005 2006 (in thousands, except percentages) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 181 $ (33,692 ) $ 31,236 Effective tax rate 0.8 % (404.2 )% 38.9 % 37 Table of Contents In 2006 our effective tax rate differed from the federal statutory rate of 35% principally due to state income taxes and benefits related to stock based compensation. In 2005, we recorded an income tax benefit of $33.7 million on pretax income of $8.3 million. Our 2005 income tax benefit includes a tax benefit for the reduction in the valuation allowance of $34.9 million. We continuously monitor the circumstances impacting the expected realization of our deferred tax assets. In the fourth quarter of 2005 we reduced the valuation allowance after determining that substantially all deferred tax assets are more likely than not to be realizable due to expected future income. In 2004, we recorded an income tax provision of $0.2 million on a pre tax income of $21.8 million. Our effective tax rates for 2004 and 2005 differ from the federal statutory rate of 35% primarily due to changes in the valuation allowance and benefits related to stock based compensation. We currently anticipate that our effective tax rate will be approximately 40% in 2007. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 31, 2006, we had cash and cash equivalents of $400.4 million. On May 3, 2006, we issued 3.5 million shares of common stock upon the closing of a secondary public offering for net proceeds of $101.1 million. We intend to use the net proceeds from the sale of the common stock for general corporate purposes, including working capital. We have generated net cash from operations during each quarter since the second quarter of 2001. Many factors will impact our ability to continue to generate and grow cash from our operations including, but not limited to, the number of subscribers who sign up for our service, the growth or reduction in our subscriber base, and our ability to develop new revenue sources. In addition, we may have to or otherwise choose to lower our prices and increase our marketing expenses in order to grow faster or respond to competition. Although we currently anticipate that cash flows from operations, together with our available funds, will be sufficient to meet our cash needs for the foreseeable future, we may require or choose to obtain additional financing. Our ability to obtain financing will depend on, among other things, our development efforts, business plans, operating performance and the condition of the capital markets at the time we seek financing. Key Components of Cash flow: The following table summarizes our cash flow activities: Year Ended December 31, 2004 2005 2006 (in thousands, except percentages) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 145,269 $ 157,507 $ 247,862 Percentage change over prior period 8.4 % 57.4 % Net cash used in investing activities $ (66,255 ) $ (133,248 ) $ (185,869 ) Percentage change over prior period 101.1 % 39.5 % Net cash provided by financing activities $ 5,775 $ 13,314 $ 126,181 Percentage change over prior period 130.5 % 847.7 % In the third quarter of 2006, we began classifying changes in Accounts payable related to the acquisition of our DVD library and Property and equipment as a component of cash outflows related to investing activities. Changes in Accounts payable related to acquisitions of DVD library and Property and equipment were previously classified within cash flows from operating activities. Accordingly, the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for all periods presented have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation. Operating activities: Net cash provided by operating activities increased by $90.4 million in 2006 as compared to 2005. The increase in operating cash was primarily attributable to the increase in net income, the increase in amortization of DVD library as a result of increased purchases of titles, increase in depreciation of property and equipment, increase in deferred revenue due to a larger subscriber base and increase in gift subscriptions and increases in accrued expenses as a result of our growing operations. 38 Table of Contents Net cash provided by operating activities increased by $12.2 million in 2005 as compared to 2004. The increase in operating cash was primarily attributable to the increase in net income, the increase in amortization of DVD library as a result of increased purchases of titles, increase in depreciation of property and equipment, increase in deferred revenue due to a larger subscriber base and increase in gift subscriptions and increases in accrued expenses as a result of our growing operations. Investing activities: Net cash used in investing activities increased by $52.6 million in 2006 as compared to 2005. The increase was primarily attributable to increased purchases of titles for our DVD library to support our larger subscriber base and increased purchases of property and equipment to support our growing operations Net cash used in investing activities increased by $67.0 million in 2005 as compared to 2004. The increase was primarily because cash used in investing activities in 2004 included net proceeds of $45.0 million from the sale of our short term investments. Excluding the impact of the net proceeds from the sale of our short term investments, cash used in investing activities increased by $22.0 million, primarily due to increased purchases of titles for our DVD library to support our larger subscriber base and increased purchases of property and equipment to support our growing operations in 2005 as compared to 2004. Financing activities: Net cash provided by financing activities increased by $112.9 million in 2006 as compared to 2005 primarily due to the proceeds of $101.1 million from the secondary public offering of our common stock in May 2006, as well as $13.2 million of tax benefits from stock based compensation. Net cash provided by financing activities increased by $7.5 million in 2005 as compared to 2004 primarily due to an increase in proceeds from issuance of common stock under our employee stock plans. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our contractual obligations at December 31, 2006 (in thousands): Payments due by period Contractual Obligations (in thousands): Total Less than 1 year 1 3 years 3 5 years More than 5 years Operating lease obligations $ 51,206 $ 9,760 $ 20,241 $ 14,476 $ 6,729 Other purchase obligations (1) 21,452 21,452 Total $ 72,658 $ 31,212 $ 20,241 $ 14,476 $ 6,729 (1) Other purchase obligations relate primarily to acquisitions for our DVD library and online titles. Our purchase orders are based on our current needs and are generally fulfilled by our vendors within short time horizons. For the purposes of this table, contractual obligations for purchase of goods or services are defined as agreements that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. The expected timing of payment of the obligations discussed above is estimated based on information available to us as of December 31, 2006. Timing of payments and actual amounts paid may be different depending on the time of receipt of goods or services or changes to agreed upon amounts for some obligations. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements As part of our ongoing business, we do not engage in transactions that generate relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities. Accordingly, our operating results, financial condition and cash flows are not subject to off balance sheet risks. 39 Table of Contents Indemnifications In the ordinary course of business, we enter into contractual arrangements under which we agree to provide indemnification of varying scope and terms to business partners and other parties with respect to certain matters, including, but not limited to, losses arising out of our breach of such agreements and out of intellectual property infringement claims made by third parties. In addition, we have entered into indemnification agreements with our directors and certain of our officers that will require us, among other things, to indemnify them against certain liabilities that may arise by reason of their status or service as directors or officers. The terms of such obligations vary. Generally, a maximum obligation is not explicitly stated, so the overall maximum amount of the obligations cannot be reasonably estimated. To date, we have not incurred material costs as a result of such obligations and have not accrued any liabilities related to such indemnification obligations in our financial statements. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements. SFAS No. 157 establishes a framework for measuring the fair value of assets and liabilities. This framework is intended to provide increased consistency in how fair value determinations are made under various existing accounting standards which permit, or in some cases require, estimates of fair market value. SFAS No. 157 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007, and interim periods within those fiscal years. Earlier application is encouraged, provided that the reporting entity has not yet issued financial statements for that fiscal year, including any financial statements for an interim period within that fiscal year. We do not expect the adoption of this standard to have a material effect on our financial position or results of operations. In June 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes. The interpretation clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in a companys financial statements in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. Specifically, the pronouncement prescribes a recognition threshold and a measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. The interpretation also provides guidance on the related derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting for interim periods, disclosure and transition of uncertain tax positions. The interpretation is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. We do not expect the adoption of this standard to have a material effect on our financial position or results of operations. In February 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 155, Accounting for Certain Hybrid Instruments which amends SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities and SFAS No. 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities. SFAS No. 155 allows financial instruments that have embedded derivatives to be accounted for as a whole (eliminating the need to bifurcate the derivative from its host) if the holder elects to account for the whole instrument on a fair value basis. SFAS No. 155 also clarifies and amends certain other provisions of SFAS No. 133 and SFAS No. 140. This statement is effective for all financial instruments acquired or issued in fiscal years beginning after September 15, 2006. We do not expect the adoption of this standard to have a material effect on our financial position or results of operations. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal, while at the same time maximizing income we receive from investments without significantly increased risk. Some of the securities we invest in may be subject to market risk. This means that a change in prevailing interest rates may cause the principal amount of the investment to fluctuate. For example, if we hold a security that was issued with a fixed interest rate at the then prevailing rate and the prevailing interest rate later rises, the value of our investment will decline. To minimize this risk, we intend to maintain our portfolio of cash equivalents in a variety of securities. At December 31, 2006, our cash equivalents are generally invested in money market funds, which are not subject to market risk because the interest paid on such funds fluctuates with the prevailing interest rate. 40 Table of Contents 
 
