Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Furthermore, we plan on increasing the level of committed content licensing in anticipation of our service and subscriber base growing. To the extent subscriber and or revenue growth do not meet our expectations, our liquidity and results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of these content licensing commitments and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in our business and the market segments in which we operate could be limited. 6 Table of Contents If we become subject to liability for content that we distribute through our service, our results of operations would be adversely affected. As a distributor of content, we face potential liability for negligence, copyright, patent or trademark infringement or other claims based on the nature and content of materials that we distribute. We also may face potential liability for content uploaded from our users in connection with our community related content or movie reviews. If we become liable, then our business may suffer. Litigation to defend these claims could be costly and the expenses and damages arising from any liability could harm our results of operations. We cannot assure that we are insured or indemnified to cover claims of these types or liability that may be imposed on us. If studios and other content distributors refuse to license streaming content to us upon acceptable terms, our business could be adversely affected. Streaming content over the Internet involves the licensing of rights which are separate from and independent of the rights we acquire when obtaining DVD content. Our ability to provide our subscribers with content they can watch instantly therefore depends on studios and other content distributors licensing us content specifically for Internet delivery. The license periods and the terms and conditions of such licenses vary. If the studios and other content distributors change their terms and conditions or are no longer willing or able to license us content, our ability to stream content to our subscribers will be adversely affected. Unlike DVD, streaming content is not subject to the First Sale Doctrine. As such, we are completely dependent on the studio or other content distributor to license us content in order to access and stream content. Many of the licenses provide for the studios or other content distributor to withdraw content from our service relatively quickly. Because of these provisions as well as other actions we may take, content available through our service can be withdrawn on short notice. In addition, the studios and other content distributors have great flexibility in licensing content. They may elect to license content exclusively to a particular provider or otherwise limit the types of services that can deliver streaming content. For example, HBO licenses content from studios like Warner Bros. and the license provides HBO with the exclusive right to such content against other subscription services, including Netflix. As such, Netflix cannot license certain Warner Bros. content for delivery to its subscribers while Warner Bros. may nonetheless license the same content to transactional VOD providers. If we are unable to secure and maintain rights to streaming content or if we cannot otherwise obtain such content upon terms that are acceptable to us, our ability to stream TV shows and movies to our subscribers will be adversely impacted, and our subscriber acquisition and retention could also be adversely impacted. As streaming content license agreements expire, we must renegotiate new terms which may not be favorable to us. If this happens, the cost of obtaining content could increase and our margins may be adversely affected. As we grow, we are able to spend an increasingly larger amount for the licensing of streaming content. We believe that the streaming content we make available to our subscribers is sufficiently diversified, such that we will not be forced to pay licensing fees for content in excess of our desired contribution profit targets. We believe that any failure to secure content will manifest in lower subscriber acquisition and retention and not in materially reduced margins. Given the multiple year duration and largely fixed nature of content licenses, if we do not experience subscriber acquisition and retention as forecasted, our margins may be impacted by these fixed content licensing costs. For example, as a result of events over the past several months, we have experienced slower growth than anticipated and our margins have been negatively impacted. During the course of our license relationship, various contract administration issues can arise. To the extent that we are unable to resolve any of these issues in an amicable manner, our relationship with the studios and other content distributors or our access to content may be adversely impacted. We rely upon a number of partners to offer instant streaming of content from Netflix to various devices. We currently offer subscribers the ability to receive streaming content through their PCs, Macs and other Internet connected devices, including Blu ray players and TVs, digital video players, game consoles and mobile devices. We intend to continue to broaden our capability to instantly stream TV shows and movies to other platforms and partners over time. If we are not successful in maintaining existing and creating new relationships, or if we encounter technological, content licensing or other impediments to our streaming content, our ability to grow our business could be adversely impacted. Our agreements with our consumer electronics partners are 7 Table of Contents typically between one and three years in duration and our business could be adversely affected if, upon expiration, a number of our partners do not continue to provide access to our service or are unwilling to do so on terms acceptable to us. Furthermore, devices are manufactured and sold by entities other than Netflix and while these entities should be responsible for the devices performance, the connection between these devices and Netflix may nonetheless result in consumer dissatisfaction toward Netflix and such dissatisfaction could result in claims against us or otherwise adversely impact our business. In addition, technology changes to our streaming functionality may require that partners update their devices. If partners do not update or otherwise modify their devices, our service and our subscribers use and enjoyment could be negatively impacted. If subscriptions to our domestic DVD segment decline faster than anticipated, our business could be adversely affected The number of subscriptions to our DVD by mail offering declined significantly following our price change. We anticipate that this decline will continue. We believe, however, that the domestic DVD business will continue to generate significant contribution profit for our business. In addition, we believe that DVD will be a valuable consumer proposition and studio profit center for the next several years, even as DVD sales decline. The contribution profit generated by our domestic DVD business will help provide capital resources to fund losses arising from our growth internationally. To the extent that the rate of decline in our DVD by mail business is greater than we anticipate, our business could be adversely affected. Because we are primarily focused on building a global streaming service, the resources allocated to maintaining DVD operations and the level of management focus on our DVD business are limited. To the extent that we experience degradation in service in our DVD by mail business, subscribers satisfaction with our service could be negatively impacted and we could experience an increase in cancellations, which could adversely impact our business. If U.S. Copyright law were altered to amend or eliminate the First Sale Doctrine or if studios were to release or distribute titles on DVD in a manner that attempts to circumvent or limit the effects of the First Sale Doctrine, our business could be adversely affected. Under U.S. Copyright Law, once a copyright owner sells a copy of his work, the copyright owner relinquishes all further rights to sell or otherwise dispose of that copy. While the copyright owner retains the underlying copyright to the expression fixed in the work, the copyright owner gives up his ability to control the fate of the work once it had been sold. As such, once a DVD is sold into the market, those obtaining the DVD are permitted to re sell it, rent it or otherwise dispose of it. If Congress or the courts were to change or substantially limit this First Sale Doctrine, our ability to obtain content and then rent it could be adversely affected. By way of example, the Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit has ruled that the First Sale Doctrine did not apply to sales of software that contained contractual limitations on resales. To the extent such a ruling were extended to DVD sales, our ability to obtain content for subsequent rental could be adversely impacted. Likewise, if content providers agree to limit the sale or distribution of their content in ways that try to limit the effects of the First Sale Doctrine, our business could be adversely affected. For example, we have entered into agreements with several studios to delay the availability of new release DVDs for rental for a period of time following the DVDs release to the retail market and, in connection therewith, these studios have prohibited certain of their wholesalers from selling DVDs to us prior to such availability. Furthermore, certain content owners, from time to time, have established exclusive rental windows with particular outlets. This happened in late 2006 and again in late 2007 when Blockbuster announced arrangements with certain content owners pursuant to which Blockbuster would receive content on DVDs for rental exclusively by Blockbuster. To the extent content is to be distributed exclusively and not to retail vendors or distributors, we could be prevented from obtaining such content, and those of our competitors who access such content could enjoy a corresponding competitive advantage. To the extent the content is also sold to retail vendors or distributors, under current law, we would not be prohibited from obtaining and renting such content pursuant to the First Sale Doctrine. Nonetheless, to the extent content owners do not distribute to us directly or through their wholesalers or otherwise establish exclusive rental windows, it will impact our ability to obtain such content in the most efficient manner and, in some cases, in 8 Table of Contents sufficient quantity to satisfy demand. If such arrangements were to become more commonplace or if additional impediments to obtaining content were created, our ability to obtain content could be impacted and our business could be adversely affected. Increased availability of new releases to other distribution channels prior to, or on parity with, the release on DVD, coupled with delayed availability of such DVDs through our service, could adversely affect our business. DVDs currently enjoy a competitive advantage over certain other distribution channels, such as pay per view and some types of VOD distribution, because of the early distribution window on the DVD format. The window for new releases on DVD is generally exclusive against and earlier than certain other forms of non theatrical movie distribution, such as pay per view, regular (non premium) VOD, SVOD, premium pay TV, and other forms of TV exploitation. The length and exclusivity of each window for each distribution channel are determined solely by the studio releasing the title. Over the past several years, we have seen distributors adjust and experiment with the traditional distribution channels and timing. For example, certain other forms of non theatrical distribution have been developed for certain new movie releases, resulting in their non theatrical availability prior to and during the DVD window. In addition, the major studios have shortened certain release windows and or have increasingly made new release movies available on VOD simultaneously or prior to the release on DVD e.g. via premium VOD, and in a limited number of instances, simultaneously with theatrical release. If other distribution channels were to receive priority over, or parity with, the DVD window, coupled with delayed availability of such DVD through our service, subscribers perception of value in our service could decrease and our business could be adversely affected. Further, as these distribution channels shift, our relative position to them, either in DVD or streaming, may impact our subscribers perception of or value in our service and our business could be adversely affected. Delayed availability of new release DVDs for rental could adversely affect our business. Our licensing agreements with several studios require that we do not rent new release DVDs until some period of time after such DVDs are first made available for retail sale. These agreements provide us with less expensive content as well as deeper copy depth than we might otherwise have absent the delay, thus improving both our business and consumer experience. While several competitors have used the delayed availability of DVD content through our service to differentiate their own services, we do not believe that this delayed availability has materially impacted our subscriber growth or satisfaction. Nonetheless, it is possible that the delay in obtaining new release content could impact consumer perception of our service or otherwise negatively impact subscriber satisfaction. Furthermore, in January 2012, Warner Home Entertainment announced it was increasing the period of delay to fifty six days. If other studios were to increase the period of delay and /or if our subscriber satisfaction is negatively impacted by this increase in the Warner delay, our business could be adversely impacted. We could be subject to increased costs arising from our acquisition of DVD content and our subscribers demand for DVD titles that could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. We obtain DVDs through a mix of revenue sharing agreements and direct purchases. The type of agreement we utilize to acquire DVD content depends on the economic terms we can negotiate as well as studio preferences. If we are unable to negotiate favorable terms to acquire the DVDs, our contribution profits may be adversely affected. Furthermore, during the course of our agreements, various contract administration issues can arise. To the extent that we are unable to resolve any of these issues in an amicable manner, our relationship with the studios and distributors or our access to content may be adversely impacted. Direct purchase of DVDs requires us to be able to accurately forecast demand in order to ensure that we have enough copies of a title to satisfy but not exceed demand so that our subscriber satisfaction is not negatively impacted. However, if we purchase excess copies of title or experience an increase in usage of a title without a corresponding increase in subscriber retention and growth, our content and fulfillment costs will increase disproportionately to revenues thus adversely affecting our operating results. Our content costs as a percentage of revenues can also increase if our 9 Table of Contents subscribers select titles that were acquired under more expensive revenue share arrangements more often than they select other titles acquired through direct purchase or lower cost revenue share arrangements. Any significant disruption in our computer systems or those of third parties that we utilize in our operations could result in a loss or degradation of service and could adversely impact our business. Subscribers and potential subscribers access our service through our Web site or their TVs, computers, game consoles or mobile devices. Our reputation and ability to attract, retain and serve our subscribers is dependent upon the reliable performance of our computer systems and those of third parties that we utilize in our operations. Interruptions in these systems, or with the Internet in general, including discriminatory network management practices, could make our service unavailable or degraded or otherwise hinder our ability to deliver streaming content or fulfill DVD selections. From time to time, we experience service interruptions and have voluntarily provided affected subscribers with a credit during periods of extended outage. Much of our software is proprietary, and we rely on the expertise of our engineering and software development teams for the continued performance of our software and computer systems. Service interruptions, errors in our software or the unavailability of computer systems used in our operations could diminish the overall attractiveness of our subscription service to existing and potential subscribers. Our servers and those of third parties we use in our operations are vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break ins and similar disruptions, which could lead to interruptions and delays in our service and operations as well as loss, misuse or theft of data. Our Web site periodically experiences directed attacks intended to cause a disruption in service. Any attempts by hackers to disrupt our service or our internal systems, if successful, could harm our business, be expensive to remedy and damage our reputation. Our insurance does not cover expenses related to attacks on our Web site or internal systems. Efforts to prevent hackers from entering our computer systems are expensive to implement and may limit the functionality of our services. Any significant disruption to our service or internal computer systems could result in a loss of subscribers and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We utilize our own communications and computer hardware systems located either in our facilities or in that of a third party Web hosting provider. In addition, we utilize third party Internet based or cloud computing services in connection with our business operations. We also utilize third party content delivery networks to help us stream TV shows and movies in high volume to Netflix subscribers over the Internet. Problems faced by our third party Web hosting, cloud computing, or content delivery network providers, including technological or business related disruptions, could adversely impact the experience of our subscribers. In addition, fires, floods, earthquakes, power losses, telecommunications failures, break ins and similar events could damage these systems and hardware or cause them to fail completely. As we do not maintain entirely redundant systems, a disrupting event could result in prolonged downtime of our operations and could adversely affect our business. We rely upon Amazon Web Services to operate certain aspects of our service and any disruption of or interference with our use of the Amazon Web Services operation would impact our operations and our business would be adversely impacted. Amazon Web Services, or AWS, provides a distributed computing infrastructure platform for business operations, or what is commonly referred to as a cloud computing service. We have architected our software and computer systems so as to utilize data processing, storage capabilities and other services provided by AWS. Currently, we run the vast majority of our computing on AWS. Given this, along with the fact that we cannot easily switch our AWS operations to another cloud provider, any disruption of or interference with our use of AWS would impact our operations and our business would be adversely impacted. While the retail side of Amazon may compete with us, we do not believe that Amazon will use the AWS operation in such a manner as to gain competitive advantage against our service. 10 Table of Contents If we are unable to effectively utilize our recommendation and merchandising technology or develop user interfaces that maintain or increase subscriber engagement with our service, our business may suffer. Our proprietary recommendation and merchandising technology enables us to predict and recommend titles and effectively merchandise our library to our subscribers. We also develop, test and implement various user interfaces across multiple devices, in an effort to maintain and increase subscriber engagement with our service. We are continually refining our recommendation and merchandising technology as well as our various user interfaces in an effort to improve the predictive accuracy of our TV show and movie recommendations and the usefulness of and engagement with our service by our subscribers. We may experience difficulties in implementing refinements. In addition, we cannot assure that we will be able to continue to make and implement meaningful refinements to our recommendation technology. If our recommendation and merchandising technology does not enable us to predict and recommend titles that our subscribers will enjoy or if we are unable to implement meaningful improvements thereto or otherwise improve our user interfaces, our service may be less useful to our subscribers. Such failures could lead to the following: our subscriber satisfaction may decrease, subscribers may perceive our service to be of lower value and our ability to attract and retain subscribers may be adversely affected; our ability to effectively merchandise and utilize our library will be adversely affected; and our subscribers may default to choosing titles from among new releases or other titles that cost us more to provide, and our margins may be adversely affected. We rely heavily on our proprietary technology to stream TV shows and movies and to manage other aspects of our operations, including processing delivery and return of our DVDs to our subscribers, and the failure of this technology to operate effectively could adversely affect our business. We continually enhance or modify the technology used for our operations. We cannot be sure that any enhancements or other modifications we make to our operations will achieve the intended results or otherwise be of value to our subscribers. Future enhancements and modifications to our technology could consume considerable resources. If we are unable to maintain and enhance our technology to manage the streaming of TV shows and movies to our subscribers in a timely and efficient manner and or the processing of DVDs among our shipping centers, our ability to retain existing subscribers and to add new subscribers may be impaired. In addition, if our technology or that of third parties we utilize in our operations fails or otherwise operates improperly, our ability to retain existing subscribers and to add new subscribers may be impaired. Also, any harm to our subscribers personal computers or other devices caused by software used in our operations could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we experience delivery problems or if our subscribers or potential subscribers lose confidence in the U.S. mail system, we could lose subscribers, which could adversely affect our operating results. We rely exclusively on the U.S. Postal Service to deliver DVDs from our shipping centers and to return DVDs to us from our subscribers. We are subject to risks associated with using the public mail system to meet our shipping needs, including delays or disruptions caused by inclement weather, natural disasters, labor activism, health epidemics or bioterrorism. Our DVDs are also subject to risks of breakage and theft during our processing of shipments as well as during delivery and handling by the U.S. Postal Service. The risk of breakage is also impacted by the materials and methods used to replicate our DVDs. If the entities replicating our DVDs use materials and methods more likely to break during delivery and handling or we fail to timely deliver DVDs to our subscribers, our subscribers could become dissatisfied and cancel our service, which could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, increased breakage and theft rates for our DVDs will increase our cost of acquiring titles. 11 Table of Contents Increases in the cost of delivering DVDs could adversely affect the contribution profit of our Domestic DVD segment. Increases in postage delivery rates could adversely affect our domestic DVD segments contribution profit if we elect not to raise our subscription fees to offset the increase. The U.S. Postal Service increased the rate for first class postage on May 12, 2008 to 42 cents, on May 11, 2009 to 44 cents and again on January 22, 2012 to 45 cents. It is expected that the U.S. Postal Service will raise rates again in subsequent years in accordance with the powers given the U.S. Postal Service in connection with the 2007 postal reform legislation. The U.S. Postal Service continues to focus on plans to reduce its costs and make its service more efficient. If the U.S. Postal Service were to change any policies relative to the requirements of first class mail, including changes in size, weight or machinability qualifications of our DVD envelopes, such changes could result in increased shipping costs or higher breakage for our DVDs, and our gross margin could be adversely affected. For example, the Office of Inspector General (OIG) at the U.S. Postal Service issued a report in November 2007 recommending that the U.S. Postal Service revise the machinability qualifications for first class mail related to DVDs or to charge DVD mailers who dont comply with the new regulations a 17 cent surcharge on all mail deemed unmachinable. In addition, a by mail game rental company filed a complaint with the Postal Regulatory Commission alleging that the U.S. Postal Service unreasonably discriminated against it in favor of Netflix and Blockbuster. To the extent this proceeding was to result in operational or regulatory changes impacting our mail processing, our domestic DVD segments contribution profit and business operations could be adversely affected. For example, the U.S. Postal Service recently announced changes to its service that would close many of its mail processing facilities and eliminate next day service for first class mail. If such changes result in slower delivery of our DVDs or otherwise lead to a decrease in customer satisfaction, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. If government regulations relating to the Internet or other areas of our business change, we may need to alter the manner in which we conduct our business, or incur greater operating expenses. The adoption or modification of laws or regulations relating to the Internet or other areas of our business could limit or otherwise adversely affect the manner in which we currently conduct our business. In addition, the growth and development of the market for online commerce may lead to more stringent consumer protection laws, which may impose additional burdens on us. If we are required to comply with new regulations or legislation or new interpretations of existing regulations or legislation, this compliance could cause us to incur additional expenses or alter our business model. The adoption of any laws or regulations that adversely affect the growth, popularity or use of the Internet, including laws limiting Internet neutrality, could decrease the demand for our subscription service and increase our cost of doing business. For example, in late 2010, the Federal Communications Commission adopted so called net neutrality rules intended, in part, to prevent network operators from discriminating against legal traffic that transverse their networks. The rules are currently subject to legal challenge. To the extent that these rules are interpreted to enable network operators to engage in discriminatory practices or are overturned by legal challenge, our business could be adversely impacted. As we expand internationally, government regulation concerning the Internet, and in particular, network neutrality, may be nascent or non existent. Within such a regulatory environment, coupled with potentially significant political and economic power of local network operators, we could experience discriminatory or anti competitive practices that could impede our growth, cause us to incur additional expense or otherwise negatively affect our business. Changes in how network operators handle and charge for access to data that travel across their networks could adversely impact our business. We rely upon the ability of consumers to access our service through the Internet. To the extent that network operators implement usage based pricing, including meaningful bandwidth caps, or otherwise try to monetize access to their networks by data providers, we could incur greater operating expenses and our subscriber acquisition and retention could be negatively impacted. For example, in late 2010, Comcast informed Level 3 Communications that it would require Level 3 to pay for the ability to access Comcasts network. Given that much of the traffic being requested by Comcast customers is Netflix data stored with Level 3, many 12 Table of Contents commentators have looked to this situation as an example of Comcast either discriminating against Netflix traffic or trying to increase Netflixs operating costs. Furthermore, to the extent network operators were to create tiers of Internet access service and either charge us for or prohibit us from being available through these tiers, our business could be negatively impacted. Most network operators that provide consumers with access to the Internet also provide these consumers with multichannel video programming. As such, companies like Comcast, Time Warner Cable and Cablevision have an incentive to use their network infrastructure in a manner adverse to our continued growth and success. While we believe that consumer demand, regulatory oversight and competition will help check these incentives, to the extent that network operators are able to provide preferential treatment to their data as opposed to ours, our business could be negatively impacted. In international markets, especially in Latin America, these same incentives apply however, the consumer demand, regulatory oversight and competition may not be as strong as in our domestic market. Privacy concerns could limit our ability to leverage our subscriber data and our disclosure of or unauthorized access to subscriber data could adversely impact our business and reputation. In the ordinary course of business and in particular in connection with merchandising our service to our subscribers, we collect and utilize data supplied by our subscribers. We currently face certain legal obligations regarding the manner in which we treat such information. Other businesses have been criticized by privacy groups and governmental bodies for attempts to link personal identities and other information to data collected on the Internet regarding users browsing and other habits. Increased regulation of data utilization practices, including self regulation or findings under existing laws, that limit our ability to use collected data, could have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, if unauthorized access to our subscriber data were to occur or if we were to disclose data about our subscribers in a manner that was objectionable to them, our business reputation could be adversely affected, and we could face potential legal claims that could impact our operating results. Our reputation and relationships with subscribers would be harmed if our subscriber data, particularly billing data, were to be accessed by unauthorized persons. We maintain personal data regarding our subscribers, including names and, in many cases, mailing addresses. With respect to billing data, such as credit card numbers, we rely on licensed encryption and authentication technology to secure such information. We take measures to protect against unauthorized intrusion into our subscribers data. If, despite these measures, we, or our payment processing services, experience any unauthorized intrusion into our subscribers data, current and potential subscribers may become unwilling to provide the information to us necessary for them to become subscribers, we could face legal claims, and our business could be adversely affected. Similarly, if a well publicized breach of the consumer data security of any other major consumer Web site were to occur, there could be a general public loss of confidence in the use of the Internet for commerce transactions which could adversely affect our business. In addition, we do not obtain signatures from subscribers in connection with the use of credit cards by them. Under current credit card practices, to the extent we do not obtain cardholders signatures, we are liable for fraudulent credit card transactions, even when the associated financial institution approves payment of the orders. From time to time, fraudulent credit cards are used on our Web site to obtain service and access our DVD inventory and streaming. Typically, these credit cards have not been registered as stolen and are therefore not rejected by our automatic authorization safeguards. While we do have a number of other safeguards in place, we nonetheless experience some loss from these fraudulent transactions. We do not currently carry insurance against the risk of fraudulent credit card transactions. A failure to adequately control fraudulent credit card transactions would harm our business and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents Increases in payment processing fees or changes to operating rules would increase our operating expenses and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our subscribers pay for our subscription services predominately using credit cards and debit cards. Our acceptance of these payment methods requires our payment of certain fees. From time to time, these fees may increase, either as a result of rate changes by the payment processing companies or as a result in a change in our business practices which increase the fees on a cost per transaction basis. Such increases may adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to rules, regulations and practices governing our accepted payment methods, which are predominately credit cards and debit cards. These rules, regulations and practices could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. If we fail to comply with these rules or requirements, we may be subject to fines and higher transaction fees and lose our ability to accept these payment methods, and our business and results of operations would be adversely affected. If our trademarks and other proprietary rights are not adequately protected to prevent use or appropriation by our competitors, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished, and our business may be adversely affected. We rely and expect to continue to rely on a combination of confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties with whom we have relationships, as well as trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection laws, to protect our proprietary rights. We may also seek to enforce our proprietary rights through court proceedings. We have filed and from time to time we expect to file for trademark and patent applications. Nevertheless, these applications may not be approved, third parties may challenge any patents issued to or held by us, third parties may knowingly or unknowingly infringe our patents, trademarks and other proprietary rights, and we may not be able to prevent infringement without substantial expense to us. If the protection of our proprietary rights is inadequate to prevent use or appropriation by third parties, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished, competitors may be able to more effectively mimic our service and methods of operations, the perception of our business and service to subscribers and potential subscribers may become confused in the marketplace, and our ability to attract subscribers may be adversely affected. Intellectual property claims against us could be costly and result in the loss of significant rights related to, among other things, our Web site, streaming technology, our recommendation and merchandising technology, title selection processes and marketing activities. Trademark, copyright, patent and other intellectual property rights are important to us and other companies. Our intellectual property rights extend to our technology, business processes and the content on our Web site. We use the intellectual property of third parties in merchandising our products and marketing our service through contractual and other rights. From time to time, third parties allege that we have violated their intellectual property rights. If we are unable to obtain sufficient rights, successfully defend our use, or develop non infringing technology or otherwise alter our business practices on a timely basis in response to claims against us for infringement, misappropriation, misuse or other violation of third party intellectual property rights, our business and competitive position may be adversely affected. Many companies are devoting significant resources to developing patents that could potentially affect many aspects of our business. There are numerous patents that broadly claim means and methods of conducting business on the Internet. We have not searched patents relative to our technology. Defending ourselves against intellectual property claims, whether they are with or without merit or are determined in our favor, results in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel. It also may result in our inability to use our current Web site, streaming technology, our recommendation and merchandising technology or inability to market our service or merchandise our products. As a result of a dispute, we may have to develop non infringing technology, enter into royalty or licensing agreements, adjust our merchandising or marketing activities or take other actions to resolve the claims. These actions, if required, may be costly or unavailable on terms acceptable to us. 14 Table of Contents If we are unable to protect our domain names, our reputation and brand could be adversely affected. We currently hold various domain names relating to our brand, including Netflix.com. Failure to protect our domain names could adversely affect our reputation and brand and make it more difficult for users to find our Web site and our service. The acquisition and maintenance of domain names generally are regulated by governmental agencies and their designees. The regulation of domain names in the United States may change in the near future. Governing bodies may establish additional top level domains, appoint additional domain name registrars or modify the requirements for holding domain names. As a result, we may be unable to acquire or maintain relevant domain names. Furthermore, the relationship between regulations governing domain names and laws protecting trademarks and similar proprietary rights is unclear. We may be unable, without significant cost or at all, to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. In the event of an earthquake or other natural or man made disaster, our operations could be adversely affected. Our executive offices and data centers are located in the San Francisco Bay Area. We have shipping centers located throughout the United States, including earthquake and hurricane sensitive areas. Our business and operations could be adversely affected in the event of these natural disasters as well as from electrical blackouts, fires, floods, power losses, telecommunications failures, break ins or similar events. We may not be able to effectively shift our fulfillment and delivery operations to handle disruptions in service arising from these events. Because the San Francisco Bay Area is located in an earthquake sensitive area, we are particularly susceptible to the risk of damage to, or total destruction of, our executive offices and data centers. We are not insured against any losses or expenses that arise from a disruption to our business due to earthquakes and may not have adequate insurance to cover losses and expenses from other natural disasters. We are engaged in legal proceedings that could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses and could occupy a significant amount of our managements time and attention. From time to time, we are subject to litigation or claims that could negatively affect our business operations and financial position. As we have grown, we have seen a rise in the number of litigation matters against us. Most of these matters relate to patent infringement lawsuits, which are typically expensive to defend. Litigation disputes could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses, could occupy a significant amount of our managements time and attention and could negatively affect our business operations and financial position. We could be subject to economic, political, regulatory and other risks arising from our international operations. We offer an unlimited streaming plan in Canada, Latin America and beginning in early 2012 we expanded our streaming service offering to the UK and Ireland. Operating in international markets requires significant resources and management attention and will subject us to regulatory, economic and political risks that are different from and incremental to those in the United States. In addition to the risks that we face in the United States our international operations involve risks that could adversely affect our business, including: the need to adapt our content and user interfaces for specific cultural and language differences, including licensing a certain portion of our content library before we have developed a full appreciation for its performance within a given territory; difficulties and costs associated with staffing and managing foreign operations; management distraction; political or social unrest and economic instability; compliance with U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials; 15 Table of Contents difficulties in understanding and complying with local laws, regulations and customs in foreign jurisdictions; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; less favorable foreign intellectual property laws; adverse tax consequences; fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could impact revenues and expenses of our international operations and expose us to foreign currency exchange rate risk; profit repatriation and other restrictions on the transfer of funds; differing processing systems as well as consumer use and acceptance of electronic payment methods, such as credit and debit cards; new and different sources of competition; low usage of Internet connected consumer electronic devices; different and more stringent user protection, data protection, privacy and other laws; and availability of reliable broadband connectivity and wide area networks in targeted areas for expansion. Our failure to manage any of these risks successfully could harm our future international operations and our overall business, and results of our operations. We may seek additional capital that may result in stockholder dilution or that may have rights senior to those of our common stockholders. From time to time, we may seek to obtain additional capital, either through equity, equity linked or debt securities. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2011, we raised $400 million of additional capital through the sale of $200 million worth of convertible notes in a private placement and $200 million worth of equity through a public offering. The decision to obtain additional capital will depend, among other things, on our development efforts, business plans, operating performance and condition of the capital markets. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity linked or debt securities, those securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to the rights of our common stock, and our stockholders may experience dilution. We have issued $400 million in debt offerings and may incur additional debt in the future, which may adversely affect our financial condition and future financial results. As of December 31, 2011, we have $200 million in 8.50% senior notes and $200 million in zero coupon senior convertible notes outstanding. Risks relating to our long term indebtedness include: requiring us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and investments and other general corporate purposes; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets in which we operate; and limiting our ability to borrow additional funds or to borrow funds at rates or on other terms we find acceptable. In addition, it is possible that we may need to incur additional indebtedness in the future in the ordinary course of business. The terms of indentures governing our outstanding senior notes allow us to incur additional debt subject to certain limitations. If new debt is added to current debt levels, the risks described above could intensify. 16 Table of Contents The agreements governing our indebtedness contain various covenants that limit our discretion in the operation of our business and also require us to meet certain covenants. The failure to comply with such covenants could have a material adverse effect on us. The agreements governing our indebtedness contain various covenants, including those that restrict our ability to, among other things: borrow money, and guarantee or provide other support for indebtedness of third parties including guarantees; pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock; make investments in entities that we do not control, including joint ventures; enter into certain asset sale transactions; enter into secured financing arrangements; enter into sale and leaseback transactions; and enter into unrelated businesses. These covenants may limit our ability to effectively operate our businesses. Any failure to comply with the restrictions of any agreement governing our other indebtedness may result in an event of default under those agreements. We may lose key employees or may be unable to hire qualified employees. We rely on the continued service of our senior management, including our Chief Executive Officer and co founder Reed Hastings, members of our executive team and other key employees and the hiring of new qualified employees. In our industry, there is substantial and continuous competition for highly skilled business, product development, technical and other personnel. We may not be successful in recruiting new personnel and in retaining and motivating existing personnel, which may be disruptive to our operations. Risks Related to Our Stock Ownership Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. Our charter documents may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable because they: authorize our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock; provide for a classified board of directors; prohibit our stockholders from acting by written consent; establish advance notice requirements for proposing matters to be approved by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and prohibit stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders. In addition, a merger or acquisition may trigger retention payments to certain executive employees under the terms of our Executive Severance and Retention Incentive Plan, thereby increasing the cost of such a transaction. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain Delaware anti takeover provisions. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. Our board of directors could rely on Delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us. 17 Table of Contents Our stock price is volatile. The price at which our common stock has traded has fluctuated significantly. The price may continue to be volatile due to a number of factors including the following, some of which are beyond our control: variations in our operating results; variations between our actual operating results and the expectations of securities analysts, investors and the financial community; announcements of developments affecting our business, systems or expansion plans by us or others; competition, including the introduction of new competitors, their pricing strategies and services; market volatility in general; the level of demand for our stock, including the amount of short interest in our stock; and the operating results of our competitors. As a result of these and other factors, investors in our common stock may not be able to resell their shares at or above their original purchase price. Following certain periods of volatility in the market price of our securities, we became the subject of securities litigation. We may experience more such litigation following future periods of volatility. This type of litigation may result in substantial costs and a diversion of managements attention and resources. Financial forecasting by us and financial analysts who may publish estimates of our performance may differ materially from actual results. Given the dynamic nature of our business, the current uncertain economic climate and the inherent limitations in predicting the future, forecasts of our revenues, contribution margins, net income and, number of total and paid subscriber additions and other financial and operating data may differ materially from actual results. Such discrepancies could cause a decline in the trading price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 18 Table of Contents Item 2. Properties We do not own any real estate. The following table sets forth the location, approximate square footage, lease expiration and the primary use of each of our principal properties: Location EstimatedSquareFootage LeaseExpiration Date Primary Use Los Gatos, California 260,000 March 2018 Domestic and International streaming corporate office, general and administrative, marketing and technology and development Columbus, Ohio 90,000 August 2016 Domestic DVD receiving and storage center, processing and shipping center for the Columbus area San Jose, California 57,000 February 2017 Domestic DVD corporate office, general and administrative and technology and development Hillsboro, Oregon 49,000 April 2016 Domestic streaming and Domestic DVD customer service center Santa Clara, California 23,000 October 2016 Domestic and International streaming customer service center Beverly Hills, California 40,000 August 2015 Domestic and International content acquisition, general and administrative We operate a nationwide network of distribution centers that serve major metropolitan areas throughout the United States. These fulfillment centers are under lease agreements that expire at various dates through August 2016. We also operate data centers in a leased third party facility in Santa Clara, California. We believe that our current space will be adequate or that additional space will be available on commercially reasonable terms for the foreseeable future. Item 3. Legal Proceedings Information with respect to this item may be found in Note 5 of Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, which information is incorporated herein by reference. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosure Not applicable. 19 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol NFLX. The following table sets forth the intraday high and low sales prices per share of our common stock for the periods indicated, as reported by the NASDAQ Global Select Market. 2011 2010 High Low High Low First quarter $ 247.55 $ 173.50 $ 75.65 $ 48.52 Second quarter 277.70 224.41 127.96 73.62 Third quarter 304.79 107.63 174.40 95.33 Fourth quarter 128.50 62.37 209.24 147.35 As of January 31, 2012, there were approximately 198 stockholders of record of our common stock, although there is a significantly larger number of beneficial owners of our common stock. We have not declared or paid any cash dividends, and we have no present intention of paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. The indenture we entered into in connection with the issuance in November 2011 of our zero coupon senior convertible notes due 2018 contains a covenant restricting our ability to pay cash dividends or to repurchase shares of common stock, subject to certain exceptions. On November 28, 2011, we sold to one or more investment funds affiliated with Technology Crossover Ventures, or TCV, $200 million aggregate principal amount of zero coupon senior convertible notes due 2018. There were no underwriting discounts or commissions paid in connection with the issuance of the notes. The initial conversion rate for the notes is 11.6553 shares of our common stock, per $1,000 principal amount of notes. This is equivalent to an initial conversion price of approximately $85.80 per share of common stock. Holders may surrender their notes for conversion at any time prior to the close of business on the business day immediately preceding the maturity date for the notes on December 1, 2018. We offered and sold the Notes to TCV in reliance on the exemption from registration provided by Section 4(2) of the Securities Act. We relied on the exemption from registration based in part on representations made by TCV. 20 Table of Contents Stock Performance Graph Notwithstanding any statement to the contrary in any of our previous or future filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the following information relating to the price performance of our common stock shall not be deemed filed with the Commission or soliciting material under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and shall not be incorporated by reference into any such filings. The following graph compares, for the five year period ended December 31, 2011, the total cumulative stockholder return on the Companys common stock with the total cumulative return of the NASDAQ Composite Index, the S&P 500 Index and the S&P North American Technology Internet Index. The Company was added to the S&P 500 Index on December 18, 2010. Measurement points are the last trading day of each of the Companys fiscal years ended December 31, 2006, December 31, 2007, December 31, 2008, December 31, 2009, December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2011. Total cumulative stockholder return assumes $100 invested at the beginning of the period in the Companys common stock, the stocks represented in the NASDAQ Composite Index, the stocks represented in the S&P 500 Index and the stocks represented in the S&P North American Technology Internet Index, respectively, and reinvestment of any dividends. The S&P North American Technology Internet Index is a modified capitalization weighted index of stocks representing the Internet industry, including Internet content and access providers, Internet software and services companies and e commerce companies. Historical stock price performance should not be relied upon as an indication of future stock price performance. 21 Table of Contents Item 6. Selected Financial Data The following selected financial data is not necessarily indicative of results of future operations and should be read in conjunction with Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Consolidated Statements of Operations: Year ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 (1) (in thousands, except per share data) Revenues $ 3,204,577 $ 2,162,625 $ 1,670,269 $ 1,364,661 $ 1,205,340 Total cost of revenues 2,039,901 1,357,355 1,079,271 910,234 786,168 Operating income 376,068 283,641 191,939 121,506 91,773 Net income 226,126 160,853 115,860 83,026 66,608 Net income per share: Basic $ 4.28 $ 3.06 $ 2.05 $ 1.36 $ 0.99 Diluted $ 4.16 $ 2.96 $ 1.98 $ 1.32 $ 0.97 Weighted average shares outstanding: Basic 52,847 52,529 56,560 60,961 67,076 Diluted 54,369 54,304 58,416 62,836 68,902 (1) Operating expenses for the year include a one time payment received in the amount of $7.0 million as a result of resolving a patent litigation with Blockbuster, Inc. Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows: Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 317,712 $ 276,401 $ 325,063 $ 284,037 $ 277,420 Free cash flow (2) 186,550 131,007 97,122 94,700 45,889 (2) See Liquidity and Capital Resources for a definition of free cash flow and a reconciliation of free cash flow to net cash provided by operating activities. Consolidated Balance Sheets: As of December 31, 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 (in thousands) Cash, cash equivalents and short term investments (3) $ 797,811 $ 350,387 $ 320,242 $ 297,271 $ 385,142 Total content library, net 1,966,643 361,979 146,139 117,238 128,371 Working capital 605,802 248,652 183,577 142,908 223,518 Total assets 3,069,196 982,067 679,734 615,424 678,998 Long term debt 200,000 200,000 200,000 Long term debt due to related party 200,000 Non current content liabilities 739,628 48,179 2,227 3,516 1,850 Stockholders equity 642,810 290,164 199,143 347,155 429,812 (3) Short term investments are comprised of corporate debt securities, government and agency securities and asset and mortgage backed securities. 22 Table of Contents As of / Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 (in thousands) Other Data: Total consolidated unique subscribers at end of period 26,253 20,010 12,268 9,390 7,479 Net consolidated unique subscriber additions during period 6,243 7,742 2,878 1,911 1,163 For purposes of determining the number of unique subscribers, domestic subscribers who have elected both a DVD and a streaming subscription plan are considered a single unique subscriber. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview We are the worlds leading Internet subscription service for enjoying TV shows and movies. Our subscribers can instantly watch unlimited TV shows and movies streamed over the Internet to their TVs, computers and mobile devices and in the United States, our subscribers can receive standard definition DVDs, and their high definition successor, Blu ray discs (collectively referred to as DVD), delivered quickly to their homes. Our core strategy is to grow our streaming subscription business domestically and globally. We are continuously improving the customer experience, with a focus on expanding our streaming content, enhancing our user interface and extending our streaming service to even more Internet connected devices, while staying within the parameters of our consolidated net income and operating segment contribution profit targets. In the past, we have focused on operating margin targets. Going forward, we will be operating within the parameters of contribution profit targets for each of our operating segments. Contribution profit is defined as revenue less cost of revenues and marketing expenses. We are a pioneer in the Internet delivery of TV shows and movies, launching our streaming service in 2007. Since this launch, we have developed an ecosystem of Internet connected devices and have licensed increasing amounts of content that enable consumers to enjoy TV shows and movies directly on their TVs, computers and mobile devices. As a result of these efforts, we have experienced growing consumer acceptance of and interest in the delivery of TV shows and movies directly over the Internet. We believe that the DVD portion of our domestic service will be a fading differentiator to our streaming success. Prior to July 2011, in the United States, our streaming and DVD by mail operations were combined and subscribers could receive both streaming content and DVDs under a single hybrid plan. In July 2011, we introduced DVD only plans and separated the combined plans, making it necessary for subscribers who wish to receive both DVDs by mail and streaming content to have two separate subscription plans. This resulted in a price increase for our members who were taking a combination of our unlimited DVDs by mail and unlimited streaming services. We made a subsequent announcement during the third quarter of 2011 concerning the rebranding of our DVD by mail service and the separation of the DVD by mail and streaming websites. The consumer reaction to the price change, and to a lesser degree, the branding announcement, was very negative leading to significant customer cancellations. We subsequently retracted our plans to rebrand our DVD by mail service and separate the DVD by mail and streaming websites. In September 2010, we began international operations by offering our streaming service in Canada. In September 2011, we expanded our streaming service to Latin America and the Caribbean. In January 2012, we launched our streaming service in the UK and Ireland. We anticipate significant contribution losses in the International streaming segment in 2012. Until we reach our goal of global profitability, we do not intend to launch additional international markets. 23 Table of Contents As a result of the changes to our pricing and plan structure, we no longer offer a single subscription plan including both DVD by mail and streaming in the US. Domestic subscribers who wish to receive DVDs by mail and watch streaming content must elect both a DVD by mail subscription plan and a streaming subscription plan. Accordingly, beginning with the third quarter of 2011, management views the number of paid subscriptions as the key driver of revenues. The following metrics reflect these changes. As of /Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 (in thousands) Domestic streaming: Paid subscriptions at end of period 20,153 Total subscriptions at end of period 21,671 International streaming: Net additions 1,349 509 Paid subscriptions at end of period 1,447 333 Total subscriptions at end of period 1,858 509 Domestic DVD: Paid subscriptions at end of period 11,039 Total subscriptions at end of period 11,165 Total domestic: Net unique subscriber additions during period (1) 4,894 7,233 2,878 Total domestic unique subscribers at end of period (1) 24,395 19,501 12,268 Churn (2) 4.9 % 3.8 % 4.3 % Consolidated: Net unique subscriber additions during period (1) 6,243 7,742 2,878 Paid unique subscribers at end of period (1) 24,305 18,268 11,892 Total unique subscribers at end of period (1) 26,253 20,010 12,268 (1) For purposes of determining the number of unique subscribers, domestic subscribers who have elected both a DVD and a streaming subscription plan are considered a single unique subscriber. (2) Churn is a monthly measure defined as customer cancellations in the quarter divided by the sum of beginning subscribers and gross subscriber additions, then divided by three months. Churn (annualized) is the average of churn for the four quarters of each respective year. As we evolve our focus from our DVD to streaming service, we will be slightly changing how we treat our domestic subscribers so that they are in line with our international subscribers. Beginning in the first quarter of 2012, domestic members who are on payment holds will no longer be counted as unique subscribers nor will they be included in our subscription metrics. Members who cancel mid period will continue to receive service until the end of the period and will accordingly be counted as subscribers and in our subscription metrics until the end of the period. These changes may impact our subscription metrics but we do not expect such impacts to be material. There is no effect on revenue from these changes. The following represents our consolidated performance highlights for 2011, 2010 and 2009: 2011 2010 2009 Change (in thousands, except per share data) 2011 vs. 2010 2010 vs. 2009 Revenues $ 3,204,577 $ 2,162,625 $ 1,670,269 48.2 % 29.5 % Operating income 376,068 283,641 191,939 32.6 % 47.8 % Net income 226,126 160,853 115,860 40.6 % 38.8 % Net income per share diluted 4.16 2.96 1.98 40.5 % 49.5 % Free cash flow (3) 186,550 131,007 97,122 42.4 % 34.9 % (3) See Liquidity and Capital Resources for a definition of free cash flow and a reconciliation of free cash flow to net cash provided by operating activities. 24 Table of Contents Due to the announcement of changes to our domestic plan offerings, pricing, and branding in the third quarter of 2011, we experienced an increase in the number of subscriber cancellations, resulting in a net loss of unique domestic subscribers in the third quarter of 2011. However, unique domestic subscribers returned to growth in the fourth quarter of 2011 driven by the continued popularity of domestic streaming subscriptions. The subscriber cancellations in the second half of 2011, coupled with slower growth in the number of new subscribers joining our service, resulted in a 32.3% decrease in unique domestic net subscriber additions for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2010. The year over year increase in ending unique domestic subscribers was the primary driver in the 48.2% increase in consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2010. Domestic streaming subscriptions increased in the fourth quarter of 2011 as compared to the third quarter of 2011 when we first began tracking such subscriptions separately. Due to strength in both acquisitions and retention, we expect continued growth in this segment. Our contribution margin target for domestic streaming is 11% for the first quarter of 2012 with further margin expansion over the next twelve months. In 2011, our International streaming segment reported a contribution loss of $103.1 million and we expect that our expansion to the UK and Ireland in January 2012 will result in further contribution losses as our investments to build our business there, especially our investments in content licensing, will exceed the revenues we are likely to generate. DVD subscriptions, which we also began tracking separately in the second half of 2011, are declining as subscribers migrate from hybrid plans towards lower priced streaming only subscription plans. We expect continued decreases in DVD subscriptions which will reduce domestic and consolidated revenues by approximately the same amount of the increase expected from streaming subscription growth. Domestic DVD contribution margins are expected to remain healthy due to the primarily variable cost model and mature state of the business. Consolidated revenues for the first quarter of 2012 are expected to be flat as compared to the fourth quarter of 2011 and we may experience slower growth in consolidated revenue for the year ending December 31, 2012 as compared to the year ending December 31, 2011. As a result of the negative impact on revenue growth associated with a decline in domestic DVD subscriptions coupled with the increasing investment in our International streaming segment, we expect to incur consolidated net losses for the year ended December 31, 2012. Free cash flow for the year ended December 31, 2011 increased as compared to the year ended December 31, 2010 to $186.6 million. Free cash flow was $39.6 million lower than net income of $226.1 million, largely due to the excess streaming and DVD content payments over expense. The excess streaming and DVD content payments over expense will continue to fluctuate over time based on new content licenses domestically and internationally. We expect that free cash flow in future periods will be negatively impacted by our expected consolidated net losses and that we may use cash in 2012. As a result of the expected net losses and potential use of cash in 2012, we decided to strengthen our balance sheet by raising $400 million of additional capital. In November 2011, we issued $200.0 million of our zero coupon senior convertible notes due in 2018 (the Convertible Notes) and raised an additional $200.0 million through a public offering of common stock. 25 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table sets forth, for the periods presented, the line items in our Consolidated Statements of Operations as a percentage of total revenues. The information contained in the table below should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and notes thereto included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 Revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenues: Subscription 55.9 53.4 54.4 Fulfillment expenses 7.8 9.4 10.2 Total cost of revenues 63.7 62.8 64.6 Operating expenses: Marketing 12.6 13.6 14.2 Technology and development 8.1 7.6 6.9 General and administrative 3.6 2.9 2.8 Legal settlement 0.3 Total operating expenses 24.6 24.1 23.9 Operating income 11.7 13.1 11.5 Other income (expense): Interest expense (0.6 ) (0.9 ) (0.4 ) Interest and other income 0.1 0.2 0.4 Income before income taxes 11.2 12.4 11.5 Provision for income taxes 4.1 5.0 4.6 Net income 7.1 % 7.4 % 6.9 % Revenues We derive our revenues from monthly subscription fees and recognize subscription revenues ratably over each subscribers monthly subscription period. We currently generate substantially all of our revenues in the United States. In the Domestic streaming segment, we derive revenues from services consisting solely of streaming content offered through a subscription plan priced at $7.99 per month. In the Domestic DVD segment, we derive revenues from our DVDs by mail subscription services. The price per plan for DVDs by mail varies from $7.99 to $43.99 per month based on the number of DVDs that a subscriber may have out at any given point. Customers electing access to high definition Blu ray discs in addition to standard definition DVDs pay a surcharge ranging from $2 to $4 per month for our most popular plans. In July 2011, in the United States, we introduced DVD only plans and separated unlimited DVDs by mail and unlimited streaming making it necessary for subscribers who opt to receive both DVDs by mail and streaming to have two separate subscription plans. As subscribers were able to receive both streaming and DVDs by mail under a single hybrid plan prior to the fourth quarter of 2011, it is impracticable to allocate revenues to the Domestic streaming and Domestic DVD segments prior to the fourth quarter of 2011. In the International streaming segment, we derive revenues from services consisting solely of streaming content offered through a subscription plan priced at approximately the equivalent of USD$7.99 per month. In September 2010, we began international operations in Canada. We expanded to Latin America and the Caribbean 26 Table of Contents in September 2011 and the UK and Ireland in January 2012. Until we reach our goal of global profitability, we do not intend to launch additional international markets. Year Ended December 31, Change 2011 2010 2011 vs. 2010 (in thousands, except percentages and average monthly revenue per unique paying subscriber) Revenues $ 3,204,577 $ 2,162,625 48.2 % Domestic 3,121,727 2,159,008 44.6 % International 82,850 3,617 2190.6 % Other domestic data: Average number of unique paying subscribers 21,977 14,744 49.1 % Average monthly revenue per unique paying subscriber $ 11.84 $ 12.20 (3.0 )% The $1,042.0 million increase in our consolidated revenues was primarily due to the 44.6% growth in domestic revenues with the increase in international revenues contributing to 7.6% of the increase year over year. Domestic revenues increased $962.7 million as a result of the 49.1% growth in the domestic average number of unique paying subscribers driven by new streaming subscriptions. This increase was offset in part by a 3.0% decline in domestic average monthly revenue per unique paying subscriber, resulting from the popularity of the unlimited streaming subscription (introduced in November 2010) and a decline in the percentage of unique paying subscribers electing both a streaming and a DVD subscription following the pricing changes in the second half of 2011. During the year ended December 31, 2011, 73.6% of our new gross domestic unique subscribers chose only an unlimited streaming plan which is priced at $7.99 per month and we expect that this percentage will grow in future periods. At December 31, 2011, 88.9% of our total domestic unique subscribers had a streaming subscription while less than half (11.1 million) had a DVD subscription. International revenues increased by $79.2 million reflecting a full year of service offering in Canada as well as our launch in Latin America and the Caribbean. Year Ended December 31, Change 2010 2009 2010 vs. 2009 (in thousands, except percentages and average monthly revenue per unique paying subscriber) Revenues $ 2,162,625 $ 1,670,269 29.5 % Domestic 2,159,008 1,670,269 29.3 % International 3,617 100.0 % Other domestic data: Average number of unique paying subscribers 14,744 10,464 40.9 % Average monthly revenue per unique paying subscriber $ 12.20 $ 13.30 (8.3 )% The $492.4 million increase in our consolidated revenues was primarily a result of the 40.9% growth in the domestic average number of unique paying subscribers arising from the continuous improvement to our customer experience which in turn, drove consumer awareness of our service benefits. This increase was offset in part by an 8.3% decline in the domestic average monthly revenue per unique paying subscriber, resulting from the continued growth in our lower priced subscription plans. In the fourth quarter of 2010, when we introduced the unlimited streaming plan, over one third of new subscribers elected this option. We expect the streaming subscription plans offered both domestically and internationally to continue to grow as a percentage of our total subscriber base. We expect that as a result of the increase in subscriber cancellations and migration of our subscribers towards streaming subscription plans and lower priced DVD by mail subscription plans, offset by increases in international revenues, consolidated revenues will be relatively flat in the first quarter of 2012 and will increase at a modest pace sequentially in future quarters. 27 Table of Contents Cost of Revenues Cost of revenues consists of cost of subscription revenues and fulfillment expenses. Cost of subscription revenues consists of expenses related to the acquisition and licensing of content, as well as content delivery costs related to providing streaming content and shipping DVDs to subscribers. Costs related to free trial periods are allocated to marketing expenses. Content acquisition and licensing expenses consist primarily of amortization of streaming content licenses, which may or may not be recognized in the streaming content library, as well as amortization of DVD content library and revenue sharing expenses. We obtain content through streaming content license agreements, DVD direct purchases and DVD revenue sharing agreements with studios, distributors and other suppliers. Content agreements are made in the ordinary course of business and our business is not substantially dependent on any particular agreement. Content delivery expenses consist of the postage costs to mail DVDs to and from our paying subscribers, the packaging and label costs for the mailers and all costs associated with streaming content over the Internet. We utilize third party content delivery networks to help us efficiently stream content in high volume to our subscribers over the Internet. Fulfillment expenses represent those expenses incurred in content processing, including operating and staffing our shipping centers, as well as receiving, encoding, inspecting and warehousing our content library. Fulfillment expenses also include operating and staffing our customer service centers and credit card fees. Year ended December 31, Change 2011 2010 2011 vs. 2010 (in thousands, except percentages) Cost of subscription $ 1,789,596 $ 1,154,109 55.1 % Fulfillment expenses 250,305 203,246 23.2 % Total cost of revenues $ 2,039,901 $ 1,357,355 50.3 % As a percentage of revenues 63.7 % 62.8 % The $682.5 million increase in cost of revenues was due to the following factors: Content acquisition and licensing expenses increased by $674.4 million. This increase was primarily attributable to continued investments in streaming content resulting in an increase in the average number of streaming content titles available for viewing to our domestic subscribers as compared to the prior year. The increase is also partially attributed to an increase in streaming content titles available in Canada as well as to our Latin America and Caribbean expansion in the second half of 2011. Content delivery expenses decreased $39.0 million primarily due to a 13.6% decrease in the number of DVDs mailed to paying subscribers. The decrease in the number of DVDs mailed was driven by a 21.7% decline in monthly DVD rentals per average paying DVD subscriber primarily attributed to the migration of our DVD subscribers toward lower priced plans. The decrease in DVD delivery expenses was partially offset by an increase in costs associated with our use of third party delivery networks resulting from an increase in the total number of hours of streaming content viewed by our subscribers. In the fourth quarter of 2011, global streaming content hours viewed exceeded 2 billion. Fulfillment costs associated with content processing and customer service centers expenses increased $16.2 million primarily due to a $22.3 million increase in costs associated with customer service call centers to support our growing subscriber population both domestically and internationally, partially offset by a $7.9 million decrease in hub operation expenses due to the 13.6% decrease in the number of DVDs mailed to paying subscribers. Credit card fees increased $30.9 million as a result of the 48.2% growth in revenues. 28 Table of Contents Year ended December 31, Change 2010 2009 2010 vs. 2009 (in thousands, except percentages) Cost of subscription $ 1,154,109 $ 909,461 26.9 % Fulfillment expenses 203,246 169,810 19.7 % Total cost of revenues $ 1,357,355 $ 1,079,271 25.8 % As a percentage of revenues 62.8 % 64.6 % The $278.1 million increase in cost of revenues was due to the following factors: Content acquisition and licensing expenses increased by $165.9 million. This increase was primarily attributable to investments in streaming content, partially offset by decreases in DVD content acquisitions. Content delivery expenses increased $78.7 million primarily due to a 9.7% increase in the number of DVDs mailed to paying subscribers. The increase in the number of DVDs mailed was driven by a 40.9% increase in the domestic average number of paying subscribers, partially offset by a 21.6% decline in monthly DVD rentals per average paying DVD subscriber primarily attributed to the growing popularity of our lower priced plans and growth in streaming. In addition, content delivery expenses increased due to higher costs associated with our use of third party delivery networks resulting from an increase in the total number of hours of streaming content viewed by our subscribers. Fulfillment costs associated with content processing and customer service centers expenses increased $13.5 million primarily due to a $12.4 million increase in personnel costs resulting from a 10.0% increase in headcount to support the higher volume of content delivery and growth in subscribers. In addition, encoding costs increased $7.0 million in support of the increasing number of titles and platforms offered for streaming content. These increases were partially offset by a $4.7 million increase in costs related to free trials allocated to marketing due primarily to the 74.7% increase in gross subscriber additions. Credit card fees increased $20.0 million as a result of the 29.5% growth in revenues. Operating Expenses Marketing Marketing expenses consist primarily of advertising expenses and also include payments made to our affiliates and consumer electronics partners and payroll related expenses. Advertising expenses include promotional activities such as television and online advertising, as well as allocated costs of revenues relating to free trial periods. Payments to our affiliates and consumer electronics partners may be in the form of a fixed fee or may be a revenue sharing payment. Year ended December 31, Change 2011 2010 2011 vs. 2010 (in thousands, except percentages and subscriber acquisition cost) Marketing $ 402,638 $ 293,839 37.0 % As a percentage of revenues 12.6 % 13.6 % Other domestic data: Gross unique subscriber additions 21,544 15,648 37.7 % Subscriber acquisition cost $ 15.04 $ 18.21 (17.4 )% The $108.8 million increase in marketing expenses was primarily attributable to a $119.6 million increase in marketing program spending, attributable to increased spending in television, radio and online advertising 29 Table of Contents coupled with an increase in payments to our affiliates. Approximately half of these increases were incurred in our International segments in large part due to our launch in Latin America and the Caribbean. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in direct mail and inserts, and payments made to our consumer electronics partners. The increase in marketing program spending was partially offset by decreases in the costs of free trials. Year ended December 31, Change 2010 2009 2010 vs. 2009 (in thousands, except percentages and subscriber acquisition cost) Marketing $ 293,839 $ 237,744 23.6 % As a percentage of revenues 13.6 % 14.2 % Other domestic data: Gross unique subscriber additions 15,648 9,332 67.7 % Subscriber acquisition cost $ 18.21 $ 25.48 (28.5 )% The $56.1 million increase in marketing expenses was primarily attributable to an increase of $17.4 million in domestic spending related to our consumer electronics partners, as we continued to expand the number of devices on which subscribers can view Netflix content. The increase is also due to a $16.2 million increase in other marketing program spending, principally in TV and radio advertising to promote our service, offset by a decrease in direct mail and inserts. In addition, costs of free trials increased $21.0 million due to the 67.7% increase in domestic gross unique subscriber additions, coupled with shipments of instant streaming discs which enable subscribers to stream content to certain consumer electronic devices and the expanded use of one month free trials. Subscriber acquisition cost decreased primarily due to continued strong organic subscriber growth. Technology and Development Technology and development expenses consist of payroll and related costs incurred in making improvements to our service offering, including testing, maintaining and modifying our user interfaces, our recommendation and merchandising technology, as well as, telecommunications systems and infrastructure and other internal use software systems. Technology and development expenses also include costs associated with computer hardware and software. Year ended December 31, Change 2011 2010 2011 vs. 2010 (in thousands, except percentages) Technology and development $ 259,033 $ 163,329 58.6 % As a percentage of revenues 8.1 % 7.6 % The $95.7 million increase in technology and development expenses was primarily the result of an $83.0 million increase in personnel related costs. These increases are primarily due to a 54% growth in average headcount supporting continued improvements in our streaming service and international expansion, coupled with an $18.7 million increase in stock based compensation expense. Year ended December 31, Change 2010 2009 2010 vs. 2009 (in thousands, except percentages) Technology and development $ 163,329 $ 114,542 42.6 % As a percentage of revenues 7.6 % 6.9 % The $48.8 million increase in technology and development expenses was primarily the result of a $27.7 million increase in personnel related costs and a $14.2 million increase in facilities and equipment related expenses. These increases are primarily due to a 21.0% growth in headcount supporting continued improvements to our service. Personnel related costs also increased due to a $5.7 million increase in stock based compensation expense. In addition, costs paid for cloud computing services increased $7.7 million. 30 Table of Contents General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist of payroll and related expenses for executive and administrative personnel, as well as recruiting, professional fees and other general corporate expenses. General and administrative expenses also include the gain on disposal of DVDs. Year ended December 31, Change 2011 2010 2011 vs. 2010 (in thousands, except percentages) General and administrative $ 117,937 $ 64,461 83.0 % As a percentage of revenues 3.6 % 2.9 % The $53.5 million increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily attributable to an increase in personnel related costs of $33.6 million attributed to an $11.5 million increase in stock based compensation and a 32% increase in average headcount. Legal costs increased $6.6 million primarily resulting from an increase in costs associated with various claims against us. We expect legal costs to continue at a high level for the foreseeable future as we defend these claims. Other miscellaneous expenses primarily related to the use of outside and professional services, taxes, and insurance increased by $13.3 million. Year ended December 31, Change 2010 2009 2010 vs. 2009 (in thousands, except percentages) General and administrative $ 64,461 $ 46,773 37.8 % As a percentage of revenues 2.9 % 2.8 % The $17.7 million increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily attributable to an increase in personnel related costs of $11.7 million attributed to a $7.6 million increase in stock based compensation expense and a 23.1% increase in headcount. Legal costs increased $8.9 million primarily resulting from ongoing litigation of claims against the Company as well as a $2.1 million release of accruals in 2009 that was associated with a former class action suit that settled in 2008. The terms of the class action settlement provided certain former and current subscribers with an optional free month subscription or free one month upgrade to be utilized prior to the third quarter of 2009. The accrual related to those subscribers who did not utilize the free month prior to expiration was released in 2009. Legal Settlement Subsequent to December 31, 2011, we engaged in mediation of a legal claim pending in the Northern District of California made in January 2011 related to our compliance with the Video Privacy Protection Act. This mediation resulted in a settlement of the matter which includes payment of $9.0 million, which is recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2011, and is anticipated to be paid in 2012. The Company had previously evaluated this claim and determined it to be immaterial and that a potential loss was not probable. Accordingly, no amount had been accrued prior to the mediation and settlement. Interest Expense Interest expense consists of the interest on our lease financing obligations and the interest on our 8.50% senior notes including the amortization of debt issuance costs. Starting in the fourth quarter of 2011, interest expense includes the amortization of debt issuance costs on our Convertible Notes issued in November 2011. Also, in the fourth quarter of 2009, we expensed the debt issuance costs related to our line of credit. Year ended December 31, Change 2011 2010 2011 vs. 2010 (in thousands, except percentages) Interest expense $ 20,025 $ 19,629 2.0 % As a percentage of revenues 0.6 % 0.9 % 31 Table of Contents Interest expense was relatively flat as compared to the prior year. Interest expense in 2011 includes $2.1 million for our lease financing obligations, $17.0 million of interest payments due on our 8.50% senior notes and $0.6 million of amortization of debt issuance costs. Year ended December 31, Change 2010 2009 2010 vs. 2009 (in thousands, except percentages) Interest expense $ 19,629 $ 6,475 203.2 % As a percentage of revenues 0.9 % 0.4 % The $13.2 million increase in interest expense is primarily attributable to the interest expense associated with our 8.50% senior notes. Interest expense in 2010 includes $2.3 million for our lease financing obligations, $17.0 million of interest payments due on our 8.50% senior notes and $0.5 million of amortization of debt issuance costs. Provision for Income Taxes Year ended December 31, Change 2011 2010 2011 vs. 2010 (in thousands, except percentages) Provision for income taxes $ 133,396 $ 106,843 24.9 % Effective tax rate 37.1 % 39.9 % In 2011, our effective tax rate differed from the federal statutory rate of 35% primarily due to state income taxes of $15.0 million or 4.2% of income before income tax. This was partially offset by the expiration of a statute of limitations for years 1997 through 2007 resulting in a discrete benefit of $3.5 million in the third quarter of 2011 and Federal and California research and development (R&D) tax credits of $5.1 million. The decrease in our effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2010 was attributable to the discrete benefit of $3.5 million, higher R&D tax credits and a lower effective tax rate for California. Year ended December 31, Change 2010 2009 2010 vs. 2009 (in thousands, except percentages) Provision for income taxes $ 106,843 $ 76,332 40.0 % Effective tax rate 39.9 % 39.7 % In 2010, our effective tax rate differed from the federal statutory rate of 35% primarily due to state income taxes of $15.6 million or 5.8% of income before income tax. This was partially offset by R&D tax credits of $3.3 million. Our effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2010 was relatively flat as compared to our effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2009. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our primary source of liquidity has been cash generated from operations. Additionally, in November 2011, we issued $200.0 million of our Convertible Notes and raised an additional $200.0 million through a public offering of common stock. The Convertible Notes consist of $200.0 million aggregate principal amount due on December 1, 2018 and do not bear interest. In November 2009, we issued $200 million of our 8.50% senior notes due November 15, 2017 (the 8.50% Notes). Interest on the 8.50% Notes is payable semi annually at a rate of 8.50% per annum on May 15 and November 15 of each year, commencing on May 15, 2010. (See Note 4 of Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional information.) 32 Table of Contents Our primary uses of cash included the acquisition and licensing of content, content delivery expenses, marketing, our stock repurchase programs, payroll related expenses, and capital expenditures related to information technology and automation equipment. We expect to continue to make significant investments to license streaming content both domestically and internationally. These investments could impact our liquidity and in particular our operating cash flows. As a result of the significant increase in subscriber cancellations negatively impacting domestic and consolidated revenues, coupled with increased investments in our International streaming segment, and in international content in particular, we expect consolidated net losses and negative operating cash flows for 2012. Although we currently anticipate that our available funds will be sufficient to meet our cash needs for the foreseeable future, we may be required or choose to obtain additional financing. Our ability to obtain additional financing will depend on, among other things, our development efforts, business plans, operating performance, current and projected compliance with our debt covenants, and the condition of the capital markets at the time we seek financing. We may not be able to obtain such financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity linked or debt securities, those securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to the rights of our common stock, and our stockholders may experience dilution. On June 11, 2010, we announced that our Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program allowing us to repurchase $300 million of our common stock through the end of 2012. As of December 31, 2011, $41.0 million of this authorization is remaining. The timing and actual number of shares repurchased will depend on various factors, including price, corporate and regulatory requirements, debt covenant requirements, alternative investment opportunities and other market conditions. As we expect to have negative operating cash flows in future periods, we do not expect to make further stock repurchases for the foreseeable future. The following highlights selected measures of our liquidity and capital resources as of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009: Year Ended December 31, Change 2011 2010 2011 vs. 2010 (in thousands, except percentages) Cash and cash equivalents $ 508,053 $ 194,499 161.2 % Short term investments 289,758 155,888 85.9 % $ 797,811 $ 350,387 127.7 % Net cash provided by operating activities $ 317,712 $ 276,401 14.9 % Net cash used in investing activities $ (265,814 ) $ (116,081 ) 129.0 % Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ 261,656 $ (100,045 ) (361.5 )% Cash provided by operating activities increased $41.3 million or 14.9%, primarily due to an increase subscription revenues of $1,042.0 million or 48.2%. This increase was partially offset by increased payments for content acquisition and licensing other than DVD library of $766.3 million or 138.4%. Operating cash flows were further impacted by increases in payroll expenses and payments for advertising and affiliates transactions. Cash used in investing activities increased $149.7 million or 129.0%, primarily due to a $164.0 million increase in the purchases, net of proceeds from sales and maturities, of short term investments. In addition, purchases of property and equipment increased $15.8 million primarily due to purchases of automation equipment for our various DVD shipping centers. These increases were partially offset by a $38.7 million decrease in acquisitions of DVD content library. Cash provided by financing activities increased $361.7 million or 361.5%, primarily due to our public offering of 2.9 million shares of common stock for net proceeds of $199.9 million and $198.1 million net proceeds received from the issuance of our Convertible Notes in the fourth quarter of 2011. In addition, 33 Table of Contents repurchases of our common stock decreased by $10.6 million. These increases were partially offset by a $30.2 million decrease in proceeds from the issuance of common stock upon exercise of options and a $16.4 million decrease in excess tax benefits from stock based compensation expense. Year Ended December 31, Change 2010 2009 2010 vs. 2009 (in thousands, except percentages) Cash and cash equivalents $ 194,499 $ 134,224 44.9 % Short term investments 155,888 186,018 (16.2 )% $ 350,387 $ 320,242 9.4 % Net cash provided by operating activities $ 276,401 $ 325,063 (15.0 )% Net cash used in investing activities $ (116,081 ) $ (246,079 ) (52.8 )% Net cash used in financing activities $ (100,045 ) $ (84,641 ) 18.2 % Cash provided by operating activities decreased by $48.7 million or 15.0%, primarily due to increased payments for content acquisition and licensing other than DVD library of $267.8 million. This increase was coupled with increased payroll expenses, payments for advertising and affiliates transactions, credit card fees, content delivery expenses and excess tax benefits from stock based compensation. The increase in these expenses was partially offset by an increase in subscription revenues of $492.4 million resulting from a 40.9% increase in the domestic average number of paying subscribers. Cash used in investing activities decreased $130.0 million or 52.8%, primarily due to a $54.9 million decrease in the purchases, net of proceeds, of short term investments and a $69.1 million decrease in acquisitions of DVD content library, as more DVDs were obtained through revenue sharing arrangements. In addition, purchases of property and equipment decreased by $12.1 million, as a significant amount of payments for automation equipment for our various shipping centers were made in 2009. Cash used in financing activities increased $15.4 million or 18.2%, primarily due to the $193.9 million net proceeds received from the issuance of our 8.50% Notes in 2009. This decrease was partially offset by a $114.1 million decrease in repurchases of our common stock coupled with a $49.5 million increase in the excess tax benefits from stock based compensation expense and a $14.5 million increase in proceeds from the issuance of common stock upon exercise of options. Free Cash Flow We define free cash flow as cash provided by operating and investing activities excluding the non operational cash flows from purchases, maturities and sales of short term investments and cash flows from investments in businesses. We believe free cash flow is an important liquidity metric because it measures, during a given period, the amount of cash generated that is available to repay debt obligations, make investments, repurchase our stock and for certain other activities. Free cash flow is considered a non GAAP financial measure and should not be considered in isolation of, or as a substitute for, net income, operating income, cash flow from operating activities, or any other measure of financial performance or liquidity presented in accordance with GAAP. In comparing free cash flow to net income, the major recurring differences are excess streaming and DVD payments over expenses, stock based compensation expense, deferred revenue, taxes and semi annual interest payments on the 8.50% Notes. Because consumers use credit cards to buy from us, our receivables from customers settle quickly and deferred revenue is a source of cash flow. For streaming content, we typically enter into multi year licenses with studios and other distributors that may result in an increase in content library and a corresponding increase in liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The payment terms for these license fees may extend over the term of the license agreements, which typically range from six months to five years. License 34 Table of Contents fee obligations with payment terms that are due beyond one year are classified on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as Non current content liabilities. Minimum commitments for licenses and known titles that do not meet the criteria for asset recognition in the content library are included in Note 5 of Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. The following tables reconcile net cash provided by operating activities, a GAAP financial measure, to free cash flow, a non GAAP financial measure. Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 (in thousands) Non GAAP free cash flow reconciliation: Net cash provided by operating activities $ 317,712 $ 276,401 Acquisition of DVD content library (85,154 ) (123,901 ) Purchases of property and equipment (49,682 ) (33,837 ) Other assets 3,674 12,344 Non GAAP free cash flow $ 186,550 $ 131,007 Free cash flow for the year ended December 31, 2011 increased $55.5 million primarily due to an increase of $98.9 million in net income as adjusted for the increase in non cash stock based compensation of $33.6 million and decreased tax prepayments of $20.2 million. This was partially offset by an increase in excess content payments over expenses of $53.2 million, a $12.9 million increase in excess property and equipment payments over expense and decreased deferred revenue of $5.5 million. Payments for content increased $727.6 million while content expenses increased $674.4 million. Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 (in thousands) Non GAAP free cash flow reconciliation: Net cash provided by operating activities $ 276,401 $ 325,063 Acquisition of DVD content library (123,901 ) (193,044 ) Purchases of property and equipment (33,837 ) (45,932 ) Other assets 12,344 11,035 Non GAAP free cash flow $ 131,007 $ 97,122 Free cash flow for the year ended December 31, 2010 increased $33.9 million primarily due to an increase of $60.4 million in net income as adjusted for the increase in non cash stock based compensation of $15.4 million, decreased property and equipment payments over expense of $11.9 million and increased deferred revenue of $10.0 million. This was partially offset by an increase in excess streaming and DVD content payments over expenses of $32.8 million coupled with increased tax prepayments of $14.0 million. Payments for content increased $198.7 million while content expenses increased $165.9 million. Effect of Exchange Rates Revenues, as well as certain expenses, primarily content licensing and marketing, incurred in the International streaming segment, are denominated in the local currency. During the year ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, the gains or losses on foreign exchange transactions and the effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents were immaterial. Contractual Obligations For the purposes of this table, contractual obligations for purchases of goods or services are defined as agreements that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or 35 Table of Contents minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. The expected timing of payment of the obligations discussed above is estimated based on information available to us as of December 31, 2011. Timing of payments and actual amounts paid may be different depending on the time of receipt of goods or services or changes to agreed upon amounts for some obligations. The following table summarizes our contractual obligations at December 31, 2011: Payments due by Period Contractual obligations (in thousands): Total Less than1 year (3) 1 3 years 3 5 years More than5 years 8.50% senior notes $ 302,000 $ 17,000 $ 34,000 $ 34,000 $ 217,000 Convertible notes 200,000 200,000 Operating lease obligations 59,925 17,599 26,485 13,702 2,139 Lease financing obligations (1) 19,267 4,174 6,020 5,886 3,187 Streaming content obligations (2) 3,907,198 797,649 2,384,373 650,480 74,696 Other purchase obligations 262,469 149,700 112,158 611 Total $ 4,750,859 $ 986,122 $ 2,563,036 $ 704,679 $ 497,022 (1) Represents the lease financing obligations for our Los Gatos, California headquarters. (2) Streaming content obligations include agreements to acquire and license streaming content that represent long term liabilities or that are not reflected on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. For those agreements with variable terms, we do not estimate what the total obligation may be beyond any minimum quantities and/ or pricing as of the reporting date. For those agreements that include renewal provisions that are solely at the option of the content provider, we include the commitments associated with the renewal period to the extent such commitments are fixed or a minimum amount is specified. For these reasons, the amounts presented in the table may not provide a reliable indicator of our expected future cash outflows. We have entered into certain streaming content license agreements that include an unspecified or a maximum number of titles that we may or may not receive in the future and or that include pricing contingent upon certain variables, such as theatrical exhibition receipts for the title. As of the reporting date, it is unknown whether we will receive access to these titles or what the ultimate price per title will be. Accordingly such amounts are not reflected in the above contractual obligations table. However, such amounts are expected to be significant and the expected timing of payment for these commitments could range from less than one year to more than five years. (3) For purposes of this table, less than one year does not include liabilities which are reflected on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as current liabilities. Content accounts payables for instance includes $905.8 million in streaming content obligations not reflected in the above table. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had gross unrecognized tax benefits of $28.1 million and an additional $2.4 million for gross interest and penalties classified as Other non current liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. At this time, the Company is unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of payments in individual years due to uncertainties in the timing of tax audit outcomes; therefore, such amounts are not included in the above contractual obligation table. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements As part of our ongoing business, we do not engage in transactions that generate relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities. Accordingly, our operating results, financial condition and cash flows are not subject to off balance sheet risks. 36 Table of Contents Indemnifications The information set forth under Note 6 of Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data under the caption Guarantees Indemnification Obligations is incorporated herein by reference. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported periods. The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has defined a companys critical accounting policies as the ones that are most important to the portrayal of a companys financial condition and results of operations, and which require a company to make its most difficult and subjective judgments. Based on this definition, we have identified the critical accounting policies and judgments addressed below. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates. Content Accounting We obtain content through streaming content license agreements, DVD direct purchases and DVD revenue sharing agreements with studios, distributors and other suppliers. We obtain content distribution rights in order to stream TV shows and movies to subscribers TVs, computers and mobile devices. Streaming content is generally licensed for a fixed fee for the term of the license agreement which may have multiple windows of availability. The license agreement may or may not be recognized in content library. When the streaming license fee is known or reasonably determinable for a specific title and the specific title is first available for streaming to subscribers, the title is recognized on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as Current content library for the portion available for streaming within one year and as Non current content library for the remaining portion. New titles recognized in the content library are classified in the line item Additions to streaming content library within net cash provided by operating activities in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. We amortize the content library on a straight line basis over each titles contractual window of availability, which typically ranges from six months to five years. The steaming content library is reported at the lower of unamortized cost or estimated net realizable value. No write down from unamortized cost to a lower net realizable value was recorded in any of the periods presented. The amortization is classified in Cost of revenues Subscription in the Consolidated Statements of Operations and in the line item Amortization of streaming content library within net cash provided by operating activities in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Payment terms for these license fees may extend over the term of the license agreement, which could range from six months to five years. For the titles recognized in content library, the license fees due but not paid are classified on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as Content accounts payable for the amounts due within one year and as Non current content liabilities for the amounts due beyond one year. Changes in these liabilities are classified in the line item Change in streaming content liabilities within net cash provided by operating activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. We record the streaming content library assets and their related liability on our Consolidated Balance Sheets at the gross amount of the liability. Payments for the titles not yet available for streaming are not yet recognized in the content library but in prepaid content. Minimum commitments for the titles not yet available for streaming are not yet recognized in the content library and are included in Note 5 of Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. When the streaming license fee is not known or reasonably determinable for a specific title, the title does not meet the criteria for asset recognition in the content library. Titles do not meet the criteria for asset 37 Table of Contents recognition in the content library because the underlying license agreement does not specify the number of titles or the license fee per title or the windows of availability per title, so that the license fee is not known or reasonably determinable for a specific title. Typical payment terms for these agreements, which can range from three to five years, require us to make equal fixed payments at the beginning of each quarter of the license term. To the extent that cumulative payments exceed cumulative amortization, Prepaid content is recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. We amortize the license fees on a straight line basis over the term of each license agreement. The amortization is classified in Cost of revenues Subscription in the Consolidated Statements of Operations and in the line item Net income within net cash provided by operating activities in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Changes in prepaid content are classified within net cash provided by operating activities in the line item Prepaid content in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Commitments for licenses that do not meet the criteria for asset recognition in the content library are included in Note 5 of Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. We acquire DVD content for the purpose of renting such content to our subscribers and earning subscription rental revenues, and, as such, we consider our direct purchase DVD library to be a productive asset. Accordingly, we classify our DVD library in Non current content library on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The acquisition of DVD content library, net of changes in related liabilities, is classified in the line item Acquisition of DVD content library within cash used in investing activities in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows because the DVD content library is considered a productive asset. Other companies in the in home entertainment video industry classify these cash flows as operating activities. We amortize our direct purchase DVDs, less estimated salvage value, on a sum of the months accelerated basis over their estimated useful lives. The useful life of the new release DVDs and back catalog DVDs is estimated to be one year and three years, respectively. The amortization of the DVD content library is classified in Cost of revenues Subscription in the Consolidated Statement of Operations and in the line item Amortization of DVD content library within net cash provided by operating activities in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. We also obtain DVD content through revenue sharing agreements with studios and distributors. Revenue sharing obligations incurred based on utilization are classified in Cost of revenues Subscription in the Consolidated Statements of Operations and in the line item Net income within net cash provided by operating activities in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. The terms of some revenue sharing agreements obligate us to make a low initial payment for certain titles, representing a minimum contractual obligation under the agreement. The low initial payment is in exchange for a commitment to share a percentage of our subscription revenues or to pay a fee, based on utilization, for a defined period of time. The initial payment may be in the form of an upfront non refundable payment which is classified in content library or in the form of a prepayment of future revenue sharing obligations which is classified as prepaid content. Stock Based Compensation Stock based compensation expense at the grant date is based on the total number of options granted and an estimate of the fair value of the awards expected to vest and is recognized as expense ratably over the requisite service period, which is the vesting period. We calculate the fair value of new stock based compensation awards under our stock option plans using a lattice binomial model. We use a Black Scholes model to determine the fair value of employee stock purchase plan shares. These models require the input of highly subjective assumptions, including price volatility of the underlying stock. Changes in the subjective input assumptions can materially affect the estimate of fair value of options granted and our results of operations could be impacted. Expected Volatility: Our computation of expected volatility is based on a blend of historical volatility of our common stock and implied volatility of tradable forward call options to purchase shares of our common stock. Our decision to incorporate implied volatility was based on our assessment that implied volatility of publicly traded options in our common stock is more reflective of market conditions and, 38 Table of Contents therefore, can reasonably be expected to be a better indicator of expected volatility than historical volatility of our common stock. We include the historical volatility in our computation due to low trade volume of our tradable forward call options in certain periods thereby precluding sole reliance on implied volatility. An increase of 10% in our computation of expected volatility would increase the total stock based compensation expense by approximately $3.1 million. Suboptimal Exercise Factor: Our computation of the suboptimal exercise factor is based on historical option exercise behavior and the terms and vesting periods of the options granted and is determined for both executives and non executives. An increase in the suboptimal exercise factor of 10% would increase the total stock based compensation expense by approximately $2.3 million. Income Taxes We record a provision for income taxes for the anticipated tax consequences of our reported results of operations using the asset and liability method. Deferred income taxes are recognized by applying enacted statutory tax rates applicable to future years to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases as well as net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. The measurement of deferred tax assets is reduced, if necessary, by a valuation allowance for any tax benefits for which future realization is uncertain. Although we believe our assumptions, judgments and estimates are reasonable, changes in tax laws or our interpretation of tax laws and the resolution of any tax audits could significantly impact the amounts provided for income taxes in our consolidated financial statements. In evaluating our ability to recover our deferred tax assets, in full or in part, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including our past operating results, and our forecast of future earnings, future taxable income and prudent and feasible tax planning strategies. The assumptions utilized in determining future taxable income require significant judgment and are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using to manage the underlying businesses. Actual operating results in future years could differ from our current assumptions, judgments and estimates. However, we believe that it is more likely than not that substantially all deferred tax assets recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets will ultimately be realized. In the event we were to determine that we would not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would be charged to earnings in the period in which we make such determination. We did not recognize certain tax benefits from uncertain tax positions within the provision for income taxes. We may recognize a tax benefit only if it is more likely than not the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such positions are then measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon settlement. At December 31, 2011, our estimated gross unrecognized tax benefits were $28.1 million of which $22.4 million, if recognized, would favorably impact our future earnings. Due to uncertainties in any tax audit outcome, our estimates of the ultimate settlement of our unrecognized tax positions may change and the actual tax benefits may differ significantly from the estimates. See Note 8 of Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for further information regarding income taxes. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal, while at the same time maximizing income we receive from investments without significantly increased risk. To achieve this objective, we follow an established investment policy and set of guidelines to monitor and help mitigate our exposure to interest rate and credit risk. The policy sets forth credit quality standards and limits our exposure to any one issuer, as well as our maximum exposure to various asset classes. We maintain a portfolio of cash equivalents 39 Table of Contents and short term investments in a variety of securities. These securities are classified as available for sale and are recorded at fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, included in Accumulated other comprehensive income within stockholders equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. For the year ended December 31, 2011, we had no material impairment charges associated with our short term investment portfolio. Although we believe our current investment portfolio has very little risk of material impairment, we cannot predict future market conditions or market liquidity and can provide no assurance that our investment portfolio will remain materially unimpaired. Some of the securities we invest in may be subject to market risk due to changes in prevailing interest rates which may cause the principal amount of the investment to fluctuate. For example, if we hold a security that was issued with a fixed interest rate at the then prevailing rate and the prevailing interest rate later rises, the value of our investment will decline. At December 31, 2011, our cash equivalents were generally invested in money market funds, which are not subject to market risk because the interest paid on such funds fluctuates with the prevailing interest rate. Our short term investments were comprised of corporate debt securities, government and agency securities and asset and mortgage backed securities. As of December 31, 2011, we had securities classified as short term investments of $289.8 million. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect the market value of these investments. The table below separates these investments, based on stated maturities, to show the approximate exposure to interest rates. (in thousands) Due within one year $ 108,382 Due within five years 180,373 Due within ten years Due after ten years 1,003 Total $ 289,758 A sensitivity analysis was performed on our investment portfolio as of December 31, 2011. The analysis is based on an estimate of the hypothetical changes in market value of the portfolio that would result from an immediate parallel shift in the yield curve of various magnitudes. This methodology assumes a more immediate change in interest rates to reflect the current economic environment. The following table presents the hypothetical fair values (in $ thousands) of our debt securities classified as short term investments assuming immediate parallel shifts in the yield curve of 50 basis points (BPS), 100 BPS and 150 BPS. The analysis is shown as of December 31, 2011: Fair Value December 31, 2011 (in thousands) 150 BPS 100 BPS 50 BPS +50 BPS +100 BPS +150 BPS $295,788 $ 293,778 $ 291,768 $ 287,747 $ 285,737 $ 283,727 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview We are the worlds leading Internet subscription service for enjoying TV shows and movies. Our subscribers can instantly watch unlimited TV shows and movies streamed over the Internet to their TVs, computers and mobile devices and in the United States, our subscribers can receive standard definition DVDs, and their high definition successor, Blu ray discs (collectively referred to as DVD), delivered quickly to their homes. Our core strategy is to grow our streaming subscription business domestically and globally. We are continuously improving the customer experience, with a focus on expanding our streaming content, enhancing our user interface and extending our streaming service to even more Internet connected devices, while staying within the parameters of our consolidated net income and operating segment contribution profit targets. In the past, we have focused on operating margin targets. Going forward, we will be operating within the parameters of contribution profit targets for each of our operating segments. Contribution profit is defined as revenue less cost of revenues and marketing expenses. We are a pioneer in the Internet delivery of TV shows and movies, launching our streaming service in 2007. Since this launch, we have developed an ecosystem of Internet connected devices and have licensed increasing amounts of content that enable consumers to enjoy TV shows and movies directly on their TVs, computers and mobile devices. As a result of these efforts, we have experienced growing consumer acceptance of and interest in the delivery of TV shows and movies directly over the Internet. We believe that the DVD portion of our domestic service will be a fading differentiator to our streaming success. Prior to July 2011, in the United States, our streaming and DVD by mail operations were combined and subscribers could receive both streaming content and DVDs under a single hybrid plan. In July 2011, we introduced DVD only plans and separated the combined plans, making it necessary for subscribers who wish to receive both DVDs by mail and streaming content to have two separate subscription plans. This resulted in a price increase for our members who were taking a combination of our unlimited DVDs by mail and unlimited streaming services. We made a subsequent announcement during the third quarter of 2011 concerning the rebranding of our DVD by mail service and the separation of the DVD by mail and streaming websites. The consumer reaction to the price change, and to a lesser degree, the branding announcement, was very negative leading to significant customer cancellations. We subsequently retracted our plans to rebrand our DVD by mail service and separate the DVD by mail and streaming websites. In September 2010, we began international operations by offering our streaming service in Canada. In September 2011, we expanded our streaming service to Latin America and the Caribbean. In January 2012, we launched our streaming service in the UK and Ireland. We anticipate significant contribution losses in the International streaming segment in 2012. Until we reach our goal of global profitability, we do not intend to launch additional international markets. 23 Table of Contents As a result of the changes to our pricing and plan structure, we no longer offer a single subscription plan including both DVD by mail and streaming in the US. Domestic subscribers who wish to receive DVDs by mail and watch streaming content must elect both a DVD by mail subscription plan and a streaming subscription plan. Accordingly, beginning with the third quarter of 2011, management views the number of paid subscriptions as the key driver of revenues. The following metrics reflect these changes. As of /Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 (in thousands) Domestic streaming: Paid subscriptions at end of period 20,153 Total subscriptions at end of period 21,671 International streaming: Net additions 1,349 509 Paid subscriptions at end of period 1,447 333 Total subscriptions at end of period 1,858 509 Domestic DVD: Paid subscriptions at end of period 11,039 Total subscriptions at end of period 11,165 Total domestic: Net unique subscriber additions during period (1) 4,894 7,233 2,878 Total domestic unique subscribers at end of period (1) 24,395 19,501 12,268 Churn (2) 4.9 % 3.8 % 4.3 % Consolidated: Net unique subscriber additions during period (1) 6,243 7,742 2,878 Paid unique subscribers at end of period (1) 24,305 18,268 11,892 Total unique subscribers at end of period (1) 26,253 20,010 12,268 (1) For purposes of determining the number of unique subscribers, domestic subscribers who have elected both a DVD and a streaming subscription plan are considered a single unique subscriber. (2) Churn is a monthly measure defined as customer cancellations in the quarter divided by the sum of beginning subscribers and gross subscriber additions, then divided by three months. Churn (annualized) is the average of churn for the four quarters of each respective year. As we evolve our focus from our DVD to streaming service, we will be slightly changing how we treat our domestic subscribers so that they are in line with our international subscribers. Beginning in the first quarter of 2012, domestic members who are on payment holds will no longer be counted as unique subscribers nor will they be included in our subscription metrics. Members who cancel mid period will continue to receive service until the end of the period and will accordingly be counted as subscribers and in our subscription metrics until the end of the period. These changes may impact our subscription metrics but we do not expect such impacts to be material. There is no effect on revenue from these changes. The following represents our consolidated performance highlights for 2011, 2010 and 2009: 2011 2010 2009 Change (in thousands, except per share data) 2011 vs. 2010 2010 vs. 2009 Revenues $ 3,204,577 $ 2,162,625 $ 1,670,269 48.2 % 29.5 % Operating income 376,068 283,641 191,939 32.6 % 47.8 % Net income 226,126 160,853 115,860 40.6 % 38.8 % Net income per share diluted 4.16 2.96 1.98 40.5 % 49.5 % Free cash flow (3) 186,550 131,007 97,122 42.4 % 34.9 % (3) See Liquidity and Capital Resources for a definition of free cash flow and a reconciliation of free cash flow to net cash provided by operating activities. 24 Table of Contents Due to the announcement of changes to our domestic plan offerings, pricing, and branding in the third quarter of 2011, we experienced an increase in the number of subscriber cancellations, resulting in a net loss of unique domestic subscribers in the third quarter of 2011. However, unique domestic subscribers returned to growth in the fourth quarter of 2011 driven by the continued popularity of domestic streaming subscriptions. The subscriber cancellations in the second half of 2011, coupled with slower growth in the number of new subscribers joining our service, resulted in a 32.3% decrease in unique domestic net subscriber additions for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2010. The year over year increase in ending unique domestic subscribers was the primary driver in the 48.2% increase in consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2010. Domestic streaming subscriptions increased in the fourth quarter of 2011 as compared to the third quarter of 2011 when we first began tracking such subscriptions separately. Due to strength in both acquisitions and retention, we expect continued growth in this segment. Our contribution margin target for domestic streaming is 11% for the first quarter of 2012 with further margin expansion over the next twelve months. In 2011, our International streaming segment reported a contribution loss of $103.1 million and we expect that our expansion to the UK and Ireland in January 2012 will result in further contribution losses as our investments to build our business there, especially our investments in content licensing, will exceed the revenues we are likely to generate. DVD subscriptions, which we also began tracking separately in the second half of 2011, are declining as subscribers migrate from hybrid plans towards lower priced streaming only subscription plans. We expect continued decreases in DVD subscriptions which will reduce domestic and consolidated revenues by approximately the same amount of the increase expected from streaming subscription growth. Domestic DVD contribution margins are expected to remain healthy due to the primarily variable cost model and mature state of the business. Consolidated revenues for the first quarter of 2012 are expected to be flat as compared to the fourth quarter of 2011 and we may experience slower growth in consolidated revenue for the year ending December 31, 2012 as compared to the year ending December 31, 2011. As a result of the negative impact on revenue growth associated with a decline in domestic DVD subscriptions coupled with the increasing investment in our International streaming segment, we expect to incur consolidated net losses for the year ended December 31, 2012. Free cash flow for the year ended December 31, 2011 increased as compared to the year ended December 31, 2010 to $186.6 million. Free cash flow was $39.6 million lower than net income of $226.1 million, largely due to the excess streaming and DVD content payments over expense. The excess streaming and DVD content payments over expense will continue to fluctuate over time based on new content licenses domestically and internationally. We expect that free cash flow in future periods will be negatively impacted by our expected consolidated net losses and that we may use cash in 2012. As a result of the expected net losses and potential use of cash in 2012, we decided to strengthen our balance sheet by raising $400 million of additional capital. In November 2011, we issued $200.0 million of our zero coupon senior convertible notes due in 2018 (the Convertible Notes) and raised an additional $200.0 million through a public offering of common stock. 25 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table sets forth, for the periods presented, the line items in our Consolidated Statements of Operations as a percentage of total revenues. The information contained in the table below should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and notes thereto included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 Revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenues: Subscription 55.9 53.4 54.4 Fulfillment expenses 7.8 9.4 10.2 Total cost of revenues 63.7 62.8 64.6 Operating expenses: Marketing 12.6 13.6 14.2 Technology and development 8.1 7.6 6.9 General and administrative 3.6 2.9 2.8 Legal settlement 0.3 Total operating expenses 24.6 24.1 23.9 Operating income 11.7 13.1 11.5 Other income (expense): Interest expense (0.6 ) (0.9 ) (0.4 ) Interest and other income 0.1 0.2 0.4 Income before income taxes 11.2 12.4 11.5 Provision for income taxes 4.1 5.0 4.6 Net income 7.1 % 7.4 % 6.9 % Revenues We derive our revenues from monthly subscription fees and recognize subscription revenues ratably over each subscribers monthly subscription period. We currently generate substantially all of our revenues in the United States. In the Domestic streaming segment, we derive revenues from services consisting solely of streaming content offered through a subscription plan priced at $7.99 per month. In the Domestic DVD segment, we derive revenues from our DVDs by mail subscription services. The price per plan for DVDs by mail varies from $7.99 to $43.99 per month based on the number of DVDs that a subscriber may have out at any given point. Customers electing access to high definition Blu ray discs in addition to standard definition DVDs pay a surcharge ranging from $2 to $4 per month for our most popular plans. In July 2011, in the United States, we introduced DVD only plans and separated unlimited DVDs by mail and unlimited streaming making it necessary for subscribers who opt to receive both DVDs by mail and streaming to have two separate subscription plans. As subscribers were able to receive both streaming and DVDs by mail under a single hybrid plan prior to the fourth quarter of 2011, it is impracticable to allocate revenues to the Domestic streaming and Domestic DVD segments prior to the fourth quarter of 2011. In the International streaming segment, we derive revenues from services consisting solely of streaming content offered through a subscription plan priced at approximately the equivalent of USD$7.99 per month. In September 2010, we began international operations in Canada. We expanded to Latin America and the Caribbean 26 Table of Contents in September 2011 and the UK and Ireland in January 2012. Until we reach our goal of global profitability, we do not intend to launch additional international markets. Year Ended December 31, Change 2011 2010 2011 vs. 2010 (in thousands, except percentages and average monthly revenue per unique paying subscriber) Revenues $ 3,204,577 $ 2,162,625 48.2 % Domestic 3,121,727 2,159,008 44.6 % International 82,850 3,617 2190.6 % Other domestic data: Average number of unique paying subscribers 21,977 14,744 49.1 % Average monthly revenue per unique paying subscriber $ 11.84 $ 12.20 (3.0 )% The $1,042.0 million increase in our consolidated revenues was primarily due to the 44.6% growth in domestic revenues with the increase in international revenues contributing to 7.6% of the increase year over year. Domestic revenues increased $962.7 million as a result of the 49.1% growth in the domestic average number of unique paying subscribers driven by new streaming subscriptions. This increase was offset in part by a 3.0% decline in domestic average monthly revenue per unique paying subscriber, resulting from the popularity of the unlimited streaming subscription (introduced in November 2010) and a decline in the percentage of unique paying subscribers electing both a streaming and a DVD subscription following the pricing changes in the second half of 2011. During the year ended December 31, 2011, 73.6% of our new gross domestic unique subscribers chose only an unlimited streaming plan which is priced at $7.99 per month and we expect that this percentage will grow in future periods. At December 31, 2011, 88.9% of our total domestic unique subscribers had a streaming subscription while less than half (11.1 million) had a DVD subscription. International revenues increased by $79.2 million reflecting a full year of service offering in Canada as well as our launch in Latin America and the Caribbean. Year Ended December 31, Change 2010 2009 2010 vs. 2009 (in thousands, except percentages and average monthly revenue per unique paying subscriber) Revenues $ 2,162,625 $ 1,670,269 29.5 % Domestic 2,159,008 1,670,269 29.3 % International 3,617 100.0 % Other domestic data: Average number of unique paying subscribers 14,744 10,464 40.9 % Average monthly revenue per unique paying subscriber $ 12.20 $ 13.30 (8.3 )% The $492.4 million increase in our consolidated revenues was primarily a result of the 40.9% growth in the domestic average number of unique paying subscribers arising from the continuous improvement to our customer experience which in turn, drove consumer awareness of our service benefits. This increase was offset in part by an 8.3% decline in the domestic average monthly revenue per unique paying subscriber, resulting from the continued growth in our lower priced subscription plans. In the fourth quarter of 2010, when we introduced the unlimited streaming plan, over one third of new subscribers elected this option. We expect the streaming subscription plans offered both domestically and internationally to continue to grow as a percentage of our total subscriber base. We expect that as a result of the increase in subscriber cancellations and migration of our subscribers towards streaming subscription plans and lower priced DVD by mail subscription plans, offset by increases in international revenues, consolidated revenues will be relatively flat in the first quarter of 2012 and will increase at a modest pace sequentially in future quarters. 27 Table of Contents Cost of Revenues Cost of revenues consists of cost of subscription revenues and fulfillment expenses. Cost of subscription revenues consists of expenses related to the acquisition and licensing of content, as well as content delivery costs related to providing streaming content and shipping DVDs to subscribers. Costs related to free trial periods are allocated to marketing expenses. Content acquisition and licensing expenses consist primarily of amortization of streaming content licenses, which may or may not be recognized in the streaming content library, as well as amortization of DVD content library and revenue sharing expenses. We obtain content through streaming content license agreements, DVD direct purchases and DVD revenue sharing agreements with studios, distributors and other suppliers. Content agreements are made in the ordinary course of business and our business is not substantially dependent on any particular agreement. Content delivery expenses consist of the postage costs to mail DVDs to and from our paying subscribers, the packaging and label costs for the mailers and all costs associated with streaming content over the Internet. We utilize third party content delivery networks to help us efficiently stream content in high volume to our subscribers over the Internet. Fulfillment expenses represent those expenses incurred in content processing, including operating and staffing our shipping centers, as well as receiving, encoding, inspecting and warehousing our content library. Fulfillment expenses also include operating and staffing our customer service centers and credit card fees. Year ended December 31, Change 2011 2010 2011 vs. 2010 (in thousands, except percentages) Cost of subscription $ 1,789,596 $ 1,154,109 55.1 % Fulfillment expenses 250,305 203,246 23.2 % Total cost of revenues $ 2,039,901 $ 1,357,355 50.3 % As a percentage of revenues 63.7 % 62.8 % The $682.5 million increase in cost of revenues was due to the following factors: Content acquisition and licensing expenses increased by $674.4 million. This increase was primarily attributable to continued investments in streaming content resulting in an increase in the average number of streaming content titles available for viewing to our domestic subscribers as compared to the prior year. The increase is also partially attributed to an increase in streaming content titles available in Canada as well as to our Latin America and Caribbean expansion in the second half of 2011. Content delivery expenses decreased $39.0 million primarily due to a 13.6% decrease in the number of DVDs mailed to paying subscribers. The decrease in the number of DVDs mailed was driven by a 21.7% decline in monthly DVD rentals per average paying DVD subscriber primarily attributed to the migration of our DVD subscribers toward lower priced plans. The decrease in DVD delivery expenses was partially offset by an increase in costs associated with our use of third party delivery networks resulting from an increase in the total number of hours of streaming content viewed by our subscribers. In the fourth quarter of 2011, global streaming content hours viewed exceeded 2 billion. Fulfillment costs associated with content processing and customer service centers expenses increased $16.2 million primarily due to a $22.3 million increase in costs associated with customer service call centers to support our growing subscriber population both domestically and internationally, partially offset by a $7.9 million decrease in hub operation expenses due to the 13.6% decrease in the number of DVDs mailed to paying subscribers. Credit card fees increased $30.9 million as a result of the 48.2% growth in revenues. 28 Table of Contents Year ended December 31, Change 2010 2009 2010 vs. 2009 (in thousands, except percentages) Cost of subscription $ 1,154,109 $ 909,461 26.9 % Fulfillment expenses 203,246 169,810 19.7 % Total cost of revenues $ 1,357,355 $ 1,079,271 25.8 % As a percentage of revenues 62.8 % 64.6 % The $278.1 million increase in cost of revenues was due to the following factors: Content acquisition and licensing expenses increased by $165.9 million. This increase was primarily attributable to investments in streaming content, partially offset by decreases in DVD content acquisitions. Content delivery expenses increased $78.7 million primarily due to a 9.7% increase in the number of DVDs mailed to paying subscribers. The increase in the number of DVDs mailed was driven by a 40.9% increase in the domestic average number of paying subscribers, partially offset by a 21.6% decline in monthly DVD rentals per average paying DVD subscriber primarily attributed to the growing popularity of our lower priced plans and growth in streaming. In addition, content delivery expenses increased due to higher costs associated with our use of third party delivery networks resulting from an increase in the total number of hours of streaming content viewed by our subscribers. Fulfillment costs associated with content processing and customer service centers expenses increased $13.5 million primarily due to a $12.4 million increase in personnel costs resulting from a 10.0% increase in headcount to support the higher volume of content delivery and growth in subscribers. In addition, encoding costs increased $7.0 million in support of the increasing number of titles and platforms offered for streaming content. These increases were partially offset by a $4.7 million increase in costs related to free trials allocated to marketing due primarily to the 74.7% increase in gross subscriber additions. Credit card fees increased $20.0 million as a result of the 29.5% growth in revenues. Operating Expenses Marketing Marketing expenses consist primarily of advertising expenses and also include payments made to our affiliates and consumer electronics partners and payroll related expenses. Advertising expenses include promotional activities such as television and online advertising, as well as allocated costs of revenues relating to free trial periods. Payments to our affiliates and consumer electronics partners may be in the form of a fixed fee or may be a revenue sharing payment. Year ended December 31, Change 2011 2010 2011 vs. 2010 (in thousands, except percentages and subscriber acquisition cost) Marketing $ 402,638 $ 293,839 37.0 % As a percentage of revenues 12.6 % 13.6 % Other domestic data: Gross unique subscriber additions 21,544 15,648 37.7 % Subscriber acquisition cost $ 15.04 $ 18.21 (17.4 )% The $108.8 million increase in marketing expenses was primarily attributable to a $119.6 million increase in marketing program spending, attributable to increased spending in television, radio and online advertising 29 Table of Contents coupled with an increase in payments to our affiliates. Approximately half of these increases were incurred in our International segments in large part due to our launch in Latin America and the Caribbean. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in direct mail and inserts, and payments made to our consumer electronics partners. The increase in marketing program spending was partially offset by decreases in the costs of free trials. Year ended December 31, Change 2010 2009 2010 vs. 2009 (in thousands, except percentages and subscriber acquisition cost) Marketing $ 293,839 $ 237,744 23.6 % As a percentage of revenues 13.6 % 14.2 % Other domestic data: Gross unique subscriber additions 15,648 9,332 67.7 % Subscriber acquisition cost $ 18.21 $ 25.48 (28.5 )% The $56.1 million increase in marketing expenses was primarily attributable to an increase of $17.4 million in domestic spending related to our consumer electronics partners, as we continued to expand the number of devices on which subscribers can view Netflix content. The increase is also due to a $16.2 million increase in other marketing program spending, principally in TV and radio advertising to promote our service, offset by a decrease in direct mail and inserts. In addition, costs of free trials increased $21.0 million due to the 67.7% increase in domestic gross unique subscriber additions, coupled with shipments of instant streaming discs which enable subscribers to stream content to certain consumer electronic devices and the expanded use of one month free trials. Subscriber acquisition cost decreased primarily due to continued strong organic subscriber growth. Technology and Development Technology and development expenses consist of payroll and related costs incurred in making improvements to our service offering, including testing, maintaining and modifying our user interfaces, our recommendation and merchandising technology, as well as, telecommunications systems and infrastructure and other internal use software systems. Technology and development expenses also include costs associated with computer hardware and software. Year ended December 31, Change 2011 2010 2011 vs. 2010 (in thousands, except percentages) Technology and development $ 259,033 $ 163,329 58.6 % As a percentage of revenues 8.1 % 7.6 % The $95.7 million increase in technology and development expenses was primarily the result of an $83.0 million increase in personnel related costs. These increases are primarily due to a 54% growth in average headcount supporting continued improvements in our streaming service and international expansion, coupled with an $18.7 million increase in stock based compensation expense. Year ended December 31, Change 2010 2009 2010 vs. 2009 (in thousands, except percentages) Technology and development $ 163,329 $ 114,542 42.6 % As a percentage of revenues 7.6 % 6.9 % The $48.8 million increase in technology and development expenses was primarily the result of a $27.7 million increase in personnel related costs and a $14.2 million increase in facilities and equipment related expenses. These increases are primarily due to a 21.0% growth in headcount supporting continued improvements to our service. Personnel related costs also increased due to a $5.7 million increase in stock based compensation expense. In addition, costs paid for cloud computing services increased $7.7 million. 30 Table of Contents General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist of payroll and related expenses for executive and administrative personnel, as well as recruiting, professional fees and other general corporate expenses. General and administrative expenses also include the gain on disposal of DVDs. Year ended December 31, Change 2011 2010 2011 vs. 2010 (in thousands, except percentages) General and administrative $ 117,937 $ 64,461 83.0 % As a percentage of revenues 3.6 % 2.9 % The $53.5 million increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily attributable to an increase in personnel related costs of $33.6 million attributed to an $11.5 million increase in stock based compensation and a 32% increase in average headcount. Legal costs increased $6.6 million primarily resulting from an increase in costs associated with various claims against us. We expect legal costs to continue at a high level for the foreseeable future as we defend these claims. Other miscellaneous expenses primarily related to the use of outside and professional services, taxes, and insurance increased by $13.3 million. Year ended December 31, Change 2010 2009 2010 vs. 2009 (in thousands, except percentages) General and administrative $ 64,461 $ 46,773 37.8 % As a percentage of revenues 2.9 % 2.8 % The $17.7 million increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily attributable to an increase in personnel related costs of $11.7 million attributed to a $7.6 million increase in stock based compensation expense and a 23.1% increase in headcount. Legal costs increased $8.9 million primarily resulting from ongoing litigation of claims against the Company as well as a $2.1 million release of accruals in 2009 that was associated with a former class action suit that settled in 2008. The terms of the class action settlement provided certain former and current subscribers with an optional free month subscription or free one month upgrade to be utilized prior to the third quarter of 2009. The accrual related to those subscribers who did not utilize the free month prior to expiration was released in 2009. Legal Settlement Subsequent to December 31, 2011, we engaged in mediation of a legal claim pending in the Northern District of California made in January 2011 related to our compliance with the Video Privacy Protection Act. This mediation resulted in a settlement of the matter which includes payment of $9.0 million, which is recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2011, and is anticipated to be paid in 2012. The Company had previously evaluated this claim and determined it to be immaterial and that a potential loss was not probable. Accordingly, no amount had been accrued prior to the mediation and settlement. Interest Expense Interest expense consists of the interest on our lease financing obligations and the interest on our 8.50% senior notes including the amortization of debt issuance costs. Starting in the fourth quarter of 2011, interest expense includes the amortization of debt issuance costs on our Convertible Notes issued in November 2011. Also, in the fourth quarter of 2009, we expensed the debt issuance costs related to our line of credit. Year ended December 31, Change 2011 2010 2011 vs. 2010 (in thousands, except percentages) Interest expense $ 20,025 $ 19,629 2.0 % As a percentage of revenues 0.6 % 0.9 % 31 Table of Contents Interest expense was relatively flat as compared to the prior year. Interest expense in 2011 includes $2.1 million for our lease financing obligations, $17.0 million of interest payments due on our 8.50% senior notes and $0.6 million of amortization of debt issuance costs. Year ended December 31, Change 2010 2009 2010 vs. 2009 (in thousands, except percentages) Interest expense $ 19,629 $ 6,475 203.2 % As a percentage of revenues 0.9 % 0.4 % The $13.2 million increase in interest expense is primarily attributable to the interest expense associated with our 8.50% senior notes. Interest expense in 2010 includes $2.3 million for our lease financing obligations, $17.0 million of interest payments due on our 8.50% senior notes and $0.5 million of amortization of debt issuance costs. Provision for Income Taxes Year ended December 31, Change 2011 2010 2011 vs. 2010 (in thousands, except percentages) Provision for income taxes $ 133,396 $ 106,843 24.9 % Effective tax rate 37.1 % 39.9 % In 2011, our effective tax rate differed from the federal statutory rate of 35% primarily due to state income taxes of $15.0 million or 4.2% of income before income tax. This was partially offset by the expiration of a statute of limitations for years 1997 through 2007 resulting in a discrete benefit of $3.5 million in the third quarter of 2011 and Federal and California research and development (R&D) tax credits of $5.1 million. The decrease in our effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2010 was attributable to the discrete benefit of $3.5 million, higher R&D tax credits and a lower effective tax rate for California. Year ended December 31, Change 2010 2009 2010 vs. 2009 (in thousands, except percentages) Provision for income taxes $ 106,843 $ 76,332 40.0 % Effective tax rate 39.9 % 39.7 % In 2010, our effective tax rate differed from the federal statutory rate of 35% primarily due to state income taxes of $15.6 million or 5.8% of income before income tax. This was partially offset by R&D tax credits of $3.3 million. Our effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2010 was relatively flat as compared to our effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2009. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our primary source of liquidity has been cash generated from operations. Additionally, in November 2011, we issued $200.0 million of our Convertible Notes and raised an additional $200.0 million through a public offering of common stock. The Convertible Notes consist of $200.0 million aggregate principal amount due on December 1, 2018 and do not bear interest. In November 2009, we issued $200 million of our 8.50% senior notes due November 15, 2017 (the 8.50% Notes). Interest on the 8.50% Notes is payable semi annually at a rate of 8.50% per annum on May 15 and November 15 of each year, commencing on May 15, 2010. (See Note 4 of Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional information.) 32 Table of Contents Our primary uses of cash included the acquisition and licensing of content, content delivery expenses, marketing, our stock repurchase programs, payroll related expenses, and capital expenditures related to information technology and automation equipment. We expect to continue to make significant investments to license streaming content both domestically and internationally. These investments could impact our liquidity and in particular our operating cash flows. As a result of the significant increase in subscriber cancellations negatively impacting domestic and consolidated revenues, coupled with increased investments in our International streaming segment, and in international content in particular, we expect consolidated net losses and negative operating cash flows for 2012. Although we currently anticipate that our available funds will be sufficient to meet our cash needs for the foreseeable future, we may be required or choose to obtain additional financing. Our ability to obtain additional financing will depend on, among other things, our development efforts, business plans, operating performance, current and projected compliance with our debt covenants, and the condition of the capital markets at the time we seek financing. We may not be able to obtain such financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity linked or debt securities, those securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to the rights of our common stock, and our stockholders may experience dilution. On June 11, 2010, we announced that our Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program allowing us to repurchase $300 million of our common stock through the end of 2012. As of December 31, 2011, $41.0 million of this authorization is remaining. The timing and actual number of shares repurchased will depend on various factors, including price, corporate and regulatory requirements, debt covenant requirements, alternative investment opportunities and other market conditions. As we expect to have negative operating cash flows in future periods, we do not expect to make further stock repurchases for the foreseeable future. The following highlights selected measures of our liquidity and capital resources as of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009: Year Ended December 31, Change 2011 2010 2011 vs. 2010 (in thousands, except percentages) Cash and cash equivalents $ 508,053 $ 194,499 161.2 % Short term investments 289,758 155,888 85.9 % $ 797,811 $ 350,387 127.7 % Net cash provided by operating activities $ 317,712 $ 276,401 14.9 % Net cash used in investing activities $ (265,814 ) $ (116,081 ) 129.0 % Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ 261,656 $ (100,045 ) (361.5 )% Cash provided by operating activities increased $41.3 million or 14.9%, primarily due to an increase subscription revenues of $1,042.0 million or 48.2%. This increase was partially offset by increased payments for content acquisition and licensing other than DVD library of $766.3 million or 138.4%. Operating cash flows were further impacted by increases in payroll expenses and payments for advertising and affiliates transactions. Cash used in investing activities increased $149.7 million or 129.0%, primarily due to a $164.0 million increase in the purchases, net of proceeds from sales and maturities, of short term investments. In addition, purchases of property and equipment increased $15.8 million primarily due to purchases of automation equipment for our various DVD shipping centers. These increases were partially offset by a $38.7 million decrease in acquisitions of DVD content library. Cash provided by financing activities increased $361.7 million or 361.5%, primarily due to our public offering of 2.9 million shares of common stock for net proceeds of $199.9 million and $198.1 million net proceeds received from the issuance of our Convertible Notes in the fourth quarter of 2011. In addition, 33 Table of Contents repurchases of our common stock decreased by $10.6 million. These increases were partially offset by a $30.2 million decrease in proceeds from the issuance of common stock upon exercise of options and a $16.4 million decrease in excess tax benefits from stock based compensation expense. Year Ended December 31, Change 2010 2009 2010 vs. 2009 (in thousands, except percentages) Cash and cash equivalents $ 194,499 $ 134,224 44.9 % Short term investments 155,888 186,018 (16.2 )% $ 350,387 $ 320,242 9.4 % Net cash provided by operating activities $ 276,401 $ 325,063 (15.0 )% Net cash used in investing activities $ (116,081 ) $ (246,079 ) (52.8 )% Net cash used in financing activities $ (100,045 ) $ (84,641 ) 18.2 % Cash provided by operating activities decreased by $48.7 million or 15.0%, primarily due to increased payments for content acquisition and licensing other than DVD library of $267.8 million. This increase was coupled with increased payroll expenses, payments for advertising and affiliates transactions, credit card fees, content delivery expenses and excess tax benefits from stock based compensation. The increase in these expenses was partially offset by an increase in subscription revenues of $492.4 million resulting from a 40.9% increase in the domestic average number of paying subscribers. Cash used in investing activities decreased $130.0 million or 52.8%, primarily due to a $54.9 million decrease in the purchases, net of proceeds, of short term investments and a $69.1 million decrease in acquisitions of DVD content library, as more DVDs were obtained through revenue sharing arrangements. In addition, purchases of property and equipment decreased by $12.1 million, as a significant amount of payments for automation equipment for our various shipping centers were made in 2009. Cash used in financing activities increased $15.4 million or 18.2%, primarily due to the $193.9 million net proceeds received from the issuance of our 8.50% Notes in 2009. This decrease was partially offset by a $114.1 million decrease in repurchases of our common stock coupled with a $49.5 million increase in the excess tax benefits from stock based compensation expense and a $14.5 million increase in proceeds from the issuance of common stock upon exercise of options. Free Cash Flow We define free cash flow as cash provided by operating and investing activities excluding the non operational cash flows from purchases, maturities and sales of short term investments and cash flows from investments in businesses. We believe free cash flow is an important liquidity metric because it measures, during a given period, the amount of cash generated that is available to repay debt obligations, make investments, repurchase our stock and for certain other activities. Free cash flow is considered a non GAAP financial measure and should not be considered in isolation of, or as a substitute for, net income, operating income, cash flow from operating activities, or any other measure of financial performance or liquidity presented in accordance with GAAP. In comparing free cash flow to net income, the major recurring differences are excess streaming and DVD payments over expenses, stock based compensation expense, deferred revenue, taxes and semi annual interest payments on the 8.50% Notes. Because consumers use credit cards to buy from us, our receivables from customers settle quickly and deferred revenue is a source of cash flow. For streaming content, we typically enter into multi year licenses with studios and other distributors that may result in an increase in content library and a corresponding increase in liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The payment terms for these license fees may extend over the term of the license agreements, which typically range from six months to five years. License 34 Table of Contents fee obligations with payment terms that are due beyond one year are classified on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as Non current content liabilities. Minimum commitments for licenses and known titles that do not meet the criteria for asset recognition in the content library are included in Note 5 of Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. The following tables reconcile net cash provided by operating activities, a GAAP financial measure, to free cash flow, a non GAAP financial measure. Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 (in thousands) Non GAAP free cash flow reconciliation: Net cash provided by operating activities $ 317,712 $ 276,401 Acquisition of DVD content library (85,154 ) (123,901 ) Purchases of property and equipment (49,682 ) (33,837 ) Other assets 3,674 12,344 Non GAAP free cash flow $ 186,550 $ 131,007 Free cash flow for the year ended December 31, 2011 increased $55.5 million primarily due to an increase of $98.9 million in net income as adjusted for the increase in non cash stock based compensation of $33.6 million and decreased tax prepayments of $20.2 million. This was partially offset by an increase in excess content payments over expenses of $53.2 million, a $12.9 million increase in excess property and equipment payments over expense and decreased deferred revenue of $5.5 million. Payments for content increased $727.6 million while content expenses increased $674.4 million. Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 (in thousands) Non GAAP free cash flow reconciliation: Net cash provided by operating activities $ 276,401 $ 325,063 Acquisition of DVD content library (123,901 ) (193,044 ) Purchases of property and equipment (33,837 ) (45,932 ) Other assets 12,344 11,035 Non GAAP free cash flow $ 131,007 $ 97,122 Free cash flow for the year ended December 31, 2010 increased $33.9 million primarily due to an increase of $60.4 million in net income as adjusted for the increase in non cash stock based compensation of $15.4 million, decreased property and equipment payments over expense of $11.9 million and increased deferred revenue of $10.0 million. This was partially offset by an increase in excess streaming and DVD content payments over expenses of $32.8 million coupled with increased tax prepayments of $14.0 million. Payments for content increased $198.7 million while content expenses increased $165.9 million. Effect of Exchange Rates Revenues, as well as certain expenses, primarily content licensing and marketing, incurred in the International streaming segment, are denominated in the local currency. During the year ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, the gains or losses on foreign exchange transactions and the effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents were immaterial. Contractual Obligations For the purposes of this table, contractual obligations for purchases of goods or services are defined as agreements that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or 35 Table of Contents minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. The expected timing of payment of the obligations discussed above is estimated based on information available to us as of December 31, 2011. Timing of payments and actual amounts paid may be different depending on the time of receipt of goods or services or changes to agreed upon amounts for some obligations. The following table summarizes our contractual obligations at December 31, 2011: Payments due by Period Contractual obligations (in thousands): Total Less than1 year (3) 1 3 years 3 5 years More than5 years 8.50% senior notes $ 302,000 $ 17,000 $ 34,000 $ 34,000 $ 217,000 Convertible notes 200,000 200,000 Operating lease obligations 59,925 17,599 26,485 13,702 2,139 Lease financing obligations (1) 19,267 4,174 6,020 5,886 3,187 Streaming content obligations (2) 3,907,198 797,649 2,384,373 650,480 74,696 Other purchase obligations 262,469 149,700 112,158 611 Total $ 4,750,859 $ 986,122 $ 2,563,036 $ 704,679 $ 497,022 (1) Represents the lease financing obligations for our Los Gatos, California headquarters. (2) Streaming content obligations include agreements to acquire and license streaming content that represent long term liabilities or that are not reflected on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. For those agreements with variable terms, we do not estimate what the total obligation may be beyond any minimum quantities and/ or pricing as of the reporting date. For those agreements that include renewal provisions that are solely at the option of the content provider, we include the commitments associated with the renewal period to the extent such commitments are fixed or a minimum amount is specified. For these reasons, the amounts presented in the table may not provide a reliable indicator of our expected future cash outflows. We have entered into certain streaming content license agreements that include an unspecified or a maximum number of titles that we may or may not receive in the future and or that include pricing contingent upon certain variables, such as theatrical exhibition receipts for the title. As of the reporting date, it is unknown whether we will receive access to these titles or what the ultimate price per title will be. Accordingly such amounts are not reflected in the above contractual obligations table. However, such amounts are expected to be significant and the expected timing of payment for these commitments could range from less than one year to more than five years. (3) For purposes of this table, less than one year does not include liabilities which are reflected on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as current liabilities. Content accounts payables for instance includes $905.8 million in streaming content obligations not reflected in the above table. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had gross unrecognized tax benefits of $28.1 million and an additional $2.4 million for gross interest and penalties classified as Other non current liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. At this time, the Company is unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of payments in individual years due to uncertainties in the timing of tax audit outcomes; therefore, such amounts are not included in the above contractual obligation table. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements As part of our ongoing business, we do not engage in transactions that generate relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities. Accordingly, our operating results, financial condition and cash flows are not subject to off balance sheet risks. 36 Table of Contents Indemnifications The information set forth under Note 6 of Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data under the caption Guarantees Indemnification Obligations is incorporated herein by reference. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported periods. The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has defined a companys critical accounting policies as the ones that are most important to the portrayal of a companys financial condition and results of operations, and which require a company to make its most difficult and subjective judgments. Based on this definition, we have identified the critical accounting policies and judgments addressed below. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates. Content Accounting We obtain content through streaming content license agreements, DVD direct purchases and DVD revenue sharing agreements with studios, distributors and other suppliers. We obtain content distribution rights in order to stream TV shows and movies to subscribers TVs, computers and mobile devices. Streaming content is generally licensed for a fixed fee for the term of the license agreement which may have multiple windows of availability. The license agreement may or may not be recognized in content library. When the streaming license fee is known or reasonably determinable for a specific title and the specific title is first available for streaming to subscribers, the title is recognized on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as Current content library for the portion available for streaming within one year and as Non current content library for the remaining portion. New titles recognized in the content library are classified in the line item Additions to streaming content library within net cash provided by operating activities in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. We amortize the content library on a straight line basis over each titles contractual window of availability, which typically ranges from six months to five years. The steaming content library is reported at the lower of unamortized cost or estimated net realizable value. No write down from unamortized cost to a lower net realizable value was recorded in any of the periods presented. The amortization is classified in Cost of revenues Subscription in the Consolidated Statements of Operations and in the line item Amortization of streaming content library within net cash provided by operating activities in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Payment terms for these license fees may extend over the term of the license agreement, which could range from six months to five years. For the titles recognized in content library, the license fees due but not paid are classified on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as Content accounts payable for the amounts due within one year and as Non current content liabilities for the amounts due beyond one year. Changes in these liabilities are classified in the line item Change in streaming content liabilities within net cash provided by operating activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. We record the streaming content library assets and their related liability on our Consolidated Balance Sheets at the gross amount of the liability. Payments for the titles not yet available for streaming are not yet recognized in the content library but in prepaid content. Minimum commitments for the titles not yet available for streaming are not yet recognized in the content library and are included in Note 5 of Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. When the streaming license fee is not known or reasonably determinable for a specific title, the title does not meet the criteria for asset recognition in the content library. Titles do not meet the criteria for asset 37 Table of Contents recognition in the content library because the underlying license agreement does not specify the number of titles or the license fee per title or the windows of availability per title, so that the license fee is not known or reasonably determinable for a specific title. Typical payment terms for these agreements, which can range from three to five years, require us to make equal fixed payments at the beginning of each quarter of the license term. To the extent that cumulative payments exceed cumulative amortization, Prepaid content is recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. We amortize the license fees on a straight line basis over the term of each license agreement. The amortization is classified in Cost of revenues Subscription in the Consolidated Statements of Operations and in the line item Net income within net cash provided by operating activities in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Changes in prepaid content are classified within net cash provided by operating activities in the line item Prepaid content in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Commitments for licenses that do not meet the criteria for asset recognition in the content library are included in Note 5 of Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. We acquire DVD content for the purpose of renting such content to our subscribers and earning subscription rental revenues, and, as such, we consider our direct purchase DVD library to be a productive asset. Accordingly, we classify our DVD library in Non current content library on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The acquisition of DVD content library, net of changes in related liabilities, is classified in the line item Acquisition of DVD content library within cash used in investing activities in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows because the DVD content library is considered a productive asset. Other companies in the in home entertainment video industry classify these cash flows as operating activities. We amortize our direct purchase DVDs, less estimated salvage value, on a sum of the months accelerated basis over their estimated useful lives. The useful life of the new release DVDs and back catalog DVDs is estimated to be one year and three years, respectively. The amortization of the DVD content library is classified in Cost of revenues Subscription in the Consolidated Statement of Operations and in the line item Amortization of DVD content library within net cash provided by operating activities in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. We also obtain DVD content through revenue sharing agreements with studios and distributors. Revenue sharing obligations incurred based on utilization are classified in Cost of revenues Subscription in the Consolidated Statements of Operations and in the line item Net income within net cash provided by operating activities in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. The terms of some revenue sharing agreements obligate us to make a low initial payment for certain titles, representing a minimum contractual obligation under the agreement. The low initial payment is in exchange for a commitment to share a percentage of our subscription revenues or to pay a fee, based on utilization, for a defined period of time. The initial payment may be in the form of an upfront non refundable payment which is classified in content library or in the form of a prepayment of future revenue sharing obligations which is classified as prepaid content. Stock Based Compensation Stock based compensation expense at the grant date is based on the total number of options granted and an estimate of the fair value of the awards expected to vest and is recognized as expense ratably over the requisite service period, which is the vesting period. We calculate the fair value of new stock based compensation awards under our stock option plans using a lattice binomial model. We use a Black Scholes model to determine the fair value of employee stock purchase plan shares. These models require the input of highly subjective assumptions, including price volatility of the underlying stock. Changes in the subjective input assumptions can materially affect the estimate of fair value of options granted and our results of operations could be impacted. Expected Volatility: Our computation of expected volatility is based on a blend of historical volatility of our common stock and implied volatility of tradable forward call options to purchase shares of our common stock. Our decision to incorporate implied volatility was based on our assessment that implied volatility of publicly traded options in our common stock is more reflective of market conditions and, 38 Table of Contents therefore, can reasonably be expected to be a better indicator of expected volatility than historical volatility of our common stock. We include the historical volatility in our computation due to low trade volume of our tradable forward call options in certain periods thereby precluding sole reliance on implied volatility. An increase of 10% in our computation of expected volatility would increase the total stock based compensation expense by approximately $3.1 million. Suboptimal Exercise Factor: Our computation of the suboptimal exercise factor is based on historical option exercise behavior and the terms and vesting periods of the options granted and is determined for both executives and non executives. An increase in the suboptimal exercise factor of 10% would increase the total stock based compensation expense by approximately $2.3 million. Income Taxes We record a provision for income taxes for the anticipated tax consequences of our reported results of operations using the asset and liability method. Deferred income taxes are recognized by applying enacted statutory tax rates applicable to future years to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases as well as net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. The measurement of deferred tax assets is reduced, if necessary, by a valuation allowance for any tax benefits for which future realization is uncertain. Although we believe our assumptions, judgments and estimates are reasonable, changes in tax laws or our interpretation of tax laws and the resolution of any tax audits could significantly impact the amounts provided for income taxes in our consolidated financial statements. In evaluating our ability to recover our deferred tax assets, in full or in part, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including our past operating results, and our forecast of future earnings, future taxable income and prudent and feasible tax planning strategies. The assumptions utilized in determining future taxable income require significant judgment and are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using to manage the underlying businesses. Actual operating results in future years could differ from our current assumptions, judgments and estimates. However, we believe that it is more likely than not that substantially all deferred tax assets recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets will ultimately be realized. In the event we were to determine that we would not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would be charged to earnings in the period in which we make such determination. We did not recognize certain tax benefits from uncertain tax positions within the provision for income taxes. We may recognize a tax benefit only if it is more likely than not the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such positions are then measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon settlement. At December 31, 2011, our estimated gross unrecognized tax benefits were $28.1 million of which $22.4 million, if recognized, would favorably impact our future earnings. Due to uncertainties in any tax audit outcome, our estimates of the ultimate settlement of our unrecognized tax positions may change and the actual tax benefits may differ significantly from the estimates. See Note 8 of Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for further information regarding income taxes. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal, while at the same time maximizing income we receive from investments without significantly increased risk. To achieve this objective, we follow an established investment policy and set of guidelines to monitor and help mitigate our exposure to interest rate and credit risk. The policy sets forth credit quality standards and limits our exposure to any one issuer, as well as our maximum exposure to various asset classes. We maintain a portfolio of cash equivalents 39 Table of Contents and short term investments in a variety of securities. These securities are classified as available for sale and are recorded at fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, included in Accumulated other comprehensive income within stockholders equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. For the year ended December 31, 2011, we had no material impairment charges associated with our short term investment portfolio. Although we believe our current investment portfolio has very little risk of material impairment, we cannot predict future market conditions or market liquidity and can provide no assurance that our investment portfolio will remain materially unimpaired. Some of the securities we invest in may be subject to market risk due to changes in prevailing interest rates which may cause the principal amount of the investment to fluctuate. For example, if we hold a security that was issued with a fixed interest rate at the then prevailing rate and the prevailing interest rate later rises, the value of our investment will decline. At December 31, 2011, our cash equivalents were generally invested in money market funds, which are not subject to market risk because the interest paid on such funds fluctuates with the prevailing interest rate. Our short term investments were comprised of corporate debt securities, government and agency securities and asset and mortgage backed securities. As of December 31, 2011, we had securities classified as short term investments of $289.8 million. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect the market value of these investments. The table below separates these investments, based on stated maturities, to show the approximate exposure to interest rates. (in thousands) Due within one year $ 108,382 Due within five years 180,373 Due within ten years Due after ten years 1,003 Total $ 289,758 A sensitivity analysis was performed on our investment portfolio as of December 31, 2011. The analysis is based on an estimate of the hypothetical changes in market value of the portfolio that would result from an immediate parallel shift in the yield curve of various magnitudes. This methodology assumes a more immediate change in interest rates to reflect the current economic environment. The following table presents the hypothetical fair values (in $ thousands) of our debt securities classified as short term investments assuming immediate parallel shifts in the yield curve of 50 basis points (BPS), 100 BPS and 150 BPS. The analysis is shown as of December 31, 2011: Fair Value December 31, 2011 (in thousands) 150 BPS 100 BPS 50 BPS +50 BPS +100 BPS +150 BPS $295,788 $ 293,778 $ 291,768 $ 287,747 $ 285,737 $ 283,727 
 
