FILE:BLK/BLK-8K-20070906082100.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check  the  appropriate  box  below  if the  Form  8-K  filing  is  intended  to simultaneously  satisfy the filing obligation to the registrant under any of the following provisions:
|_| Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
|_| Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
|_| Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
|_| Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 5.02       Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
(b)  Resignation of President and Director
On September 5, 2007, Ralph L. Schlosstein, president and director of BlackRock, Inc. (the "Company") resigned from the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board") and as president, effective immediately.  Mr. Schlosstein will remain with the Company as an advisor until early 2008, helping to ensure an effective transition.
(c) Appointment of New President
The Board has selected Robert S. Kapito, director and vice chairman of the Company, to succeed Mr. Schlosstein as president of the Company, effective immediately. Mr. Kapito (age 50) has been with the Company and our predecessor entities since our inception in 1988 and has served as vice chairman since 1991 and as a director since 2006. Mr. Kapito is also head of portfolio management and a member of our executive committee and management committee. He also serves as president of several of our closed-end investment companies.
The Company issued a press release announcing this resignation and appointment on September 6, 2007.  A copy of the press release is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01       Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)           Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
    News Release
 
Contact
Brian Beades
212.810.5596
invrel@blackrock.com
BlackRock, Inc. (NYSE: BLK) today announced that Ralph L. Schlosstein, a co-founder of the firm, notified the Board of his intent to step down as President and a Director in order to pursue other entrepreneurial interests.  BlackRocks Board of Directors unanimously appointed Robert S. Kapito as President effective immediately.  Mr. Schlosstein will remain with the firm as an advisor until early 2008, helping to ensure an effective transition.
New York, Sept. 6, 2007 
Mr. Kapito is currently a Director and Vice Chairman of BlackRock and Head of Portfolio Management.  In his new role as President, he will be responsible for day-to-day oversight of key operating units, including the Account Management and Portfolio Management Groups, Real Estate and BlackRock Solutions.  He will report to BlackRock Chairman and CEO Laurence D. Fink.
Ralph has been a tremendous partner, and his leadership and financial expertise have been key drivers of BlackRocks success and global expansion, stated Mr. Fink. He has touched every component of our business, from creating early closed-end funds to building our insurance business, launching BlackRock Solutions and overseeing our alternatives business.  Most recently, Ralph played a vitally important role as leader of the State Street Research and MLIM integrations.  Ralph approached me earlier this year to consider the possibility of pursuing outside entrepreneurial interests at some point in the future.  He and I have worked closely together over the past several months to develop a transition plan that ensures BlackRock will not miss a beat.  I am profoundly grateful for his contributions, and hopeful that BlackRock will be able to play an important role in supporting Ralphs future endeavors.
We are well positioned for this transition. Rob is an outstanding executive who has been instrumental in ensuring the cross-functional coordination, focus on investment results, and commitment to collaborative customer relationships that differentiate BlackRock.  Importantly, he has also demonstrated an abiding commitment to the growth of our employees, the development of a unified team and the evolution of our vibrant corporate culture.  I look forward to working with Rob and the many strong leaders throughout our firm as we continue building BlackRocks franchise.
Mr. Schlosstein noted, I have had the incredible opportunity to help build BlackRock from scratch to the global success it enjoys today, and I am grateful for the chance to have worked so closely with Larry Fink, the entire leadership team and our dedicated employees and clients.  I am very excited about pursuing my longstanding entrepreneurial interests, knowing that BlackRock is in great hands and that it will move forward to even greater success.
Mr. Kapito (50) joined BlackRock at its inception in March 1988, and has served in several leadership positions including co-head of Fixed Income, head of Portfolio Management and Vice Chairman.  Prior to joining BlackRock, Mr. Kapito served as Vice President of First Boston
                         
               
               
              
News Release
               
Corporations Mortgage Products Group.  He received his BS in Economics from the Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania, and an MBA from Harvard Business School.
About BlackRock
BlackRock is one of the worlds largest publicly traded investment management firms.  As of June 30, 2007, assets under management were $1.230 trillion.  The firm manages assets on behalf of institutions and individuals worldwide through a variety of equity, fixed income, cash management and alternative investment products.  In addition, a growing number of institutional investors use investment system, risk management and financial advisory services.  Headquartered in New York City, the firm has approximately 5,000 employees in 18 countries and a major presence in key global markets, including the U.S., Europe, Asia, Australia and the Middle East. For additional information, please visit the Company's website at .
BlackRock Solutions
 
www.blackrock.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release, and other statements that BlackRock may make, may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act, with respect to BlackRocks future financial or business performance, strategies or expectations. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as trend, potential, opportunity, pipeline, believe, comfortable, expect, anticipate, current, intention, estimate, position, assume, outlook, continue, remain, maintain, sustain, seek, achieve, and similar expressions, or future or conditional verbs such as will, would, should, could, may or similar expressions.
BlackRock cautions that forward-looking statements are subject to numerous assumptions, risks and uncertainties, which change over time.  Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and BlackRock assumes no duty to and does not undertake to update forward-looking statements.  Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in forward-looking statements and future results could differ materially from historical performance.
In addition to factors previously disclosed in BlackRock's SEC reports and those identified elsewhere in this communication, the following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking statements or historical performance: (1) the introduction, withdrawal, success and timing of business initiatives and strategies; (2) changes in political, economic or industry conditions, the interest rate environment or financial and capital markets, which could result in changes in demand for products or services or in the value of assets under management; (3) the relative and absolute investment performance of BlackRock's investment products, including its separately managed accounts and the former MLIM business; (4) the impact of increased competition; (5) the impact of capital improvement projects; (6) the impact of future acquisitions or divestitures; (7) the unfavorable resolution of legal proceedings; (8) the extent and timing of any share repurchases; (9) the impact, extent and timing of technological changes and the adequacy of intellectual property protection; (10) the impact of legislative and regulatory actions and reforms and regulatory, supervisory or enforcement actions of government agencies relating to BlackRock, Merrill Lynch or PNC; (11) terrorist activities and international hostilities, which may adversely affect the general economy, domestic and local financial and capital markets, specific industries and BlackRock; (12) the ability to attract and retain highly talented professionals; (13) fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which may adversely affect the value of advisory fees earned by BlackRock; (14) the impact of changes to tax legislation and, generally, the tax position of the Company; (15) BlackRock's ability to successfully integrate the MLIM business with its existing
                         
               
                
              
News Release
               
business; (16) the ability of BlackRock to effectively manage the former MLIM assets along with its historical assets under management; (17) BlackRock's success in maintaining the distribution of its products; and (18) the ability of BlackRock to consummate the transaction with Quellos and realize the benefits of such transaction.
BlackRock's Annual Reports on Form 10-K and BlackRock's subsequent filings with the SEC, accessible on the SEC's website at and on BlackRocks website at , discuss these factors in more detail and identify additional factors that can affect forward-looking statements. The information contained on our website is not a part of this press release.
http://www.sec.gov
http://www.blackrock.com
 
 


