FILE:BLK/BLK-8K-20071017081856.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On October 17, 2007, BlackRock, Inc. (the "Company") reported results of operations and financial condition for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2007. A copy of the press release issued by the Company is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Contact:
Brian Beades
212-810-5596
invrel@blackrock.com
 BlackRock, Inc. (NYSE:BLK) today reported net income for the third quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2007 of $255.2 million and $672.8 million, respectively. Diluted earnings per share for the third quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2007 were $1.94 and $5.12, compared to $0.28 and $2.29 in comparable periods of 2006. Third quarter 2007 earnings included a one-time expense of $128.1 million associated with the insourcing of certain closed-end fund administration and servicing arrangements with Merrill Lynch and a one-time tax benefit of $51.4 million due to recent tax legislation changes in the United Kingdom and Germany. The net after-tax impact of these two items was a reduction of approximately $0.23 per diluted share. Diluted earnings per share for the third quarter of 2006 included $71.5 million or $0.67 per diluted share of integration charges associated with the closing of the Merrill Lynch Investment Managers ("MLIM") merger on September 29, 2006.
New York, October 17, 2007
Third quarter and nine month results for 2007 reflect strong organic growth and market appreciation in assets under management ("AUM") and solid investment performance which produced $149.4 million of performance fees for the three months ended September 30, 2007. AUM increased $175 billion, or 15.6%, for the nine months ended September 30, 2007, including $107 billion, or 61.1%, attributable to new business.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share
1
of $2.29 and $5.67 for the third quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2007 increased approximately 116% and 63%, respectively, from the $1.06 and $3.48 earned in the comparable periods of 2006. Adjusted diluted earnings per share increased $0.49 from the $1.80 earned in the second quarter of 2007 including approximately $0.29 per share associated with an increase in performance fees of $123.7 million.
Operating margin, as adjusted
1
was 37.7% for the third quarter 2007 compared with 36.1% for the second quarter 2007 and 36.4% for the first half of 2007. The increase in adjusted margin reflects operating leverage associated with strong revenue growth.
MLIM integration charges for third quarter 2007 were $6.1 million compared to $6.0 million for second quarter 2007. Cumulative MLIM integration costs incurred as of September 30, 2007 totaled $161 million ($142 million in calendar year 2006). Remaining integration costs to be incurred are estimated at $10-$20 million.
AUM totaled $1.3 trillion at September 30, 2007, up 6% since second quarter-end and 21% year-over-year. The increase in AUM was driven principally by net new business, which totaled $41.0 billion during the quarter and $124.0 billion over the past twelve months. During the quarter we had net inflows in all asset classes, led by $30.2 billion of net subscriptions in cash management products in response to highly unsettled market conditions. Similarly, flows were positive across all regions, including $31.1 billion and $9.9 billion from U.S. and international clients, respectively. added one new Aladdin mandate during the quarter and has entered into contract negotiations with a number of other prospects. As of October 15, 2007, our new business pipeline consisted of $33.0 billion of wins funded or to be funded, including $22.7 billion in our liquidity products.
BlackRock Solutions
"The third quarter featured widespread reassessment of valuations in the credit markets, which led to a significant reduction in liquidity and greater market uncertainty, which in turn caused investors to flock to safe havens," commented Laurence D. Fink, Chairman and CEO of BlackRock. "The sharp influx in money market funds was coupled with a slowdown in long-dated searches and fundings. We were able to take advantage of our well-diversified product range in offering clients strategies appropriate to the environment. We expect the current shift in investor preferences to be temporary, as investors adjust to the change in market conditions. We do not, however, expect the market dislocations to be easily or quickly resolved, and we remain vigilant in applying the full range of our capabilities on behalf of our asset management and clients.
BlackRock Solutions'
"On September 29
th
, we celebrated the first anniversary of our merger with MLIM. The power of our combined platform, of creating globally integrated operations and a unified culture, has exceeded our expectations. The support we have received from clients, consultants and distribution partners has been extraordinary, and we are incredibly grateful. Throughout the year, we have worked closely with our retail distribution partners globally to deliver our expanded product range more effectively, driving $27.0 billion of net sales to individual investors worldwide. Similar efforts with consultants and institutional investors have helped fuel $97.0 billion of net new business in long-dated and liquidity products since we closed the MLIM transaction.
"Our strong results would not have been possible without an unwavering focus on investment performance and client service. I am incredibly proud of our employees, who have embraced our combined platform and, through their tireless effort, made it possible to achieve a 12% organic growth rate over the past year while sustaining excellence in client service and throughout our operations. Just after quarter-end, we closed our acquisition of the Quellos fund of funds business, adding approximately $21.9 billion in AUM, and we are already realizing the benefits of that integration as well. I have great confidence that together we can continue to differentiate BlackRock and create lasting value for our clients and shareholders."
Third Quarter Business Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Third Quarter Financial Highlights
Third quarter 2007 reflects the impact of the MLIM merger, which closed on September 29, 2006. Given the magnitude of the acquired business, the Company has omitted discussion of most line item variances versus third quarter 2006.
Third quarter 2007 revenues were $1,298.1 million compared to $1,097.0 million in second quarter 2007 and $323.1 million in third quarter 2006. Revenues increased $201.1 million, or 18%, from the second quarter, reflecting higher levels of AUM in all asset classes and a substantial increase in performance fees.
 
 
 
Third quarter 2007 operating expenses, excluding the one-time insourcing expense of $128.1 million, were $898.2 million, compared to $815.0 million in second quarter 2007 and $294.1 million in third quarter 2006. The $83.2 million, or 10%, increase compared to second quarter 2007 was primarily due to:
 
 
 
Third quarter 2007 operating income, as adjusted totaled $423.7 million, an increase of $88.0 million or 26%, from the $335.6 million earned in the second quarter of 2007. The increase reflects strong revenue growth including a significant increase in performance fees. In connection with the one-time expense of $128.1 million associated with the insourcing of the closed-end fund administration and servicing arrangements referenced above, the Company terminated arrangements with Merrill Lynch on 40 closed-end funds. The termination of these arrangements, which had original terms of 30-40 years, will result in an operating income benefit of approximately $15 million per year.
Third quarter 2007 non-operating income was $108.7 million, compared to $213.7 million in second quarter 2007. Third quarter 2007 non-operating income is offset by approximately $62.0 million of non-controlling interest compared to $148.5 million in the second quarter 2007. The decrease in non-operating income, net of non-controlling interest, of $18.6 million primarily reflects a decline in net investment gains from investments in private equity, hedge funds and fund of funds products of $20.2 million and $18.9 million, respectively, offset by a $23.3 million increase in net investment gains from real estate products.
 
Third quarter 2007 income taxes were $63.2 million, compared to $125.0 million in second quarter 2007. Income taxes for the third quarter 2007 reflected an overall effective tax rate of 36% reduced by a one-time tax benefit of $51.4 million associated with tax legislation recently enacted by the United Kingdom and Germany which will reduce corporate income tax rates in those jurisdictions in 2008. Accordingly, BlackRock revalued its deferred tax liabilities attributable to the two jurisdictions. BlackRock will consider these changes, as well as other factors in determining its effective tax rate for 2008; however, currently the Company does not anticipate a significant change to the overall effective tax rate in 2008.
Teleconference and Webcast Information
BlackRock will host a teleconference call for investors and analysts on Wednesday, October 17, 2007, at 9:00 a.m. (Eastern Time) to discuss its third quarter results. Members of the public who are interested in participating in the teleconference should dial, from the United States, (800) 374-0176, or from outside the United States, (706) 679-4634, shortly before 9:00 a.m. and reference the BlackRock Conference Call (ID Number 18265429). A live, listen-only webcast will also be available via the investor relations section of
www.blackrock.com.
Both the teleconference and webcast will be available for replay by 1:00 p.m. on Wednesday, October 17, 2007 and ending at midnight on Wednesday, October 24, 2007. To access the replay of the teleconference, callers from the United States should dial (800) 642-1687 and callers from outside the United States should dial (706) 645-9291 and enter the Conference ID Number 18265429. To access the webcast, please visit the investor relations section of
www.blackrock.com
Performance Notes
Past performance is no guarantee of future results. Mutual fund performance data is net of fees and expenses and assumes the reinvestment of dividends and capital gains distributions. BlackRock waives certain fees, without which performance would be lower. Investments in mutual funds are neither insured nor guaranteed by the U.S. government. Relative peer group performance is based on quartiles from Lipper Inc. for U.S. funds and Standard & Poor's for non-U.S. funds. Rankings are based on total returns with dividends and distributions reinvested and do not reflect sales charges. Funds with returns among the top 50% of a peer group of funds with comparable objectives are in the top two quartiles. Some funds have less than one year of performance.
About BlackRock
BlackRock is one of the world's largest publicly traded investment management firms. As of September 30, 2007, AUM was $1.3 trillion. The firm manages assets on behalf of institutions and individuals worldwide through a variety of equity, fixed income, cash management and alternative investment products. In addition, a growing number of institutional investors use investment system, risk management and financial advisory services. Headquartered in New York City, as of September 30, 2007, the firm has approximately 5,100 employees in 19 countries and a major presence in key global markets, including the U.S., Europe, Asia, Australia and the Middle East. For additional information, please visit the Company's website at .
BlackRock Solutions
www.blackrock.com
 
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release, and other statements that BlackRock may make, may contain forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act, with respect to BlackRock's future financial or business performance, strategies or expectations. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as "trend," "potential," "opportunity," "pipeline," "believe," "comfortable," "expect," "anticipate," "current," "intention," "estimate," "position," "assume," "outlook," "continue," "remain," "maintain," "sustain," "seek," "achieve," and similar expressions, or future or conditional verbs such as "will," "would," "should," "could," "may" or similar expressions.
BlackRock cautions that forward-looking statements are subject to numerous assumptions, risks and uncertainties, which change over time. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and BlackRock assumes no duty to and does not undertake to update forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in forward-looking statements and future results could differ materially from historical performance.
In addition to factors previously disclosed in BlackRock's SEC reports and those identified elsewhere in this communication, the following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking statements or historical performance: (1) the introduction, withdrawal, success and timing of business initiatives and strategies; (2) changes in political, economic or industry conditions, the interest rate environment or financial and capital markets, which could result in changes in demand for products or services or in the value of assets under management; (3) the relative and absolute investment performance of BlackRock's investment products, including its separately managed accounts; (4) the impact of increased competition; (5) the impact of capital improvement projects; (6) the impact of future acquisitions or divestitures; (7) the unfavorable resolution of legal proceedings; (8) the extent and timing of any share repurchases; (9) the impact, extent and timing of technological changes and the adequacy of intellectual property protection; (10) the impact of legislative and regulatory actions and reforms and regulatory, supervisory or enforcement actions of government agencies relating to BlackRock, Merrill Lynch or PNC; (11) terrorist activities and international hostilities, which may adversely affect the general economy, domestic and local financial and capital markets, specific industries and BlackRock; (12) the ability to attract and retain highly talented professionals; (13) fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which may adversely affect the value of advisory and administration fees earned by BlackRock; (14) the impact of changes to tax legislation and, generally, the tax position of the Company; (15) BlackRock's ability to successfully integrate the MLIM and Quellos businesses with its existing business; (16) the ability of BlackRock to effectively manage the former MLIM and Quellos assets along with its historical assets under management; and (17) BlackRock's success in maintaining the distribution of its products.
BlackRock's Annual Reports on Form 10-K and BlackRock's subsequent filings with the SEC, accessible on the SEC's website at and on BlackRock's website at , discuss these factors in more detail and identify additional factors that can affect forward-looking statements. The information contained on our website is not a part of this press release.
http://www.sec.gov
http://www.blackrock.com
 
Attachment I
 
NOTE: Certain prior period information has been reclassified to conform to current period presentation.
NM - Not meaningful
 
(a) BlackRock reports its financial results on a GAAP basis, however management believes that evaluating the Company's ongoing operating results may not be as useful if investors are limited to reviewing only GAAP financial measures. Management reviews non-GAAP financial measures to assess ongoing operations and, for the reasons described below, considers them to be effective indicators, for both management and investors, of BlackRock's financial performance over time. BlackRock's management does not advocate that investors consider such non-GAAP financial measures in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Operating margin, as adjusted, equals operating income, as adjusted, divided by revenue used for operating margin measurement, as indicated in the table below. As a result of recent changes in BlackRock's business, management has altered the way it views its operating margin, as adjusted. As such, the calculation of operating income, as adjusted, and operating margin, as adjusted, were modified in the second quarter 2007 primarily to adjust for costs associated with closed-end fund issuances and amortization of deferred sales costs, as shown below. Revenue used for operating margin, as adjusted, for all periods presented includes affiliated and unaffiliated portfolio administration and servicing costs. Certain prior period non-GAAP data has been reclassified to conform to current period presentation. Computations for all periods are derived from the Company's condensed consolidated statements of income as follows:
 
 
(a) (continued)
Management believes that operating income, as adjusted, and operating margin, as adjusted, are effective indicators of management's ability to effectively employ BlackRock's resources. As such, management believes that operating income, as adjusted, and operating margin, as adjusted, provide useful disclosure to investors.
Non-GAAP Operating Income Adjustments:
The expense related to the termination of the closed-end fund administration and servicing arrangements with Merrill Lynch has been excluded from operating income, as adjusted, as the termination of the arrangements is deemed non-recurring by management. The portion of the LTIP expense associated with awards funded through the distribution to participants of shares of BlackRock stock held by PNC and the anticipated Merrill Lynch compensation contribution have been excluded because, exclusive of the impact related to LTIP participants' put options, these charges do not impact BlackRock's book value. MLIM and Quellos integration costs consist principally of certain professional fees, rebranding costs and compensation costs related to the integration which were reflected in GAAP net income. Integration costs have been deemed non-recurring by management and have been excluded from operating income, as adjusted, to help ensure the comparability of this information to prior periods. Closed-end fund launch costs and commissions have been excluded from operating income, as adjusted, because such costs can fluctuate considerably and revenues associated with the expenditure of such costs will not fully impact the Company's results until future periods. As such, management believes that operating margins exclusive of these costs are more representative of the operating performance for the given period. Compensation expense associated with appreciation (depreciation) on assets related to certain BlackRock's deferred compensation plans has been excluded because investment returns on these assets are reported in non-operating income.
Non- GAAP Revenue Adjustments:
Portfolio administration and servicing costs have been excluded from revenue used for operating margin, as adjusted, because the Company receives offsetting revenue and expense for these services. Amortization of deferred sales costs are excluded from revenue used for operating margin measurement, as adjusted, because such costs offset distribution fee revenue earned by the Company. Reimbursable property management compensation represents compensation and benefits paid to certain BlackRock Realty Advisors, Inc. ("Realty") personnel. These employees are retained on Realty's payroll when certain properties are acquired by Realty's clients. The related compensation and benefits are fully reimbursed by Realty's clients and have been excluded from revenue used for operating margin, as adjusted, because they bear no economic cost to BlackRock.
 
(b) BlackRock reports its financial results on a GAAP basis, however management believes that evaluating the Company's ongoing operating results may not be as useful if investors are limited to reviewing only GAAP-basis financial measures. Management reviews non-GAAP financial measures to assess ongoing operations and for the reasons described below, considers them to be effective indicators, for both management and investors, of BlackRock's financial performance over time. BlackRock's management does not advocate that investors consider such non-GAAP financial measures in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
Management believes that net income, as adjusted, and diluted earnings per share, as adjusted, are effective measurements of BlackRock's profitability and financial performance. The termination of the closed-end fund administration and servicing arrangements with Merrill Lynch has been excluded from net income, as adjusted, as the termination of the arrangements is deemed non-recurring by management. The portion of the LTIP expense associated with awards funded through the distribution to participants of shares of BlackRock stock held by PNC and the anticipated Merrill Lynch compensation contribution have been excluded from net income, as adjusted, and diluted earnings per share, as adjusted, because, exclusive of the impact related to LTIP participants' put options, these charges do not impact BlackRock's book value. MLIM and Quellos integration costs reflected in GAAP net income have been deemed non-recurring by management and have been excluded from net income, as adjusted, and diluted earnings per share, as adjusted, to help ensure the comparability of this information to prior reporting periods. Integration costs consist principally of compensation costs, professional fees and rebranding costs incurred in conjunction with the integrations. The United Kingdom and Germany, during third quarter 2007, enacted legislation reducing corporate income taxes, effective in April and January of 2008, respectively, which resulted in a revaluation of certain deferred tax liabilities. Currently, BlackRock does not anticipate a significant change to its overall tax rate in 2008. The resulting decrease in income taxes has been excluded from net income, as adjusted, as it is non-recurring and to ensure comparability to prior reporting periods.
(c) Series A non-voting participating preferred stock is considered to be common stock for purposes of earnings per share calculations.
 
Attachment II
 
 
 
NM - Not meaningful
 
Attachment III
Summary
 
 
 
 
NOTE: Certain prior period information has been reclassified to conform to current period presentation.
 


