FILE:BLK/BLK-8K-20070925134006.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check  the  appropriate  box  below  if the  Form  8-K  filing  is  intended  to simultaneously  satisfy the filing obligation to the registrant under any of the following provisions:
|_| Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
|_| Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
|_| Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
|_| Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 5.02   Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
(d) Election of New Director
On September 25, 2007, the board of directors of BlackRock, Inc. (the "Company") elected Mathis Cabiallavetta to serve as a director.  Mr. Cabiallavetta is Vice Chairman, Office of the Chief Executive Officer of Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. ("MMC"), Chairman of MMC International, and since 1994 a member of MMCs International Advisory Board.  Prior to joining MMC in 1999, Mr. Cabiallavetta was Chairman of the Board of Directors of Union Bank of Switzerland ("UBS A.G.").  He joined UBS A.G. in 1971 and held numerous positions before becoming Executive Vice President and a member of the Group Executive Board in 1992 with responsibility for Trading & Sales, Risk Management Services and the International Division.  He became president of the Group Executive Board in 1996 and was elected chairman of UBS A.G. in 1998.
The Company issued a press release announcing this appointment on September 25, 2007.  A copy of the press release is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)           Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
 
News Release
Contact:
 BlackRock, Inc. (NYSE:BLK) today announced the addition of   Cabiallavetta brings the total number of directors to 17, 10 of whom are independent and not affiliated with the Company.
New York, September 25, 2007
Mathis Cabiallavetta to its Board of Directors. The addition of Mr.
Mr. Cabiallavetta is V
ice Chairman, Office of the Chief Executive Officer of Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. (MMC), Chairman of MMC International, and since 1994 a member of MMC
s International Advisory Board.  Prior to joinin
g MMC in 1999, Mr. Cabiallavetta was Chairman of the Board of Directors of Union Bank of Switzerland (UBS A.G.).  He joined UBS A.G. in 1971 and held numerous positions before becoming Executive Vice President and a member of the Group Executive Board in 1992
w
ith responsibility for Trading & Sales, Risk Management Services and the International Division.  He became president of the Group Executive Board in 1996 and was elected chairman of UBS A.G. in 1998.  Mr. Cabiallavetta is also a member of the Board of Al
t
ria Group, Inc.
Adding a director of Mathis caliber to the Board is a great win for BlackRock," commented Laurence D. Fink, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Mathis brings the benefit of his broad experience managing a global franchise and his insights will be invaluable in navigating BlackRocks continued growth.
About BlackRock
BlackRock is one of the worlds largest publicly traded investment management firms. As of June 30, 2007, assets under management were $1.230 trillion. The firm manages assets on behalf of institutions and individuals worldwide through a variety of equity, fixed income, cash management and alternative investment products. In addition, a growing number of institutional investors use  investment system, risk management and financial advisory services. Headquartered in New York City, the firm has approximately 5,000 employees in 18 countries and a major presence in key global markets, including the U.S., Europe, Asia, Australia and the Middle East. For additional information, please visit the Company's website at .
BlackRock Solutions
www.blackrock.com
 
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release, and other statements that BlackRock may make, may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act, with respect to BlackRocks future financial or business performance, strategies or expectations. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as trend, potential, opportunity, pipeline, believe, comfortable, expect, anticipate, current, intention, estimate, position, assume, outlook, continue, remain, maintain, sustain, seek, achieve, and similar expressions, or future or conditional verbs such as will, would, should, could, may or similar expressions.
BlackRock cautions that forward-looking statements are subject to numerous assumptions, risks and uncertainties, which change over time.  Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and BlackRock assumes no duty to and does not undertake to update forward-looking statements.  Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in forward-looking statements and future results could differ materially from historical performance.
 
In addition to factors previously disclosed in BlackRock's SEC reports and those identified elsewhere in this communication, the following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking statements or historical performance: (1) the introduction, withdrawal, success and timing of business initiatives and strategies; (2) changes in political, economic or industry conditions, the interest rate environment or financial and capital markets, which could result in changes in demand for products or services or in the value of assets under management; (3) the relative and absolute investment performance of BlackRock's investment products, including its separately managed accounts and the former MLIM business; (4) the impact of increased competition; (5) the impact of capital improvement projects; (6) the impact of future acquisitions or divestitures; (7) the unfavorable resolution of legal proceedings; (8) the extent and timing of any share repurchases; (9) the impact, extent and timing of technological changes and the adequacy of intellectual property protection; (10) the impact of legislative and regulatory actions and reforms and regulatory, supervisory or enforcement actions of government agencies relating to BlackRock, Merrill Lynch or PNC; (11) terrorist activities and international hostilities, which may adversely affect the general economy, domestic and local financial and capital markets, specific industries and BlackRock; (12) the ability to attract and retain highly talented professionals; (13) fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which may adversely affect the value of advisory fees earned by BlackRock; (14) the impact of changes to tax legislation and, generally, the tax position of the Company; (15) BlackRock's ability to successfully integrate the MLIM business with its existing business; (16) the ability of BlackRock to effectively manage the former MLIM assets along with its historical assets under management; (17) BlackRock's success in maintaining the distribution of its products; and (18) the ability of BlackRock to consummate the transaction with Quellos and realize the benefits of such transaction.
 
 
BlackRock's Annual Reports on Form 10-K and BlackRock's subsequent filings with the SEC, accessible on the SEC's website at and on BlackRocks website at , discuss these factors in more detail and identify additional factors that can affect forward-looking statements. The information contained on our website is not a part of this press release.
http://www.sec.gov
http://www.blackrock.com
 
 
 


