FILE:BLK/BLK-8K-20071217160957.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Explanatory Note
On October 1, 2007, BlackRock, Inc. ("BlackRock") announced that it had completed its acquisition of the funds of funds business of Quellos Group, LLC ("Quellos") through the purchase of certain assets and assumption of certain liabilities of Quellos pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of June 26, 2007 (the "Asset Purchase Agreement"), by and among BAA Holdings, LLC, Quellos Holdings, LLC and BlackRock.
A Current Report on Form 8-K was filed on October 1, 2007 reflecting the completion of the acquisition. This Form 8-K/A is being filed to amend Item 9.01 of the Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 1, 2007. This amendment provides the audited historical consolidated financial statements of the entities that included the fund of funds business of Quellos as required by Item 9.01(a) of Form 8-K and both unaudited interim and unaudited pro forma financial information required by Item 9.01(b) of Form 8-K, which financial statements and pro forma information were not included in the Form 8-K filed on October 1, 2007. The Quellos financial information was prepared and provided to BlackRock by Quellos. The remainder of the information contained in the Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 1, 2007 is not amended hereby.
The assets and liabilities acquired by BlackRock from Quellos are as set forth in the Asset Purchase Agreement. The pro forma financial information included in this filing reflects adjustments to exclude assets and liabilities not acquired in the transaction, such as liabilities relating to any ongoing litigation or investigations.
On September 11, 2007, BlackRock filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission a Form 8-K which included an unaudited condensed combined pro forma statement of income that gave effect to BlackRock's acquisition of Merrill Lynch Investment Managers for the year ended December 31, 2006. Exhibit 99.4 reflects revised pro forma adjustments as noted therein and amends and supersedes the prior filing.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(a) Financial statements of business acquired.
The audited consolidated balance sheet of Quellos at December 31, 2006 and the related audited consolidated statements of operations, changes in members' capital and cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2006 are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and are incorporated in their entirety herein by reference.
The unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheet of Quellos at September 30, 2007 and December 31, 2006 and the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations, changes in members' capital and cash flows for the nine months ended September 30, 2007 and 2006 are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and are incorporated in their entirety herein by reference.
(b) Pro forma financial information.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of financial condition at September 30, 2007 and the unaudited condensed combined statements of income for the nine months ended September 30, 2007 and for the year ended December 31, 2006 are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.3 and are incorporated in their entirety herein by reference.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 23.1
We consent to the use of our report dated September 27, 2007, with respect to the consolidated financial statements of Quellos Group, LLC and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2006 and for the year then ended, included in this Current Report on Form 8-K/A of BlackRock, Inc.
We also consent to the incorporation by reference of our report dated September 27, 2007, with respect to the consolidated financial statements of Quellos Group, LLC and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2006 and for the year then ended, included herein in the following Registration Statements:
 
 
 
 
Seattle, Washington
December 13, 2007

Exhibit 99.1
C F S
ONSOLIDATED
INANCIAL
TATEMENTS
Quellos Group, LLC and Subsidiaries
Year Ended December 31, 2006
With Report of Independent Auditors
 
The Board of Directors and Members of Quellos Group, LLC
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of Quellos Group, LLC (majority owned by Quellos Holdings, LLC) and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2006 and the related consolidated statement of operations, changes in members' capital, and cash flows for the year then ended. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. We were not engaged to perform an audit of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. Our audit included consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Quellos Group, LLC and subsidiaries at December 31, 2006, and the consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for the year then ended in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, in 2006 the Company changed its method of consolidation and accounting for share-based payments.
 
Seattle, Washington
September 27, 2007
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
 
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
1. Description of Business
Quellos Group, LLC ("QG" or "the Company") is majority owned by Quellos Holding, LLC ("QH"). QG provides investment management services, with respect to alternative investments, on a global basis to institutional and individual investors. QG's principal wholly owned subsidiaries include:
 
 
 
 
 
2. Significant Accounting Policies
Basis of Presentation
The consolidated financial statements are presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, which include prevailing industry practices. The accompanying financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, which are comprised of (i) those entities in which the Company has an investment of 50% or more and has control over significant operating, financial and investing decisions of the entity, and (ii) the consolidated funds, which are those entities in which its has a substantive or controlling general partner or managing member interest. With respect to the consolidated funds, Quellos generally has operational discretion and control, and the limited partners/members have no substantive rights to impact ongoing governance and operating activities. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated.
Quellos holds interests in certain variable interest entities ("VIEs"). All of the VIEs are Quellos funds which are privately held investment vehicles offering clients exposure to absolute return, private capital, real asset or co-investment strategies through multimanager investment funds. Quellos sponsored the formation of and manages each of these VIEs and, in some cases, has a principal investment therein. As of December 31, 2006, the VIEs in which Quellos was not the primary beneficiary had assets of approximately $1.5 billion of which Quellos' interest was $849 thousand.
Pursuant to EITF Issue 04-5 Quellos consolidated limited partnerships or similar entities in which it acts as the general partner or managing member and the entities do not provide the limited partners or members with substantive participating or kick-out rights.
VIEs for which Quellos was the primary beneficiary and entities consolidated by Quellos pursuant to EITF Issue 04-5 collectively had assets totaling approximately $3.5 billion, of which Quellos' interest was approximately $33.7 million at December 31, 2006.
For entities over which Quellos may exercise significant influence but which do not meet the requirements for consolidation, Quellos uses the equity method of accounting.
 
2. Significant Accounting Policies (continued)
Use of Estimates
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the period. Such estimates include the fair value of certain investments and the estimated value of the Company, which is used to record compensation expense related to equity compensation arrangements. Actual results could differ from such estimates.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
Quellos considers amounts due from banks and all highly liquid investments, including those with an initial maturity of three months or less not held for sale in the normal course of business and cash on deposit to be cash equivalents.
Restricted Cash
Restricted cash and investments represents cash and cash equivalent balances and investments in investment funds, as described in Note 3, which are restricted from use in operations.
Accounts Receivable
Accounts receivable primarily consist of investment management and performance fees. Quellos maintains an allowance, when necessary, in order to absorb certain losses as a result of management's assessment that Quellos may be unable to collect amounts due which are contractually owed.
 
2. Significant Accounting Policies (continued)
Investments, at Fair Value
Pursuant to EITF 04-5, discussed below, funds consolidated by Quellos hold investments in private investment funds ("Investee Funds"). These investments are valued based upon the net asset value of each Investee Fund. Investments held by Investee Funds are valued at prices which approximate fair value. The fair value of certain investments in the Investee Funds, which include private placements and other securities for which fair values are not readily available, are determined in good faith by the respective Investee Funds or Quellos in its capacity as general partner or managing member. Estimated fair values may differ from the values that would have been used if a ready market existed for these investments.
Quellos had no direct investments in Investee Funds that exceeded 5% of Investments held by consolidated funds at December 31, 2006.
Investment transactions are accounted for on a trade date basis. Realized gains and losses on investment transactions are determined on an average cost basis. Gains and losses from investments in private investment funds, which are net of all fees and allocations to the investment advisors of the funds, are reflected as net gains (losses) from investments held by consolidated funds in the statement of operations.
Investments in investment funds that are not consolidated are accounted for under the equity method. Quellos' investment in these funds is equal to its proportional share of the funds' net assets. The underlying investments held by the investment funds are valued at prices which approximate fair value. The investment funds may hold investments in nonmarketable securities for which fair values have been estimated by Quellos in its capacity as general partner or managing member in the absence of a ready market. Estimated fair values may differ from values that would have been used if a ready market existed for these investments.
A substantial majority of investments at fair value are subject to restriction and are not available for general use in the Company's operations.
 
2. Significant Accounting Policies (continued)
Equity Swaps
Equity swaps are primarily held by consolidated funds. These swaps are recorded at their estimated fair value as determined in good faith by obtaining information from the counterparty and/or evaluating other available market data. Factors considered in the valuation process include the terms of the equity swap, marketability (or absence thereof), and transactions with other counterparties for similar equity swap transactions. Gains and losses on maturity or termination of swap agreements are recognized as realized gain (loss) on equity swap transactions. Changes in unrealized gain (loss) for the year are recognized as unrealized gain (loss) from equity swap transactions in the statement of operations.
Equity swap collateral is comprised of floating rate notes that are recorded at amortized cost, which approximates fair value.
Equipment, Facilities, and Depreciation
Depreciation of equipment and facilities is provided on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets.
 
Management, using its best estimates based on reasonable and supportable assumptions and projections, reviews equipment, and facilities for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of such assets might not be recoverable.
Capitalization of Software Costs
Costs related to the development of new software for internal use, incurred subsequent to the preliminary project stage but prior to the point at which the computer software is substantially complete and ready for its intended use, are capitalized and amortized over their estimated useful lives. Capitalized costs are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of such assets might not be recoverable.
 
2. Significant Accounting Policies (continued)
Goodwill
Management, using its best estimates based on reasonable and supportable assumptions and projections, reviews goodwill for impairment at least annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances have indicated that the carrying amount of such assets might not be recoverable.
Fair Value of Financial Instruments
Financial instruments consist of cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash and investments, investments in investment funds, and derivative financial instruments. The carrying amount of cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash, and investments approximates fair value. Purchases and sales of financial instruments, and the related revenues and expenses, are recorded on a trade-date basis.
Financial Instruments With Off-balance Sheet Risk
Securities sold short represent obligations of Quellos to deliver the specified security and, thereby, create a liability to purchase the security at prevailing prices. Accordingly, these transactions result in off-balance-sheet risk, as Quellos' ultimate obligation to satisfy the securities sold short may exceed the amount recognized in the statements of financial condition. Securities sold short are recorded at the fair value of the securities sold and are included in accrued expenses and other liabilities. Such securities had a fair value of $81 thousand at December 31, 2006.
Quellos and its consolidated funds may enter into or trade in a variety of swap, option, future, forward, and other over-the-counter derivative instruments, which may not trade on regulated financial markets. Such derivatives are recorded at their estimated fair value. Credit risk associated with these instruments arises from the possibility that a loss may occur from failure of the counterparty to perform according to the terms of the contract when unfavorable changes in the fair value of the underlying financial instrument exist. The estimated fair value of swaps totaled $30 million as of December 31, 2006. Quellos had a receivable for forward commitments of $548 thousand as of December 31, 2006.
Accrued Distribution Fees
Quellos records an accrued payable to unrelated parties for the distribution of certain investment products in non-U.S. jurisdictions.
 
2. Significant Accounting Policies (continued)
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income
Other comprehensive income is comprised of foreign exchange translation gains and losses. Accumulated other comprehensive income, a component of members' capital, totaled $289 thousand as of December 31, 2006.
Revenue Recognition
Generally, investment management and advisory fees are accrued monthly and the majority are collected on a quarterly basis. These fees are based on a combination of the performance of each investment fund and a percentage of the investment fund's net equity. Investment management and advisory fees include performance-based fees of $135.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. Investment management and advisory fees that are contingent based on the performance of an investment fund in the future totaled $1.4 million as of December 31, 2006, which represents the amounts that would be realizable as if the relationship was terminated on December 31
st
of the respective year.
Investment Income
Investment income primarily relates to income earned on investments in investment funds accounted for using the equity method.
Economic Participation Income
In accordance with the terms of various agreements between the Quellos Financial Ventures ("QFV") funds consolidated by Quellos and the investment managers of QFVs' Investee Funds, the QFV funds receive a specific percentage of performance and management fees charged by the Investee Funds' investment manager as defined by each agreement (the "Participation Rights"). These Participation Rights may be obtained through preference interests in the Investee Funds rather than their investment manager directly.
Equity-Based Compensation
Quellos adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 123(R), ("SFAS No. 123(R)"), when accounting for equity compensation arrangements. SFAS No. 123(R) provides that employee equity compensation expense be measured based on the fair value of the compensation arrangements.
Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation
 
2. Significant Accounting Policies (continued)
Non-controlling Interest in Net Income of Consolidated Entities
Non-controlling interest in net income reflects the minority owner's share of income of a consolidated subsidiary, and the limited partners'/nonmanaging members' share of a consolidated investment fund. Non-controlling interest holders in consolidated investment funds own a substantial portion of the consolidated assets of investment funds consolidated by Quellos.
Income Taxes
Generally, no provision for federal or state income taxes has been made since the Company is organized as a limited liability company, with associated income allocated to the members for inclusion in their respective returns. However, one jurisdiction does tax income at the limited liability company level. For the year ended December 31, 2006, income tax expense was $3.2 million and is included in state and local taxes in the statement of operations.
Certain Significant Risks
Quellos' management believes that any of the following could have an adverse effect on Quellos' future financial position: an adverse regulatory environment; changes in demand for financial services; results of legal or regulatory investigation; client redemptions; litigation; increased competition; poor investment performance; or adverse market conditions.
Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements
In June 2005, the Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") of the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") reached a conclusion and issued an abstract that provides guidance in assessing when a general partner, as defined in EITF Issue 04-5, should consolidate a limited partnership. EITF 04-5 states that a general partner in a limited partnership or similar entity is presumed to control that entity and, therefore, should include the entities in its consolidated financial statements, unless it can overcome the presumption of control though substantial participating rights or kick-out rights. The guidance was effective for existing and unmodified partnerships or similar entities in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. As a result of this guidance, beginning January 1, 2006 Quellos was required to consolidate those limited partnerships or similar entities for which it has a substantive interest, is general partner or managing member and the entities do not provide the limited partners or members with substantial participating rights or kick-out rights. The adoption of EITF Issue 04-5 resulted in the consolidation of investment funds, as described under "Basis of Presentation." There was no cumulative effect adjustment associated with the adoption of EITF Issue 04-5.
 
2. Significant Accounting Policies (continued)
Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements (continued)
("SFAS No. 123(R)") focuses on the accounting for transactions in which an entity obtains employee services in exchange for a share-based payment. For nonpublic companies the statement was effective for the first annual reporting period beginning after December 15, 2005. Accordingly, Quellos adopted SFAS No. 123(R) as of January 1, 2006. The adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) did not result in material differences in accounting for share-based payments.
Share-based Payment
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted
In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, . SFAS 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS 157 applies to reporting periods beginning after November 15, 2007. The Company is currently analyzing the potential impact of adoption of SFAS No. 157 to its consolidated financial statements.
Fair Value Measurements
In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, . The statement permits entities to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value. The statement may be adopted in fiscal years beginning on or before November 15, 2007. The Company is currently analyzing the potential impact of adoption of SFAS No. 159 to its consolidated financial statements.
The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities
3. Restricted Cash
Quellos holds positions in brokerage accounts which require Quellos to keep restricted cash in collateral accounts to cover margin requirements totaling $84 thousand at December 31, 2006.
 
4. Equipment and Facilities
Equipment and facilities consists of the following at December 31 (in thousands):
 
5. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities
Quellos leases space under various operating leases in Washington, New York, California, North Carolina, and the United Kingdom for which $5.8 million of rent expense was recognized in 2006. Future minimum rentals under noncancelable operating leases are as follows (in thousands):
 
Effective on July 13, 2006 Quellos subleased a California operating lease to a third party for the remainder of its lease term. Through this transaction, Quellos assigned all of its rights and interest under the master lease but remained liable to the third party for a portion of the lease payments. As a result, Quellos recognized a loss of $2.7 million in 2006.
Certain direct or indirect members of Quellos have guaranteed the payment of certain future minimum rentals. In consideration for the provision of this guarantee, Quellos provided security against any future payments by such guarantors by issuing a security interest which totaled $1.5 million at December 31, 2006 in certain investments in investment funds to these members and restricting Quellos from redeeming its interest in these investments in investment funds.
 
5. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities (continued)
Quellos and a former joint venture have been responding to inquiries by the Internal Revenue Service and the United States Attorney related to tax strategies that Quellos was involved with, which were developed or opined upon by certain big four accounting firms or law firms. Additionally, Quellos and the former joint venture have been involved in related civil litigation. Quellos recognizes provisions for potential claims when it determines that it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the claim, and the amount can be reasonably estimated. In 2006, Quellos recorded a provision of $61.8 million related to the aforementioned of which $58.1 million remains recorded at December 31, 2006. Given the stage of the remaining proceedings, management is unable to estimate the range of possible loss at this time. This provision only considers insurance reimbursements when agreement is reached with the insuring entities. The estimates are continually reviewed and adjusted as necessary as new information becomes known to the Company. The ultimate settlements could be materially different from the current estimate and any changes in the estimate will be reflected in future periods as such changes become known.
6. Line of Credit
QG has a revolving line of credit with a bank. The agreement allows for the issuance of letters of credit and cash borrowings of up to $17.5 million. The interest rate is based on the applicable London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") for the borrowing term plus 1.75% per annum. QG is subject to certain financial covenants customary with such agreements. At December 31, 2006, QG had outstanding letters of credit of $800 thousand and had no outstanding cash borrowings.
7. Members' Capital
Members' capital includes two components of members' interests, those of continuing members ($103.4 million) and those of withdrawn members ($12.8 million) at December 31, 2006. Upon a member withdrawing all or a portion of its interest, the member shall not be entitled to any allocations of income, gain, loss, deduction, and expense with respect to such withdrawn interests and shall not be entitled to exercise any of the other rights of a member in, or have any duties or other obligations of a member with respect to, such withdrawn interests. Subsequent to withdrawal but prior to repurchase by QG, withdrawn members earn a stated return on their interests, which is allocated to their capital account.
 
7. Members' Capital (continued)
The value of a withdrawn member's interest is determined based on the amount such member would receive in respect of the interest being repurchased if the assets of QG were sold at the Company Fair Market Value (as defined). Payments related to such redemptions, as well as payments related to the Plans (Note 11), are dependent upon the Board of Directors' determination of Cash Available for Distribution ("CAD," as defined). Payment of such amounts is dependent on future assessments of CAD, which cannot be currently determined. It is possible that these amounts may not be paid in the foreseeable future. To the extent the Board of Directors determines that there is CAD, distributions are required to be made to withdrawn members of no less than 25% of such CAD.
From January through September 27, 2007, the Company made 2007 capital distributions totaling $160 million.
8. Employee Benefit Plan
Quellos has a 401(k) profit sharing plan that is available to all employees of the Company. The 401(k) profit sharing plan is funded by employer contributions and voluntary employee contributions. Employees may contribute up to 100% of their pretax compensation to the 401(k) plan, with contributions not to exceed statutory limits. Employer contributions include a match of 50% of employee contributions up to 6% of base salary and a discretionary annual contribution allocated based on employee compensation and title. Both employer contributions are subject to vesting based on each employee's service period. Quellos recognized contributions of $2.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2006.
9. Net Capital Requirements
QFS is subject to the SEC Uniform Net Capital Rule (15c3-1), which requires the maintenance of minimum net capital. QFS is required to maintain minimum net capital such that the ratio of aggregate indebtedness to net capital, both as defined, shall not exceed 15 to 1. At December 31, 2006, QFS had net capital of $825 thousand which was $820 thousand in excess of its required net capital of $5 thousand and had a ratio of aggregate indebtedness to net capital of .0013 to 1.
10. Related Party Transactions
Receivables from employees totaled $134 thousand at December 31, 2006. Certain accounts payable and accrued expenses are reimbursements owed to employees, totaling $206 thousand at December 31, 2006.
 
11. Equity Compensation Arrangements
QG and QH have certain equity compensation arrangements to provide additional financial incentives to Quellos employees.
Equity Incentive Plans
QG and QH have each adopted an equity incentive plan (the "Plans"), which provides for the granting of nonqualified options to purchase membership interests ("Options"). Options granted under the Plans typically vest 25% in the first year and ratably over the following 12 quarters. The exercise prices of the Options are typically at estimated fair value as determined by the Board of Directors at the date of grant, and the Options are subject to plan termination dates of April 30, 2011, and December 31, 2010, for Options granted by QG and QH, respectively. SFAS No. 123(R) provides private companies the option to account for cash settled equity plans as liabilities. Quellos has elected the option to account for the Plans as liability plans and, therefore, compensation expense is recorded each period based on the Options' intrinsic value. The impact of changes in the underlying price is recognized as compensation expense until the Options are cash settled or forfeited.
 
11. Equity Compensation Arrangements (continued)
Activity of Options granted under the Plans was as follows (in thousands except per share amounts):
 
For the foreseeable future, Options granted under the Plans of QH to employees of Quellos will be settled in cash by QH and Quellos will not be required to reimburse QH. Likewise, Options granted under the Plans of QG to employees of QG's subsidiaries will be settled in cash by QG, and the subsidiaries will not be required to reimburse QG.
 
11. Equity Compensation Arrangements (continued)
Equity Awards
In addition to the Plans, other equity compensation awards ("Equity Awards") were granted to senior employees of Quellos. Recipients of Equity Awards became members of QG and QH, as applicable. The Equity Awards generally provide for potential future allocations of operating profits and losses, which are immediately vested, and potential future allocations of certain nonoperating gains or losses, which are subject to various vesting schedules and requirements.
Membership interest activity related to the Equity Awards was as follows (in thousands except per share amounts):
 
 
11. Equity Compensation Arrangements (continued)
Quellos recognizes compensation expense for Equity Awards based on the estimated fair value at the time of grant, which is amortized over the vesting period of each grant. To determine the compensation expense under SFAS No. 123(R) for awards granted in 2006 or SFAS 123 for awards granted prior to 2006, Quellos estimated the fair value of each Equity Award on the grant date using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following assumptions:
The weighted-average Black-Scholes value of Equity Awards granted by QG during 2006 was estimated using a weighted-average expected life of 5 years; no dividends; a volatility of 12.9%; and a risk-free interest rate of 3.6%.
At December 31, 2006, a maximum of 45,854,212 membership interests were authorized to be utilized pursuant to the equity compensation arrangements. Since the inception of the Plan, equity compensation arrangements governing 48,150,892 membership interests and Options have been cumulatively granted, and of these, 2,147,550 have been cash settled, 5,497,624 have been forfeited, and 3,200,944 were available for grant. Membership interests and Options that have been forfeited are available for regranting and included in the amount available for grant.
12. Subsequent Events
On June 26, 2007, BlackRock, Inc. ("BlackRock") and BAA Holdings, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of BlackRock, entered into a definitive asset purchase agreement with Quellos Holdings, LLC, the majority owner of QG. Pursuant to the agreement BlackRock will acquire the multimanager investment fund businesses of Quellos through the purchase of certain assets and assumption of certain liabilities of Quellos and certain of its affiliates; such businesses comprise a significant portion of the Company's revenues.
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
See accompanying notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
 
 
See accompanying notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
 
 
See accompanying notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
 
 
See accompanying notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
 
1. Significant Accounting Policies
Basis of Presentation
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements are presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The accompanying financial statements include the accounts of Quellos Group, LLC ("Quellos" or "the Company") and its consolidated subsidiaries, which are comprised of (i) those entities in which the Company has an investment of 50% or more and has control over significant operating, financial and investing decisions of the entity, and (ii) the consolidated funds, which are those entities in which the Company has a substantive or controlling general partner or managing member interest. With respect to the consolidated funds, Quellos generally has operational discretion and control, and the limited partners/members have no substantive rights to impact ongoing governance and operating activities. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated.
The preparation of condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the condensed consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. Actual results could differ from those estimates and assumptions. Certain financial information that normally is included in annual financial statements, including certain financial statement footnotes is not required for interim reporting purposes and has been condensed or omitted herein. These condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with Quellos's consolidated financial statements and notes related thereto for the year ended December 31, 2006.
Pursuant to FASB interpretation No. 46 (revised 2003), , Quellos holds interests in certain variable interest entities ("VIEs"). All of the VIEs are Quellos funds which are privately held investment vehicles offering clients exposure to absolute return, private capital, real asset or co-investment strategies through multimanager investment funds. Quellos sponsored the formation of and manages each of these VIEs and, in some cases, has a principal investment therein. At September 30, 2007, Quellos' interest in VIEs in which it was not the primary beneficiary was $938,000.
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities
Pursuant to Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") No. 04-5,, Quellos consolidated limited partnerships or similar entities in which it acts as the general partner or managing member and the entities do not provide the limited partners or members with substantive participating rights.
Determining Whether a General Partner, or the General Partners as a Group, Controls a Limited Partnership or Similar Entity When the Limited Partners Have Certain Rights
VIEs for which Quellos was the primary beneficiary and entities consolidated by Quellos pursuant to EITF Issue 04-5 collectively had total assets of approximately $3.7 billion, of which Quellos' interest was approximately $42 million at September 30, 2007.
For entities over which Quellos may exercise significant influence but which do not meet the requirements for consolidation, Quellos uses the equity method of accounting.
 
1. Significant Accounting Policies (continued)
Investments, at Fair Value
Pursuant to EITF 04-5, funds consolidated by Quellos hold investments in private investment funds ("Investee Funds"). These investments are valued based upon the net asset value of each Investee Fund. Investments held by Investee Funds are valued at prices which approximate fair value. The fair value of certain investments in the Investee Funds, which include private placements and other securities for which fair values are not readily available, are determined in good faith by the respective Investee Funds or Quellos in its capacity as general partner or managing member. Estimated fair values may differ from the values that would have been used if a ready market existed for these investments.
Investment transactions are accounted for on a trade date basis. Realized gains and losses on investment transactions are determined on an average cost basis. Gains and losses from investments in private investment funds, which are net of all fees and allocations to the investment advisors of the funds, are reflected as net gains (losses) from investments held by consolidated funds in the statement of operations.
Investments in investment funds that are not consolidated are accounted for under the equity method. Quellos' investment in these funds is equal to its proportional share of the funds' net assets. The underlying investments held by the investment funds are valued at prices which approximate fair value. The investment funds may hold investments in nonmarketable securities for which fair values have been estimated by Quellos in its capacity as general partner or managing member in the absence of a ready market. Estimated fair values may differ from values that would have been used if a ready market existed for these investments.
A majority of investments at fair value are subject to restriction and are not available for general use in the Company's operations.
Revenue Recognition
Generally, investment management and advisory fees are accrued monthly and the majority are collected on a quarterly basis. These fees are based on a combination of the performance of each investment fund and a percentage of the investment fund's net equity. Investment management and advisory fees include performance-based fees of $122 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2007 and $71 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2006. Investment management and advisory fees that were previously recorded and contingent based on future performance of an investment fund totaled $26 million at September 30, 2007, which represents the amount that would be realizable if the relationship was terminated on September 30, 2007.
 
1. Significant Accounting Policies (continued)
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted
In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, . SFAS 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS 157 applies to reporting periods beginning after November 15, 2007. The Company is currently analyzing the potential impact of adoption of SFAS No. 157 to its consolidated financial statements.
Fair Value Measurements
In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, . The statement permits entities to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value. The statement may be adopted in fiscal years beginning on or before November 15, 2007. The Company is currently analyzing the potential impact of adoption of SFAS No. 159 to its consolidated financial statements.
The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities
2. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities
Quellos leases space under various operating leases in Washington, New York, California, North Carolina, and the United Kingdom for which $3 million and $4 million of rent expense was recognized in the nine months ended September 30, 2007 and September 30, 2006, respectively. Future minimum rentals under noncancelable operating leases are as follows (in thousands):
 
Effective July 13, 2006, Quellos subleased a California operating lease to a third party for the remainder of its lease term. Through this transaction, Quellos assigned all of its rights and interest under the master lease but remained liable to the third party for a portion of the lease payments. As a result, Quellos recognized a loss of $2.7 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2006 in other expenses on the condensed consolidated statement of operations.
Certain direct or indirect members of Quellos have guaranteed the payment of certain future minimum rentals. In consideration for the provision of this guarantee, Quellos provided security against any future payments by such guarantors by issuing a security interest which totaled approximately $2 million at September 30, 2007 in certain investments in investment funds to these members and restricting Quellos from redeeming its interest in these investments in investment funds.
 
2. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities (continued)
Quellos and a former joint venture have been responding to inquiries by the Internal Revenue Service and the United States Attorney related to tax strategies that Quellos was involved with, which were developed or opined upon by certain big four accounting firms or law firms. Additionally, Quellos and the former joint venture have been involved in related civil litigation. Quellos recognizes provisions for potential claims when it determines that it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the claim, and the amount can be reasonably estimated. The accrued liabilities related to such potential claims at September 30, 2007 and December 31, 2006 were $52 million and $58 million, respectively. Given the stage of the remaining proceedings, management is unable to estimate the range of possible loss at this time. This provision only considers insurance reimbursements when agreement is reached with the insuring entities. The estimates are continually reviewed and adjusted as necessary as new information becomes known to the Company. The ultimate settlements could be materially different from the current estimate and any changes in the estimate will be reflected in future periods as such changes become known.
3. Subsequent Event
On June 26, 2007, BlackRock, Inc. ("BlackRock") and BAA Holdings, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of BlackRock, entered into a definitive asset purchase agreement with Quellos Holdings, LLC, the majority owner of Quellos Group, LLC. Pursuant to the agreement, BlackRock acquired the multimanager investment fund businesses of Quellos on October 1, 2007, through the purchase of certain assets and assumption of certain liabilities of Quellos; such businesses comprise a significant portion of the Company's revenues.
Effective October 1, 2007 in connection with the BlackRock transaction discussed above, substantive "kick-out" rights were granted to the unaffiliated limited partners or members of most Quellos funds that are limited partnerships or limited liability companies that enable the partners or members to remove the respective general partner or managing member with a simple majority vote.
 

Exhibit 99.3
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income and explanatory notes of BlackRock, Inc. ("BlackRock") set forth below for the year ended December 31, 2006 gives effect to the acquisitions of Merrill Lynch Investment Managers ("MLIM") and Quellos, both accounted for as purchase business combinations, as if these acquisitions occurred at the beginning of the period presented.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income for the nine months ended September 30, 2007 set forth below gives effect to the acquisition of Quellos as if the acquisition occurred at the beginning of the period. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of financial condition at September 30, 2007 set forth below gives effect to the acquisition of Quellos assuming the transaction was consummated at September 30, 2007.
On a combined basis, there were no material transactions between BlackRock, MLIM and Quellos during the periods presented excluding certain acquisition related items.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income are provided for informational purposes only and do not purport to reflect the results of BlackRock's operations or financial condition had the transactions actually been consummated on January 1, 2006 or January 1, 2007. We have made, in our opinion, all adjustments that are necessary to present fairly the pro forma financial data. The pro forma adjustments reflecting the allocation of the purchase price of Quellos on the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income and statement of financial condition are based upon preliminary estimates and are subject to finalization. The pro forma combined provision for income taxes may not represent the amounts that would have resulted had BlackRock, MLIM and Quellos filed consolidated income tax returns during the periods presented.
 
 
See accompanying notes to condensed combined pro forma financial statements.
 
 
See accompanying notes to condensed combined pro forma financial statements.
 
 
See accompanying notes to condensed combined pro forma financial statements.
 
 
On June 26, 2007, BlackRock, Inc. (the "Company") announced that it had entered into an asset purchase agreement under which it would acquire certain assets and assume certain liabilities of the fund of funds business of Quellos Group, LLC ("Quellos") for up to $1,719,000 (the "Quellos Transaction"). The assets and liabilities acquired by BlackRock from Quellos are as set forth in the asset purchase agreement. The pro forma financial information provided in this filing reflects adjustments to exclude assets and liabilities not acquired in the transaction, such as liabilities relating to any ongoing litigation or investigations.
The Quellos Transaction closed on October 1, 2007, and BlackRock paid Quellos $562,500 in cash and issued 1,191,785 shares of BlackRock, Inc. common stock valued at $187,500. The common stock will be held in escrow for up to three years and is available to satisfy certain indemnification obligations of Quellos under the asset purchase agreement. The value of the common stock consideration was determined using the average closing price of BlackRock's common stock ten trading days before the Quellos Transaction announcement date.
In addition, Quellos may receive two contingent payments upon achieving certain revenue measures, totaling up to an additional $969,000 in a combination of cash and stock over three and a half years. The first contingent payment, of up to $374,000, is payable 75% in cash and the remaining 25% in BlackRock common stock. The second contingent payment of up to $595,000 is payable in cash.
The Quellos Transaction was accounted for under the purchase method of accounting in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141, . Accordingly, the purchase price was allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based upon their estimated fair values at the date of the transaction. The excess, if any, of the final purchase price, which may include contingent consideration payments, over the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed will be recorded as goodwill.
Business Combinations
A summary of the estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in this acquisition is as follows:
 
 
 
Approximately $11,953 of direct costs were capitalized in conjunction with the Quellos Transaction, primarily representing $7,500 of financial advisory fees and approximately $4,453 in legal and other professional fees. Finite-life intangible management contracts have a weighted average estimated useful life of approximately 8 years and will be amortized on the straight-line method.
The purchase accounting adjustments are preliminary and subject to revision. At this time, except for the items noted below, we do not expect any material change in the value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in conjunction with the transaction. Specifically, the following assets and liabilities are subject to change:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of financial condition at September 30, 2007 is based on the historical unaudited condensed consolidated statement of financial condition of BlackRock, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") on Form 10-Q on November 8, 2007, and the condensed consolidated balance sheet of Quellos. The pro forma statement of financial condition has been prepared as if the Quellos acquisition had occurred on September 30, 2007, the date of the statement of financial condition.
BlackRock's pro forma condensed statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2006 was derived from the Company's unaudited condensed consolidated pro-forma statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2006, which is included in Exhibit 99.4, and the statement of operations for Quellos for the year ended December 31, 2006. BlackRock's unaudited condensed consolidated pro forma statement of income for the nine months ended September 30, 2007 was derived from the Company's unaudited condensed consolidated interim financial statements for the nine months ended September 30, 2007, which were filed with the SEC on Form 10-Q, and the unaudited condensed consolidated statement of operations for Quellos for the nine months ended September 30, 2007. The pro forma condensed combined statements of income has been prepared as if the MLIM and Quellos acquisitions occurred at the beginning of the periods presented.
These unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements also should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations contained within BlackRock's Form 10-Q and Exhibit 99.4, referenced above, and BlackRock's Form 10-K as filed with the SEC.
 
2. Basis of Pro Forma Presentation (continued)
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements also should be read in conjunction with Quellos's audited annual consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2006 and unaudited condensed consolidated interim financial statements for the nine months ended September 30, 2007 and 2006.
On a combined basis, there were no material transactions between BlackRock and Quellos during the periods presented excluding certain acquisition-related items.
The following additional assumptions were made in deriving BlackRock's pro forma condensed combined financial statements:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements do not purport to be indicative of the actual financial position or results of BlackRock's operations, or of BlackRock's future financial position or results of operations, had BlackRock's acquisitions of Merrill Lynch Investment Managers ("MLIM") on September 29, 2006 and Quellos on October 1, 2007 actually been consummated at the beginning of each period. The pro forma adjustments reflecting the allocation of the purchase price of Quellos on the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of financial condition and the effect thereof on pro forma adjustments to the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income are based on preliminary estimates and are subject to finalization. The pro forma combined provision for income taxes may not represent the amounts that would have resulted had BlackRock, MLIM and Quellos filed consolidated income tax returns during the periods presented.
 
3. Earnings per Common Share
The pro forma combined basic and diluted earnings per share for the periods presented are based on the weighted average number of shares of common stock of BlackRock during each applicable period.
The 1,191,785 shares of BlackRock Inc. common stock held in escrow are not included in basic and diluted earnings per share because the contingency has not been resolved and the shares have not been released to Quellos.
The following tables present the computations of pro forma basic and diluted earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2006 and the nine months ended September 30, 2007, respectively:
 
 
4. Pro Forma Adjustments
The pro forma condensed combined statement of financial condition has been prepared to reflect the acquisition of the Quellos Business for the aggregate consideration described in Note 1. Pro forma adjustments have been made:
 
 
 
 
The pro forma condensed combined statements of income have been prepared as if the transactions had been completed at the beginning of the periods presented. Pro forma adjustments have been made:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Quellos statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2006, includes a pre-tax expense of $62,000 related to potential legal claims. This pre-tax expense is not included as a pro forma adjustment as it is not directly attributable to the transaction. The liability related to such claims has not been assumed in the transaction.
 

Exhibit 99.4
The unaudited condensed combined pro forma statement of income and explanatory notes of BlackRock, Inc. ("BlackRock") set forth below for the year ended December 31, 2006 gives effect to the acquisition of Merrill Lynch Investment Managers ("MLIM"), accounted for as a purchase business combination, as if it had occurred on January 1, 2006.
The unaudited condensed combined pro forma statement of income is based on the historical consolidated statement of income of BlackRock for the year ended December 31, 2006, which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") on Form 10-K, and MLIM historical financial information for the nine months ended September 29, 2006. This unaudited condensed combined pro forma statement of income should also be read in conjunction with the financial statements and related notes thereto and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations contained within BlackRock's December 31, 2006 Form 10-K as filed with the SEC, and the combined financial statements of MLIM contained in BlackRock's Form 8-K/A filed with the SEC on December 12, 2006.
On a combined basis, there were no material transactions between BlackRock and MLIM during the periods presented excluding certain acquisition related items.
The unaudited condensed combined pro forma statement of income is provided for informational purposes only and may not be indicative of the actual results of BlackRock's operations, or of BlackRock's future results of operations, had the MLIM Transaction actually been consummated on January 1, 2006. We have made, in our opinion, all adjustments that are necessary to present fairly the pro forma financial data. The pro forma adjustments reflecting the allocation of the purchase price of MLIM on the unaudited condensed combined pro forma statement of income are based upon preliminary estimates using information available as of December 31, 2006 and are subject to finalization. The pro forma combined provision for income taxes may not represent the amounts that would have resulted had BlackRock and MLIM filed consolidated income tax returns during the periods presented.
 
 
See accompanying notes to condensed combined pro forma statement of income.
 
1. Merrill Lynch Investment Managers Transaction
On September 29, 2006, BlackRock, Inc. ("BlackRock" or the "Company") completed the acquisition of Merrill Lynch Investment Managers (the "MLIM Business" or "MLIM") and issued 52,395,082 shares of BlackRock common stock and 12,604,918 shares of series A participating preferred stock to Merrill Lynch & Co. ("Merrill Lynch") in consideration for the MLIM Business (the "MLIM Transaction"). Total consideration issued to Merrill Lynch was $9,084, including capitalized transaction costs and net of cash acquired. The acquisition of the MLIM Business added to BlackRock's existing investment management capabilities for retail and institutional investors through proprietary and third-party distribution channels globally. The acquired MLIM Business included equity, fixed income, cash management, indexed, enhanced index, balanced and alternative investment products, offered through vehicles such as mutual funds, non-registered investment management vehicles, privately managed investment accounts and retail and institutional separate accounts with approximately $589.2 billion in assets under management ("AUM"). In completing the MLIM Transaction, the Company expects, among other things, increased opportunities for growth as the result of broad investment and risk management capabilities and global scale; increased retail presence in the U.S. and a stronger reputation in Europe and Asia; and new opportunities for distributing BlackRock investment management products through access to Merrill Lynch's distribution network.
In connection with the MLIM Transaction, Merrill Lynch and The PNC Group ("PNC"), which owned approximately 69% of BlackRock prior to the MLIM Transaction, have each entered into stockholder agreements with BlackRock. As of September 30, 2006, Merrill Lynch's ownership represented approximately 45% of the voting interest of BlackRock and approximately 49.3% of total capital stock outstanding on a fully diluted basis. Pursuant to the terms of the stockholder agreement, Merrill Lynch is restricted from owning more than 49.8% of the fully diluted capital stock of BlackRock. PNC owned approximately 34% of the total outstanding capital stock as of September 30, 2006. Pursuant to the terms of the stockholder agreement, PNC is generally restricted from owning more than 35% of the capital stock of BlackRock, except in the case where an increase in PNC's percentage ownership is due to a BlackRock share buyback, in which case PNC is permitted to own no more than 40% of the Company's outstanding capital stock.
In addition to the ownership restrictions described above, the stockholder agreements include the following additional provisions, among others:
 
 
 
 
1. Merrill Lynch Investment Managers Transaction (continued)
 
 
The series A participating preferred stock:
 
 
 
 
 
2. Basis of Presentation and Pro Forma Adjustments
The unaudited condensed combined pro forma statement of income gives effect to the acquisition of the MLIM Business as if it had occurred on January 1, 2006. The condensed combined pro forma statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2006 includes BlackRock's historical results for the year ended December 31, 2006 (which include MLIM from the acquisition date of September 29, 2006) and MLIM's historical results for the period from January 1, 2006 through September 29, 2006.
The following assumptions were made in deriving BlackRock's condensed combined pro forma statement of income:
 
 
 
 
The following adjustments were made to reflect the unaudited pro forma combination of BlackRock and MLIM:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The MLIM Business, for the nine months ended September 29, 2006, includes a pre-tax expense of $109 related to the acceleration of stock-based compensation. This pre-tax expense is not included as a pro forma adjustment as it is not directly attributable to the transaction. See further discussion of MLIM's acceleration of stock compensation costs in Note 1 to the condensed combined financial statements of the MLIM Business for the six months ended June 30, 2006 and July 1, 2005 contained in the Company's filing on Form 8-K/A filed with the SEC on December 12, 2006.
3. Adjustment to Pro Forma Statement of Income from September 11, 2007 Form 8-K
On September 11, 2007, the Company filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission a Form 8-K which included an unaudited condensed combined pro forma statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2006. The accompanying unaudited condensed combined pro forma statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2006 reflects revised pro forma adjustments that exclude the $109 acceleration of stock-based compensation. As noted above, the $109 is not directly attributable to the transaction. The accompanying December 31, 2006 pro forma statement of income includes additional income tax benefit of $40 related to the tax-effect of the $109 as well as additional income tax benefit previously not recognized of $50 attributable to non-controlling interest. The net impact of these adjustments was a decrease to the unaudited pro forma net income of $19, for the year ended December 31, 2006.
 


