FILE:BLK/BLK-8K-20070718075705.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On July 18, 2007, BlackRock, Inc. (the "Company") reported results of operations and financial condition for the three and six months ended June 30, 2007. A copy of the press release issued by the Company is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Contact:
Brian Beades
212-810-5596
invrel@blackrock.com
 BlackRock, Inc. (NYSE:BLK) today reported net income for the second quarter and six months ended June 30, 2007 of $222.2 million and $417.6 million, respectively. Diluted earnings per share for the second quarter and six months ended June 30, 2007 were $1.69 and $3.17, up 78% and 57%, respectively, from the $0.95 and $2.02 earned in comparable periods of 2006. The significant growth in per share returns reflects benefits derived from the combination with Merrill Lynch Investment Managers ("MLIM"), which closed on September 29, 2006.
New York, July 18, 2007
Second quarter 2007 earnings were positively impacted by strong organic growth in assets under management ("AUM"), solid investment performance and favorable market conditions. AUM increased $76.0 billion for the second quarter 2007, including $51.4 billion of new business.
Adjusted earnings per share
1
of $1.80 and $3.39 for the second quarter 2007 and the first half of 2007 increased approximately 51% and 40%, respectively, from the $1.19 and $2.43 earned in the comparable periods of 2006. Year over year earnings per share growth for the second quarter and first half of 2007 included a substantial reduction in the contribution from performance fees. The $0.21 per share increase in adjusted earnings per share from the $1.59 earned in first quarter 2007 was primarily attributable to strong growth in advisory revenue and investment income, partially offset by increased compensation and benefits expense and foreign currency remeasurement costs.
The Company has made two significant changes to its adjusted operating margin
1
disclosure, which it believes are more consistent with how it manages the business and evaluates its performance. Launch costs associated with new closed-end fund issuances are now added to operating income and amortization of deferred sales costs are now being deducted from revenue used for operating margin, as adjusted.
Adjusted operating margin, incorporating these changes, was 36.1% for second quarter 2007 compared with 36.7% for first quarter 2007. The decline in adjusted margin from first quarter was primarily due to higher incentive compensation and foreign currency remeasurement costs.
Revenue totaled $1.097 billion for second quarter 2007 compared to $1.005 billion for first quarter 2007. The 9% increase reflected growth in all asset classes with stronger performance in equities and alternative products. Performance fees of $25.7 million for second quarter 2007 were up $3.3 million compared to first quarter 2007 but declined $44.2 million from second quarter 2006. Performance fees for the first half of 2007 totaled $48.1 million compared to $184.6 million for the first half of 2006.
 
MLIM integration charges for second quarter 2007 were $6.0 million compared to $7.1 million for first quarter 2007. Cumulative MLIM integration costs incurred as of June 30, 2007 total $155 million ($142 million in calendar year 2006). Remaining integration costs to be incurred are estimated at $15-$25 million.
AUM totaled $1.230 trillion at June 30, 2007, an increase of 6.6% since first quarter-end and 9.4% versus year-end 2006. Growth in AUM was driven by net new business, which totaled $51.4 billion during the quarter and $65.9 billion year-to-date. Second quarter flows, which were positive in all asset classes, included funding of a substantial portion of the first quarter pipeline, as well as considerable additional new business. Net inflows were strong from both institutional and retail investors, including $34.0 billion and $17.4 billion from U.S. and international investors, respectively. In addition, had another strong quarter, adding four net new assignments, including two new Aladdin implementations. BlackRock's new business pipeline continues to be robust, with $25.4 billion of wins funded or to be funded, and a wide range of additional opportunities in development, as of July 16, 2007.
BlackRock Solutions
Laurence D. Fink, Chairman and CEO of BlackRock, remarked: "When we announced our merger with MLIM, we talked about the changing needs of investors worldwide and how we believed our combination would enable us to better serve our clients. It has been nine months since we closed the merger. During that time, we have worked without compromise to forge linkages throughout the organization that strengthen our platform to establish the connectivity that will enable us to translate our vision to action by leveraging the wide-ranging intellectual capital and capabilities of the firm on behalf of our clients.
"Our second quarter new business momentum suggests that we are beginning to see the results of our efforts. We have achieved strong investment performance across much of our product range, and we are winning a wider variety of assignments than ever. Increasingly, clients are selecting BlackRock to manage portfolios that span multiple asset classes and markets, innovative solutions that we could not have offered before the merger.
"During the quarter, we sought to further augment our platform through our agreement to acquire Quellos' fund of funds business. The transaction will bring to BlackRock a proven team of professionals that shares our emphasis on investment performance, operational excellence and a solutions-oriented approach to working with investors and their advisors. The early response from clients has been enthusiastic and we are looking forward to a seamless transition.
"We do not take for granted the ability to navigate difficult markets, achieve attractive investment performance or maintain new business momentum. We have our share of challenges, which at any time pose headwinds to our business. Accordingly, I never annualize our results from one quarter to the next. I do, however, have great faith in the talent, hard work and passion of our professionals and in our collective ability to differentiate BlackRock. I thank each and every member of our team for their unwavering efforts on behalf of our clients and shareholders, and I look forward to accomplishing even more together."
 
Second Quarter Business Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Second Quarter Financial Highlights
Second quarter 2007 reflects the impact of the MLIM merger, which closed on September 29, 2006. Given the magnitude of the acquired business, the Company has omitted discussion of most line item variances versus second quarter 2006.
Second quarter 2007 revenues were $1.097 billion compared to $1.005 billion in first quarter 2007 and $360.7 million in second quarter 2006. Performance fees were $25.7 million in second quarter 2007, compared to $22.4 million in first quarter 2007 and $69.9 million in second quarter 2006. Other revenue, which includes and property management fees, was $87.8 million for second quarter 2007 versus $84.6 million in first quarter 2007 and $44.3 million in second quarter 2006. Second quarter 2007 revenues rose to $46.3 million compared to $42.3 million in first quarter 2007, an increase of 9%, and $34.7 million in second quarter 2006, an increase of 34%. Distribution fees were $32.9 million compared to $24.8 million and $2.5 million in first quarter 2007 and second quarter 2006, respectively. Increases in distribution fees were primarily attributable to the assumption of distribution financing arrangements in the first and second quarters of 2007 previously performed by third parties.
BlackRock Solutions
BlackRock Solutions
Second quarter 2007 operating expenses were $815.0 million, compared to $733.1 million in first quarter 2007 and $264.1 million in second quarter 2006. The $81.9 million increase compared to first quarter 2007 was primarily due to increases in compensation and benefits of $60.9 million, reflecting increased incentive compensation resulting from higher operating income, higher closed-end fund launch costs of $9.5 million and incremental foreign currency remeasurement costs of approximately $10.3 million.
Second quarter 2007 non-operating income was $213.7 million, compared to $157.7 million in first quarter 2007. Second quarter 2007 non-operating income is offset by approximately $148.5 million of non-controlling interest compared to $124.7 million in first quarter 2007. The increase in non-operating income, net of minority interest, of $32.2 million primarily reflects increased income from private equity fund investments of $22.4 million and increased income from real estate and other alternative product investments of $10.1 million.
 
Teleconference and Webcast Information
BlackRock will host a teleconference call for investors and analysts on Wednesday, July 18, 2007, at 9:00 a.m. (Eastern Time) to discuss its second quarter results. Members of the public who are interested in participating in the teleconference should dial, from the United States, (800) 374-0176, or from outside the United States, (706) 679-4634, shortly before 9:00 a.m. and reference the BlackRock Conference Call (ID Number 6467513). A live, listen-only webcast will also be available via the investor relations section of
www.blackrock.com
.
Both the teleconference and webcast will be available for replay by 1:00 p.m. on Wednesday, July 18, 2007 and ending at midnight on Wednesday, July 25, 2007. To access the replay of the teleconference, callers from the United States should dial (800) 642-1687 and callers from outside the United States should dial (706) 645-9291 and enter the Conference ID Number 6467513. To access the webcast, please visit the investor relations section of
www.blackrock.com
Performance Notes
Past performance is no guarantee of future results. Mutual fund performance data is net of fees and expenses and assumes the reinvestment of dividends and capital gains distributions. BlackRock waives certain fees, without which performance would be lower. Investments in mutual funds are neither insured nor guaranteed by the U.S. government. Relative peer group performance is based on quartiles from Lipper Inc. for U.S. funds and Standard & Poor's for non-U.S. funds. Rankings are based on total returns with dividends and distributions reinvested and do not reflect sales charges. Funds with returns among the top 25% of a peer group of funds with comparable objectives are in the first quartile and funds with returns in the next 25% of a peer group are in the second quartile. Some funds have less than one year of performance.
About BlackRock
BlackRock is one of the world's largest publicly traded investment management firms. As of June 30, 2007, assets under management were $1.230 trillion. The firm manages assets on behalf of institutions and individuals worldwide through a variety of equity, fixed income, cash management and alternative investment products. In addition, a growing number of institutional investors use investment system, risk management and financial advisory services. Headquartered in New York City, the firm has approximately 5,000 employees in 18 countries and a major presence in key global markets, including the U.S., Europe, Asia, Australia and the Middle East. For additional information, please visit the Company's website at
BlackRock Solutions
www.blackrock.com
.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release, and other statements that BlackRock may make, may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act, with respect to BlackRock's future financial or business performance, strategies or expectations. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as "trend," "potential," "opportunity," "pipeline," "believe," "comfortable," "expect," "anticipate," "current," "intention," "estimate," "position," "assume," "outlook," "continue," "remain," "maintain," "sustain," "seek," "achieve," and similar expressions, or future or conditional verbs such as "will," "would," "should," "could," "may" or similar expressions.
BlackRock cautions that forward-looking statements are subject to numerous assumptions, risks and uncertainties, which change over time. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and BlackRock assumes no duty to and does not undertake to update forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in forward-looking statements and future results could differ materially from historical performance.
In addition to factors previously disclosed in BlackRock's SEC reports and those identified elsewhere in this communication, the following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking statements or historical performance: (1) the introduction, withdrawal, success and timing of business initiatives and strategies; (2) changes in political, economic or industry conditions, the interest rate environment or financial and capital markets, which could result in changes in demand for products or services or in the value of assets under management; (3) the relative and absolute investment performance of BlackRock's investment products, including its separately managed accounts and the former MLIM business; (4) the impact of increased competition; (5) the impact of capital improvement projects; (6) the impact of future acquisitions or divestitures; (7) the unfavorable resolution of legal proceedings; (8) the extent and timing of any share repurchases; (9) the impact, extent and timing of technological changes and the adequacy of intellectual property protection; (10) the impact of legislative and regulatory actions and reforms and regulatory, supervisory or enforcement actions of government agencies relating to BlackRock, Merrill Lynch or PNC; (11) terrorist activities and international hostilities, which may adversely affect the general economy, domestic and local financial and capital markets, specific industries and BlackRock; (12) the ability to attract and retain highly talented professionals; (13) fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which may adversely affect the value of advisory fees earned by BlackRock; (14) the impact of changes to tax legislation and, generally, the tax position of the Company; (15) BlackRock's ability to successfully integrate the MLIM business with its existing business; (16) the ability of BlackRock to effectively manage the former MLIM assets along with its historical assets under management; (17) BlackRock's success in maintaining the distribution of its products; and (18) the ability of BlackRock to consummate the transaction with Quellos and realize the benefits of such transaction.
BlackRock's Annual Reports on Form 10-K and BlackRock's subsequent filings with the SEC, accessible on the SEC's website at
http://www.sec.gov
and on BlackRock's website at
http://www.blackrock.com
, discuss these factors in more detail and identify additional factors that can affect forward-looking statements. The information contained on our website is not a part of this press release.
 
Attachment I
 
NOTE: Certain prior period information has been reclassified to conform to current period presentation.
NM - Not meaningful
 
(a) While BlackRock reports its financial results on a GAAP basis, management believes that evaluating the Company's ongoing operating results may not be as useful if investors are limited to reviewing only GAAP financial measures. Management reviews non-GAAP financial measures to assess ongoing operations, and for the reasons described below, considers them to be effective indicators, for both management and investors, of BlackRock's financial performance over time. BlackRock's management does not advocate that investors consider such non-GAAP financial measures in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. Certain prior year non-GAAP data has been restated to conform to current year presentation.
Operating margin, as adjusted, equals operating income, as adjusted, divided by revenue used for operating margin measurement, as indicated in the table below. As a result of recent changes in BlackRock's business, management has altered the way it views its operating margin. As such, the calculation of operating income, as adjusted and operating margin, as adjusted, were modified primarily to adjust for costs associated with closed-end fund issuances and amortization of deferred sales costs, as shown below. Computations for all periods presented include affiliated and unaffiliated portfolio administration and servicing costs and are derived from the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements as follows:
 
Management believes that operating income, as adjusted, and operating margin, as adjusted, are effective indicators of management's ability to, and useful to management in deciding how to, effectively employ BlackRock's resources. As such, management believes that operating income, as adjusted, and operating margin, as adjusted, provide useful disclosure to investors. MLIM integration costs consist principally of certain professional fees, rebranding costs and compensation costs related to the integration which were reflected in GAAP net income. MLIM integration costs have been deemed non-recurring by management and have been excluded from operating income, as adjusted, and operating margin, as adjusted, to help ensure the comparability of this information to prior periods. The portion of the LTIP expense associated with awards funded through the distribution to participants of shares of BlackRock stock held by PNC and the anticipated Merrill Lynch compensation contribution have been excluded because, exclusive of the impact related to LTIP participants' put options, these
 
(a) (continued)
charges do not impact BlackRock's book value. Closed-end fund launch costs and commissions have been excluded from operating income, as adjusted, because such costs can fluctuate considerably and revenues associated with the expenditure of such costs will not impact the Company's results until future periods. As such, management believes that operating margins exclusive of these costs is more representative of the operating performance for the given period. Compensation expense associated with appreciation on assets related to BlackRock's deferred compensation plans has been excluded because investment returns on these assets reported in non-operating income, net of the related impact on compensation expense, result in a nominal impact to net income.
Portfolio administration and servicing costs have been excluded from revenue used for operating margin, as adjusted, because the Company receives offsetting revenue and expense for these services. Amortization of deferred sales costs are excluded from revenue used for operating margin measurement, as adjusted, because such costs offset distribution fee revenue earned by the Company. Reimbursable property management compensation represents compensation and benefits paid to certain BlackRock Realty Advisors, Inc. ("Realty") personnel. These employees are retained on Realty's payroll when certain properties are acquired by Realty's clients. The related compensation and benefits are fully reimbursed by Realty's clients and have been excluded from revenue used for operating margin, as adjusted, because they bear no economic cost to BlackRock.
(b) While BlackRock reports its financial results on a GAAP basis, management believes that evaluating the Company's ongoing operating results may not be as useful if investors are limited to reviewing only GAAP-basis financial measures. Management reviews non-GAAP financial measures to assess ongoing operations, and for the reasons described below, considers them to be effective indicators, for both management and investors, of BlackRock's financial performance over time. BlackRock's management does not advocate that investors consider such non-GAAP financial measures in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
Management believes that net income, as adjusted, and diluted earnings per share, as adjusted, are effective measurements of BlackRock's profitability and financial performance. MLIM integration costs reflected in GAAP net income have been deemed non-recurring by management and have been excluded from net income, as adjusted, and diluted earnings per share, as adjusted, to help ensure the comparability of this information to prior reporting periods. MLIM integration costs consist principally of compensation costs, professional fees and rebranding costs incurred in conjunction with the MLIM integration. The portion of LTIP expense associated with awards funded by the distribution to participants of shares of BlackRock stock held by PNC has been excluded from net income, as adjusted, and diluted earnings per share, as adjusted, because these charges do not impact BlackRock's book value. The portion of the current year compensation expense related to incentive awards to be funded by Merrill Lynch has been excluded because it is not expected to impact BlackRock's book value.
(c) Series A non-voting participating preferred stock is considered to be common stock for purposes of earnings per share calculations.
 
Attachment II
 
NM - Not meaningful
NOTE: Certain prior period information has been reclassified to conform to current period presentation.
 
NM - Not meaningful
 
Attachment III
 
 
NOTE: Certain prior period information has been reclassified to conform to current period presentation.
 


