FILE:BLK/BLK-8K-20070419080319.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On April 19, 2007, BlackRock, Inc. (the "Company") reported results of operations and financial condition for the three months ended March 31, 2007. A copy of the press release issued by the Company is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Contact:
Brian Beades
212-810-5596
invrel@blackrock.com
 BlackRock, Inc. (NYSE:BLK) today reported net income for the quarter ended March 31, 2007 of $195.4 million, or $1.48 per diluted share. This compares with diluted earnings per share of $1.06 and $1.28 in the first and fourth quarters of 2006, respectively.
New York, April 19, 2007
First quarter 2007 diluted earnings per share include $0.03 of Merrill Lynch Investment Managers ("MLIM") integration charges, $0.06 in launch costs for a new closed-end fund and a $0.02 charge associated with syndication costs for a large real estate venture. First quarter 2006 diluted earnings per share included $0.06 of MLIM integration charges and no closed-end fund launch costs. Fourth quarter 2006 diluted earnings per share reflected $0.25 of MLIM integration charges and $0.03 of closed-end fund launch costs. Performance fee related earnings contributed approximately $ 0.07 to diluted earnings per share in the first quarter of 2007, as compared to $0.37 and $0.14 per share in the first and fourth quarters of 2006, respectively. Before the effect of these charges and the contribution from performance fees, first quarter 2007 diluted earnings per share increased approximately 104% and 8% compared to the first and fourth quarters of 2006, respectively.
Adjusted earnings per share
1
increased by approximately 29% to $1.59 for the first quarter 2007, compared to $1.23 for the first quarter 2006, despite a $0.30 per share decrease in the per share contribution from performance fees. First quarter 2007 adjusted earnings per share would have been $1.64 excluding the $0.02 real estate syndication charges and the $0.03 impact of higher fund launch costs over the amount incurred in fourth quarter 2006. Performance fees in the first quarter 2006 primarily were related to fees earned from a multi-year institutional real estate equity account acquired in the SSRM Holdings, Inc. transaction.
The Company's first quarter 2007 adjusted operating margin
1
of 34.0% decreased approximately 1.6% from fourth quarter 2006 due to increased launch costs on a new closed-end fund and the operating income effect of two fewer days in the first quarter.
Revenue totaled $1.005 billion for the first quarter 2007 compared to $1.019 billion for fourth quarter 2006. The decrease in revenue reflects lower performance fees, the impact of two fewer days and a lower fee mix for equities. Performance fees, including amounts earned by for the first quarter 2007 and fourth quarter 2006 were $22.4 million and $43.8 million, respectively.
BlackRock Solutions,
MLIM integration charges for the first quarter 2007 were $7.1 million. Total integration costs to be incurred, including the $142 million expensed in 2006, are estimated at $170 to $180 million.
 
Assets under management ("AUM") totaled $1.154 trillion at March 31, 2007, up $29.5 billion, or 2.6%, since fourth quarter-end and $79.1 billion, or 7.4%, since closing the MLIM merger. Net new business totaled $14.4 billion and $31.6 billion during the first quarter and since closing, respectively. For the quarter, new business efforts resulted in positive net flows in all asset classes and in all client channels. Net new business from U.S. investors for the quarter totaled $12.7 billion, including $3.7 billion in long-dated mandates and $9.0 billion in cash management products. Net inflows from international clients were $7.2 billion, before giving effect to $5.4 billion of outflows resulting from one client's strategic restructuring and outflows in a single securities lending account. also maintained solid momentum, adding two new Aladdin assignments during the quarter. BlackRock's new business pipeline continues to be robust, with $28.4 billion of wins funded or to be funded, and the Company is participating in a substantial number of searches across regions and products.
BlackRock Solutions
"Since we announced our merger with MLIM, our combined AUM has increased by more than $160 billion," commented Laurence D. Fink, Chairman and CEO of BlackRock. "Half of that growth has occurred since closing on September 29, 2006, including cumulative net new business of $31.6 billion. These wins include early cross-selling successes, as well as a range of new opportunities that we believe neither firm would have had independently. Wins are well balanced across regions, and the diversification of our capabilities across channels already has proven valuable. Strong flows from institutional clients have helped overcome a slowdown in European retail arising out of an industry-wide sector rotation.
"Since closing, we have brought together diverse capabilities to better serve the changing needs of investors worldwide. We have worked effectively with fixed income investors who are seeking customized solutions to replace traditional strategies. We have created alpha extension and alternative investment products that offer less correlated or higher return opportunities. Most recently, we formalized our multi-asset class effort and rolled out new products that leverage investment, asset allocation and risk management expertise across the platform. We continue to be an innovator in risk management and tools to support the investment process utilized by BlackRock and by ' third party clients. All of these efforts are vital to helping our clients access market opportunities and address their investment challenges.
BlackRock Solutions
"Our growth, new business momentum and sustained competitive investment performance in a wide-range of products all point to the merger going well. We do not, however, underestimate the work ahead as we continue to pursue operational and cultural integration. For example, we were trying to complete the Aladdin implementation on a greatly accelerated timetable, but have decided to take a more measured approach on the international conversion, extending the effort through 2008, to ensure a thorough and well-supported business process redesign. We are similarly focused on prioritizing our resources to ensure that we remain focused and proactive on behalf of our clients as we build our global infrastructure. I would like to thank our professionals throughout the world for their dedication to serving our clients, for differentiating the firm, and for working every day to enhance BlackRock's global franchise."
First Quarter Business Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
First Quarter Financial Highlights
First quarter 2007 reflects the impact of the MLIM transaction, which closed on September 29, 2006. Given the magnitude of the acquired business, the Company has omitted discussion of most line item variances.
First quarter 2007 revenues were $1.005 billion, compared to $395.7 million in first quarter 2006 and $1.019 billion in fourth quarter 2006. Performance fees were $22.4 million in first quarter 2007, compared to $114.6 million in first quarter 2006 and $39.9 million in fourth quarter 2006. Other revenue, which includes , 12b-1 fees and property management fees, was $109.4 million for first quarter 2007 versus $46.0 million reported in first quarter 2006 and $115.6 million in the fourth quarter 2006. First quarter 2007 revenues rose to $42.3 million, an increase of $8.3 million or 24% from first quarter 2006.
BlackRock Solutions
BlackRock Solutions
First quarter 2007 operating expenses were $733.1 million, compared to $295.6 million in first quarter 2006 and $772.4 million in fourth quarter 2006. Compensation and benefits reflects an increase in the number of employees to approximately 5,000 at March 31, 2007 from approximately 1,800 at March 31, 2006. Portfolio administration and servicing costs includes payments to third parties, including Merrill Lynch, primarily associated with administration and servicing client investments in certain BlackRock products. First quarter 2007 also reflects approximately $13.2 million of expense from launching a new closed-end fund that is expected to produce annual net revenue of approximately $7.6 million.
First quarter 2007 non-operating income was $82.7 million, compared to $13.1 million in first quarter 2006 and $36.6 million in fourth quarter 2006, principally related to investments acquired in the MLIM transaction and subsequent additional investments. First quarter 2007 non-operating income is offset by approximately $49.7 million of minority interest.
Teleconference and Webcast Information
BlackRock will host a teleconference call for investors and analysts on Thursday, April 19, 2007, at 9:00 a.m. (Eastern Time) to discuss its first quarter results. Members of the public who are interested in participating in the teleconference should dial, from the United States, (800) 374-0176, or from outside the United States, (706) 679-4634, shortly before 9:00 a.m. and reference the BlackRock Conference Call (ID Number 5507987). A live, listen-only webcast will also be available via the investor relations section of www.blackrock.com.
Both the teleconference and webcast will be available for replay by 1:00 p.m. on Thursday, April 19, 2007, and ending at midnight on Thursday, April 26, 2007. To access the replay of the teleconference, callers from the United States should dial (800) 642-1687 and callers from outside the United States should dial (706) 645-9291 and enter the Conference ID Number 5507987. To access the webcast, please visit the investor relations section of www.blackrock.com.
 
Performance Notes
Past performance is no guarantee of future results. Mutual fund performance data is net of fees and expenses and assumes the reinvestment of dividends and capital gains distributions. BlackRock waives certain fees, without which fund performance would be lower. Investments in mutual funds are neither insured nor guaranteed by the U.S. government. Relative peer group performance is based on quartiles from Lipper Inc. for U.S. funds and Standard & Poor's for non-U.S. funds. Rankings are based on total returns with dividends and distributions reinvested and do not reflect sales charges. Funds with returns among the top 25% of a peer group of funds with comparable objectives are in the first quartile and funds with returns in the next 25% of a peer group are in the second quartile. Some funds have less than three years of performance.
About BlackRock
BlackRock is one of the world's largest publicly traded investment management firms. As of March 31, 2007, assets under management were $1.154 trillion. The firm manages assets on behalf of institutions and individuals worldwide through a variety of equity, fixed income, cash management and alternative investment products. In addition, a growing number of institutional investors use investment system, risk management and financial advisory services. Headquartered in New York City, the firm has approximately 5,000 employees in 18 countries and a major presence in key global markets, including the U.S., Europe, Asia, Australia and the Middle East. For additional information, please visit the Company's website at .
BlackRock Solutions
www.blackrock.com
 
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release, and other statements that BlackRock may make may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act, with respect to BlackRock's future financial or business performance, strategies or expectations. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as "trend," "potential," "opportunity," "pipeline," "believe," "comfortable," "expect," "anticipate," "current," "intention," "estimate," "position," "assume," "outlook," "continue," "remain," "maintain," "sustain," "seek," "achieve," and similar expressions, or future or conditional verbs such as "will," "would," "should," "could," "may" or similar expressions.
BlackRock cautions that forward-looking statements are subject to numerous assumptions, risks and uncertainties, which change over time. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and BlackRock assumes no duty to and does not undertake to update forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in forward-looking statements and future results could differ materially from historical performance.
In addition to factors previously disclosed in BlackRock's SEC reports and those identified elsewhere in this communication, the following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking statements or historical performance: (1) the introduction, withdrawal, success and timing of business initiatives and strategies; (2) changes in political, economic or industry conditions, the interest rate environment or financial and capital markets, which could result in changes in demand for products or services or in the value of assets under management; (3) the relative and absolute investment performance of BlackRock's investment products, including its separately managed accounts and the former MLIM business; (4) the impact of increased competition; (5) the impact of capital improvement projects; (6) the impact of future acquisitions or divestitures; (7) the unfavorable resolution of legal proceedings; (8) the extent and timing of any share repurchases; (9) the impact, extent and timing of technological changes and the adequacy of intellectual property protection; (10) the impact of legislative and regulatory actions and reforms and regulatory, supervisory or enforcement actions of government agencies relating to BlackRock, Merrill Lynch or PNC; (11) terrorist activities and international hostilities, which may adversely affect the general economy, domestic and local financial and capital markets, specific industries, and BlackRock; (12) the ability to attract and retain highly talented professionals; (13) fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which may adversely affect the value of advisory fees earned by BlackRock; (14) the impact of changes to tax legislation and, generally, the tax position of the Company; (15) BlackRock's ability to successfully integrate the MLIM business with its existing business; (16) the ability of BlackRock to effectively manage the former MLIM assets along with its historical assets under management; and (17) BlackRock's success in maintaining the distribution of its products.
BlackRock's Annual Reports on Form 10-K and BlackRock's subsequent filings with the SEC, accessible on the SEC's website at and on BlackRock's website at , discuss these factors in more detail and identify additional factors that can affect forward-looking statements. The information contained on our website is not a part of this press release.
http://www.sec.gov
http://www.blackrock.com
 
Attachment I
 
NM - Not meaningful
 
(a) While BlackRock reports its financial results on a GAAP basis, management believes that evaluating the Company's ongoing operating results may not be as useful if investors are limited to reviewing only GAAP financial measures. Management reviews non-GAAP financial measures to assess ongoing operations, and for the reasons described below, considers them to be effective indicators, for both management and investors, of BlackRock's financial performance over time. BlackRock's management does not advocate that investors consider such non-GAAP financial measures in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. Certain prior year non-GAAP data has been restated to conform to current year presentation.
Operating margin, as adjusted, equals operating income, as adjusted, divided by revenue used for operating margin measurement, as indicated in the table below. Computations for all periods presented include affiliated and unaffiliated portfolio administration and servicing costs are derived from the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements as follows:
 
Management believes that operating income, as adjusted, and operating margin, as adjusted, are effective indicators of management's ability to, and useful to management in deciding how to, effectively employ BlackRock's resources. As such, management believes that operating income, as adjusted, and operating margin, as adjusted, provide useful disclosure to investors. MLIM integration costs consist principally of certain professional fees, rebranding costs and compensation costs related to the integration which were reflected in GAAP net income. MLIM integration costs have been deemed non-recurring by management and have been excluded from net income, as adjusted, and diluted earnings per share, as adjusted, to help ensure the comparability of this information to prior periods. The portion of the LTIP expense associated with awards met by the distribution to participants of shares of BlackRock stock held by PNC has been excluded because, exclusive of the impact related to LTIP participants' put options, these charges do not impact BlackRock's book value. The 2006 fee sharing payment has been excluded because it represents a non-recurring payment (based upon a performance fee) pursuant to the SSRM Holdings, Inc. acquisition agreement. Compensation expense associated with appreciation on assets related to BlackRock's deferred compensation plans has been excluded because investment returns on these assets reported in non-operating income, net of the related impact on compensation expense, result in a nominal impact on net income. The portion of the current year compensation expense related to incentive awards to be funded by Merrill Lynch has been excluded because it is not expected to impact BlackRock's book value.
 
(a) (continued)
Portfolio administration and servicing costs have been excluded from revenue used for operating margin measurement, as adjusted, because the Company receives offsetting revenue and expense for these services. Reimbursable property management compensation represents compensation and benefits paid to certain BlackRock Realty Advisors, Inc. ("Realty") personnel. These employees are retained on Realty's payroll when certain properties are acquired by Realty's clients. The related compensation and benefits are fully reimbursed by Realty's clients and have been excluded from revenue used for operating margin measurement, as adjusted, because they bear no economic cost to BlackRock.
(b) While BlackRock reports its financial results on a GAAP basis, management believes that evaluating the Company's ongoing operating results may not be as useful if investors are limited to reviewing only GAAP-basis financial measures. Management reviews non-GAAP financial measures to assess ongoing operations, and for the reasons described below, considers them to be effective indicators, for both management and investors, of BlackRock's financial performance over time. BlackRock's management does not advocate that investors consider such non-GAAP financial measures in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
Management believes that net income, as adjusted, and diluted earnings per share, as adjusted, are effective measurements of BlackRock's profitability and financial performance. MLIM integration costs reflected in GAAP net income have been deemed non-recurring by management and have been excluded from net income, as adjusted, and diluted earnings per share, as adjusted, to help ensure the comparability of this information to prior reporting periods. MLIM integration costs consist principally of compensation costs, professional fees and rebranding costs incurred in conjunction with the MLIM integration. The portion of LTIP expense associated with awards funded by the distribution to participants of shares of BlackRock stock held by PNC has been excluded from net income, as adjusted, and diluted earnings per share, as adjusted, because these charges have not impacted BlackRock's book value.
(c) Series A non-voting participating preferred stock is considered to be common stock for purposes of per share calculations.
 
Attachment II
 
 
NM - Not meaningful
 
Attachment III
Summary
 
First Quarter Component Changes
 
 


