FILE:BLK/BLK-8K-20070911110648.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
On September 29, 2006, BlackRock, Inc ("BlackRock") completed a transaction whereby Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc. ("Merrill Lynch") contributed its investment management business, Merrill Lynch Investment Managers ("MLIM"), to BlackRock in exchange for an aggregate of 65 million shares of newly issued BlackRock common and non-voting participating preferred stock (the "MLIM Transaction"). This Current Report on Form 8-K is being filed to set forth the unaudited condensed combined pro forma statement of income for the twelve months ended December 31, 2006.
The unaudited condensed combined pro forma statement of income for the twelve months ended December 31, 2006 is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
The unaudited condensed combined pro forma statement of income and explanatory notes of BlackRock, Inc. ("BlackRock") set forth below for the year ended December 31, 2006 gives effect to the acquisition of Merrill Lynch Investment Managers ("MLIM"), accounted for as a purchase business combination, as if it had occurred on January 1, 2006.
The unaudited condensed combined pro forma statement of income is based on the historical consolidated statement of income of BlackRock for the year ended December 31, 2006, which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") on Form 10-K, and MLIM historical financial information for the nine months ended September 29, 2006. This unaudited condensed combined pro forma statement of income should also be read in conjunction with the financial statements and related notes thereto and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations contained within BlackRock's December 31, 2006 Form 10-K as filed with the SEC, and the combined financial statements of MLIM contained in BlackRock's Form 8-K/A filed with the SEC on December 12, 2006.
On a combined basis, there were no material transactions between BlackRock and MLIM during the periods presented excluding certain acquisition related items.
The unaudited condensed combined pro forma statement of income is provided for informational purposes only and may not be indicative of the actual results of BlackRock's operations, or of BlackRock's future results of operations, had the MLIM Transaction actually been consummated on January 1, 2006. We have made, in our opinion, all adjustments that are necessary to present fairly the pro forma financial data. The pro forma adjustments reflecting the allocation of the purchase price of MLIM on the unaudited condensed combined pro forma statement of income are based upon preliminary estimates using information available as of December 31, 2006 and are subject to finalization. The pro forma combined provision for income taxes may not represent the amounts that would have resulted had BlackRock and MLIM filed consolidated income tax returns during the periods presented.
 
 
See accompanying notes to condensed combined pro forma statement of income.
 
On September 29, 2006, BlackRock, Inc. ("BlackRock" or the "Company") completed the acquisition of Merrill Lynch Investment Managers (the "MLIM Business" or "MLIM") and issued 52,395,082 shares of BlackRock common stock and 12,604,918 shares of series A participating preferred stock to Merrill Lynch & Co. ("Merrill Lynch") in consideration for the MLIM Business (the "MLIM Transaction"). Total consideration issued to Merrill Lynch was $9,084, including capitalized transaction costs and net of cash acquired. The acquisition of the MLIM Business added to BlackRock's existing investment management capabilities for retail and institutional investors through proprietary and third-party distribution channels globally. The acquired MLIM Business included equity, fixed income, cash management, indexed, enhanced index, balanced and alternative investment products, offered through vehicles such as mutual funds, non-registered investment management vehicles, privately managed investment accounts and retail and institutional separate accounts with approximately $589.2 billion in assets under management ("AUM"). In completing the MLIM Transaction, the Company expects, among other things, increased opportunities for growth as the result of broad investment and risk management capabilities and global scale; increased retail presence in the U.S. and a stronger reputation in Europe and Asia; and new opportunities for distributing BlackRock investment management products through access to Merrill Lynch's distribution network.
In connection with the MLIM Transaction, Merrill Lynch and The PNC Group ("PNC"), which owned approximately 69% of BlackRock prior to the MLIM Transaction, have each entered into stockholder agreements with BlackRock. As of September 30, 2006, Merrill Lynch's ownership represented approximately 45% of the voting interest of BlackRock and approximately 49.3% of total capital stock outstanding on a fully diluted basis. Pursuant to the terms of the stockholder agreement, Merrill Lynch is restricted from owning more than 49.8% of the fully diluted capital stock of BlackRock. PNC owned approximately 34% of the total outstanding capital stock as of September 30, 2006. Pursuant to the terms of the stockholder agreement, PNC is generally restricted from owning more than 35% of the capital stock of BlackRock, except in the case where an increase in PNC's percentage ownership is due to a BlackRock share buyback, in which case PNC is permitted to own no more than 40% of the Company's outstanding capital stock.
In addition to the ownership restrictions described above, the stockholder agreements include the following additional provisions, among others:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The series A participating preferred stock:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The unaudited condensed combined pro forma statement of income gives effect to the acquisition of the MLIM Business as if it had occurred on January 1, 2006. The condensed combined pro forma statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2006 includes BlackRock's historical results for the year ended December 31, 2006 (which include MLIM from the acquisition date of September 29, 2006) and MLIM's historical results for the period from January 1, 2006 through September 29, 2006.
The following assumptions were made in deriving BlackRock's condensed combined pro forma statement of income:
 
 
 
 
The following adjustments were made to reflect the unaudited pro forma combination of BlackRock and MLIM:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


