FILE:BLK/BLK-8K-20080626172723.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check  the  appropriate  box  below  if the  Form  8-K  filing  is  intended  to simultaneously  satisfy the filing obligation to the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
On June 26, 2008, BlackRock, Inc. (the Company) announced that Paul L. Audet, acting Chief Financial Officer of the Company since March 2007, will cease to serve as Chief Financial Officer of the Company.  Mr. Audet, head of the Companys Cash Management business since 2005, has been named Vice Chairman, with responsibility for overseeing the Companys global Real Estate and Cash Management businesses.  In addition, Mr. Audet will serve as a senior advisor on corporate matters and remain a member of the Companys Executive Committee.
On June 26, 2008, the Company announced that Ann Marie Petach has been named Chief Financial Officer and a member of the Companys Executive Committee.  Ms. Petach joined the Company in March 2007 as a Managing Director and served as global head of Business Finance.
Prior to joining the Company, Ms. Petach, 47, had served as Vice President and Treasurer of Ford Motor Company since 2004, prior to which Ms. Petach served as Assistant Treasurer.  Ms. Petachs responsibilities at Ford were global and included pension asset management, actuarial studies, banking, funding for Ford and Ford Credit, and risk management. Since joining Ford in 1984, Ms. Petach worked at two former joint ventures between Ford and Volkswagen, in Europe as Treasurer of AutoEuropa and in Brazil as Assistant Treasurer of AutoLatina.  Ms. Petach earned a BA degree in business and Spanish from Muhlenberg College in 1982, and an MBA degree from Carnegie Mellon University in 1984.
A copy of the press release announcing Mr. Audets new position and Ms. Petachs appointment is attached as an exhibit to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Contact:
Media
Relations
Bobbie Collins
212-810-8155
Bobbie.Collins@blackrock.com
Investor Relations
Lauren Trengrove
212-810-3665
invrel@blackrock.com
 
 
 
 
 Paul L. Audet has been named Vice Chairman, with responsibility for overseeing the Companys global Real Estate and Cash Management businesses.  In addition, BlackRock announced that Ann Marie Petach was named Chief Financial Officer and a member of the Companys Executive Committee.
New York, June 26, 2008
, Inc. (NYSE:BLK) today announced that
BlackRock
 
Mr. Audet served as acting Chief Financial Officer since March 2007, and head of the Companys global Cash Management business since 2005. From 1998 to 2005, he served as BlackRocks Chief Financial Officer.  Mr. Audet will continue to serve as a senior advisor on corporate matters and will remain a member of BlackRocks Executive Committee.
 
I want to thank Paul for his outstanding contributions to BlackRock during this transition period, balancing his line management and corporate responsibilities.  His extensive experience has been invaluable as we navigated the BlackRock/MLIM integration and enhanced our financial operations and processes,.   Ann Marie joined BlackRock last year as global head of Business Finance.  She has already made strong contributions to our finance function, and I am very pleased to have someone of her considerable abilities and experience stepping into the critical role of CFO.
 stated Laurence D. Fink, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of BlackRock.  I also would like to welcome Ann Marie to the role of CFO
 
Ms. Petachs responsibilities at Ford were global and included pension asset management, actuarial studies, banking, funding for Ford and Ford Credit, and risk management.  During her 23-year tenure at Ford, Ms. Petach worked at two former joint ventures between Ford and Volkswagen, in Europe as Treasurer of AutoEuropa and in Brazil as Assistant Treasurer of AutoLatina. Ms. Petach earned a BA degree in business and Spanish from Muhlenberg College in 1982 and an MBA degree from Carnegie Mellon University in 1984.
Prior to joining BlackRock, Ms. Petach was Vice President and Treasurer of Ford Motor Company.
 
 
 
 
About BlackRock
 
BlackRock is one of the worlds largest publicly traded investment management firms. At March 31, 2008, BlackRocks AUM was $1.364 trillion. The firm manages assets on behalf of institutions and individuals worldwide through a variety of equity, fixed income, cash management and alternative investment products. In addition, a growing number of institutional investors use investment system, risk management and financial advisory services. Headquartered in New York City, as of March 31, 2008, the firm has approximately 5,600 employees in 19 countries and a major presence in key global markets, including the U.S., Europe, Asia, Australia and the Middle East. For additional information, please visit the Company's website at .
BlackRock Solutions
 
www.blackrock.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


