FILE:BLK/BLK-8K-20080117083312.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On January 17, 2008, BlackRock, Inc. (the "Company") reported results of operations for the three months and year ended December 31, 2007. A copy of the press release issued by the Company is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Contact:
Brian Beades
212-810-5596
invrel@blackrock.com
 BlackRock, Inc. (NYSE:BLK) today reported net income for the fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2007 of $322 million and $995 million, respectively. Diluted earnings per share for the fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2007 were $2.43 and $7.53, compared to $1.28 and $3.87 in comparable periods of 2006. Reported operating margin for the fourth quarter and full year of 2007 was 32.4% and 26.7%, respectively, compared to 24.2% and 22.5% in comparable periods of 2006. Fourth quarter 2007 results reflect the impact of the acquisition of the fund of funds business of Quellos Group, LLC ("Quellos") as well as the first presentation of year over year comparative results including the operations of Merrill Lynch Investment Managers ("MLIM"), which was acquired on September 29, 2006. Diluted earnings per share for the fourth quarter and full year 2006 included integration charges associated with the MLIM merger of $0.25 and $1.07 per share, respectively. Diluted earnings per share for the fourth quarter 2007 and full year 2007 included MLIM integration charges of less than $0.01 and $0.10 per share, respectively.
New York, January 17, 2008
Adjusted diluted earnings per share
1
of $2.52 and $8.17 for the fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2007 increased approximately 56.5% and 53.3%, respectively, from the $1.61 and $5.33 earned in the comparable periods of 2006. Adjusted diluted earnings per share increased $0.23, or 10.0%, from the $2.29 earned in the third quarter of 2007. The increase was attributable to strong growth from operations, including approximately a $0.10 contribution due to the Quellos acquisition.
Operating margin, as adjusted
1
was 38.8% for fourth quarter 2007 compared with 37.8% for the fourth quarter 2006. Full year 2007 operating margin, as adjusted, which included the impact of a $92 million increase in amortization of intangible assets associated with the MLIM and Quellos acquisitions, rose approximately one percent to 37.5%.
Assets under management ("AUM") totaled $1.357 trillion at December 31, 2007, up $57.1 billion since third quarter-end and $232.0 billion since December 31, 2006. Net new business totaled $30.7 billion during the fourth quarter and $137.6 billion for the full year, representing organic growth rates of 9.7% (annualized) and 12.2%, respectively. In addition, we acquired $21.9 billion of assets on October 1, 2007 when we closed the acquisition of Quellos' fund of funds business. Market conditions gave rise to robust demand for services. During the quarter, we added two new Aladdin mandates and were retained for twelve short-term advisory assignments. As of January 14, 2008, our new business pipeline included $30.7 billion of wins funded or to be funded, including $18.9 billion in cash management products.
BlackRock Solutions
 
"The markets were exceptionally volatile during the fourth quarter as investors digested the implications of the U.S. housing slump, the ongoing sub-prime debacle, a sustained liquidity contraction and a weaker dollar," stated Laurence D. Fink, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of BlackRock. "International institutions have continued to invest substantial sums in U.S. Treasuries and more recently in capital instruments issued by various financial institutions. Yet, low interest rates and a weaker dollar suggest increased allocations outside the U.S. over time, as well as faster adoption of new strategies, including liability driven investing, the increased use of multiple asset class products and the mainstreaming of alternatives. This outlook reinforces our strategic focus on investment performance, globalization and product diversification, client service and independent advice.
"I am incredibly proud of how the firm has navigated the market turmoil. We had adopted a conservative credit bias earlier in the cycle and remained rigorous in our risk management discipline. Although we were not completely unscathed by the market, we were well positioned and have benefited in a number of ways. We attracted over $75 billion of net inflows in our cash management products in 2007. We worked with our retail distribution partners and institutional clients to offer products that seek to capitalize on the current market environment. These efforts contributed to raising over $23 billion in equity and balanced assets and $27 billion in fixed income. We also committed substantial capital to seed a variety of alternative investments, aligning our interests with clients and raising $15 billion in assets and capital commitments in these products. We will continue to devote our time and capital to developing innovative and opportunistic strategies for our clients. Finally, we have had unprecedented demand for our advisory services and we will continue to invest in expansion of these capabilities.
BlackRock Solutions
"The degree to which investors have responded to our platform and entrusted their assets to BlackRock has been extraordinarily gratifying. The expertise and energy that our employees bring to serving BlackRock's clients has never been greater, and I am equally thankful for their efforts to differentiate our firm day-in and day-out. During 2007, we made tremendous progress on the integration of MLIM and the Quellos fund of funds business, including the ongoing implementation of our global platform and reinforcement of a unified culture. The success of the past year is a clear sign to me that our global, integrated model is working as we strive to meet increasing client demand for broader and deeper relationships. As we look forward, we are focused on the challenges of continued market volatility and adverse economic conditions, on the need to continue to build out our global platform and continually enhance our capabilities and, most importantly, on providing thoughtful and comprehensive service to our clients."
 
Fourth Quarter Business Highlights
Business activity in the fourth quarter reflected the conservative stance adopted by investors in the face of highly unstable market conditions. The impact on BlackRock's net new business by product, region and clients is summarized below.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fourth Quarter Financial Highlights
Full year 2006 reflects the impact of the MLIM transaction subsequent to closing on September 29, 2006. Given the magnitude of the acquired business, the Company has omitted discussion of full year 2007 line item variances versus full year 2006.
Comparison to the Third Quarter of 2007
Fourth quarter 2007 revenues were $1,444 million compared to $1,298 million in third quarter 2007. Revenues increased $146 million, or 11.3%, from third quarter 2007, reflecting higher levels of AUM in all asset classes.
 
 
 
Fourth quarter 2007 operating expenses were $976 million, compared to $898 million in third quarter 2007, excluding a one-time insourcing expense in third quarter 2007 of $128 million related to certain closed-end fund administration and servicing arrangements with Merrill Lynch. The $78 million, or 8.7%, increase compared to third quarter 2007 was primarily due to:
 
 
 
 
Fourth quarter 2007 operating income, as adjusted, totaled $489 million, an increase of $65 million or 15.5%, from the $424 million earned in third quarter of 2007. The increase reflects strong revenue growth in investment advisory and administration base fees offset by higher expenses due to an increase in business activity and support of two enhanced cash funds.
 
Fourth quarter 2007 non-operating income was $29 million, compared to $128 million in third quarter 2007. Fourth quarter 2007 non-operating income was offset by approximately $9 million of non-controlling interest compared to $82 million in third quarter 2007. The decrease in non-operating income, net of non-controlling interest, of $26 million primarily reflects a decline in net investment gains from seed investments in real estate and private equity products of $20 million and $3 million, respectively, $12 million of increased impairments related to seed investments in collateralized debt obligations, offset by an $18 million increase in net investment gains from seed investments in hedge fund and fund of funds products. In addition, interest expense increased $9 million compared to the third quarter due to higher interest expense related to the issuance of long term debt in September 2007.
Fourth quarter 2007 income taxes were $166 million, compared to $63 million in third quarter 2007. Income taxes for the third quarter 2007 included a one-time tax benefit of $51 million associated with tax legislation enacted by the United Kingdom and Germany that will reduce corporate income tax rates in those jurisdictions in 2008. Accordingly, BlackRock revalued its deferred tax liabilities attributable to these two jurisdictions.
Comparison to the Fourth Quarter of 2006
Fourth quarter 2007 revenues were $1,444 million compared to $1,019 million in fourth quarter 2006. Revenues increased $425 million, or 41.8% from fourth quarter 2006, reflecting higher levels of AUM in all asset classes and increased performance fees.
 
 
 
Fourth quarter 2007 operating expenses were $976 million, compared to $772 million in fourth quarter 2006. The $204 million, or 26.4% increase compared to fourth quarter 2006, was primarily due to:
 
 
 
Fourth quarter 2007 operating income, as adjusted, totaled $489 million, an increase of $163 million or 49.9%, from the $326 million earned in fourth quarter 2006. The increase reflects strong revenue growth in investment advisory and administration base and performance fees offset by higher expenses due to increased business activity.
 
Teleconference and Webcast Information
BlackRock will host a teleconference call for investors and analysts on Thursday, January 17, 2008, at 9:00 a.m. (Eastern Time) to discuss its fourth quarter results. Members of the public who are interested in participating in the teleconference should dial, from the United States, (800) 374-0176, or from outside the United States, (706) 679-4634, shortly before 9:00 a.m. and reference the BlackRock Conference Call (ID Number 30398355). A live, listen-only webcast will also be available via the investor relations section of www.blackrock.com.
Both the teleconference and webcast will be available for replay by 1:00 p.m. on Thursday, January 17, 2008 and ending at midnight on Thursday, January 24, 2008. To access the replay of the teleconference, callers from the United States should dial (800) 642-1687 and callers from outside the United States should dial (706) 645-9291 and enter the Conference ID Number 30398355. To access the webcast, please visit the investor relations section of www.blackrock.com.
Performance Notes
Past performance is no guarantee of future results. Mutual fund performance data is net of fees and expenses and assumes the reinvestment of dividends and capital gains distributions. BlackRock waives certain fees, without which performance would be lower. Investments in mutual funds are neither insured nor guaranteed by the U.S. government. Relative peer group performance is based on quartiles from Lipper Inc. for U.S. funds and Morningstar, Inc. for non-U.S. funds. Rankings are based on total returns with dividends and distributions reinvested and do not reflect sales charges. Funds with returns among the top 50% of a peer group of funds with comparable objectives are in the top two quartiles.
About BlackRock
BlackRock is one of the world's largest publicly traded investment management firms. At December 31, 2007, BlackRock's AUM was $1.357 trillion. The firm manages assets on behalf of institutions and individuals worldwide through a variety of equity, fixed income, cash management and alternative investment products. In addition, a growing number of institutional investors use investment system, risk management and financial advisory services. Headquartered in New York City, as of December 31, 2007, the firm has approximately 5,500 employees in 19 countries and a major presence in key global markets, including the U.S., Europe, Asia, Australia and the Middle East. For additional information, please visit the Company's website at .
BlackRock Solutions
www.blackrock.com
 
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release, and other statements that BlackRock may make, may contain forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act, with respect to BlackRock's future financial or business performance, strategies or expectations. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as "trend," "potential," "opportunity," "pipeline," "believe," "comfortable," "expect," "anticipate," "current," "intention," "estimate," "position," "assume," "outlook," "continue," "remain," "maintain," "sustain," "seek," "achieve," and similar expressions, or future or conditional verbs such as "will," "would," "should," "could," "may" or similar expressions.
BlackRock cautions that forward-looking statements are subject to numerous assumptions, risks and uncertainties, which change over time. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and BlackRock assumes no duty to and does not undertake to update forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in forward-looking statements and future results could differ materially from historical performance.
In addition to factors previously disclosed in BlackRock's SEC reports and those identified elsewhere in this communication, the following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking statements or historical performance: (1) the introduction, withdrawal, success and timing of business initiatives and strategies; (2) changes in political, economic or industry conditions, the interest rate environment or financial and capital markets, which could result in changes in demand for products or services or in the value of assets under management; (3) the relative and absolute investment performance of BlackRock's investment products, including its separately managed accounts; (4) the impact of increased competition; (5) the impact of capital improvement projects; (6) the impact of future acquisitions or divestitures; (7) the unfavorable resolution of legal proceedings; (8) the extent and timing of any share repurchases; (9) the impact, extent and timing of technological changes and the adequacy of intellectual property protection; (10) the impact of legislative and regulatory actions and reforms and regulatory, supervisory or enforcement actions of government agencies relating to BlackRock, Merrill Lynch or PNC; (11) terrorist activities and international hostilities, which may adversely affect the general economy, domestic and local financial and capital markets, specific industries and BlackRock; (12) the ability to attract and retain highly talented professionals; (13) fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which may adversely affect the value of advisory and administration fees earned by BlackRock; (14) the impact of changes to tax legislation and, generally, the tax position of the Company; (15) BlackRock's ability to successfully integrate the MLIM and Quellos businesses with its existing business; (16) the ability of BlackRock to effectively manage the former MLIM and Quellos assets along with its historical assets under management; and (17) BlackRock's success in maintaining the distribution of its products.
BlackRock's Annual Reports on Form 10-K and BlackRock's subsequent filings with the SEC, accessible on the SEC's website at and on BlackRock's website at , discuss these factors in more detail and identify additional factors that can affect forward-looking statements. The information contained on our website is not a part of this press release.
http://www.sec.gov
http://www.blackrock.com
 
Attachment I
 
NOTE: Certain prior period information has been reclassified to conform to current period presentation.
NMNot meaningful
 
(a) BlackRock reports its financial results on a GAAP basis, however management believes that evaluating the Company's ongoing operating results may not be as useful if investors are limited to reviewing only GAAP financial measures. Management reviews non-GAAP financial measures to assess ongoing operations and, for the reasons described below, considers them to be effective indicators, for both management and investors, of BlackRock's financial performance over time. BlackRock's management does not advocate that investors consider such non-GAAP financial measures in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Operating margin, as adjusted, equals operating income, as adjusted, divided by revenue used for operating margin measurement, as indicated in the table below. As a result of recent changes in BlackRock's business, management has altered the way it views its operating margin, as adjusted. As such, the calculation of operating income, as adjusted, and operating margin, as adjusted, were modified in the second quarter 2007 primarily to adjust for costs associated with closed-end fund issuances and amortization of deferred sales costs, as shown below. Revenue used for operating margin, as adjusted, for all periods presented includes affiliated and unaffiliated portfolio administration and servicing costs. Certain prior period non-GAAP data has been reclassified to conform to current presentation. Computations for all periods are derived from the Company's condensed consolidated statements of income as follows:
 
 
(a) (continued)
Management believes that operating income, as adjusted, and operating margin, as adjusted, are effective indicators of management's ability to effectively employ BlackRock's resources. As such, management believes that operating income, as adjusted, and operating margin, as adjusted, provide useful disclosure to investors.
Non-GAAP Operating Income Adjustments:
The expense related to the termination of the closed-end fund administration and servicing arrangements with Merrill Lynch has been excluded from operating income, as adjusted, as the termination of the arrangements is deemed non-recurring by management. The portion of the Long-Term Incentive Plan ("LTIP") expense associated with awards funded through the distribution to participants of shares of BlackRock stock held by PNC and the anticipated Merrill Lynch compensation contribution have been excluded because, exclusive of the impact related to LTIP participants' put options, these charges do not impact BlackRock's book value. MLIM and Quellos integration costs consist principally of certain professional fees, rebranding costs and compensation costs related to the integration which were reflected in GAAP operating income. Integration costs have been deemed non-recurring by management and have been excluded from operating income, as adjusted, to help ensure the comparability of this information to prior periods. Closed-end fund launch costs and commissions have been excluded from operating income, as adjusted, because such costs can fluctuate considerably and revenues associated with the expenditure of such costs will not fully impact the Company's results until future periods. As such, management believes that operating margins exclusive of these costs are more representative of the operating performance for the respective periods. Compensation expense associated with appreciation (depreciation) on assets related to certain BlackRock deferred compensation plans has been excluded as returns on investments for these plans are reported in non-operating income.
Non-GAAP Revenue Adjustments:
Portfolio administration and servicing costs have been excluded from revenue used for operating margin, as adjusted, because the Company receives offsetting revenue and expense for these services. Amortization of deferred sales costs are excluded from revenue used for operating margin measurement, as adjusted, because such costs offset distribution fee revenue earned by the Company. Reimbursable property management compensation represents compensation and benefits paid to certain BlackRock Realty Advisors, Inc. ("Realty") personnel. These employees are retained on Realty's payroll when certain properties are acquired by Realty's clients. The related compensation and benefits are fully reimbursed by Realty's clients and have been excluded from revenue used for operating margin, as adjusted, because they bear no economic cost to BlackRock.
 
(b) BlackRock reports its financial results on a GAAP basis, however management believes that evaluating the Company's ongoing operating results may not be as useful if investors are limited to reviewing only GAAP-basis financial measures. Management reviews non-GAAP financial measures to assess ongoing operations and for the reasons described below, considers them to be effective indicators, for both management and investors, of BlackRock's financial performance over time. BlackRock's management does not advocate that investors consider such non-GAAP financial measures in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
Management believes that net income, as adjusted, and diluted earnings per share, as adjusted, are effective measurements of BlackRock's profitability and financial performance. The termination of the closed-end fund administration and servicing arrangements with Merrill Lynch has been excluded from net income, as adjusted, as the termination of the arrangements is deemed non-recurring by management. The portion of the LTIP expense associated with awards funded through the distribution to participants of shares of BlackRock stock held by PNC and the anticipated Merrill Lynch compensation contribution have been excluded from net income, as adjusted, and diluted earnings per share, as adjusted, because, exclusive of the impact related to LTIP participants' put options, these charges do not impact BlackRock's book value. MLIM and Quellos integration costs reflected in GAAP net income have been deemed non-recurring by management and have been excluded from net income, as adjusted, and diluted earnings per share, as adjusted, to help ensure the comparability of this information to prior reporting periods. Integration costs consist principally of compensation costs, professional fees and rebranding costs incurred in conjunction with the integrations. The United Kingdom and Germany, during third quarter 2007, enacted legislation reducing corporate income taxes, effective in April and January of 2008, respectively, which resulted in a revaluation of certain deferred tax liabilities. The resulting decrease in income taxes has been excluded from net income, as adjusted, as it is non-recurring and to ensure comparability to prior reporting periods.
(c) Series A non-voting participating preferred stock is considered to be common stock for purposes of earnings per share calculations.
 
Attachment II
 
NOTE: Certain prior period information has been reclassified to conform to current period presentation.
 
 
NMNot meaningful
 
Attachment III
Summary
 
Fourth Quarter Component Changes
 
NOTE: Certain prior period information has been reclassified to conform to current period presentation.
 


