FILE:BLK/BLK-8K-20090121092331.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On January 21, 2009, BlackRock, Inc. (the "Company") reported results of operations for the three months and year ended December 31, 2008. A copy of the press release issued by the Company is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Contact:
Brian Beades
212-810-5596
invrel@blackrock.com
 BlackRock, Inc. (NYSE:BLK) today reported 2008 full year results, consisting of a 23% year-over-year increase in operating income (9.5% as adjusted
New York, January 21, 2009
1
, see below) to $1,593 million or $8.02 per diluted share, and non-operating losses, net of non-controlling interests, of $419 million, or $2.11 per diluted share, versus an $0.80 per diluted share gain in 2007. Net income for the year was $786 million, or $5.91 per diluted share, a decrease of 21% compared to 2007. Total revenue increased 5% from 2007 to $5,064 million. The reported operating margin of 31.4% for full year 2008 expanded relative to 26.7% in 2007.
Full year net income, as adjusted
1
, includes operating income, as adjusted
1
, of $1,662 million, or $8.37 per diluted share, a 9.5% improvement year-over-year, and as adjusted
1
non-operating losses, net of non-controlling interests, of $1.92 per diluted share. Net income, as adjusted
1
, was $858 million or $6.45 per diluted share, a 21% decrease compared to 2007. The operating margin, as adjusted
1
, increased to 38.7% from 37.5% in 2007.
2008 results include a restructuring charge of $38 million related to severance and other employee related costs associated with a 9% reduction in work force.
In summary, full year operating income, as adjusted
1
, improved 9.5% and operating margin, as adjusted
1
, improved to 38.7%. The increase in operating income and the 5% increase in revenue reflect strong net new business flows in the first half of the year, exceptional growth in the advisory business, a balanced business model (by asset class, client type and geography), and strong cost management discipline, dampened by the impact of extremely negative markets in the second half of the year, particularly in the fourth quarter.
Negative non-operating results were driven by BlackRock's utilization of its balance sheet to co-invest capital alongside its clients, and to seed new products. The majority of this capital is invested long term in alternative products, including real estate, distressed products, hedge funds and private equity. The hostile markets in 2008 have affected the mark-to-market value of our clients' and BlackRock's investments, which are not deemed to be "Held-to-Maturity". The full-year non-operating expense, net of non-controlling interests, as adjusted
1
, of $381 million represents approximately a 25% decline from the peak investment portfolio value of about $1.4 billion in June of 2008 and is reflective of market movements on the underlying assets.
For the fourth quarter, operating income was $338 million or $371 million on an as adjusted basis
1
. Non-operating losses were $293 million net of non-controlling interests or $270 million on an as adjusted basis
1
. This resulted in net income of $53 million or $91 million on an as adjusted basis
1
. Diluted earnings per share were $0.40 compared to $2.43 in fourth quarter of 2007. Diluted earnings per share, as adjusted
1
, of $0.68 were composed of operating income of $1.81 a share, non-operating losses of $1.32 a share and a $0.19 per share adjustment to bring the full year effective tax rate down from 35% to 33%. Operating income, as adjusted
1
, of $371 million compares to $488 million in fourth quarter of 2007.
 
 
Assets under management ("AUM") ended 2008 at $1.31 trillion, up $48.6 billion during the fourth quarter. The increase was driven by $129.1 billion of net new business, a 10% organic growth rate for the quarter, which was partially offset by $80.5 billion of declines in asset values due to adverse markets and foreign exchange translation. Both U.S. and international clients awarded us net new assets during the quarter, with inflows concentrated in advisory portfolios and cash management products, as investors continued to pull money out of long-dated strategies. For the year, net new business totaled $167.6 billion, representing a 12% organic growth rate, which was overwhelmed by a $217.1 billion decline in asset values due to the severe fall in markets and U.S. dollar strengthening. During the last twelve months, we were awarded net inflows of $135.0 billion from U.S. investors and $32.6 billion from international investors, including net new business in all asset classes other than fixed income. had exceptionally robust results, adding 72 assignments during the year, including 20 in the fourth quarter, and completing 46 short-term mandates. For the year, revenue on our investment system, risk management and advisory services exceeded $400 million, more than doubling since 2007. As of January 16, 2009, our pipeline of new business wins funded or to be funded totaled $59.5 billion, including $21.1 billion of fixed income, equity and alternative portfolios, $5.5 billion of cash management products, and $32.9 billion of advisory assignments, excluding BlackRock's engagement as one of the managers for the Federal Reserve's MBS purchase program.
BlackRock Solutions
"Without question, 2008 has been the most difficult market environment in memory, with many markets frozen and assets suffering extreme price declines," commented Laurence D. Fink, Chairman and CEO of BlackRock. "Problems accelerated in the second half of the year and 2009 is beginning on difficult footing with greater headline risk of growing unemployment, weak earnings and increased bankruptcies. Investors of all sizes are affected: pensions, insurance companies, banks, sovereign wealth funds, retail investors and their retirement accounts. Central banks worldwide are beginning to understand the severity of the situation, and are pursuing a variety of ways to have an impact. We look forward to the focus and energy President Obama and his economic team will bring to these challenges, and the beneficial effect that government support and fiscal stimulus can have on the U.S. and global economy.
"Hostile markets have substantially eroded portfolio values and caused investors to pull back from both traditional and alternative investments. Clients are reviewing their asset allocation strategies and rethinking their approach to asset/liability management. Increasingly they are looking for solutions that span asset classes; they are looking for strategic partners, not product providers. BlackRock has long embraced this type of client service model.
"Throughout the year, we worked with our clients as they migrated to liability driven solutions, outsourced fiduciary management, sought investment opportunities appropriate to their risk tolerances, struggled to assess the value of assets and address balance sheet challenges, or just wanted to talk about developments in the markets. Our unwavering focus on risk management preserved the safety and liquidity of our money market funds and solidified our position as a leader in the cash management business.
"Our abiding commitment to helping investors solve problems and our ability to be nimble as an organization in bringing resources to bear on the changing needs of our clients manifested itself in the substantial growth of our and advisory activities. The team worked tirelessly to meet the urgent needs of numerous clients, while at the same time supporting BlackRock and completing an enormously complex, two-year project to insource operations and implement our systems in Europe. With that behind us, we have effectively completed the MLIM integration and are operating on a unified platform globally.
BlackRock Solutions
"The strength and potential of our platform is evident in our 2008 new business momentum, but our financial results were significantly harmed by the sharp decline in markets. Management fees, performance fees and non-operating income have all suffered. All of our current seeds and coinvestments have been marked-to-market, in some cases to levels below what cash flow analysis might suggest. It should be noted, however, that real estate and private equity markets typically lag public markets, and further declines might be expected in 2009. Nonetheless, we continue to believe firmly in alignment of interests and will continue to coinvest alongside our clients in our alternative and opportunistic products.
 
"As we begin 2009, I am both realistic and optimistic. I am realistic about the economic and market problems we face worldwide. I am realistic about the fact that our industry and our business are smaller solely by virtue of sharply lower asset values. I am optimistic that we can navigate these challenges and come out stronger. I am optimistic about the power of BlackRock's business model and strength of our platform, as well as our ability to extend our relationship with Merrill Lynch under the Bank of America umbrella. I look forward to working with our new partners to better serve our respective clients. I believe that industry consolidation will accelerate and that BlackRock will have meaningful strategic opportunities. I know that BlackRock's management team will exercise sound judgment in adapting to the current environment, while continuing to invest for the future. I am confident in the capabilities of our team and the dedication of each of our employees to serving our clients and operating our business with the utmost integrity. I thank them all for their commitment, and I thank our clients for their continuing confidence in BlackRock."
Fourth Quarter Business Highlights
Severe market dislocations continued, with a broad range of markets delivering sharply negative returns for the quarter and the full year. Such conditions continue to challenge investors worldwide, many of which have withdrawn from long-dated markets in favor of safe havens, such as money markets, deposits and U.S. Treasuries. The deterioration in net asset values adversely affects all investors and investment managers. Although BlackRock's AUM closed the quarter up $48.6 billion, we suffered an $80.5 billion decline in asset values due to adverse markets and foreign exchange movements.
In the face of these challenging conditions, we remain focused on serving our clients and helping them solve problems. Throughout the year, we sought to leverage our extensive capital markets, risk management and analytical capabilities to build our advisory practice, helping clients assess hard-to-value assets and manage or liquidate troubled portfolios. We also worked closely with our clients and intermediaries to identify attractive investment opportunities and to support their efforts with timely market analysis and frequent communications. These efforts resulted in net new business of $129.1 billion, or 10% organic growth, during the fourth quarter.
BlackRock continues to benefit from the diversity of its global clientele. During the quarter, we were awarded $120.8 billion of net new business from U.S. clients and $8.3 billion from international investors. These results included net inflows from over 700 clients in 33 countries, in addition to the retail investors served through our intermediary-sold mutual funds and separately managed accounts.
Although industry trends generally were negative, we continued to enhance our market position in key client channels, including U.S. and international retail. For example, we had net outflows of $1.7 billion or less than 1% in our U.S. open-end equity and bond funds during the fourth quarter, while the industry suffered a 3% redemption rate
2
. Similarly, through November we gained market share in U.K. retail and retained our position as the second largest cross-border fund provider, even as we experienced net outflows
3
. In total, we had $8.1 billion of net outflows from retail and high net worth investors worldwide in the fourth quarter. In contrast, institutional investors awarded us $137.2 billion of net new business, including $101.8 billion in advisory AUM, driving a 14% organic growth rate for the quarter.
Net new business across products reflected shifting client preferences given the extreme instability in markets and growing business pressures.
 
 
 
 
 
 
As market turmoil persisted and in most cases worsened in the fourth quarter, investors struggled with a wide spectrum of financial products. The need for risk management capabilities has never been clearer, and demand for has never been greater. By bringing together our extensive capital markets, risk management and analytical capabilities, we have been able to deliver a range of risk management products and advisory services to help institutions better meet their investment challenges. In the fourth quarter, we were retained on 20 new assignments, including one new Aladdin mandate, three net new risk management relationships, and 16 advisory assignments. We also completed 18 short-term engagements during the quarter, and continued to make progress on five system implementations.
BlackRock Solutions
Although markets are off to a difficult start in 2009, BlackRock remains well positioned to help clients navigate these challenging times and to benefit when the markets finally turn the corner. Our brand is more recognized around the globe, our team is stronger and more unified, many of our products have performed well, and our market share is growing. We have enhanced our ability to deliver risk management and investment solutions, including multi asset class strategies, fiduciary outsourcing, advisory services, and strategic partnerships with our clients and distributors. At January 16, 2009, our pipeline of wins funded or to be funded stood at $59.5 billion, including $21.1 billion of long-dated mandates, $5.5 billion of cash management products, and $32.9 billion of advisory assignments, excluding BlackRock's engagement as one of the managers for the Federal Reserve's MBS purchase program. In addition, we have signed contracts or are in negotiations on a number of new assignments.
BlackRock Solutions
 
Fourth Quarter Financial Highlights
Comparison to the Fourth Quarter of 2007
Fourth quarter 2008 operating income decreased 28% to $338 million from $468 million earned in fourth quarter 2007. Fourth quarter 2008 included the impact of the $38 million restructuring charges.
Fourth quarter 2008 revenues of $1,064 million decreased $380 million, or 26%, compared to $1,444 million in fourth quarter 2007 primarily due to the following:
 
 
 
 
Fourth quarter 2008 operating expenses were $687 million, excluding the restructuring charges in fourth quarter 2008 of $38 million, compared to $976 million in fourth quarter 2007. The $289 million, or 30%, decrease compared to fourth quarter 2007 was primarily due to the following:
 
 
 
Fourth quarter 2008 non-operating expense, net of non-controlling interests, was $293 million compared to non-operating income, net of non-controlling interests, of $20 million in fourth quarter 2007. The $293 million non-operating expense, net of non-controlling interests, includes investment losses of $124 million from seed and co-investments in hedge funds/funds of hedge funds (including the impact of distressed credit products), $91 million from real estate products, $35 million from private equity products, and $23 million related to investments associated with certain deferred compensation plans.
 
Comparison to the Third Quarter of 2008
Fourth quarter 2008 operating income decreased 25% to $338 million from $454 million earned in third quarter 2008.
Fourth quarter 2008 revenues of $1,064 million decreased $249 million, or 19%, compared to $1,313 million in third quarter 2008 primarily due to the following:
 
 
 
 
Fourth quarter 2008 operating expenses of $687 million, excluding the restructuring charges in fourth quarter 2008 of $38 million, decreased $173 million, or 20%, compared to $860 million in third quarter 2008. The $173 million decrease compared to third quarter 2008 was primarily due to the following:
 
 
 
Fourth quarter 2008 non-operating expense, net of non-controlling interests, was $293 million, compared to non-operating expense, net of non-controlling interests, of $119 million in third quarter 2008. The $174 million decline from third quarter 2008 primarily relates to declines in valuations of seed and co-investments in real estate, hedge funds/funds of hedge funds, other investments, private equity, and assets associated with certain deferred compensation plans.
 
Teleconference and Webcast Information
BlackRock will host a teleconference call for investors and analysts on Wednesday, January 21, 2009, at 9:00 a.m. (Eastern Time) to discuss its fourth quarter results. Members of the public who are interested in participating in the teleconference should dial, from the United States, (800) 374-0176, or from outside the United States, (706) 679-4634, shortly before 9:00 a.m. and reference the BlackRock Conference Call (ID Number 80759361). A live, listen-only webcast will also be available via the investor relations section of .
www.blackrock.com
Both the teleconference and webcast will be available for replay by 1:00 p.m. on Wednesday, January 21, 2009 and ending at midnight on Wednesday, January 28, 2009. To access the replay of the teleconference, callers from the United States should dial (800) 642-1687 and callers from outside the United States should dial (706) 645-9291 and enter the Conference ID Number 80759361. To access the webcast, please visit the investor relations section of .
www.blackrock.com
About BlackRock
BlackRock is one of the world's largest publicly traded investment management firms. At December 31, 2008, BlackRock's AUM was $1.307 trillion. The firm manages assets on behalf of institutions and individuals worldwide through a variety of equity, fixed income, cash management and alternative investment products. In addition, a growing number of institutional investors use investment system, risk management and financial advisory services. Headquartered in New York City, as of December 31, 2008, the firm has approximately 5,300 employees in 22 countries and a major presence in key global markets, including the U.S., Europe, Asia, Australia and the Middle East. For additional information, please visit the Company's website at .
BlackRock Solutions
www.blackrock.com
 
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release, and other statements that BlackRock may make, may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act, with respect to BlackRock's future financial or business performance, strategies or expectations. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as "trend," "potential," "opportunity," "pipeline," "believe," "comfortable," "expect," "anticipate," "current," "intention," "estimate," "position," "assume," "outlook," "continue," "remain," "maintain," "sustain," "seek," "achieve," and similar expressions, or future or conditional verbs such as "will," "would," "should," "could," "may" or similar expressions.
BlackRock cautions that forward-looking statements are subject to numerous assumptions, risks and uncertainties, which change over time. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and BlackRock assumes no duty to and does not undertake to update forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in forward-looking statements and future results could differ materially from historical performance.
In addition to risk factors previously disclosed in BlackRock's SEC reports and those identified elsewhere in this report the following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking statements or historical performance: (1) the introduction, withdrawal, success and timing of business initiatives and strategies; (2) changes and volatility in political, economic or industry conditions, the interest rate environment or financial and capital markets, which could result in changes in demand for products or services or in the value of assets under management; (3) the relative and absolute investment performance of BlackRock's investment products; (4) the impact of increased competition; (5) the impact of capital improvement projects; (6) the impact of future acquisitions or divestitures; (7) the unfavorable resolution of legal proceedings; (8) the extent and timing of any share repurchases; (9) the impact, extent and timing of technological changes and the adequacy of intellectual property protection; (10) the impact of legislative and regulatory actions and reforms and regulatory, supervisory or enforcement actions of government agencies relating to BlackRock, Merrill Lynch, Bank of America or The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc.; (11) terrorist activities and international hostilities, which may adversely affect the general economy, domestic and local financial and capital markets, specific industries, or BlackRock; (12) the ability to attract and retain highly talented professionals; (13) fluctuations in the carrying value of BlackRock's investments; (14) fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which may adversely affect the value of investment advisory and administration fees earned by BlackRock or the carrying value of certain assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies; (15) the impact of changes to tax legislation and, generally, the tax position of the Company; (16) the ability of BlackRock to effectively manage the former Quellos business along with its historical operations; (17) BlackRock's success in maintaining the distribution of its products; (18) the impact of BlackRock electing to provide support to its products from time to time; and (19) the impact of problems at other financial institutions or the failure or negative performance of products at other financial institutions.
BlackRock's Annual Reports on Form 10-K and BlackRock's subsequent filings with the SEC, accessible on the SEC's website at and on BlackRock's website at , discuss these factors in more detail and identify additional factors that can affect forward-looking statements. The information contained on our website is not a part of this press release.
http://www.sec.gov
http://www.blackrock.com
 
Attachment I
 
 
NOTE: Certain prior period information has been reclassified to conform to current period presentation.
NM - Not meaningful
 
BlackRock reports its financial results on a GAAP basis; however, management believes that evaluating the Company's ongoing operating results may be enhanced if investors have additional non-GAAP basis financial measures. Management reviews non-GAAP financial measures to assess ongoing operations and, for the reasons described below, considers them to be effective indicators, for both management and investors, of BlackRock's financial performance over time. BlackRock's management does not advocate that investors consider such non-GAAP financial measures in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Certain prior period non-GAAP data has been reclassified to conform to the current presentation. Computations for all periods are derived from the Company's condensed consolidated statements of income as follows:
(a) Operating income, as adjusted and operating margin, as adjusted:
Operating income, as adjusted, equals operating income, GAAP basis, excluding certain items deemed non-recurring by management or transactions that ultimately will not impact BlackRock's book value, as indicated in the table below. Operating income used for operating margin measurement equals operating income, as adjusted, excluding the impact of closed-end fund launch costs and commissions. Operating margin, as adjusted, equals operating income used for operating margin measurement, divided by revenue used for operating margin measurement, as indicated in the table below.
 
 
(a) (continued)
Management believes that operating income, as adjusted, and operating margin, as adjusted, are effective indicators of BlackRock's performance over time. As such, management believes that operating income, as adjusted, and operating margin, as adjusted, provide useful disclosure to investors.
Operating income, as adjusted:
Restructuring charges recorded in 2008 consist of compensation costs and professional fees. MLIM and Quellos integration costs recorded in 2007 consist principally of certain professional fees, rebranding costs and compensation costs incurred in conjunction with these integrations. The expenses associated with: (i) the 2008 restructuring, (ii) MLIM and Quellos integration costs and (iii) the 2007 termination of the closed-end fund administration and servicing arrangements with Merrill Lynch have been deemed non-recurring by management and have been excluded from operating income, as adjusted, to help ensure the comparability of this information to prior periods. As such, management believes that operating margins exclusive of these costs are useful measures in evaluating BlackRock's operating performance for the respective periods.
The portion of compensation expense associated with certain Long-Term Incentive Plans ("LTIP") that will be funded through the distribution to participants of shares of BlackRock stock held by PNC and the anticipated Merrill Lynch compensation contribution have been excluded because, exclusive of the impact related to the exercise of LTIP participants' put options, primarily in the three months ended March 31, 2007, these charges do not impact BlackRock's book value.
Compensation expense associated with appreciation (depreciation) on assets related to certain BlackRock deferred compensation plans has been excluded as returns on investments set aside for these plans, which substantially offset this expense, are reported in non-operating income.
Operating margin, as adjusted:
Operating income used for measuring operating margin, as adjusted, is equal to operating income, as adjusted, excluding the impact of closed-end fund launch costs and commissions. Management believes that excluding such costs and commissions is useful because these costs can fluctuate considerably and revenues associated with the expenditure of these costs will not fully impact the Company's results until future periods.
Revenue used for operating margin, as adjusted, excludes portfolio administration and servicing costs paid to related parties and to other third parties. Management believes that excluding such costs is useful because the Company receives offsetting revenue for these services. Amortization of deferred mutual fund sales commissions is excluded from revenue used for operating margin measurement, as adjusted, because such costs, over time, offset distribution fee revenue earned by the Company. Reimbursable property management compensation represents compensation and benefits paid to personnel of Metric Property Management, Inc. ("Metric"), a subsidiary of BlackRock Realty Advisors, Inc. ("Realty"). These employees were retained on Metric's payroll when certain properties were acquired by Realty's clients. The related compensation and benefits were fully reimbursed by Realty's clients and have been excluded from revenue used for operating margin, as adjusted, because they bear no economic cost to BlackRock.
(b) Non-operating income (expense), net of non-controlling interests, as adjusted:
Non-operating income (expense), net of non-controlling interests, as adjusted, equals non-operating income (expense), GAAP basis, net of non-controlling interests, GAAP basis, adjusted for compensation expense associated with depreciation (appreciation) on assets related to certain BlackRock deferred compensation plans, which is recorded in operating income. This compensation expense has been included in non-operating income (expense), net of non-controlling interests, as adjusted, to offset returns on investments set aside for these plans, which are reported in non-operating income (expense), GAAP basis.
 
 
(b) Non-operating income (expense), net of non-controlling interests, as adjusted (continued):
Management believes that non-operating income (expense), as adjusted, provides for comparability of this information to prior periods and is an effective measure for reviewing BlackRock's non-operating contribution to its results. As compensation expense on the deferred compensation plans, which is included in operating income, offsets the gain/(loss) on the investments set aside for these plans, management believes that non-operating income (expense), net of non-controlling interests, as adjusted, provides useful measures to investors of BlackRock's non-operating results.
(c) Net income, as adjusted:
Management believes that net income, as adjusted, and diluted earnings per share, as adjusted, are useful measures of BlackRock's profitability and financial performance. Net income, as adjusted, equals net income, GAAP basis, adjusted for significant non-recurring items as well as charges that ultimately will not impact BlackRock's book value.
 
The restructuring charges and the MLIM and Quellos integration costs reflected in GAAP net income have been deemed non-recurring by management and have been excluded from net income, as adjusted, to help ensure the comparability of this information to prior reporting periods.
The portion of the compensation expense associated with LTIP awards that will be funded through the distribution to participants of shares of BlackRock stock held by PNC and the anticipated Merrill Lynch compensation contribution have been excluded from net income, as adjusted, because, exclusive of the impact related to the exercise of LTIP participants' put options, primarily in the three months ended March 31, 2007, these charges do not impact BlackRock's book value. The termination of the closed-end fund administration and servicing arrangements with Merrill Lynch has been excluded from net income, as adjusted, as the termination of the arrangements is deemed non-recurring by management.
During third quarter 2007, the United Kingdom and Germany enacted legislation reducing corporate income taxes, effective in April and January of 2008, respectively, which resulted in a revaluation of certain deferred tax liabilities. The resulting decrease in income taxes has been excluded from net income, as adjusted, as it is non-recurring and to ensure comparability to current reporting periods.
(d) For the year ended December 31, 2008, non-GAAP adjustments were tax effected at 33%, BlackRock's 2008 effective tax rate. Non-GAAP adjustments, for the year ended December 31, 2007, were tax effected at 36%, which approximates BlackRock's 2007 effective tax rate after adjusting primarily for the impact of the United Kingdom and Germany corporate income tax rate reductions.
(e) Series A non-voting participating preferred stock is considered to be a common stock equivalent for purposes of earnings per share calculations.
 
Attachment II
 
 
 
 
NM - Not meaningful
NOTE: Certain prior period information has been reclassified to conform to current period presentation.
 
Attachment III
 
 
NM = Not Material
 


