FILE:BLK/BLK-8K-20090721090448.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On July 21, 2009, BlackRock, Inc. (the "Company") reported results of operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2009. A copy of the press release issued by the Company is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)  Exhibits.
99.1        Press release dated July 21, 2009 issued by the Company.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
BlackRock, Inc.
(Registrant)
 
 
By:
/s/ Ann Marie Petach        
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 BlackRock, Inc. (NYSE:BLK) today reported second quarter 2009 net income
New York, July 21, 2009
1
of $218 million, or $1.59 per diluted common share. Operating income for second quarter was $261 million and non-operating income, net of non-controlling interests, was $51 million. The reported operating margin was 25.4%.
Net income, as adjusted
2
, was $1.75 per diluted common share or $239 million, including operating income of $1.44 per diluted share, non-operating income of $0.20 per diluted share and an $0.11 per diluted share benefit primarily from a favorable tax ruling received during the quarter. Net income, as adjusted
2
, was 117% higher than first quarter 2009 and 16% lower than second quarter 2008.
BlackRock's results reflect improving momentum in the business. Equity and fixed income markets have improved during the second quarter, more than offsetting first quarter market declines and contributing to positive momentum for net new business. BlackRock continues to maintain cost discipline and to benefit from a strong and diversified business model.
The period-over-period changes in Assets Under Management ("AUM") explain the changes in revenues and operating income, as adjusted
2
. Revenues were $1,029 million, up 4% compared to the first quarter 2009 and down 26% compared to second quarter 2008. Operating income, as adjusted
2
, was $302 million, which included an $18 million expense due to balance sheet related foreign currency effects. Excluding these effects, changes in operating income were in line with changes in revenue. Operating margin, as adjusted
2
, of 34.4% reflected cost discipline offset by balance sheet related foreign currency effects and an increase in incentive compensation associated with stronger net income
1
.
Net non-operating income, as adjusted
2
, of $42 million reflected the positive effects of markets on the Company's co-investments and seed investments, a significant improvement compared to prior periods. BlackRock marks substantially all of its investments to market through the income statement.
The table below presents a comparison of GAAP and as adjusted results for certain financial measures. See Attachment I for a reconciliation of GAAP to the as adjusted financial measures.
 
 
AUM was $1.373 trillion at June 30, 2009, up 7% since March 31, 2009. Net new business totaled $15.2 billion during the quarter, including $28.5 billion of net inflows in long-dated assets, $7.5 billion of net outflows in cash management products, and $5.8 billion of net distributions in advisory assets. Inflows were well balanced geographically with $8.3 billion and $6.9 billion from U.S. and international investors, respectively. New business was equally robust across channels, with $10.5 billion of net inflows from institutional clients and $4.7 billion from retail investors worldwide. We also continued to build our business, adding 12 net new assignments during the quarter and completing six short-term advisory engagements. As of July 17, 2009, our pipeline of wins funded or to be funded totaled $45.7 billion, almost all of which was in long-dated investment products.
BlackRock Solutions
"Our second quarter results reflected the strength of our global focus on investment performance, client service and cost management" commented Laurence D. Fink, Chairman and CEO of BlackRock. "We worked closely with clients and distribution partners to serve renewed investor appetite for higher return assets, a key driver underlying net new business results for the quarter. We also continued to benefit from growing momentum in investment and fiduciary outsourcing, as clients look to firms that can provide comprehensive investment solutions. Similarly, we continued to capitalize on demand for risk management tools and advice through our offerings.
BlackRock Solutions
"While markets were significantly more favorable during the second quarter, they remain choppy in the face of conflicting signals about global economic conditions. These are difficult conditions for portfolio managers to navigate, and I am proud of the job our teams are doing. Investment performance continued to improve in fixed income, where refinements to the investment process, a successful integration of the R3 team and selective new hires have helped drive strong results year-to-date. Performance remained competitive in equities and improved sharply in a number of alternative products, including our fund of hedge funds.
"On June 11
th
we announced that we had entered into an agreement to acquire Barclays Global Investors. The transaction will bring together two great asset management firms with a unique ability to create investment solutions for clients that draw upon leading index and active management capabilities and an extraordinarily deep product range across markets and asset classes. We have begun planning our integration, with a process designed to limit distraction for investment professionals and make the transition seamless for clients.
"Feedback from investors, consultants and distributors on the BGI transaction has been favorable, and new business wins since the announcement have been a particularly gratifying sign of confidence. We recognize the importance that clients place on integration planning and timely communication, and we will strive to exceed their expectations.
"We closed the quarter with a $45.7 billion pipeline of wins funded or to be funded, comprised almost entirely of flows in fixed income, equity, balanced and alternative products, as well as a robust pipeline in . These figures do not reflect assets to be raised under the Public-Private Investment Partnership ("PPIP") or assets managed under the Federal Reserve's MBS purchase program.
BlackRock Solutions
"As I travel the globe and meet with clients, I hear a renewed sense of cautious optimism. Investors are increasingly confident in their ability to earn returns in excess of the near zero percent offered in money market funds, and many are actively pursuing opportunities to redeploy their considerable cash balances to longer dated products. As a result, search activity continued to increase and new business momentum remained strong as we headed into the third quarter.
"Governments throughout the G7 have begun putting forth their first proposals for financial reforms. While most of the initiatives focus on banking and securities businesses, the investment management industry must evolve as well to build the strong bonds of trust that are essential to the work we do as fiduciaries for our clients. BlackRock welcomes this challenge and remains dedicated to working with investors to assess their needs and develop effective investment products and solutions. I would like to thank each and every BlackRock employee for the energy and enthusiasm they bring to our work with clients, for the ways in which they come together as a team to meet investor needs, and for their contributions to planning for our future integration with BGI."
 
Second Quarter Business Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Second Quarter GAAP Financial Highlights
Certain prior year amounts have been revised or reclassified to conform to 2009 presentation as required by the retrospective adoption of FSP APB 14-1, ("FSP APB 14-1"), FSP EITF 03-6-1, and SFAS No. 160, . For more information please refer to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 2, 2009.
Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement)
Determining Whether Instruments Granted in Share-Based Payment Transactions Are Participating Securities
Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements - an amendment of ARB No. 51
Second quarter 2009 operating income decreased 36% to $261 million from $405 million earned in second quarter 2008.
Second quarter 2009 revenues of $1,029 million decreased $358 million, or 26%, compared to $1,387 million in second quarter 2008 primarily due to the following:
 
 
 
 
Second quarter 2009 operating expenses were $768 million compared to $982 million in second quarter 2008. The $214 million, or 22%, decrease compared to second quarter 2008 was primarily due to the following:
 
 
 
 
Second quarter 2009 non-operating income, net of non-controlling interests, was $51 million compared to $16 million in second quarter 2008. The $51 million non-operating income, net of non-controlling interests, related to the Company's co-investments and seed investments including net gains in private equity products of $11 million, distressed hedge funds of $44 million, hedge funds/funds of hedge funds of $8 million, fixed income and equity investments of $2 million, and deferred compensation plans of $9 million, offset by a $12 million decrease in valuations from real estate equity/debt products. In addition, net interest expense was $11 million, a decrease of $7 million primarily due to a decline in interest rates.
Second quarter 2009 operating income decreased 4% to $261 million from $271 million earned in first quarter 2009.
Second quarter 2009 revenues of $1,029 million increased $42 million, or 4%, compared to $987 million in first quarter 2009 due to the following:
 
 
Second quarter 2009 operating expenses of $768 million increased $74 million, or 11%, compared to $694 million in first quarter 2009, excluding the restructuring charges in first quarter of $22 million. The $74 million increase compared to first quarter 2009 was primarily due to the following:
 
 
Second quarter 2009 non-operating income, net of non-controlling interests, was $51 million, compared to non-operating expense, net of non-controlling interests, of $157 million in first quarter 2009, a $208 million improvement from first quarter 2009 related to changes in valuations of co-investments and seed investments.
 
Teleconference and Webcast Information
BlackRock will host a teleconference call for investors and analysts on Tuesday, July 21, 2009, at 9:00 a.m. (Eastern Time) to discuss its second quarter results. Members of the public who are interested in participating in the teleconference should dial, from the United States, (800) 374-0176, or from outside the United States, (706) 679-4634, shortly before 9:00 a.m. and reference the BlackRock Conference Call (ID Number 18871845). A live, listen-only webcast will also be available via the investor relations section of .
www.blackrock.com
Both the teleconference and webcast will be available for replay by 1:00 p.m. on Tuesday, July 21, 2009 and ending at midnight on Tuesday, July 28, 2009. To access the replay of the teleconference, callers from the United States should dial (800) 642-1687 and callers from outside the United States should dial (706) 645-9291 and enter the Conference ID Number 18871845. To access the webcast, please visit the investor relations section of .
www.blackrock.com
Performance Notes
Past performance is not indicative of future results. The performance information reflects U.S. open-end mutual funds and EMEA-domiciled publicly offered funds. Source of performance information is BlackRock, Inc. and is based in part on data from Lipper Inc. for U.S. funds and Morningstar, Inc. for non-U.S. funds. Fund performance reflects the reinvestment of dividends and distributions, but does not reflect sales charges.
About BlackRock
BlackRock is one of the world's largest publicly traded investment management firms. At June 30, 2009, BlackRock's AUM was $1.373 trillion. The firm manages assets on behalf of institutions and individuals worldwide through a variety of equity, fixed income, cash management, alternative investment and advisory products. In addition, a growing number of institutional investors use investment system, risk management and financial advisory services. Headquartered in New York City, as of June 30, 2009, the firm has approximately 5,000 full-time employees in 21 countries and a major presence in key global markets, including the U.S., Europe, Asia, Australia and the Middle East. For additional information, please visit the Company's website at .
BlackRock Solutions
www.blackrock.com
 
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release, and other statements that BlackRock may make, may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act, with respect to BlackRock's future financial or business performance, strategies or expectations. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as "trend," "potential," "opportunity," "pipeline," "believe," "comfortable," "expect," "anticipate," "current," "intention," "estimate," "position," "assume," "outlook," "continue," "remain," "maintain," "sustain," "seek," "achieve," and similar expressions, or future or conditional verbs such as "will," "would," "should," "could," "may" or similar expressions.
BlackRock cautions that forward-looking statements are subject to numerous assumptions, risks and uncertainties, which change over time. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and BlackRock assumes no duty to and does not undertake to update forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in forward-looking statements and future results could differ materially from historical performance.
In addition to risk factors previously disclosed in BlackRock's SEC reports and those identified elsewhere in this report the following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking statements or historical performance: (1) the introduction, withdrawal, success and timing of business initiatives and strategies; (2) changes and volatility in political, economic or industry conditions, the interest rate environment or financial and capital markets, which could result in changes in demand for products or services or in the value of assets under management; (3) the relative and absolute investment performance of BlackRock's investment products; (4) the impact of increased competition; (5) the impact of capital improvement projects; (6) the impact of future acquisitions or divestitures; (7) the unfavorable resolution of legal proceedings; (8) the extent and timing of any share repurchases; (9) the impact, extent and timing of technological changes and the adequacy of intellectual property protection; (10) the impact of legislative and regulatory actions and reforms and regulatory, supervisory or enforcement actions of government agencies relating to BlackRock, Barclays, Bank of America, Merrill Lynch or PNC; (11) terrorist activities and international hostilities, which may adversely affect the general economy, domestic and local financial and capital markets, specific industries or BlackRock; (12) the ability to attract and retain highly talented professionals; (13) fluctuations in the carrying value of BlackRock's investments; (14) fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which may adversely affect the value of investment advisory and administration fees earned by BlackRock or the carrying value of certain assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies; (15) the impact of changes to tax legislation and, generally, the tax position of the Company; (16) the ability of BlackRock to effectively manage the former Quellos business along with its historical operations; (17) BlackRock's success in maintaining the distribution of its products; (18) the impact of BlackRock electing to provide support to its products from time to time; (19) the impact of problems at other financial institutions or the failure or negative performance of products at other financial institutions; and (20) the ability of BlackRock to complete the transaction with Barclays.
BlackRock's Annual Reports on Form 10-K and BlackRock's subsequent filings with the SEC, accessible on the SEC's website at and on BlackRock's website at , discuss these factors in more detail and identify additional factors that can affect forward-looking statements. The information contained on our website is not a part of this press release.
http://www.sec.gov
http://www.blackrock.com
 
Attachment I
 
NOTE: Certain prior period information has been reclassified to conform to current period presentation.
NMNot meaningful
 
BlackRock reports its financial results on a GAAP basis; however, management believes that evaluating the Company's ongoing operating results may be enhanced if investors have additional non-GAAP basis financial measures. Management reviews non-GAAP financial measures to assess ongoing operations and, for the reasons described below, considers them to be effective indicators, for both management and investors, of BlackRock's financial performance over time. BlackRock's management does not advocate that investors consider such non-GAAP financial measures in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Certain prior period non-GAAP data has been reclassified to conform to the current presentation. Computations for all periods are derived from the Company's condensed consolidated statements of income as follows:
(a) Operating income, as adjusted, and operating margin, as adjusted:
Operating income, as adjusted, equals operating income, GAAP basis, excluding certain items deemed non-recurring by management or transactions that ultimately will not impact BlackRock's book value, as indicated in the table below. Operating income used for operating margin measurement equals operating income, as adjusted, excluding the impact of closed-end fund launch costs and commissions. Operating margin, as adjusted, equals operating income used for operating margin measurement, divided by revenue used for operating margin measurement, as indicated in the table below.
 
 
(a) (continued)
Management believes that operating income, as adjusted, and operating margin, as adjusted, are effective indicators of BlackRock's performance over time. As such, management believes that operating income, as adjusted, and operating margin, as adjusted, provide useful disclosure to investors.
Operating income, as adjusted:
Restructuring charges recorded in 2009 consist of compensation costs, occupancy costs and professional fees and have been deemed non-recurring by management and thus have been excluded from operating income, as adjusted, to help ensure the comparability of this information to prior periods. BGI transaction/integration costs recorded in 2009 consist principally of certain advisory and legal fees incurred in conjunction with the announced transaction. As such, management believes that operating margins exclusive of these costs are useful measures in evaluating BlackRock's operating performance for the respective periods.
The portion of compensation expense associated with certain long-term incentive plans ("LTIP") that will be funded through the distribution to participants of shares of BlackRock stock held by PNC and the anticipated Merrill Lynch compensation contribution have been excluded because these charges ultimately do not impact BlackRock's book value.
Compensation expense associated with appreciation (depreciation) on assets related to certain BlackRock deferred compensation plans has been excluded as returns on investments set aside for these plans, which substantially offset this expense, are reported in non-operating income.
Operating margin, as adjusted:
Operating income used for measuring operating margin, as adjusted, is equal to operating income, as adjusted, excluding the impact of closed-end fund launch costs and commissions. Management believes that excluding such costs and commissions is useful because these costs can fluctuate considerably and revenues associated with the expenditure of these costs will not fully impact the Company's results until future periods.
Operating margin, as adjusted, allows the Company to compare performance from year-to-year by adjusting for items that may not recur, recur infrequently or may fluctuate based on market movement, such as restructuring charges, transaction/integration costs, closed-end fund launch costs and fluctuations in compensation expense based on mark-to-market movements in investments held to fund certain compensation plans. The Company also uses operating margin, as adjusted, to monitor corporate performance and efficiency and as a benchmark to compare its performance to other companies. Management uses both the GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. The non-GAAP measure by itself may pose limitations because it does not include all of the Company's revenues and expenses.
Revenue used for operating margin, as adjusted, excludes portfolio administration and servicing costs paid to related parties and to other third parties. Management believes that excluding such costs is useful because the Company receives offsetting revenue for these services. Amortization of deferred mutual fund sales commissions is excluded from revenue used for operating margin measurement, as adjusted, because such costs, over time, offset distribution fee revenue earned by the Company. Reimbursable property management compensation represented compensation and benefits paid to personnel of Metric Property Management, Inc. ("Metric"), a subsidiary of BlackRock Realty Advisors, Inc. ("Realty"). These employees were retained on Metric's payroll when certain properties were acquired by Realty's clients. The related compensation and benefits were fully reimbursed by Realty's clients and have been excluded from revenue used for operating margin, as adjusted, because they bear no economic cost to BlackRock. For each of these items, BlackRock excludes from revenue used for operating margin, as adjusted, the costs related to each of these items as a proxy for such revenues.
 
(b) Non-operating income (expense), less net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests, as adjusted:
Non-operating income (expense), less net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests, as adjusted, equals non-operating income (expense), GAAP basis, less net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests, GAAP basis, adjusted for compensation expense associated with depreciation (appreciation) on assets related to certain BlackRock deferred compensation plans. The compensation expense offset is recorded in operating income. This compensation expense has been included in non-operating income (expense), less net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests, as adjusted, to offset returns on investments set aside for these plans, which are reported in non-operating income (expense), GAAP basis.
 
Management believes that non-operating income (expense), less net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests, as adjusted, provides for comparability of this information to prior periods and is an effective measure for reviewing BlackRock's non-operating contribution to its results. As compensation expense on the deferred compensation plans, which is included in operating income, offsets the gain/(loss) on the investments set aside for these plans, management believes that non-operating income (expense), less net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests, as adjusted, provides useful measures to investors of BlackRock's non-operating results.
 
(c) Net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc., as adjusted:
Management believes that net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc., as adjusted, and diluted common earnings per share, as adjusted, are useful measures of BlackRock's profitability and financial performance. Net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc., as adjusted, equals net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc., GAAP basis, adjusted for significant non-recurring items as well as charges that ultimately will not impact BlackRock's book value.
 
The restructuring charges and BGI transaction/integration costs reflected in GAAP net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc. have been deemed non-recurring by management and have been excluded from net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc., as adjusted, to help ensure the comparability of this information to prior reporting periods.
The portion of the compensation expense associated with LTIP awards that will be funded through the distribution to participants of shares of BlackRock stock held by PNC and the anticipated Merrill Lynch compensation contribution have been excluded from net income, as adjusted, because these charges ultimately do not impact BlackRock's book value.
(d) The tax rates used represent BlackRock's corporate effective tax rates in the respective periods, which exclude certain adjustments that were recorded. For each of the quarters ended June 30, 2009, June 30, 2008 and March 31, 2009, non-GAAP adjustments were tax effected at 35%. For each of the six months ended June 30, 2009 and 2008, non-GAAP adjustments were tax effected at 35%.
(e) Series A, B and C non-voting participating preferred stock are considered to be common stock equivalents for purposes of determining basic and diluted earnings per share calculations. Certain unvested restricted stock units are not included in this number as they are deemed participating securities in accordance with FSP EITF 03-6-1.
(f) Allocation of net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc., as adjusted, to common shares and participating RSUs is calculated pursuant to the two-class method as defined in SFAS No. 128, .
Earnings per Share
 
Attachment II
 
NMNot meaningful
 
 
 
 
 
 
NMNot meaningful
NOTE: Certain prior period information has been reclassified to conform to current period presentation.
 
Attachment III
Summary
 
Current Quarter Component Changes
 
Year to Date Component Changes
 
Year over Year Component Changes
 
 
 


