FILE:BLK/BLK-8K-20090421091423.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 21, 2009, BlackRock, Inc. (the "Company") reported results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2009. A copy of the press release issued by the Company is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

 
 BlackRock, Inc. (NYSE:BLK) today reported first quarter 2009 net income
New York, April 21, 2009
1
of $84 million, or $0.62 per diluted common share. Operating income was $271 million and non-operating losses, net of non-controlling interests, were $157 million. The reported operating margin was 27.5% for first quarter 2009.
Net income, as adjusted
2
, was $0.81 per diluted common share or $110 million, 21% higher than fourth quarter 2008 and 56% lower than first quarter 2008. First quarter 2009 net income, as adjusted
2
, included operating income of $1.47 per diluted share, non-operating losses of $0.73 per diluted share and $0.07 per diluted common share benefit related to the final resolution of an outstanding tax matter. BlackRock results reflect market-driven pressure on revenues and balance sheet investments offset partially by the benefits of a strong and diversified business model, cost discipline, and the results of business reengineering efforts. Cost control initiatives in the fourth quarter of 2008 and first quarter of 2009 have resulted in work force, base compensation and general and administrative expense reductions. As a result, the first quarter operating margin, as adjusted
2
, remained strong at 37.3%.
Market-driven declines in AUM explain period-over-period changes in revenues and operating income. Revenues were $987 million, down 7% compared to the fourth quarter 2008 and down 24% compared to first quarter 2008. Operating income, as adjusted
2
, of $307 million, decreased 17% and 26% compared to fourth and first quarter 2008, respectively. Net income, as adjusted
2
, includes net non-operating losses of $153 million, or $0.73 per diluted common share, due to the effects of markets on the Company's co-investments and seed investments. As a reminder, BlackRock marks substantially all of its investments to market through the income statement. In addition, in first quarter 2009 BlackRock's accounting for its investments did not change as a result of Financial Accounting Standards Board accounting rule changes.
The below table presents a comparison of GAAP and as adjusted results for certain financial measures. See Attachment I for a reconciliation of GAAP to the as adjusted financial measures.
 
 
Assets under management ("AUM") ended the quarter at $1.283 trillion, down 2% since year-end and 6% year-over-year. Net new business totaled $5.6 billion during the quarter and $138.0 billion over the last twelve months. Favorable organic growth was overwhelmed by combined market and foreign exchange-related declines of $29.4 billion and $219.1 billion in the first quarter and last twelve months, respectively.
New business during the quarter included $21.3 billion of net inflows in long-dated and advisory mandates, offset by $15.7 billion of outflows in cash management products. Long-dated and advisory fundings spanned our client base, including $18.0 billion from institutional investors and $3.3 billion from retail and high net worth clients. We also added 17 net new assignments during the quarter, as demand remained strong for our system (Aladdin), risk management and advisory services. Our pipeline of wins funded or to be funded totaled $34.4 billion as of April 16, 2009, including $27.4 billion in fixed income, equity, alternative and advisory products and $7.0 billion in cash management accounts.
BlackRock Solutions
"As the year began, investors reacted to the shock of the fourth quarter with further capitulation, driving markets to new lows in the first half of March," commented Laurence D. Fink, Chairman and CEO of BlackRock. "As we anticipated last quarter, lagging real estate and private equity markets began to catch up, and declining net asset values in these products hurt both our clients and our balance sheet, with the adverse impact to us reflected in our income statement.
"Throughout the quarter, we worked closely with clients as they evaluated their portfolios and reconsidered their investment strategies. New search activity was unusually slow during the period, although some clients migrated to index products pending the outcome of these reviews. We suffered $3.1 billion of rebalancing outflows in fixed income, but gained $3.6 billion of rebalancing inflows into index equities  a first that I am pleased to report.
"In the second half of March, global equity markets found their footing, and institutional clients began issuing requests for proposals for the first time since last summer. In addition, demand for international retail products began to pick up after a prolonged industry contraction in which we maintained strong market position. These are hopeful signs that investors are regaining a risk appetite, although markets remain highly uncertain and sensitive to economic news, corporate earnings and signs of stability in housing. We think the latter is particularly critical for a recovery and for establishing the confidence necessary to sustain the late-March rally.
"We remain focused on our work with clients and diligent in the management of our business. We continue to position the firm to capitalize on unique opportunities to further strengthen our talent base and expand our capabilities. We executed on one such opportunity last week when the R3 team, led by Rick Rieder, agreed to join BlackRock. R3 Capital Partners is a fixed income alternative investment manager with extensive credit, leveraged finance and distressed expertise that will be additive to our fixed income effort. We are excited to welcome them to the firm. We also have or expect to have many strategic opportunities, and we will aggressively pursue those that would help us better serve our clients.
"We entered the second quarter with a strong pipeline of new business wins, an increase in search activity, competitive performance across many products, and strong demand for our and advisory capabilities. We remain cautious but optimistic on the environment, and dedicated to helping our clients navigate these uncharted waters. I would like to thank all of my BlackRock colleagues, who are working tirelessly to serve our clients and shareholders. I remain confident our efforts will be rewarded over time."
BlackRock Solutions
 
First Quarter Business Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
First Quarter GAAP Financial Highlights
Certain prior year amounts have been restated or reclassified to conform to 2009 presentation as required by the retrospective adoption of FSP APB 14-1, ("FSP APB 14-1"), FSP EITF 03-6-1, and SFAS No. 160, . For more information please refer to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 2, 2009 as well as Attachments IV and V.
Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement)
Determining Whether Instruments Granted in Share-Based Payment Transactions Are Participating Securities
Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements  an amendment of ARB No. 51
 
First quarter 2009 operating income decreased 32% to $271 million from $396 million earned in first quarter 2008.
First quarter 2009 revenues of $987 million decreased $313 million, or 24%, compared to $1,300 million in first quarter 2008 primarily due to the following:
 
 
 
 
First quarter 2009 operating expenses were $694 million, excluding the restructuring charges in first quarter 2009 of $22 million, compared to $904 million in first quarter 2008. The $210 million, or 23%, decrease compared to first quarter 2008 was primarily due to the following:
 
 
 
First quarter 2009 non-operating expense, net of non-controlling interests, was $157 million compared to non-operating expense, net of non-controlling interests, of $25 million in first quarter 2008. The $157 million non-operating expense, net of non-controlling interests, related to valuation declines on the Company's co-investment and seed investments including $93 million from real estate products, $20 million from private equity products, $18 million in hedge funds/funds of hedge funds (including the impact of distressed credit products) and $19 million related to other investments, including investments associated with certain deferred compensation plans. In addition, net interest income declined $7 million primarily due to a decline in interest rates.
 
First quarter 2009 operating income decreased 20% to $271 million from $339 million earned in fourth quarter 2008.
First quarter 2009 revenues of $987 million decreased $77 million, or 7%, compared to $1,064 million in fourth quarter 2008 due to the following:
 
 
 
 
 
First quarter 2009 operating expenses of $694 million, excluding the $22 million of restructuring charges in first quarter 2009, increased $7 million, or 1%, compared to $687 million in fourth quarter 2008, excluding the restructuring charges in fourth quarter of $38 million. The $7 million increase compared to fourth quarter 2008 was primarily due to the following:
 
 
First quarter 2009 non-operating expense, net of non-controlling interests, was $157 million, compared to non-operating expense, net of non-controlling interests, of $294 million in fourth quarter 2008. The $137 million improvement from fourth quarter 2008 primarily relates to changes in valuations of seed and co-investments in real estate, private equity, hedge funds/funds of hedge funds and other investments.
 
Teleconference and Webcast Information
BlackRock will host a teleconference call for investors and analysts on Tuesday, April 21, 2009, at 9:00 a.m. (Eastern Time) to discuss its first quarter results. Members of the public who are interested in participating in the teleconference should dial, from the United States, (800) 374-0176, or from outside the United States, (706) 679-4634, shortly before 9:00 a.m. and reference the BlackRock Conference Call (ID Number 82390449). A live, listen-only webcast will also be available via the investor relations section of .
www.blackrock.com
Both the teleconference and webcast will be available for replay by 1:00 p.m. on Tuesday, April 21, 2009 and ending at midnight on Tuesday, April 28, 2009. To access the replay of the teleconference, callers from the United States should dial (800) 642-1687 and callers from outside the United States should dial (706) 645-9291 and enter the Conference ID Number 82390449. To access the webcast, please visit the investor relations section of .
www.blackrock.com
Performance Notes
Past performance is not indicative of future results. The performance information reflects U.S. open-end mutual funds and EMEA-domiciled publicly offered funds. Source of performance information is BlackRock, Inc. and is based in part on data from Lipper Inc. for U.S. funds and Morningstar, Inc. for non-U.S. funds. Fund performance reflects the reinvestment of dividends and distributions, but does not reflect sales charges.
About BlackRock
BlackRock is one of the world's largest publicly traded investment management firms. At March 31, 2009, BlackRock's AUM was $1.283 trillion. The firm manages assets on behalf of institutions and individuals worldwide through a variety of equity, fixed income, cash management and alternative investment products. In addition, a growing number of institutional investors use investment system, risk management and financial advisory services. Headquartered in New York City, as of March 31, 2009, the firm has approximately 5,200 employees in 21 countries and a major presence in key global markets, including the U.S., Europe, Asia, Australia and the Middle East. For additional information, please visit the Company's website at .
BlackRock Solutions
www.blackrock.com
 
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release, and other statements that BlackRock may make, may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act, with respect to BlackRock's future financial or business performance, strategies or expectations. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as "trend," "potential," "opportunity," "pipeline," "believe," "comfortable," "expect," "anticipate," "current," "intention," "estimate," "position," "assume," "outlook," "continue," "remain," "maintain," "sustain," "seek," "achieve," and similar expressions, or future or conditional verbs such as "will," "would," "should," "could," "may" or similar expressions.
BlackRock cautions that forward-looking statements are subject to numerous assumptions, risks and uncertainties, which change over time. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and BlackRock assumes no duty to and does not undertake to update forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in forward-looking statements and future results could differ materially from historical performance.
In addition to risk factors previously disclosed in BlackRock's SEC reports and those identified elsewhere in this report the following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking statements or historical performance: (1) the introduction, withdrawal, success and timing of business initiatives and strategies; (2) changes and volatility in political, economic or industry conditions, the interest rate environment or financial and capital markets, which could result in changes in demand for products or services or in the value of assets under management; (3) the relative and absolute investment performance of BlackRock's investment products; (4) the impact of increased competition; (5) the impact of capital improvement projects; (6) the impact of future acquisitions or divestitures; (7) the unfavorable resolution of legal proceedings; (8) the extent and timing of any share repurchases; (9) the impact, extent and timing of technological changes and the adequacy of intellectual property protection; (10) the impact of legislative and regulatory actions and reforms and regulatory, supervisory or enforcement actions of government agencies relating to BlackRock, Bank of America, Merrill Lynch or PNC; (11) terrorist activities and international hostilities, which may adversely affect the general economy, domestic and local financial and capital markets, specific industries or BlackRock; (12) the ability to attract and retain highly talented professionals; (13) fluctuations in the carrying value of BlackRock's investments; (14) fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which may adversely affect the value of investment advisory and administration fees earned by BlackRock or the carrying value of certain assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies; (15) the impact of changes to tax legislation and, generally, the tax position of the Company; (16) the ability of BlackRock to effectively manage the former Quellos business along with its historical operations; (17) BlackRock's success in maintaining the distribution of its products; (18) the impact of BlackRock electing to provide support to its products from time to time; and (19) the impact of problems at other financial institutions or the failure or negative performance of products at other financial institutions.
BlackRock's Annual Reports on Form 10-K and BlackRock's subsequent filings with the SEC, accessible on the SEC's website at and on BlackRock's website at , discuss these factors in more detail and identify additional factors that can affect forward-looking statements. The information contained on our website is not a part of this press release.
http://www.sec.gov
http://www.blackrock.com
 
Attachment I
 
 
NOTE: Certain prior period information has been reclassified to conform to current period presentation.
NM - Not meaningful
 
BlackRock reports its financial results on a GAAP basis; however, management believes that evaluating the Company's ongoing operating results may be enhanced if investors have additional non-GAAP basis financial measures. Management reviews non-GAAP financial measures to assess ongoing operations and, for the reasons described below, considers them to be effective indicators, for both management and investors, of BlackRock's financial performance over time. BlackRock's management does not advocate that investors consider such non-GAAP financial measures in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Certain prior period non-GAAP data has been reclassified to conform to the current presentation. Computations for all periods are derived from the Company's condensed consolidated statements of income as follows:
(a) Operating income, as adjusted and operating margin, as adjusted:
Operating income, as adjusted, equals operating income, GAAP basis, excluding certain items deemed non-recurring by management or transactions that ultimately will not impact BlackRock's book value, as indicated in the table below. Operating income used for operating margin measurement equals operating income, as adjusted, excluding the impact of closed-end fund launch costs and commissions. Operating margin, as adjusted, equals operating income used for operating margin measurement, divided by revenue used for operating margin measurement, as indicated in the table below.
 
 
(a) (continued)
Management believes that operating income, as adjusted, and operating margin, as adjusted, are effective indicators of BlackRock's performance over time. As such, management believes that operating income, as adjusted, and operating margin, as adjusted, provide useful disclosure to investors.
Operating income, as adjusted:
Restructuring charges recorded in 2008 and 2009 consist of compensation costs, occupancy costs and professional fees and have been deemed non-recurring by management and thus have been excluded from operating income, as adjusted, to help ensure the comparability of this information to prior periods. As such, management believes that operating margins exclusive of these costs are useful measures in evaluating BlackRock's operating performance for the respective periods.
The portion of compensation expense associated with certain long-term incentive plans ("LTIP") that will be funded through the distribution to participants of shares of BlackRock stock held by PNC and the anticipated Merrill Lynch compensation contribution have been excluded because these charges ultimately do not impact BlackRock's book value.
Compensation expense associated with appreciation (depreciation) on assets related to certain BlackRock deferred compensation plans has been excluded as returns on investments set aside for these plans, which substantially offset this expense, are reported in non-operating income.
Operating margin, as adjusted:
Operating income used for measuring operating margin, as adjusted, is equal to operating income, as adjusted, excluding the impact of closed-end fund launch costs and commissions. Management believes that excluding such costs and commissions is useful because these costs can fluctuate considerably and revenues associated with the expenditure of these costs will not fully impact the Company's results until future periods.
Revenue used for operating margin, as adjusted, excludes portfolio administration and servicing costs paid to related parties and to other third parties. Management believes that excluding such costs is useful because the Company receives offsetting revenue for these services. Amortization of deferred mutual fund sales commissions is excluded from revenue used for operating margin measurement, as adjusted, because such costs, over time, offset distribution fee revenue earned by the Company. Reimbursable property management compensation represented compensation and benefits paid to personnel of Metric Property Management, Inc. ("Metric"), a subsidiary of BlackRock Realty Advisors, Inc. ("Realty"). These employees were retained on Metric's payroll when certain properties were acquired by Realty's clients. The related compensation and benefits were fully reimbursed by Realty's clients and have been excluded from revenue used for operating margin, as adjusted, because they bear no economic cost to BlackRock.
 
(b) Non-operating income (expense), net of net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests, as adjusted:
Non-operating income (expense), net of net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests, as adjusted, equals non-operating income (expense), GAAP basis, net of net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests, GAAP basis, adjusted for compensation expense associated with depreciation (appreciation) on assets related to certain BlackRock deferred compensation plans, which is recorded in operating income. This compensation expense has been included in non-operating income (expense), net of net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests, as adjusted, to offset returns on investments set aside for these plans, which are reported in non-operating income (expense), GAAP basis.
 
Management believes that non-operating income (expense), as adjusted, provides for comparability of this information to prior periods and is an effective measure for reviewing BlackRock's non-operating contribution to its results. As compensation expense on the deferred compensation plans, which is included in operating income, offsets the gain/(loss) on the investments set aside for these plans, management believes that non-operating income (expense), net of net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests, as adjusted, provides useful measures to investors of BlackRock's non-operating results.
 
(c) Net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc., as adjusted:
Management believes that net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc., as adjusted, and diluted common earnings per share, as adjusted, are useful measures of BlackRock's profitability and financial performance. Net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc., as adjusted, equals net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc., GAAP basis, adjusted for significant non-recurring items as well as charges that ultimately will not impact BlackRock's book value.
 
The restructuring charges reflected in GAAP net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc. have been deemed non-recurring by management and have been excluded from net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc., as adjusted, to help ensure the comparability of this information to prior reporting periods.
The portion of the compensation expense associated with LTIP awards that will be funded through the distribution to participants of shares of BlackRock stock held by PNC and the anticipated Merrill Lynch compensation contribution have been excluded from net income, as adjusted, because these charges ultimately do not impact BlackRock's book value.
(d) For the quarters ended March 31, 2009, March 31, 2008 and December 31, 2008, non-GAAP adjustments were tax effected at 35%, 35% and 33%, respectively. These rates represent BlackRock's corporate effective tax rates in the respective periods, excluding discrete adjustments that were recorded.
(e) Series A, B and C non-voting participating preferred stock are considered to be common stock equivalents for purposes of determining basic and diluted earnings per share calculations. Certain unvested restricted stock units are not included in this number as they are deemed participating securities in accordance with FSP EITF 03-6-1.
 
Attachment II
 
 
 
 
NM - Not meaningful
NOTE: Certain prior period information has been reclassified to conform to current period presentation.
 
Attachment III
 
 
NM - Not meaningful
 
 
Attachment IV
 
 
N/A = Not applicable
 
 
Attachment V
 
 
N/A = Not applicable
 
 


