FILE:BLK/BLK-8K-20091009182252.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
UNITED STATES
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b)        Departure of Directors
On October 8, 2009, Brian T. Moynihan and Daniel C. Sontag resigned from the Board of Directors (the Board) of BlackRock, Inc. (BlackRock or the Company).
(d)        Election of Directors
 
On October 9, 2009, the Board appointed Sallie L. Krawcheck and Mark D. Linsz to serve as directors of the Board.  Ms. Krawcheck is the President of Global Wealth and Investment Management for Bank of America Corporation (Bank of America).  Mr. Linsz is the Corporate Treasurer for Bank of America.  Ms. Krawcheck and Mr. Linsz were appointed to the Board as the two designees of Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc. (Merrill Lynch),
a ,
wholly-owned subsidiary of Bank of America
pursuant to the Second Amended and Restated Stockholder Agreement, dated as of February 27, 2009,  among Merrill Lynch Group, Inc., Merrill Lynch and the Company.
On January 1, 2009, Bank of America acquired Merrill Lynch, which continues as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Bank of America.  As of June 30, 2009, Merrill Lynch owned approximately 4.6% of BlackRocks common stock outstanding and held approximately 46.3% of BlackRocks total outstanding capital stock on a fully diluted basis.  The Company has previously disclosed its transactions with Merrill Lynch and Bank of America.
 
The Company issued a press release on October 9, 2009 announcing the appointment of Ms. Krawcheck and Mr. Linsz.  A copy of the press release is included as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
 
(d)       
Exhibits
 
99.1     
Press Release of BlackRock, Inc. issued on October 9, 2009.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
Contacts:
 BlackRock, Inc. (NYSE:BLK) today announced that  Sallie L. Krawcheck, President of Global Wealth & Investment Management for Bank of America Corporation, and Mark D. Linsz, Corporate Treasurer for Bank of America Corporation, have joined the Companys Board of Directors.
New York, October 9, 2009
We are very pleased to welcome Sallie and Mark as Board members and look forward to the new business perspectives and talents each of them brings to the Company, commented Laurence D. Fink, Chairman and CEO of BlackRock.
The appointments of Ms. Krawcheck and Mr. Linsz fill two seats vacated by Brian T. Moynihan and Daniel C. Sontag who have stepped down from the Board.
Under the terms of BlackRocks stockholder agreement with Merrill Lynch, Merrill Lynch may designate two directors to BlackRocks Board of Directors.  Bank of America completed its purchase of Merrill Lynch in January 2009.
BlackRocks Board of Directors has 16 members, ten of whom are independent and not affiliated with the Company. Biographical information on each of the new directors is provided below and additional information can be found on the Investor Relations section of .
www.blackrock.com
: Ms. Krawcheck, 44, is President of Global Wealth & Investment Management for Bank of America, one of the largest wealth management businesses in the world with nearly 19,000 advisors across the entire wealth spectrum and $1.9 trillion in total client assets. The Global Wealth & Investment Management business provides comprehensive wealth management to affluent, mass affluent, high net worth and ultra high net worth clients, individual and institutional retirement plans, and philanthropic management.  Prior to joining Bank of America, Ms. Krawcheck was Chief Executive Officer and Chairman for Citi Global Wealth Management, responsible for the Citi Private Bank, Citi Smith Barney and Citi Investment Research. Ms. Krawcheck joined Citi in October 2002 as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Smith Barney.  In 2004, she was appointed Chief Financial Officer and head of Strategy for Citigroup Inc.  Prior to joining Citi, Ms. Krawcheck was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Sanford C. Bernstein & Company.
Sallie L. Krawcheck
: Mr. Linsz, 45, is Corporate Treasurer for Bank of America.  Mr. Linsz has responsibility for the core treasury functions for funding of the company, maintaining a strong capital and liquidity position and managing interest rate risk.  As Treasurer, Mr. Linsz forecasts the level of net interest income, calculates the economic capital required by each of the companys activities and manages the companys relationship with credit rating agencies.  Previously, Mr. Linsz served as Global Markets Risk Management Executive and Chief Risk officer for Europe, the Middle East, Africa (EMEA) and Asia. In these roles, Mr. Linsz was responsible for leading a comprehensive, integrated strategy for managing credit, market and operational risks.  Mr. Linsz began his career with Chicago Research and Trading Group (CRT) in 1987. Prior to being purchased by NationsBank, he was the head of Market Risk for CRT and continued these responsibilities at NationsBanc-CRT. In 1998, Linsz moved to Hong Kong to be the Market Risk manager for Asia. Several years later, he managed the Global Corporate and Investment Banking Compliance Group as Chief Compliance Officer, ensuring that comprehensive compliance programs were in place to mitigate compliance risk.
Mark D. Linsz
 
 
 
 
About BlackRock
BlackRock is one of the worlds largest publicly traded investment management firms. At June 30, 2009, BlackRocks assets under management were $1.373 trillion. The firm manages assets on behalf of institutions and individuals worldwide through a variety of equity, fixed income, cash management and alternative investment products. In addition, a growing number of institutional investors use BlackRock Solutions
investment system, risk management and financial advisory services. The firm is headquartered in New York City and has employees in 21 countries throughout the U.S., Europe and Asia Pacific. For additional information, please visit the firm's website at
www.blackrock.com
.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release, and other statements that BlackRock may make, may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act, with respect to BlackRocks future financial or business performance, strategies or expectations.  Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as trend, potential, opportunity, pipeline, believe, comfortable, expect, anticipate, current, intention, estimate, position, assume, outlook, continue, remain, maintain, sustain, seek, achieve, and similar expressions, or future or conditional verbs such as will, would, should, could, may or similar expressions.
BlackRock cautions that forward-looking statements are subject to numerous assumptions, risks and uncertainties, which change over time.  Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and BlackRock assumes no duty to and does not undertake to update forward-looking statements.  Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in forward-looking statements and future results could differ materially from historical performance.
In addition to risk factors previously disclosed in BlackRocks SEC reports and those identified elsewhere in this report the following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking statements or historical performance: (1) the introduction, withdrawal, success and timing of business initiatives and strategies; (2) changes and volatility in political, economic or industry conditions, the interest rate environment or financial and capital markets, which could result in changes in demand for products or services or in the value of assets under management; (3) the relative and absolute investment performance of BlackRocks investment products; (4) the impact of increased competition; (5) the impact of capital improvement projects; (6) the impact of future acquisitions or divestitures; (7) the unfavorable resolution of legal proceedings; (8) the extent and timing of any share repurchases; (9) the impact, extent and timing of technological changes and the adequacy of intellectual property protection; (10) the impact of legislative and regulatory actions and reforms and regulatory, supervisory or enforcement actions of government agencies relating to BlackRock, Barclays, Bank of America, Merrill Lynch or PNC; (11) terrorist activities and international hostilities, which may adversely affect the general economy, domestic and local financial and capital markets, specific industries or BlackRock; (12) the ability to attract and retain highly talented professionals; (13) fluctuations in the carrying value of BlackRocks investments; (14) fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which may adversely affect the value of investment advisory and administration fees earned by BlackRock or the carrying value of certain assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies; (15) the impact of changes to tax legislation and, generally, the tax position of the Company; (16) the ability of BlackRock to effectively manage the former Quellos business along with its historical operations; (17) BlackRocks success in maintaining the distribution of its products; (18) the impact of BlackRock electing to provide support to its products from time to time; (19) the impact of problems at other financial institutions or the failure or negative performance of products at other financial institutions; and (20) the ability of BlackRock to complete the transaction with Barclays.
 
-2-
 
 
 
 
BlackRock's Annual Reports on Form 10-K and BlackRock's subsequent filings with the SEC, accessible on the SEC's website at http://www.sec.gov and on BlackRocks website at http://www.blackrock.com, discuss these factors in more detail and identify additional factors that can affect forward-looking statements. The information contained on our website is not a part of this press release.
 
 
 
 
 
 
-3-


