FILE:BLK/BLK-8K-20090312164428.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
(d)           Election of Directors
 
On March 6, 2009, the Board of Directors of BlackRock, Inc. (BlackRock or the Company) appointed Daniel C. Sontag to serve as director of the Board.  Mr. Sontag is the President of Merrill Lynch Global Wealth Management.  Mr. Sontag was appointed pursuant to the Second Amended and Restated Stockholder Agreement, dated as of February 27, 2009, by and among Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc. (Merrill Lynch), Merrill Lynch Group, Inc. and the Company.
 
On January 1, 2009, Bank of America Corporation (Bank of America) acquired Merrill Lynch.  As of February 27, 2009, Merrill Lynch directly or indirectly owns approximately 4.9% of BlackRocks common stock outstanding and approximately 47.4% of BlackRocks total outstanding capital stock on a fully diluted basis.  The Company has previously disclosed its transactions with Merrill Lynch.  The Company will disclose its transactions with Bank of America in an amendment to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
The Company issued a press release on March 12, 2009 announcing the appointment of Mr. Sontag.  A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
 
2
 
3
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Contacts:
 
Relations
Media
Bobbie Collins
212-810-8155
Bobbie.Collins@blackrock.com
 
Media/Investor Relations
Brian Beades
212-810-5596
Brian.Beades@blackrock.com
 , Inc. (NYSE:BLK) today announced the appointment of Daniel C. Sontag, President of Merrill Lynch Global Wealth Management, to its Board of Directors.   The addition of Mr. Sontag brings the total number of directors to 16, 10 of whom are independent and not affiliated with the Company.
New York, March 12, 2009
BlackRock
I am pleased to welcome Dan to BlackRocks Board, commented Laurence D. Fink, Chairman and CEO of BlackRock.  We have had the opportunity to work closely with Dan over the years and appreciate his vision and leadership in global wealth management.  His insights on serving individual investors throughout the world will be of great value as we continue to build BlackRocks global retail capabilities.
Mr. Sontag fills the remaining seat vacated by the resignations of John A. Thain and Gregory J. Fleming. Brian T. Moynihan, President of Global Banking and Wealth Management for Bank of America, was previously selected to fill the other seat.  Under the terms of BlackRocks stockholder agreement with Merrill Lynch, Merrill Lynch may designate two directors to BlackRocks Board of Directors.  Bank of America Corporation (NYSE: BAC) completed its purchase of Merrill Lynch in January 2009.
Mr. Sontag, 52, is President of Merrill Lynch Global Wealth Management.  Prior to his current role, Mr. Sontag was head of Merrill Lynchs Americas Wealth Management, responsible for the regions extensive network of more than 600 advisory offices. Before that, he was head of the Merrill Lynch Americas Client Relationship Group where he was responsible for the firms network of advisory and private banking and investment offices across the United States and Latin America.  Mr. Sontag joined Merrill Lynch in 1978 as a financial consultant in the Colorado Springs Office.  Throughout his 30-year career, Mr. Sontag has been a dedicated leader and mentor for thousands of financial professionals.
Daniel C. Sontag:
About BlackRock
BlackRock is one of the worlds largest publicly traded investment management firms. At
December 31
, 2008, BlackRocks assets under management were $1.
307
trillion. The firm manages assets on behalf of institutions and individuals worldwide through a variety of equity, fixed income, cash management and alternative investment products. In addition, a growing number of institutional investors use BlackRock Solutions
investment system, risk management and financial advisory services. The firm is headquartered in New York City and has employees in 22 countries throughout the U.S., Europe and Asia Pacific. For additional information, please visit the firm's website at
www.blackrock.com
.
 
 
 


