FILE:BLK/BLK-8K-20090417131444.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Explanatory Note
 
On February 26, 2009 and March 6, 2009, the Board of Directors (Board) of BlackRock, Inc. (BlackRock) appointed Brian T. Moynihan and Daniel C. Sontag, to serve as directors of the Board, respectively.  Mr. Moynihan is the President of Global Banking and Wealth Management for Bank of America Corporation (Bank of America).  Mr. Sontag is the President of Merrill Lynch Global Wealth Management.  Current Reports on Form 8-K were filed on February 27, 2009 and March 12, 2009 reflecting the respective appointments of Mr. Moynihan and Mr. Sontag (the Current Reports).
 
This Form 8-K/A is being filed to amend Item 5.02(d) of each of the Current Reports.  This amendment provides the disclosure of the transactions between BlackRock and Bank of America, as required by Item 5.02(d) of Form 8-K, which information was previously not included in the Current Reports.  The remainder of the information contained in each of the Current Reports is not amended hereby.
 
 
 
(d)           Election of Directors
 
The information set forth under the headings Certain Relationships and Related Transactions  Transactions with Bank of America and its Subsidiaries and  Transactions between BlackRock Funds and Client Accounts and Bank of America and its Subsidiaries of BlackRocks Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A, filed on April 17, 2009, is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 


