FILE:BLK/BLK-8K-20110407165734.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 7, 2011, Sallie L. Krawcheck and Mark D. Linsz resigned from the Board of Directors of BlackRock, Inc. ("BlackRock" or the "Company").
 
On April 7, 2011, the Board of Directors of BlackRock appointed Thomas K. Montag to serve as a director of the Board. Mr. Montag is President, Global Banking and Markets at Bank of America. Mr. Montag was appointed to the Board as the Bank of America/Merrill Lynch designee pursuant to the Third Amended and Restated Stockholder Agreement dated as of November 15, 2010 between Merrill Lynch and the Company.
As of February 28, 2011, Bank of America owned approximately 7% of BlackRock's total outstanding capital stock on a fully diluted basis. The Company has previously disclosed its transactions with Bank of America/Merrill Lynch.
The Company issued a press release on April 7, 2011 announcing the resignation of Ms. Krawcheck and Mr. Linsz and the appointment of Mr. Montag. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: April 7, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.1
Contacts:
 
 BlackRock, Inc. (NYSE:BLK) today announced that Thomas K. Montag, President of Global Banking and Markets at Bank of America, has joined the Company's Board of Directors. Concurrent with Mr. Montag's appointment, Sallie Krawcheck and Mark Linsz have left the Board.
New York, April 7, 2011
"BlackRock has made tremendous progress in expanding our well-established business within Bank of America's Global Wealth & Investment Management business and that mutual commitment steadfastly remains," commented Laurence D. Fink, Chairman and CEO. "At the same time, Bank of America's reduced ownership position in BlackRock has created greater trading flexibility between the two firms that will benefit BlackRock's clients. We are very pleased to welcome Tom as a Board member and thank Sallie and Mark for their many contributions to BlackRock."
The Global Banking and Markets business of Bank of America provides services in M&A, equity and debt capital raising, lending, trading, risk management, research, and liquidity and payments management. Mr. Montag has extensive industry knowledge, with over two decades of experience in financial markets throughout the world. He joined Merrill Lynch as executive vice president and head of global sales and trading in 2008, prior to the company's merger with Bank of America. Before that, Mr. Montag was with Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., for over 20 years where most recently he served as co-head of the global securities business and a member of the company's Management Committee and Equities/FICC Executive Committee.
With today's announcements, BlackRock's Board of Directors has 18 members, 11 of whom are independent and not affiliated with the Company.
Additional information about BlackRock's Board of Directors, including Mr. Montag's extended bio, can be found in the "Investor Relations" section of .
www.blackrock.com
About BlackRock
BlackRock is a leader in investment management, risk management and advisory services for institutional and retail clients worldwide. At December 31, 2010, BlackRock's AUM was $3.561 trillion. BlackRock offers products that span the risk spectrum to meet clients' needs, including active, enhanced and index strategies across markets and asset classes. Products are offered in a variety of structures including separate accounts, mutual funds,(exchange traded funds), and other pooled investment vehicles. BlackRock also offers risk management, advisory and enterprise investment system services to a broad base of institutional investors through . Headquartered in New York City, as of December 31, 2010, the firm has approximately 9,100 employees in 25 countries and a major presence in key global markets, including North and South America, Europe, Asia, Australia and the Middle East and Africa. For additional information, please visit the Company's website at .
iShares
BlackRock Solutions
www.blackrock.com


