FILE:BLK/BLK-8K-20111019092627.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On October 19, 2011, BlackRock, Inc. (the "Company") reported results of operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2011. A copy of the press release issued by the Company is attached as Exhibit 99.1. In addition, a copy of the BlackRock, Inc. Press Release Supplement for the quarter ended September 30, 2011 is being furnished as Exhibit 99.2 to this Form 8-K.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 BlackRock, Inc. (NYSE:BLK) today reported third quarter 2011 net income
New York, October 19, 2011
(1)
of $595 million, up 8% from a year ago and down 4% from second quarter 2011. Operating income was $777 million and non-operating expense, net of non-controlling interests, was $87 million. The third quarter 2011 operating margin was 34.9%.
Third quarter diluted EPS, as adjusted
(2)
, was $2.83 up 3% from third quarter 2010 and down 6% from second quarter 2011. Third quarter 2011 included operating income, as adjusted
(2)
, of $3.12 per diluted share and net non-operating expense, as adjusted
(2)
, of $0.29 per diluted share. Operating margin, as adjusted
(2)
, of 40.1% was up for third quarter 2011 compared with the operating margin, as adjusted
(2)
of 38.4% in third quarter 2010 and 39.7% in second quarter 2011. Operating income, as adjusted
(2)
, of $849 million, improved $112 million, or 15%, compared with third quarter 2010 primarily driven by growth in base fees and declined $34 million, or 4%, compared with second quarter 2011 primarily reflecting lower base fees tied to global market disruption.
"In a quarter marked by heightened economic uncertainty and declining markets, BlackRock's broadly diversified, global platform delivered strong financial results - with revenue growth of 6% year-over-year and 15% growth in as adjusted operating income," said Laurence D. Fink, Chairman and CEO of BlackRock. "Our ability to achieve an as adjusted operating margin of 40%, even in the current challenging environment, reflected both strong expense discipline and the benefits of product breadth across active and passive strategies. Our business continues to produce strong free cash flow and we remain committed to returning cash to shareholders."
Assets under management ("AUM") of $3.345 trillion decreased 3% year-over-year and 9% since second quarter-end driven largely by $303.9 billion of market-related declines across products. Clients awarded us $4.7 billion of net new business in equity and multi-asset products. Fixed income third quarter outflows of $14.0 billion included a single institutional index client outflow of $9.1 billion with minimal revenue impact. Cash management had third quarter inflows of $0.6 billion while planned advisory distributions totaled $1.2 billion. Third quarter net outflows totaled $10.2 billion, including the $9.1 billion institutional mandate mentioned above. The net new business pipeline totaled $65.2 billion at October 17, 2011, before giving effect to a $36 billion institutional fixed income index redemption notice from a single client that intends to in-source their business over time. Excluding this item, the pipeline included 94% in long-term products and 6% in cash management and advisory assignments. added 13 net new assignments during the quarter, and the pipeline of contracts and proposals in progress remains robust.
BlackRock Solutions
The table below presents AUM and a comparison of GAAP and as adjusted results for certain financial measures. See Attachment I for a reconciliation of GAAP to the as adjusted financial measures.
 
 
"Despite market headwinds, we continued to generate organic growth across global , our US retail channel, multi-asset class offerings and defined contribution. These are core growth opportunities for the Firm that leverage longer-term trends in investment and risk management. At the same time, market volatility obviously weighed on investor psychology and led some clients to de-risk or delay fundings, though we also saw some clients buy equities to rebalance their portfolios amidst recent market declines.
iShares
"With the persistence of volatile markets, low interest rates and the low-growth environment, an increasing number of investors are reevaluating their investment and asset allocation decisions. Clients are increasingly looking for a broader and more diversified range of solutions, value-added advice and risk management tools, with a number of clients opting for strategies that rely on index, ETF and multi-asset class products. In this environment, BlackRock is uniquely positioned to meet the needs of investors - with our global platform, broad mix of capabilities, and the benefit of .
BlackRock Solutions
"At the same time, and without compromising our financial discipline, BlackRock is continuing to innovate in targeted growth areas such as retirement solutions, alternatives and ETFs and raise the bar across the organization by attracting high-caliber professionals to help fuel future growth. During the third quarter, we introduced a number of new alternative products for our retail client base and launched a series of ETFs in Europe to extend our leading market share of new business across the region. In the coming months, we will continue this momentum and innovation with the launch of additional targeted products that bring high-value investment opportunities to our clients.
"In the face of significant market uncertainty this summer - highlighted by the European sovereign debt crisis and US debt downgrade - our teams worked tirelessly to deliver exceptional service, sound risk management and competitive performance to our clients. The leadership and guidance we provide through increasingly challenging market conditions continues to differentiate BlackRock and our client-focused culture.
"While we look to policymakers to take strong and decisive actions to address the economic and market issues we're currently facing, we remain extremely vigilant around strong operating and risk management discipline. We are confident that the combination of our diversified platform, the talent of our people, our substantial scale and agility, and continued platform enhancements leave us well positioned to effectively manage through these challenging conditions and continue delivering solid returns in the future."
Third Quarter Business Highlights
Long-term AUM of $2.971 trillion decreased $308.3 billion during the quarter, largely driven by market and foreign exchange declines of $298.7 billion. Cash management AUM of $244.7 billion declined 1% while advisory AUM decreased $3.2 billion to $129.6 billion.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Net inflows of $13.3 billion in EMEA were outpaced by $23.5 billion of outflows from Americas and Asia-Pacific clients. Inflows were strong from
iShares
and Americas retail and high net worth clients, as highlighted below.
 
 
 
BlackRock Solutions
added 13 net new assignments during the quarter, including two
Aladdin
assignments, one risk management, one investment accounting mandate, and three advisory engagements. We completed five short-term advisory assignments during the quarter.
The new business pipeline totaled $29.2 billion at October 17, 2011, or $65.2 billion before giving effect to a $36 billion institutional fixed income index outflow from a single client that intends to in-source their business over time. The pipeline included $58.2 billion of awarded mandates and $7.0 billion that funded post quarter-end. Of the total, 94% was in long-term products and 6% in cash management products and advisory assignments.
BlackRock Solutions'
pipeline of pending contracts and proposals also remained strong.
 
Third Quarter Financial Highlights
Third quarter 2011 operating income increased 10% to $777 million from $707 million in third quarter 2010. Third quarter 2011 operating income included $63 million of UK lease exit costs related to the Company's exit from two London locations. Operating income, as adjusted, which excludes the UK lease exit costs, increased 15%.
Operating income:
Third quarter 2011 revenue of $2.2 billion increased $133 million, or 6%, from $2.1 billion in third quarter 2010, primarily due to the following:
 
 
 
 
Third quarter 2011 total operating expenses of $1.4 billion increased $63 million (excluding the $63 million third quarter 2011 UK lease exit costs operating expenses remained flat). Results were driven by the following:
 
 
 
 
 
Third quarter 2011 non-operating expense, net of non-controlling interests, was $87 million compared with $45 million of non-operating income in third quarter 2010. Third quarter 2011 included $37 million of net interest expense and $50 million of net negative marks primarily on distressed credit/mortgage and private equity fund co-investments. Net interest expense reflected the $2.0 billion debt issuance in second quarter 2011 in connection with the repurchase of Bank of America's remaining ownership interest in BlackRock.
Non-operating income (expense):
 
Income tax expense totaled $95 million and $201 million for the third quarter 2011 and 2010, respectively. The GAAP effective income tax rate for the third quarter 2011 was 13.7% compared with 26.7% for the third quarter 2010. Both periods included non-cash benefits associated with revaluation of certain deferred tax liabilities which have been excluded from the as adjusted results. Third quarter 2011 included a $129 million non-cash benefit due to tax legislation enacted in the UK and a state tax election while third quarter 2010 included a $30 million benefit associated with tax legislation enacted in the UK.
Income tax expense:
Third quarter 2011 operating income decreased 10% to $777 million from $866 million in second quarter 2011. Third quarter 2011 operating income included $63 million of UK lease exit costs related to the Company's exit from two London locations in the third quarter 2011. Operating income, as adjusted, which excludes the UK lease exit costs, decreased 4%.
Operating income:
Third quarter 2011 revenues of $2.2 billion decreased $122 million, or 5%, from $2.3 billion in second quarter 2011, primarily due to the following:
 
 
 
 
Third quarter 2011 total operating expenses of $1.4 billion decreased $33 million (a $96 million decrease excluding the $63 million third quarter 2011 UK lease exit costs) from $1.5 billion in second quarter 2011. Results reflected the following:
 
 
 
 
Third quarter 2011 non-operating expense, net of non-controlling interests, was $87 million compared with $27 million in second quarter 2011. Third quarter 2011 included $50 million of net negative marks primarily on distressed credit/mortgage and private equity fund co-investments. Third quarter 2011 also included $37 million of net interest expense, which was unchanged from prior quarter.
Non-operating income (expense):
 
The GAAP effective income tax rate for the third quarter 2011 was 13.7% compared with 26.2% for the second quarter 2011. Both periods included non-cash benefits associated with revaluation of certain deferred tax liabilities which have been excluded from the as adjusted results. The third quarter 2011 GAAP tax rate included a $129 million non-cash benefit due to tax legislation enacted in the UK and a state tax election while the second quarter 2011 included a $52 million non-cash benefit due to enacted state tax legislation.
Income tax expense:
Teleconference, Webcast and Presentation Information
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Laurence D. Fink, and Chief Financial Officer, Ann Marie Petach, will host a teleconference call for investors and analysts at 9:00 a.m. (Eastern Time). Members of the public who are interested in participating in the teleconference should dial, from the United States, (800) 374-0176, or from outside the United States, (706) 679-4634, shortly before 9:00 a.m. and reference the BlackRock Conference Call (ID Number 16433328). A live, listen-only webcast will also be available via the investor relations section of .
www.blackrock.com
Both the teleconference and webcast will be available for replay by 1:00 p.m. on Wednesday, October 19, 2011 and ending at midnight on Wednesday, November 2, 2011. To access the replay of the teleconference, callers from the United States should dial (800) 585-8367 and callers from outside the United States should dial (404) 537-3406 and enter the Conference ID Number 16433328. To access the webcast, please visit the investor relations section of .
www.blackrock.com
Performance Notes
Past performance is not indicative of future results. The performance information shown is based on preliminarily available data. The performance information for actively managed accounts reflects U.S. open-end and closed-end mutual funds and similar EMEA-based products with respect to peer median comparisons, and actively managed institutional and high net worth separate accounts and funds located globally with respect to benchmark comparisons, as determined using objectively based internal parameters, using the most current verified information available as of September 30, 2011 (August 31, 2011 for high net worth accounts).
Accounts terminated prior to September 30, 2011 are not included. In addition, accounts that have not been verified as of October 14, 2011 have not been included. If such terminated and other accounts had been included, the performance information may have substantially differed from that shown. The performance information does not include funds or accounts that are not measured against a benchmark, any benchmark-based alternatives product, private equity products, CDOs, or accounts managed by BlackRock's Financial Markets Advisory Group. Comparisons are based on gross-of-fee performance for U.S. retail, institutional and high net worth separate accounts and EMEA institutional separate accounts and net-of-fee performance for EMEA based retail products. AUM information is based on AUM for each account or fund in the asset class shown without adjustment for overlapping management of the same account or fund, as of September 30, 2011.
Source of performance information and peer medians is BlackRock, Inc. and is based in part on data from Lipper Inc. for U.S. funds and Morningstar, Inc. for non-U.S. funds. Fund performance reflects the reinvestment of dividends and distributions, but does not reflect sales charges.
 
About BlackRock
BlackRock is a leader in investment management, risk management and advisory services for institutional and retail clients worldwide. At September 30, 2011, BlackRock's AUM was $3.345 trillion. BlackRock offers products that span the risk spectrum to meet clients' needs, including active, enhanced and index strategies across markets and asset classes. Products are offered in a variety of structures including separate accounts, mutual funds, (exchange-traded funds), and other pooled investment vehicles. BlackRock also offers risk management, advisory and enterprise investment system services to a broad base of institutional investors through . Headquartered in New York City, as of September 30, 2011, the firm has approximately 10,200 employees in 27 countries and a major presence in key global markets, including North and South America, Europe, Asia, Australia, and the Middle East and Africa. For additional information, please visit the Company's website at .
iShares
BlackRock Solutions
www.blackrock.com
Forward-looking Statements
This report, and other statements that BlackRock may make, may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act, with respect to BlackRock's future financial or business performance, strategies or expectations. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as "trend," "potential," "opportunity," "pipeline," "believe," "comfortable," "expect," "anticipate," "current," "intention," "estimate," "position," "assume," "outlook," "continue," "remain," "maintain," "sustain," "seek," "achieve," and similar expressions, or future or conditional verbs such as "will," "would," "should," "could," "may" or similar expressions.
BlackRock cautions that forward-looking statements are subject to numerous assumptions, risks and uncertainties, which change over time. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and BlackRock assumes no duty to and does not undertake to update forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in forward-looking statements and future results could differ materially from historical performance.
In addition to risk factors previously disclosed in BlackRock's Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") reports and those identified elsewhere in this report the following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking statements or historical performance: (1) the introduction, withdrawal, success and timing of business initiatives and strategies; (2) changes and volatility in political, economic or industry conditions, the interest rate environment, foreign exchange rates or financial and capital markets, which could result in changes in demand for products or services or in the value of assets under management; (3) the relative and absolute investment performance of BlackRock's investment products; (4) the impact of increased competition; (5) the impact of capital improvement projects; (6) the impact of future acquisitions or divestitures; (7) the unfavorable resolution of legal proceedings; (8) the extent and timing of any share repurchases; (9) the impact, extent and timing of technological changes and the adequacy of intellectual property and information security protection; (10) the impact of legislative and regulatory actions and reforms, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, and regulatory, supervisory or enforcement actions of government agencies relating to BlackRock, Barclays Bank PLC or The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc.; (11) terrorist activities, international hostilities and natural disasters, which may adversely affect the general economy, domestic and local financial and capital markets, specific industries or BlackRock; (12) the ability to attract and retain highly talented professionals; (13) fluctuations in the carrying value of BlackRock's economic investments; (14) the impact of changes to tax legislation and, generally, the tax position of the Company; (15) BlackRock's success in maintaining the distribution of its products; (16) the impact of BlackRock electing to provide support to its products from time to time; (17) the impact of problems at other financial institutions or the failure or negative performance of products at other financial institutions; and (18) the ability of BlackRock to complete the integration of the operations of Barclays Global Investors.
BlackRock's Annual Report on Form 10-K and BlackRock's subsequent filings with the SEC, accessible on the SEC's website at and on BlackRock's website at , discuss these factors in more detail and identify additional factors that can affect forward-looking statements. The information contained on the Company's website is not a part of this press release.
www.sec.gov
www.blackrock.com
 
Attachment I
 
 
BlackRock reports its financial results in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP"); however, management believes evaluating the Company's ongoing operating results may be enhanced if investors have additional non-GAAP basis financial measures. Management reviews non-GAAP financial measures to assess ongoing operations and, for the reasons described below, considers them to be effective indicators, for both management and investors, of BlackRock's financial performance over time. BlackRock's management does not advocate that investors consider such non-GAAP financial measures in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Computations for all periods are derived from the Company's condensed consolidated statements of income as follows:
(a) Operating income, as adjusted, and operating margin, as adjusted:
Operating income, as adjusted, equals operating income, GAAP basis, excluding certain items management deems non-recurring, or transactions that ultimately will not impact BlackRock's book value, as indicated in the table below. Operating income used for operating margin measurement equals operating income, as adjusted, excluding the impact of closed-end fund launch costs and commissions. Operating margin, as adjusted, equals operating income used for operating margin measurement, divided by revenue used for operating margin measurement, as indicated in the table below.
 
 
 
(a) (continued)
 
Management believes operating income, as adjusted, and operating margin, as adjusted, are effective indicators of BlackRock's financial performance over time and, therefore, provide useful disclosure to investors.
Operating income, as adjusted:
BGI integration costs recorded in 2010 consist principally of compensation expense, legal fees, marketing and promotional, occupancy and consulting expenses incurred in conjunction with the BGI acquisition from Barclays. UK lease exit costs represent costs to exit two locations in London in the third quarter 2011.
The portion of compensation expense associated with certain long-term incentive plans ("LTIP") that will be funded through the distribution to participants of shares of BlackRock stock held by The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. ("PNC") and a Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc. ("Merrill Lynch") cash compensation contribution, a portion of which has been received, has been excluded because these charges ultimately do not impact BlackRock's book value. The expense related to the Merrill Lynch cash compensation contribution ceased at the end of the third quarter 2011.
Compensation expense associated with appreciation (depreciation) on investments related to certain BlackRock deferred compensation plans has been excluded as returns on investments set aside for these plans, which substantially offset this expense, are reported in non-operating income (expense).
Management believes that operating income exclusive of these costs is a useful measure in evaluating BlackRock's operating performance and to help enhance the comparability of this information for the respective reporting periods.
Operating margin, as adjusted:
Operating income used for measuring operating margin, as adjusted, is equal to operating income, as adjusted, excluding the impact of closed-end fund launch costs and commissions. Management believes the exclusion of such costs and commissions is useful because these costs can fluctuate considerably and revenues associated with the expenditure of these costs will not fully impact BlackRock's results until future periods.
Operating margin, as adjusted, allows BlackRock to compare performance from period-to-period by adjusting for items that may not recur, recur infrequently or may fluctuate based on market movements, such as integration costs, UK lease exit costs, closed-end fund launch costs, commissions paid to certain employees as compensation and fluctuations in compensation expense based on mark-to-market movements in investments held to fund certain compensation plans. BlackRock also uses operating margin, as adjusted, to monitor corporate performance and efficiency and as a benchmark to compare its performance with other companies. Management uses both the GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures in evaluating the financial performance of BlackRock. The non-GAAP measure by itself may pose limitations because it does not include all of BlackRock's revenues and expenses.
Revenue used for operating margin, as adjusted, excludes distribution and servicing costs paid to related parties and other third parties. Management believes the exclusion of such costs is useful because it creates consistency in the treatment for certain contracts for similar services, which due to the terms of the contracts, are accounted for under GAAP on a net basis within investment advisory, administration fees and securities lending revenue. Amortization of deferred sales commissions is excluded from revenue used for operating margin measurement, as adjusted, because such costs, over time, offset distribution fee revenue earned by the Company. For each of these items, BlackRock excludes from revenue used for operating margin, as adjusted, the costs related to each of these items as a proxy for such offsetting revenues.
 
 
(b) Non-operating income (expense), less net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests, as adjusted:
Non-operating income (expense), less net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests ("NCI"), as adjusted, equals non-operating income (expense), GAAP basis, less net income (loss) attributable to NCI, GAAP basis, adjusted for compensation expense associated with (appreciation) depreciation on investments related to certain BlackRock deferred compensation plans. The compensation expense offset is recorded in operating income. This compensation expense has been included in non-operating income (expense), less net income (loss) attributable to NCI, as adjusted, to offset returns on investments set aside for these plans, which are reported in non-operating income (expense), GAAP basis.
 
 
Management believes non-operating income (expense), less net income (loss) attributable to NCI, as adjusted, provides comparability of this information to reporting periods and is an effective measure for reviewing BlackRock's non-operating contribution to its results. As compensation expense associated with (appreciation) depreciation on investments related to certain deferred compensation plans, which is included in operating income, offsets the gain (loss) on the investments set aside for these plans, management believes non-operating income (expense), less net income (loss) attributable to NCI, as adjusted, provides a useful measure, for both management and investors, of BlackRock's non-operating results that impact book value.
 
 
(c) Net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc., as adjusted:
Management believes that net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc., as adjusted, and diluted earnings per common share, as adjusted, are useful measures of BlackRock's profitability and financial performance. Net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc., as adjusted, equals net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc., GAAP basis, adjusted for significant non-recurring items as well as charges that ultimately will not impact BlackRock's book value or benefits that do not impact cash flow.
 
See note (a) Operating income, as adjusted, and operating margin, as adjusted, for information on BGI integration costs, UK lease exit costs, PNC LTIP funding obligation and Merrill Lynch compensation contribution.
During the quarters ended September 30, 2011, September 30, 2010 and June 30, 2011, adjustments related to certain enacted state income tax laws, enacted UK tax legislation and a state tax election resulted in the re-measurement of certain net deferred income tax liabilities primarily related to acquired intangible assets. The resulting increase or decrease in income taxes has been excluded from net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc., as adjusted, as these items will not have a cash flow impact and to ensure comparability of this information to reporting periods.
(d) For the quarters ended September 30, 2011, September 30, 2010 and June 30, 2011, non-GAAP adjustments were tax effected at 31.7%, 30.8% and 32.4%, respectively, reflecting a blended rate applicable to the adjustments. For the nine months ended September 30, 2011 and 2010, non-GAAP adjustments were tax effected at 32.0% and 33.5%, respectively.
(e) Non-voting participating preferred shares are considered to be common stock equivalents for purposes of determining basic and diluted earnings per share calculations. Certain unvested restricted stock units are not included in this number as they are deemed participating securities in accordance with required provisions of Accounting Standards Codification 260-10, Earnings per Share. For the quarters ended September 30, 2011, September 30, 2010 and June 30, 2011 average outstanding participating securities were 2.2 million, 2.7 million and 2.2 million, respectively.
 
Attachment II
 
NOTE: Certain prior period information has been reclassified to conform to current period presentation.
 
NOTE: Certain prior period information has been reclassified to conform to current period presentation.
 
Attachment III
 
 
 
 
Attachment IV
Summary
 
 
 
 
Attachment V
Current Quarter Component Changes
 
Year-to-Date Component Changes
 
Year-over-Year Component Changes
 
 
 



