FILE:BLK/BLK-8K-20110527162531.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Effective May 25, 2011, Kenneth B. Dunn resigned from the board of directors of BlackRock, Inc. (BlackRock).
 
 
On May 25, 2011, BlackRock held its 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the Annual Meeting).  At the Annual Meeting, all director nominees were elected (Item 1). The proposal to approve the compensation of executives as disclosed in BlackRocks proxy statement, through an advisory resolution, was approved (Item 2).  In addition, the advisory vote on the frequency of future advisory votes on executive compensation was held, and the option of  1 Year received the greatest number of votes (Item 3).  Finally, the stockholders ratified the retention of Deloitte & Touche LLP as BlackRock's independent registered public accounting firm for 2011 (Item 4). The following are the voting results on each matter submitted to BlackRock's stockholders at the Annual Meeting.  The proposals below are described in detail in BlackRock's definitive proxy statement for the Annual Meeting, which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 26, 2011, along with amendments to the proxy statement filed on May 17, 2011 and May 20, 2011.
Item 1  Election to BlackRock's Board of Directors of the following five nominees:
Item 2  Approval of Compensation of Executives (Non-Binding Advisory Resolution):
Item 3  Frequency of Vote to Approve Compensation of Executives (Non-Binding Advisory Vote):
Item 4  Ratification of Appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm:
A majority of the votes cast by stockholders voted, on an advisory basis, to hold an advisory vote on executive compensation every year.  In line with this recommendation by our stockholders, the Board of Directors has decided that it will include an advisory vote on executive compensation in BlackRocks proxy statement every year until the next advisory vote on the frequency of advisory votes on executive compensation, which will occur no later than BlackRocks Annual Meeting of Stockholders in 2017.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: May 27, 2011
 
 
 


