FILE:BLK/BLK-8K-20120418091059.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 18, 2012, BlackRock, Inc. (the "Company") reported results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2012. A copy of the press release issued by the Company is attached as Exhibit 99.1. In addition, a copy of the BlackRock, Inc. Press Release Supplement for the quarter ended March 31, 2012 is being furnished as Exhibit 99.2 to this Form 8-K.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BlackRock, Inc. (NYSE:BLK) today reported first quarter 2012 diluted EPS of $3.14, up 9% from first quarter 2011. First quarter 2012 net income
New York, April 18, 2012
(1)
of $572 million increased $17 million from fourth quarter 2011 and $4 million from a year ago. Operating income for first quarter 2012 totaled $815 million with operating margin of 36.2%.
. First quarter 2012 operating income of $825 million increased $6 million from first quarter 2011 while diluted EPS of $3.16 improved 7%. First quarter diluted EPS included operating income of $3.10 per diluted share and net non-operating income of $0.06 per diluted share. Diluted EPS improved 3% from fourth quarter 2011. Operating income compared to fourth quarter 2011 reflected growth in base fees offset by seasonally lower performance fees. Operating margin of 38.6% in first quarter 2012 reflected the seasonal effect of performance fees and payroll taxes.
As adjusted(2) results
"Our first quarter 2012 results are a strong testament to the power of BlackRock's diversified business model and history of innovation," said Laurence D. Fink, Chairman and CEO of BlackRock. "During the quarter we generated 7 percent year-over-year growth in diluted EPS with strong underlying momentum in all asset classes and channels across our global platform. As investors attempt to manage uncertain markets, they are increasingly searching for a partner that can provide tools that span the risk spectrum coupled with extensive global perspectives which positions BlackRock extraordinarily well to continue to deliver across market cycles. The first quarter 2012 marks the beginning of our third full year of consolidated results with BGI, and I am extremely proud of our employees for delivering consistently strong net new business particularly in where we have achieved positive flows in every quarter since the merger, and in retail where we generated positive flows in eight of the past nine quarters."
iShares
Assets under management ("AUM") closed the quarter at $3.684 trillion, up 5% since year-end 2011 and up 1% year-over-year. Net new business in long-term products totaled $25.7 billion before giving effect to a previously announced institutional fixed income index redemption that totaled $36.0 billion from a single client. Growth in AUM also reflected market valuation gains and investment performance as well as the acquisition of Claymore Investments, Inc.
The table below presents AUM and a comparison of GAAP and as adjusted results for certain financial measures.
 
 
"For most of the first quarter of 2012, we saw renewed confidence in global markets driven by European stability following the European Central Bank's announced liquidity plan together with positive economic data in the U.S., leading investors to seek out macro exposures primarily through index products. As a result, BlackRock attracted significant inflows into our institutional index and ETP products highlighted by $18.2 billion in net flows in our global platform in what is typically a seasonally weaker quarter. These results reflected particular strength in fixed income where we captured 46 percent of total fixed income ETP market flows. In retail, we continued to drive strong results, attracting nearly $3 billion in fixed income flows in the U.S. and internationally; while our institutional business also demonstrated attractive fundamentals and a continued shift towards advice-driven mandates, highlighted by strong flows in multi-asset solutions. In addition, continued its strong record of growth, adding 14 new assignments in the quarter.
iShares
BlackRock Solutions
"While I am pleased with our quarterly results, we remain committed to innovation through continued investments in our people, products and technology across our global platform. In keeping with this, at the end of February we launched our Investing for a New World' branding initiative to ensure that both institutional and retail investors increasingly recognize BlackRock as a leading solutions provider with the capabilities and insights to help them achieve their investment goals. Our initiative centers on the strategic focus areas of ETPs, retirement, income, multi-asset solutions, and alternatives. During the quarter, these focus areas accounted for the majority of our long-term net inflows and we expect these themes to continue to drive organic growth throughout 2012. We are also very excited to welcome our new Emerging Markets Debt team and look forward to leveraging the team's proven track record of extraordinary investment performance as they join BlackRock in mid-2012.
"While investing for future growth is critical to long-term success, we are equally focused on returning capital to shareholders. During the quarter our Board approved a nine percent increase in the quarterly dividend and we repurchased 648,000 shares resulting in a payout ratio of 72 percent in the first quarter. As we look forward to the balance of the year, BlackRock remains well-positioned to deliver for our clients through superior performance, a focus on providing solutions and the unwavering commitment to excellence of our nearly 10,000 employees worldwide."
First Quarter Business Highlights
Net new business figures exclude the effect of a previously announced low-fee fixed income institutional index redemption from an EMEA client totaling $36.0 billion resulting from the decision to insource.
Long-term AUM increased 7% or $206.6 billion to $3.345 trillion at March 31, 2012, which reflected $25.7 billion of net new business, $209.3 billion of market and foreign exchange gains and $7.6 billion of AUM relating to the March 7
th
acquisition of Claymore Investments, Inc. Cash management AUM decreased 5% and advisory AUM declined 19% in the quarter.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Long-term net new business was positive across all client types, led by strong inflows into
iShares
, as highlighted below.
 
 
 
For the quarter, long-term net inflows of $23.0 billion in the Americas and $5.0 billion in EMEA were partially offset by net outflows of $2.4 billion from Asia-Pacific clients.
BlackRock Solutions
added four net new assignments during the quarter, including one
Aladdin
assignment, five risk management mandates, and eight non-recurring advisory engagements. We completed six short-term advisory assignments during the quarter.
The net new business pipeline totaled $24.1 billion at April 12, 2012, consisting of $3.0 billion of mandates that funded since quarter end, including strong flows from and domestic retail and high net worth clients and $21.1 billion of awards to be funded. The unfunded portion of the pipeline primarily represents institutional assets, which account for approximately two-thirds of long-term AUM but only one-third of revenues. pipeline of contracts and proposals remains robust.
iShares
BlackRock Solutions
 
First Quarter Financial Highlights
Operating income:
First quarter 2012 operating income increased to $815 million from $798 million in first quarter 2011. Operating income, as adjusted, increased to $825 million.
First quarter 2012 revenue of $2.2 billion decreased $33 million, or 1%, from $2.3 billion in first quarter 2011 primarily due to the following:
 
 
 
 
First quarter 2012 total operating expenses of $1.4 billion decreased $50 million. Operating expenses, as adjusted, decreased $39 million. See notes (a) through (e) in Attachment I for more information on as adjusted items and the reconciliation to GAAP. Results were driven by the following:
 
 
 
 
 
Non-operating income (expense):
First quarter 2012 non-operating income, net of non-controlling interests, was $20 million compared with $19 million of non-operating income in first quarter 2011. First quarter 2012 included $55 million of net positive marks primarily on distressed credit/mortgage funds and private equity fund co-investments, partially offset by $40 million of net interest expense. Net interest expense increased from first quarter 2011 primarily due to the $1.5 billion long-term debt issuance in second quarter 2011 in connection with the repurchase of Bank of America's remaining ownership interest in BlackRock.
Income tax expense:
Income tax expense totaled $263 million and $249 million for first quarter 2012 and 2011, respectively. The GAAP effective income tax rate for the first quarter 2012 was 31.5% compared with 30.5% for the first quarter 2011. The first quarter 2011 GAAP tax rate included a $24 million non-cash benefit related to the resolution of certain outstanding tax positions, partially offset by a $3 million increase due to enacted state tax legislation.
Operating income:
First quarter 2012 operating income was $815 million compared with $808 million in fourth quarter 2011. Fourth quarter 2011 operating income included $32 million of restructuring charges. Operating income, as adjusted, which excluded the fourth quarter 2011 restructuring charges, decreased 2%.
 
First quarter 2012 revenues increased $22 million from fourth quarter 2011, primarily due to the following:
 
 
 
First quarter 2012 total operating expenses of $1.4 billion increased $15 million from fourth quarter 2011. Fourth quarter 2011 results included restructuring charges of $32 million. Operating expenses, as adjusted, increased $38 million. See notes (a) through (e) in Attachment I for more information on as adjusted items and the reconciliation to GAAP. Results were driven by the following:
 
 
 
Non-operating income (expense):
First quarter 2012 non-operating income, net of non-controlling interests, was $20 million compared with $21 million non-operating expense in fourth quarter 2011. First quarter 2012 included $55 million of net positive marks primarily on distressed credit/mortgage funds and private equity fund co-investments, partially offset by $40 million of net interest expense.
Income tax expense:
The GAAP effective income tax rate for the first quarter 2012 was 31.5% compared with 29.5% for the fourth quarter 2011. Fourth quarter 2011 results included a $20 million non-cash benefit associated with revaluation of certain deferred tax liabilities, primarily due to tax legislation enacted in Japan, which has been excluded from the as adjusted results.
 
Teleconference, Webcast and Presentation Information
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Laurence D. Fink, and Chief Financial Officer, Ann Marie Petach, will host a teleconference call for investors and analysts at 9:00 a.m. (Eastern Time). Members of the public who are interested in participating in the teleconference should dial, from the United States, (800) 374-0176, or from outside the United States, (706) 679-8281, shortly before 9:00 a.m. and reference the BlackRock Conference Call (ID Number 69127291). A live, listen-only webcast will also be available via the investor relations section of .
www.blackrock.com
Both the teleconference and webcast will be available for replay by 1:00 p.m. on Wednesday, April 18, 2012 and ending at midnight on Wednesday, May 2, 2012. To access the replay of the teleconference, callers from the United States should dial (800) 585-8367 and callers from outside the United States should dial (404) 537-3406 and enter the Conference ID Number 69127291. To access the webcast, please visit the investor relations section of .
www.blackrock.com
Performance Notes
Past performance is not indicative of future results. The performance information shown is based on preliminarily available data. The performance information for actively managed accounts reflects U.S. open-end and closed-end mutual funds and similar EMEA-based products with respect to peer median comparisons, and actively managed institutional and high net worth separate accounts and funds located globally with respect to benchmark comparisons, as determined using objectively based internal parameters, using the most current verified information available as of March 31, 2012 (February 29, 2012 for high net worth accounts).
Accounts terminated prior to March 31, 2012 are not included. In addition, accounts that have not been verified as of April 13, 2012 have not been included. If such terminated and other accounts had been included, the performance information may have substantially differed from that shown. The performance information does not include funds or accounts that are not measured against a benchmark, any benchmark-based alternatives product, private equity products, CDOs, or accounts managed by BlackRock's Financial Markets Advisory Group. Comparisons are based on gross-of-fee performance for U.S. retail, institutional and high net worth separate accounts and EMEA institutional separate accounts and net-of-fee performance for EMEA based retail products. The performance tracking information for institutional index accounts is based on gross-of-fee performance as of March 31, 2012, and includes all institutional accounts and all funds globally using an index strategy. AUM information is based on AUM for each account or fund in the asset class shown without adjustment for overlapping management of the same account or fund, as of March 31, 2012.
iShares
Source of performance information and peer medians is BlackRock, Inc. and is based in part on data from Lipper Inc. for U.S. funds and Morningstar, Inc. for non-U.S. funds. Fund performance reflects the reinvestment of dividends and distributions, but does not reflect sales charges.
 
About BlackRock
BlackRock is a leader in investment management, risk management and advisory services for institutional and retail clients worldwide. At March 31, 2012, BlackRock's AUM was $3.684 trillion. BlackRock offers products that span the risk spectrum to meet clients' needs, including active, enhanced and index strategies across markets and asset classes. Products are offered in a variety of structures including separate accounts, mutual funds, (exchange-traded funds), and other pooled investment vehicles. BlackRock also offers risk management, advisory and enterprise investment system services to a broad base of institutional investors through . Headquartered in New York City, as of March 31, 2012, the firm has approximately 9,900 employees in 27 countries and a major presence in key global markets, including North and South America, Europe, Asia, Australia, and the Middle East and Africa. For additional information, please visit the Company's website at .
iShares
BlackRock Solutions
www.blackrock.com
Forward-looking Statements
This report, and other statements that BlackRock may make, may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act, with respect to BlackRock's future financial or business performance, strategies or expectations. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as "trend," "potential," "opportunity," "pipeline," "believe," "comfortable," "expect," "anticipate," "current," "intention," "estimate," "position," "assume," "outlook," "continue," "remain," "maintain," "sustain," "seek," "achieve," and similar expressions, or future or conditional verbs such as "will," "would," "should," "could," "may" or similar expressions.
BlackRock cautions that forward-looking statements are subject to numerous assumptions, risks and uncertainties, which change over time. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and BlackRock assumes no duty to and does not undertake to update forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in forward-looking statements and future results could differ materially from historical performance.
In addition to risk factors previously disclosed in BlackRock's Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") reports and those identified elsewhere in this report the following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking statements or historical performance: (1) the introduction, withdrawal, success and timing of business initiatives and strategies; (2) changes and volatility in political, economic or industry conditions, the interest rate environment, foreign exchange rates or financial and capital markets, which could result in changes in demand for products or services or in the value of assets under management; (3) the relative and absolute investment performance of BlackRock's investment products; (4) the impact of increased competition; (5) the impact of future acquisitions or divestitures; (6) the unfavorable resolution of legal proceedings; (7) the extent and timing of any share repurchases; (8) the impact, extent and timing of technological changes and the adequacy of intellectual property and information security protection; (9) the impact of legislative and regulatory actions and reforms, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, and regulatory, supervisory or enforcement actions of government agencies relating to BlackRock, Barclays Bank PLC or The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc.; (10) terrorist activities, international hostilities and natural disasters, which may adversely affect the general economy, domestic and local financial and capital markets, specific industries or BlackRock; (11) the ability to attract and retain highly talented professionals; (12) fluctuations in the carrying value of BlackRock's economic investments; (13) the impact of changes to tax legislation, including taxation on products or transactions which could affect the value proposition to clients and, generally, the tax position of the Company; (14) BlackRock's success in maintaining the distribution of its products; (15) the impact of BlackRock electing to provide support to its products from time to time; and (16) the impact of problems at other financial institutions or the failure or negative performance of products at other financial institutions.
BlackRock's Annual Report on Form 10-K and BlackRock's subsequent filings with the SEC, accessible on the SEC's website at and on BlackRock's website at , discuss these factors in more detail and identify additional factors that can affect forward-looking statements. The information contained on the Company's website is not a part of this press release.
www.sec.gov
www.blackrock.com
 
Attachment I
 
 
BlackRock reports its financial results in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP"); however, management believes evaluating the Company's ongoing operating results may be enhanced if investors have additional non-GAAP basis financial measures. Management reviews non-GAAP financial measures to assess ongoing operations and, for the reasons described below, considers them to be effective indicators, for both management and investors, of BlackRock's financial performance over time. BlackRock's management does not advocate that investors consider such non-GAAP financial measures in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Computations for all periods are derived from the Company's condensed consolidated statements of income as follows:
(a) Operating income, as adjusted, and operating margin, as adjusted:
Operating income, as adjusted, equals operating income, GAAP basis, excluding certain items management deems non-recurring, or transactions that ultimately will not impact BlackRock's book value, as indicated in the table below. Operating income used for operating margin measurement equals operating income, as adjusted, excluding the impact of closed-end fund launch costs and commissions. Operating margin, as adjusted, equals operating income used for operating margin measurement, divided by revenue used for operating margin measurement, as indicated in the table below.
 
 
 
(a) (continued)
Management believes operating income, as adjusted, and operating margin, as adjusted, are effective indicators of BlackRock's financial performance over time and, therefore, provide useful disclosure to investors.
Operating income, as adjusted:
Restructuring charges consist of compensation costs and professional fees.
The portion of compensation expense associated with certain long-term incentive plans ("LTIP") that has been or will be funded through distributions to participants of shares of BlackRock stock held by The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. ("PNC") and a Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc. ("Merrill Lynch") cash compensation contribution, all of which has been received as of first quarter 2012, has been excluded because these charges ultimately do not impact BlackRock's book value. The expense related to the Merrill Lynch cash compensation contribution ceased at the end of the third quarter 2011.
Compensation expense associated with appreciation (depreciation) on investments related to certain BlackRock deferred compensation plans has been excluded as returns on investments set aside for these plans, which substantially offset this expense, are reported in non-operating income (expense).
Management believes operating income exclusive of these costs is a useful measure in evaluating BlackRock's operating performance and helps enhance the comparability of this information for the reporting periods presented.
Operating margin, as adjusted:
Operating income used for measuring operating margin, as adjusted, is equal to operating income, as adjusted, excluding the impact of closed-end fund launch costs and commissions. Management believes the exclusion of such costs and commissions is useful because these costs can fluctuate considerably and revenues associated with the expenditure of these costs will not fully impact BlackRock's results until future periods.
Operating margin, as adjusted, allows BlackRock to compare performance from period-to-period by adjusting for items that may not recur, recur infrequently or may have an economic offset in non-operating income. Examples of such adjustments include restructuring charges, closed-end fund launch costs, commissions paid to certain employees as compensation and fluctuations in compensation expense based on mark-to-market movements in investments held to fund certain compensation plans. BlackRock also uses operating margin, as adjusted, to monitor corporate performance and efficiency and as a benchmark to compare its performance with other companies. Management uses both the GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures in evaluating the financial performance of BlackRock. The non-GAAP measure by itself may pose limitations because it does not include all of BlackRock's revenues and expenses.
Revenue used for operating margin, as adjusted, excludes distribution and servicing costs paid to related parties and other third parties. Management believes the exclusion of such costs is useful because it creates consistency in the treatment for certain contracts for similar services, which due to the terms of the contracts, are accounted for under GAAP on a net basis within investment advisory, administration fees and securities lending revenue. Amortization of deferred sales commissions is excluded from revenue used for operating margin measurement, as adjusted, because such costs, over time, substantially offset distribution fee revenue earned by the Company. For each of these items, BlackRock excludes from revenue used for operating margin, as adjusted, the costs related to each of these items as a proxy for such offsetting revenues.
 
 
(b) Non-operating income (expense), less net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests, as adjusted:
Non-operating income (expense), less net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests ("NCI"), as adjusted, is presented below. The compensation expense offset is recorded in operating income. This compensation expense has been included in non-operating income (expense), less net income (loss) attributable to NCI, as adjusted, to offset returns on investments set aside for these plans, which are reported in non-operating income (expense), GAAP basis.
 
 
Management believes non-operating income (expense), less net income (loss) attributable to NCI, as adjusted, provides comparability of this information among reporting periods and is an effective measure for reviewing BlackRock's non-operating contribution to its results. As compensation expense associated with (appreciation) depreciation on investments related to certain deferred compensation plans, which is included in operating income, substantially offsets the gain (loss) on the investments set aside for these plans, management believes non-operating income (expense), less net income (loss) attributable to NCI, as adjusted, provides a useful measure, for both management and investors, of BlackRock's non-operating results that impact book value.
 
 
(c) Net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc., as adjusted:
Management believes net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc., as adjusted, and diluted earnings per common share, as adjusted, are useful measures of BlackRock's profitability and financial performance. Net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc., as adjusted, equals net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc., GAAP basis, adjusted for significant non-recurring items, charges that ultimately will not impact BlackRock's book value or certain tax items that do not impact cash flow.
 
See note (a) Operating income, as adjusted, and operating margin, as adjusted, for information on restructuring charges, PNC LTIP funding obligation and Merrill Lynch compensation contribution.
During the quarters ended March 31 and December 31, 2011, adjustments primarily related to a state tax election, an enacted Japanese legislation and state tax legislation, respectively, which resulted in the re-measurement of certain deferred income tax liabilities primarily related to acquired indefinite-lived intangible assets. The resulting increase or decrease in income taxes has been excluded from net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc., as adjusted, as these items will not have a cash flow impact and to ensure comparability for periods presented.
(d) For the quarters ended March 31, 2012 and 2011, and December 31, 2011, non-GAAP adjustments were tax effected at 31.5%, 33.0% and 31.8%, respectively, reflecting a blended rate applicable to the adjustments. BlackRock's tax rate in fourth quarter 2011 included the impact of changes in the fourth quarter to the full year blended rates applicable to the adjustments.
(e) Non-voting participating preferred shares are considered to be common stock equivalents for purposes of determining basic and diluted earnings per share calculations. Certain unvested restricted stock units are not included in this number as they are deemed participating securities in accordance with required provisions of Accounting Standards Codification 260-10, . For the quarters ended March 31, 2012 and 2011, and December 31, 2011 average outstanding participating securities were 0.2 million, 2.4 million and 0.2 million, respectively.
Earnings per Share
 
Attachment II
 
NOTE: Certain prior period information has been reclassified to conform to current period presentation.
 
NOTE: Certain prior period information has been reclassified to conform to current period presentation.
 
Attachment III
 
 
 
The Company presents economic tangible assets as additional information to enable investors to eliminate gross presentation of certain assets that have equal and offsetting liabilities or non-controlling interests that ultimately do not have an impact on stockholders' equity (excluding appropriated retained earnings related to consolidated collateralized loan obligations) or cash flows. In addition, goodwill and intangible assets are excluded from economic tangible assets.
 
Economic tangible assets include cash, receivables, seed and co-investments, regulatory investments and other assets.
 
Attachment IV
Current Quarter Component Changes
 
Year-over-Year Component Changes
 
 
 
 



