FILE:BLK/BLK-8K-20120227172641.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 23, 2012, the Board of Directors (the Board) of BlackRock, Inc. (BlackRock) approved an amendment to the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of BlackRock (the Charter Amendment), subject to the approval by BlackRocks stockholders at the 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, to eliminate BlackRocks classified board structure under which directors are elected for three-year terms.  If the Charter Amendment is approved by stockholders, starting with the 2013 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, directors whose terms are expiring will stand for election for one-year terms.  Beginning with BlackRocks 2015 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, all directors would be elected on an annual basis.  In addition, on February 23, 2012, the Board adopted Amendment No. 1 to the Amended and Restated Bylaws of BlackRock (the Bylaws) to make conforming changes to the Bylaws.  Amendment No. 1 to the Bylaws will become effective upon the approval by BlackRocks stockholders of the Charter Amendment and the subsequent filing of the Charter Amendment with the office of the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware.
 
In addition, on February 23, 2012 and effective on that date, the Board adopted Amendment No. 2 to the Bylaws to change the voting standard for the election of directors in uncontested elections from plurality to a majority of the votes cast. In a contested election (where there are more nominees for election than Board positions to be filled), the directors will be elected by a plurality of the votes cast.
 
Copies of Amendment No. 1 to the Bylaws and Amendment No. 2 to the Bylaws are filed with this Form 8-K as Exhibits 3.1 and 3.2, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date:  February 27, 2012
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
Exhibit 3.1
 
Effective upon (i) the approval by the stockholders of BlackRock, Inc. (the Company) of the Certificate of Amendment to the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (the Charter Amendment) to eliminate the provisions for the classification of the Companys Board of Directors and (ii) the filing of the Charter Amendment with the office of the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware, the Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company (the Bylaws) shall be amended as follows:
 
 
(c) The directors shall hold office in accordance with the provisions as set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation.
 
 
Unless otherwise required by law, by any Stockholder Agreement or by the Certificate of Incorporation, vacancies arising through death, resignation, removal, an increase in the number of directors or otherwise may be filled by a majority of the directors then in office, even though less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director, or by the stockholders if such vacancy resulted from the action of stockholders (in which event such vacancy may not be filled by the directors or a majority thereof), and in any event the directors so chosen shall hold office until the next annual meeting of stockholders and until their successors are duly elected and qualified, or until their earlier death, resignation or removal.
 
 
Any director or the entire Board of Directors may be removed, with or without cause, by the holders of a majority of the votes of capital stock then entitled to vote in the election of directors at a meeting of stockholders called for that purpose, except that Continuing Classified Directors (as defined in the Certificate of Incorporation) and any director appointed to fill a vacancy of any Continuing Classified Director may be removed only for cause. Cause for removal of a director shall be deemed to exist only if: (i) the director whose removal is proposed has been convicted, or when a director is granted immunity to testify when another has been convicted, of a felony by a court of competent jurisdiction and such conviction is no longer subject to direct appeal; (ii) such director has been found by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Directors then in office at any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors called for that purpose, or by a court of competent jurisdiction, to have been guilty of willful misconduct in the performance of his duties to the Corporation in a matter of substantial importance to the Corporation; (iii) such director has been adjudicated by a court of competent jurisdiction to be mentally incompetent, which mental incompetency directly affects his ability as a director of the Corporation; or (iv) the entry of any order against such director by any governmental body having regulatory authority with respect to the Corporations business. Notwithstanding the foregoing, whenever holders of outstanding shares of one or more series of Preferred Stock are entitled to elect directors of the Corporation pursuant to the provisions applicable in the case of arrearages in the payment of dividends or other defaults contained in the resolution or resolutions of the Board of Directors providing for the establishment of any such series, any such director of the Corporation so elected may be removed in accordance with the provisions of such resolution or resolutions.
 

 
 
Exhibit 3.2
 
Effective as of February 23, 2012, the Amended and Restated Bylaws of BlackRock, Inc. (as amended, the Bylaws) shall be amended as follows:
 
 
 


