FILE:BLK/BLK-8K-20120620202027.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
On June 20, 2012, BlackRock, Inc. (the "Company") announced that Susan L. Wagner will retire as Vice Chairman of the Company effective June 30, 2012.
 
On June 15, 2012, the Board of Directors of the Company elected Ms. Wagner to serve as a director of the Board effective as of October 3, 2012. Ms. Wagner has been a Vice Chairman of the Company since 2006 and has also served as a member of the Company's Global Executive Committee and Global Operating Committee.
The Company issued a press release announcing Ms. Wagner's retirement and appointment to the Board of Directors on June 20, 2012. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
99.1         Press release issued by the Company on June 20, 2012
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
99.1         Press release issued by the Company on June 20, 2012

Exhibit 99.1
 
Media Relations:
Bobbie Collins
+1 212-810-8155
Bobbie.Collins@blackrock.com
NEW YORK(BUSINESS WIRE)Jun. 20, 2012 BlackRock, Inc. (NYSE: BLK) today announced that Susan L. Wagner, a Founding Partner of BlackRock, is retiring as a Vice Chairman of BlackRock and has been elected to BlackRock's Board of Directors. She will retire at the end of this month and take her seat on the Board at the October meeting. She also will continue to serve as a Director of DSP BlackRock Investment Managers, the firm's joint venture in India.
Laurence D. Fink, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of BlackRock, Inc., said, "Sue's election to the Board reflects the profound contribution she has made to BlackRock and our clients in a range of leadership positions since 1988, and I am delighted that the firm will continue to benefit in new ways from her exceptional insight and strategic vision. Sue has spearheaded every critical corporate transaction in our history and played a pivotal role in the genesis of many of the businesses that have become central to our success. She embodies and has helped to define and foster the culture of consistent excellence, uncompromising integrity, deep passion and intense focus on our clients that is BlackRock at its best."
Mr. Fink continued, "Sue's influence has also been felt far beyond BlackRock. Her innovations in structured finance earlier in her career set a new direction for our industry, and Sue has been a pioneer, role model and mentor for both women and men in our firm and across our industry. As Sue begins a new chapter in her remarkable career, all of us are grateful that we will be able to draw on her spirit of innovation and unmatched depth of understanding of the markets, our industry and our firm in her new role as a Director of BlackRock."
Ms. Wagner said, "It has been a privilege to be part of the team that has built an organization that is uniquely positioned to meet the full range of investment needs our clients face in today's challenging markets. In all of our work, we've been guided above all else by listening to our clients and responding creatively to their needs. I am excited and honored to join the Board and believe this opportunity gives me the best of both worlds: the chance to confront new challenges and explore new horizons, while continuing to contribute to the success of BlackRock."
In addition to serving as a Vice Chairman of BlackRock, Ms. Wagner serves as a member of BlackRock's Global Executive Committee and Global Operating Committee. Ms. Wagner previously served as BlackRock's Chief Operating Officer and Head of Corporate Strategy, and led BlackRock's international client and alternative investments businesses.
Ms. Wagner has been included in magazine's annual ranking of the "50 Most Powerful Women in Business" for the past three years, has been named as one of the "Top 50 Women to Watch" by the and has been ranked twice on the "50 Most Powerful Women in New York" list by . Among numerous other roles at BlackRock, Ms. Wagner has been the Global Executive Sponsor of BlackRock's Women's Initiative Network (WIN), which has been integral to engaging and fostering the full potential of BlackRock women.
Fortune
Financial Times,
Crain's New York Business
She holds a BA degree in English and economics from Wellesley College, and an MBA degree in finance from the University of Chicago. Ms. Wagner is a member of the Board of Trustees of Wellesley College and the Hackley School.
About BlackRock
BlackRock is a leader in investment management, risk management and advisory services for institutional and retail clients worldwide. At March 31, 2012, BlackRock's AUM was $3.684 trillion. BlackRock offers products that span the risk spectrum to meet clients' needs, including active, enhanced and index strategies across markets and asset classes. Products are offered in a variety of structures including separate accounts, mutual funds, iShares (exchange-traded funds) and other pooled investment vehicles. BlackRock also offers risk management, advisory and enterprise investment system services to a broad base of institutional investors through BlackRock Solutions. Headquartered in New York City, as of March 31, 2012, the Firm has approximately 9,900 employees in 27 countries and a major presence in key global markets, including North and South America, Europe, Asia, Australia and the Middle East and Africa. For additional information, please visit the Company's website at www.blackrock.com.


