FILE:BLK/BLK-8K-20120718091536.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On July 18, 2012, BlackRock, Inc. (the "Company") reported results of operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2012. A copy of the press release issued by the Company is attached as Exhibit 99.1. In addition, a copy of the Company's Press Release Supplement for the quarter ended June 30, 2012 is being furnished as Exhibit 99.2 to this Form 8-K.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)  Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BlackRock, Inc. (NYSE:BLK) today reported second quarter 2012 diluted EPS of $3.08 compared with $3.21 in second quarter 2011. Second quarter 2012 net income
New York, July 18, 2012
(1)
totaled $554 million compared with $572 million in first quarter 2012 and $619 million from a year ago. Operating income for second quarter 2012 totaled $829 million with operating margin of 37.2%.
As adjusted
(2)
results
. Second quarter 2012 operating income totaled $832 million compared with $883 million in second quarter 2011. Diluted EPS totaled $3.10 and included operating income of $3.27 per diluted share and net non-operating expense of $0.17 per diluted share. As compared with first quarter 2012, operating income rose 1% and reflected seasonal factors, partially offset by market-driven declines, lower performance fees and higher costs related to the new brand campaign. Operating margin in second quarter 2012 improved to 39.2% from 38.6% in first quarter 2012.
"Our second quarter 2012 financial performance again demonstrated the strength and resilience of BlackRock's diversified platform and our commitment to delivering for shareholders," said Laurence D. Fink, Chairman and CEO of BlackRock. "Despite market headwinds and the growing defensive posture of investors, we delivered consistent results quarter-over-quarter with $832 million in adjusted operating income and diluted EPS of $3.10. Our global platform and breadth of investment products and solutions positioned us effectively to serve clients in this environment, allowing us to attract positive long-term flows overall with particular strength in passive products in the face of broader industry contraction. Additionally, our pipeline, predominantly representing our institutional business, stood at $54.8 billion in mid-July."
The table below presents AUM and a comparison of GAAP and as adjusted results for certain financial measures.
 
 
"As always, we remain intensely focused on further enhancing the experience of our clients by delivering superior investment performance in products and solutions that meet their most important needs. We are committed to continuously evolving our organization and fully leveraging the benefits of our global platform as we invest in talent, product innovation and greater brand awareness while still driving strong shareholder value. This quarter we demonstrated our commitment to returning value to our shareholders as we repurchased $1.0 billion of shares from Barclays Bank PLC and supported the successful secondary offer of their remaining ownership interest. We also announced the Swiss Re Private Equity Partners acquisition that further extends both our alternative capabilities as well as our European presence. While the investment environment remains challenging, the underlying momentum in our business is strong given the environment, and I am pleased with the investments we have been making to diversify the platform.
"As we look toward the second half of the year, I want to acknowledge the tireless efforts of the entire BlackRock team and the great work they do to serve their clients and deliver value for our shareholders. While we remain cautious around the prospects for the global economy, we are confident that the model we have built will continue to serve our clients and shareholders and deliver attractive long-term returns."
Second Quarter Business Highlights
closed the quarter at $3.560 trillion, down 3% since first quarter end and down 3% year-over-year, largely driven by $94.7 billion of market-related declines across products. Long-term net new business of $3.7 billion reflected net inflows in fixed income and multi-asset class products of $5.6 billion and $4.3 billion, respectively, partly offset by outflows from equity and alternatives totaling $6.2 billion. Total net outflows of $29.4 billion included $1.5 billion of cash management outflows and $31.6 billion of planned advisory distributions related to the successful wind-down of Maiden Lane portfolios.
Assets under management ("AUM")
of $3.255 trillion decreased 3%, or $89.1 billion, since first quarter end, largely driven by market valuation declines of $92.8 billion. These results reflected long-term net inflows of $3.7 billion from the Americas and $0.1 billion from EMEA, which were modestly offset by $0.1 billion of long-term net outflows from Asia-Pacific clients.
Long-term AUM
of $374.0 billion, reflected net inflows of $1.6 billion overshadowed by $15.1 billion of market valuation declines. At quarter end, 75% of long-term AUM was managed for investors based in the Americas with 25% managed for international clients.
Retail AUM
 
 
Retail and high net worth AUM represented 11% of total long-term AUM at quarter end and generated $644 million, or 34%, of total long-term base fees.
generated $6.1 billion of net inflows, which were more than offset by market valuation declines of $32.8 billion, ending the quarter with $644.9 billion of AUM. Fixed income net inflows of $11.7 billion were partially offset by outflows of $5.4 billion and $0.2 billion from equity and alternatives commodity funds, respectively.
iShares
 
 
AUM represented 20% of total long-term AUM at quarter end and generated $596 million of revenue, or 31%, of total long-term base fees.
iShares
declined 1%, or $9.0 billion, to $850.0 billion, with net outflows of $5.9 billion compounded by $3.2 billion of market valuation losses. Net inflows of $4.1 billion into multi-asset class products were more than offset by outflows across fixed income, alternatives and equities.
Institutional active AUM
 
 
 
 
Institutional active strategies represented 26% of total long-term AUM at quarter end and generated $440 million, or 23%, of long-term base fees.
ended the quarter at $1.387 trillion, reflecting market valuation declines of $41.8 billion and net inflows of $2.0 billion.
Institutional index AUM
 
 
Institutional index represented 43% of total long-term AUM at quarter end and generated $222 million, or 12%, of total long-term base fees.
decreased 1%, or $2.5 billion, to $239.5 billion reflecting net outflows of $1.5 billion and net market and foreign exchange losses of $1.0 billion. Outflows reflected institutional reaction to the continued low-rate environment.
Cash management AUM
declined 33% to $65.0 billion driven almost exclusively by Maiden Lane portfolio liquidation disbursements.
Advisory AUM
improved across much of the product platform.
Investment performance
 
 
 
generated $131 million in revenues during the quarter, up 7% from first quarter 2012, reflecting the continued heightened focus on risk management given continued market volatility and increasing regulatory scrutiny.
BlackRock Solutions
("BRS")
 
 
 
 
totaled $54.8 billion at July 12, 2012, and included $42.7 billion in index mandates and $2.1 billion in active mandates that are expected to fund in future quarters. In addition, the pipeline contained $9.3 billion of mandates that funded since quarter end. The unfunded portion of the pipeline primarily represents institutional assets, which account for approximately two-thirds of long-term AUM but only one-third of revenues. pipeline of contracts and proposals remains robust.
Net new business pipeline
BlackRock Solutions
Second Quarter Financial Highlights
Second quarter 2012 operating income was $829 million compared with $866 million in second quarter 2011. Operating income, as adjusted, was $832 million compared with $883 million in second quarter 2011.
Operating income:
Second quarter 2012 revenue of $2.2 billion decreased $118 million from $2.3 billion in second quarter 2011, primarily due to the following:
 
 
 
 
 
Second quarter 2012 total operating expenses of $1.4 billion decreased $81 million from second quarter 2011. Operating expenses, as adjusted, decreased $67 million. See notes (a) through (f) in Attachment I for more information on as adjusted items and the reconciliation to GAAP. Results were driven by the following:
 
 
 
 
 
Second quarter 2012 non-operating expense, net of non-controlling interests, was $46 million compared with $27 million in second quarter 2011. Second quarter 2012 included $2 million of net negative marks, primarily on private equity fund co-investments, and $44 million of net interest expense. Net interest expense increased $7 million from second quarter 2011, primarily due to long-term debt issuances in May 2011 and May 2012.
Non-operating income (expense):
Income tax expense totaled $229 million and $220 million for second quarter 2012 and 2011, respectively. The GAAP effective income tax rate for the second quarter 2012 was 29.3% compared with 26.2% for the second quarter 2011. The second quarter 2011 GAAP tax rate included a $52 million non-cash benefit due to enacted state tax legislation. The as adjusted effective income tax rate was 29.3% and 32.4% for second quarter 2012 and 2011, respectively.
Income tax expense:
 
Second quarter 2012 operating income was $829 million compared with $815 million in first quarter 2012. Operating income, as adjusted, was $832 million compared with $825 million in first quarter 2012.
Operating income:
Second quarter 2012 revenue decreased $20 million from first quarter 2012, primarily due to the following:
 
 
 
Second quarter 2012 total operating expenses of $1.4 billion decreased $34 million from first quarter 2012. Operating expenses, as adjusted, decreased $27 million. See notes (a) through (f) in Attachment I for more information on as adjusted items and the reconciliation to GAAP. Results were driven by the following:
 
 
 
Second quarter 2012 non-operating expense, net of non-controlling interests, was $46 million compared with $20 million non-operating income in first quarter 2012. Second quarter 2012 included $2 million of net negative marks primarily on private equity fund co-investments and $44 million of net interest expense. Net interest expense increased $4 million from first quarter 2012, primarily due to $1.5 billion of long-term debt issuances in May 2012.
Non-operating income (expense):
Income tax expense of $229 million for second quarter 2012 decreased $34 million from first quarter 2012. The GAAP effective income tax rate for the second quarter 2012 was 29.3% compared with 31.5% for the first quarter 2012. The as adjusted effective income tax rate was 29.3% and 31.5% for second quarter 2012 and first quarter 2012, respectively.
Income tax expense:
 
Teleconference, Webcast and Presentation Information
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Laurence D. Fink, and Chief Financial Officer, Ann Marie Petach, will host a teleconference call for investors and analysts on Wednesday, July 18, 2012, at 9:00 a.m. (Eastern Time). Members of the public who are interested in participating in the teleconference should dial, from the United States, (800) 374-0176, or from outside the United States, (706) 679-8281, shortly before 9:00 a.m. and reference the BlackRock Conference Call (ID Number 95008161). A live, listen-only webcast will also be available via the investor relations section of .
www.blackrock.com
Both the teleconference and webcast will be available for replay by 1:00 p.m. Eastern Time on Wednesday, July 18, 2012 and ending at midnight on Wednesday, August 1, 2012. To access the replay of the teleconference, callers from the United States should dial (800) 585-8367 and callers from outside the United States should dial (404) 537-3406 and enter the Conference ID Number 95008161. To access the webcast, please visit the investor relations section of .
www.blackrock.com
Performance Notes
Past performance is not indicative of future results. The performance information shown is based on preliminarily available data. The performance information for actively managed accounts reflects U.S. open-end and closed-end mutual funds and similar EMEA-based products with respect to peer median comparisons, and actively managed institutional and high net worth separate accounts and funds located globally with respect to benchmark comparisons, as determined using objectively based internal parameters, using the most current verified information available as of June 30, 2012 (May 31, 2012 for high net worth accounts).
Accounts terminated prior to June 30, 2012 are not included. In addition, accounts that have not been verified as of July 13, 2012 have not been included. If such terminated and other accounts had been included, the performance information may have substantially differed from that shown. The performance information does not include funds or accounts that are not measured against a benchmark, any benchmark-based alternatives product, private equity products, CDOs, or accounts managed by BlackRock's Financial Markets Advisory Group. Comparisons are based on gross-of-fee performance for U.S. retail, institutional and high net worth separate accounts and EMEA institutional separate accounts and net-of-fee performance for EMEA based retail products. The performance tracking information for institutional index accounts is based on gross-of-fee performance as of June 30, 2012, and includes all institutional accounts and all funds globally using an index strategy. AUM information is based on AUM for each account or fund in the asset class shown without adjustment for overlapping management of the same account or fund, as of June 30, 2012.
iShares
Source of performance information and peer medians is BlackRock, Inc. and is based in part on data from Lipper Inc. for U.S. funds and Morningstar, Inc. for non-U.S. funds. Fund performance reflects the reinvestment of dividends and distributions, but does not reflect sales charges.
 
About BlackRock
BlackRock is a leader in investment management, risk management and advisory services for institutional and retail clients worldwide. At June 30, 2012, BlackRock's AUM was $3.560 trillion. BlackRock offers products that span the risk spectrum to meet clients' needs, including active, enhanced and index strategies across markets and asset classes. Products are offered in a variety of structures including separate accounts, mutual funds, (exchange traded funds), and other pooled investment vehicles. BlackRock also offers risk management, advisory and enterprise investment system services to a broad base of institutional investors through . Headquartered in New York City, as of June 30, 2012, the firm has approximately 9,900 employees in 27 countries and a major presence in key global markets, including North and South America, Europe, Asia, Australia and the Middle East and Africa. For additional information, please visit the Company's website at .
iShares
BlackRock Solutions
www.blackrock.com
Forward-looking Statements
This report, and other statements that BlackRock may make, may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act, with respect to BlackRock's future financial or business performance, strategies or expectations. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as "trend," "potential," "opportunity," "pipeline," "believe," "comfortable," "expect," "anticipate," "current," "intention," "estimate," "position," "assume," "outlook," "continue," "remain," "maintain," "sustain," "seek," "achieve," and similar expressions, or future or conditional verbs such as "will," "would," "should," "could," "may" or similar expressions.
BlackRock cautions that forward-looking statements are subject to numerous assumptions, risks and uncertainties, which change over time. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and BlackRock assumes no duty to and does not undertake to update forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in forward-looking statements and future results could differ materially from historical performance.
In addition to risk factors previously disclosed in BlackRock's Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") reports and those identified elsewhere in this report the following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking statements or historical performance: (1) the introduction, withdrawal, success and timing of business initiatives and strategies; (2) changes and volatility in political, economic or industry conditions, the interest rate environment, foreign exchange rates or financial and capital markets, which could result in changes in demand for products or services or in the value of assets under management; (3) the relative and absolute investment performance of BlackRock's investment products; (4) the impact of increased competition; (5) the impact of future acquisitions or divestitures; (6) the unfavorable resolution of legal proceedings; (7) the extent and timing of any share repurchases; (8) the impact, extent and timing of technological changes and the adequacy of intellectual property and information security protection; (9) the impact of legislative and regulatory actions and reforms, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, and regulatory, supervisory or enforcement actions of government agencies relating to BlackRock or The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. ("PNC"); (10) terrorist activities, international hostilities and natural disasters, which may adversely affect the general economy, domestic and local financial and capital markets, specific industries or BlackRock; (11) the ability to attract and retain highly talented professionals; (12) fluctuations in the carrying value of BlackRock's economic investments; (13) the impact of changes to tax legislation, including income, payroll and transaction taxes, and taxation on products or transactions, which could affect the value proposition to clients and, generally, the tax position of the Company; (14) BlackRock's success in maintaining the distribution of its products; (15) the impact of BlackRock electing to provide support to its products from time to time and any liabilities related to securities lending or other indemnification obligations; and (16) the impact of problems at other financial institutions or the failure or negative performance of products at other financial institutions.
BlackRock's Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and BlackRock's subsequent filings with the SEC, accessible on the SEC's website at and on BlackRock's website at , discuss these factors in more detail and identify additional factors that can affect forward-looking statements. The information contained on the Company's website is not a part of this press release.
www.sec.gov
www.blackrock.com
 
Attachment I
 
 
 
 
BlackRock reports its financial results in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP"); however, management believes evaluating the Company's ongoing operating results may be enhanced if investors have additional non-GAAP basis financial measures. Management reviews non-GAAP financial measures to assess ongoing operations and, for the reasons described below, considers them to be effective indicators, for both management and investors, of BlackRock's financial performance over time. BlackRock's management does not advocate that investors consider such non-GAAP financial measures in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Computations for all periods are derived from the Company's condensed consolidated statements of income as follows:
(a) Operating income, as adjusted, and operating margin, as adjusted:
Operating income, as adjusted, equals operating income, GAAP basis, excluding certain items management deems non-recurring, or transactions that ultimately will not impact BlackRock's book value, as indicated in the table below. Operating income used for operating margin measurement equals operating income, as adjusted, excluding the impact of closed-end fund launch costs and commissions. Operating margin, as adjusted, equals operating income used for operating margin measurement, divided by revenue used for operating margin measurement, as indicated in the table below.
 
Management believes operating income, as adjusted, and operating margin, as adjusted, are effective indicators of BlackRock's financial performance over time and, therefore, provide useful disclosure to investors.
 
 
(a) (continued)
Operating income, as adjusted:
The portion of compensation expense associated with certain long-term incentive plans ("LTIP") that has been or will be funded through distributions to participants of shares of BlackRock stock held by The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. ("PNC") and a Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc. ("Merrill Lynch") cash compensation contribution, all of which has been received as of first quarter 2012, has been excluded because these charges ultimately do not impact BlackRock's book value. The expense related to the Merrill Lynch cash compensation contribution ceased at the end of the third quarter 2011.
Compensation expense associated with appreciation (depreciation) on investments related to certain BlackRock deferred compensation plans has been excluded as returns on investments set aside for these plans, which substantially offset this expense, are reported in non-operating income (expense).
Management believes operating income exclusive of these costs is a useful measure in evaluating BlackRock's operating performance and helps enhance the comparability of this information for the reporting periods presented.
Operating margin, as adjusted:
Operating income used for measuring operating margin, as adjusted, is equal to operating income, as adjusted, excluding the impact of closed-end fund launch costs and commissions. Management believes the exclusion of such costs and commissions is useful because these costs can fluctuate considerably and revenues associated with the expenditure of these costs will not fully impact BlackRock's results until future periods.
Operating margin, as adjusted, allows BlackRock to compare performance from period-to-period by adjusting for items that may not recur, recur infrequently or may have an economic offset in non-operating income. Examples of such adjustments include closed-end fund launch costs, commissions paid to certain employees as compensation and fluctuations in compensation expense based on mark-to-market movements in investments held to fund certain compensation plans. BlackRock also uses operating margin, as adjusted, to monitor corporate performance and efficiency and as a benchmark to compare its performance with other companies. Management uses both the GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures in evaluating the financial performance of BlackRock. The non-GAAP measure by itself may pose limitations because it does not include all of BlackRock's revenues and expenses.
Revenue used for operating margin, as adjusted, excludes distribution and servicing costs paid to related parties and other third parties. Management believes the exclusion of such costs is useful because it creates consistency in the treatment for certain contracts for similar services, which due to the terms of the contracts, are accounted for under GAAP on a net basis within investment advisory, administration fees and securities lending revenue. Amortization of deferred sales commissions is excluded from revenue used for operating margin measurement, as adjusted, because such costs, over time, substantially offset distribution fee revenue earned by the Company. For each of these items, BlackRock excludes from revenue used for operating margin, as adjusted, the costs related to each of these items as a proxy for such offsetting revenues.
 
 
(b) Non-operating income (expense), less net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests, as adjusted:
Non-operating income (expense), less net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests ("NCI"), as adjusted, is presented below. The compensation expense offset is recorded in operating income. This compensation expense has been included in non-operating income (expense), less net income (loss) attributable to NCI, as adjusted, to offset returns on investments set aside for these plans, which are reported in non-operating income (expense), GAAP basis.
 
 
Management believes non-operating income (expense), less net income (loss) attributable to NCI, as adjusted, provides comparability of this information among reporting periods and is an effective measure for reviewing BlackRock's non-operating contribution to its results. As compensation expense associated with (appreciation) depreciation on investments related to certain deferred compensation plans, which is included in operating income, substantially offsets the gain (loss) on the investments set aside for these plans, management believes non-operating income (expense), less net income (loss) attributable to NCI, as adjusted, provides a useful measure, for both management and investors, of BlackRock's non-operating results that impact book value.
 
 
(c) Net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc., as adjusted:
Management believes net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc., as adjusted, and diluted earnings per common share, as adjusted, are useful measures of BlackRock's profitability and financial performance. Net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc., as adjusted, equals net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc., GAAP basis, adjusted for significant non-recurring items, charges that ultimately will not impact BlackRock's book value or certain tax items that do not impact cash flow.
 
See note (a) Operating income, as adjusted, and operating margin, as adjusted, for information on PNC LTIP funding obligation and Merrill Lynch compensation contribution.
During the six months ended June 30, 2011, adjustments primarily related to state income tax law changes that resulted in the re-measurement of certain net deferred income tax liabilities, primarily related to acquired indefinite intangible assets. The resulting increase or decrease in income taxes has been excluded from net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc., as adjusted, as these items will not have a cash flow impact and to ensure comparability for periods presented.
(d) For the quarters ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, and March 31, 2012, non-GAAP adjustments were tax effected at 30.4%, 32.4% and 31.5%, respectively, reflecting a blended rate applicable to the adjustments. For the six months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, non-GAAP adjustments were tax effected at 31.0%, and 32.7%, respectively.
(e) Amounts exclude net income attributable to participating securities (see below).
(f) Non-voting participating preferred shares are considered to be common stock equivalents for purposes of determining basic and diluted earnings per share calculations. In addition, certain unvested restricted stock units are not included in this number as they are deemed participating securities in accordance with required provisions of Accounting Standards Codification 260-10, . For the quarters ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, and March 31, 2012 average outstanding participating securities were 0.2 million, 2.2 million and 0.2 million, respectively.
Earnings per Share
 
Attachment II
 
NOTE: Certain prior period information has been reclassified to conform to current period presentation.
 
NOTE: Certain prior period information has been reclassified to conform to current period presentation.
 
Attachment III
 
 
 
Economic investment amounts at March 31, 2012 for private equity, real estate, distressed credit/mortgage funds, hedge funds/funds of hedge funds and other investments were $318 million, $115 million, $232 million, $245 million and $243 million, respectively. See the 2012 first quarter Form 10-Q for more information.
The Company presents economic tangible assets as additional information to enable investors to eliminate gross presentation of certain assets that have equal and offsetting liabilities or non-controlling interests that ultimately do not have an impact on stockholders' equity (excluding appropriated retained earnings related to consolidated collateralized loan obligations) or cash flows. In addition, goodwill and intangible assets are excluded from economic tangible assets.
 
Economic tangible assets include cash, receivables, seed and co-investments, regulatory investments and other assets.
 
Attachment IV
 
 
 
 
Attachment V
 
 



