FILE:NE/NE-8K-20090513093116.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
ITEM 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(b)
Resignation of Luke R. Corbett as Director
     On May 12, 2009, Luke R. Corbett resigned from his position as a director of Noble Corporation effective May 12, 2009.
(e)
Relocation Benefits for Employees Relocating to Switzerland
     Noble Corporation (together with its subsidiaries, the "Company") has decided that certain employees of the Company will relocate to Geneva, Switzerland beginning in the third quarter of 2009. An assignment memorandum has been provided to each affected employee outlining, among other items, the relocation benefits to which they are entitled.
     All affected employees are entitled to relocation benefits. The benefits to which the named executive officers are entitled include the following:
     The Company will also provide tax equalization for the employees, including the named executive officers, so that their overall tax liability will be equal to their "stay at home" tax liability with respect to their base salary, annual bonus and incentive plan awards. The allowances and reimbursements outlined above will be grossed up to cover Swiss taxes and social security payments. The employees, including the named executive officers, will be fully reimbursed for any obligation they may have to pay Swiss wealth tax.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


