FILE:NE/NE-8K-20090722171058.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 22, 2009, the Noble Corporation ("Company" "we," "us," and "our") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the three and six months ended June 30, 2009. A copy of such press release is included as Exhibit 99.1 and will be published in the "Newsroom" area on the Company's Web site at http://www.noblecorp.com.
Statements made herein, including the accompanying exhibit, regarding contract commitments, dayrates, contract commencements, penalties, newbuilds, industry fundamentals, global economic conditions, financial strength, contract backlog, customer base, future performance, growth opportunities, market outlook, as well as any other statements that are not historical facts, are forward-looking statements that involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions. These include but are not limited to operating hazards and delays, risks associated with operations outside of the U.S., actions by customers and other third parties, factors affecting the level of activity in the oil and gas industry, supply and demand of drilling rigs, factors affecting the duration of contracts, the actual amount of downtime, factors that reduce applicable dayrates, violations of anti-corruption laws, hurricanes and other weather conditions, the future price of oil and gas and other factors detailed in our most recent Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those indicated.
Pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the press release is being furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
ITEM 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Dorfstrasse 19a Baar Switzerland 6340
Noble Corporation
PRESS RELEASE
ZUG, Switzerland and SUGAR LAND, Texas, July 22, 2009  Noble Corporation (NYSE: NE) today reported second quarter 2009 earnings of $392 million, or $1.49 per diluted share, versus earnings of $376 million, or $1.39 per diluted share, for the second quarter of last year. The results for the second quarter 2009 include a net after-tax charge of $0.05 per share related to expenses associated with the , which was damaged as a result of the previously disclosed "punch-through" event that occurred as the unit was being positioned on location offshore Qatar.
Noble David Tinsley
Contract drilling services revenues for the second quarter 2009 were $868 million, up 10.8 percent from the second quarter 2008. Contract drilling margins for the second quarter 2009 were approximately 71 percent, generating $451 million in net cash provided by operating activities. Noble invested $275 million in capital projects during the quarter. Debt as a percentage of total capitalization declined slightly to 11.0 percent at June 30, 2009, from approximately 11.7 percent at March 31, 2009.
"Despite continued turbulence in global markets, Noble's focus on operational excellence enabled us to deliver another outstanding quarter," said David W. Williams, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. "Costs are under control, our safety performance has been excellent, and despite having a number of jackup units available in the Middle East and West Africa, our contract drilling margins remain strong."
Highlights
Three of the Company's deepwater drilling units moved to higher dayrates during the quarter. In the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, the dayrate increased to $605,000 from $244,000. In the Mediterranean Sea, the began its three-year contract in Libya with ExxonMobil at a dayrate of $537,000, an increase from its previous contracted dayrate of $434,000. In Brazil, the commenced its six-year contract with Petrobras at a dayrate of $290,000, exclusive of a potential 15 percent performance bonus. The previous dayrate for this unit was $120,000, also exclusive of a 15 percent performance bonus.
Noble Clyde Boudreaux's
Noble Homer Ferrington
Noble Muravlenko
MORE
 
Also in Brazil, the Company reached an agreement with Petrobras regarding late delivery penalties on the 10,000 foot dynamically positioned deepwater semisubmersible . Under the terms of the agreement, Noble will provide additional capital equipment on the unit for Petrobras' use. In exchange, the delivery date for the unit has been reset to October 2009. Since the unit is expected to begin work under the contract at the end of 2009, the Company may still incur a penalty. The penalty amount would be reflected as a reduction in dayrate over the five-year contract and we expect the impact on the contracted dayrate of $220,000 to be immaterial.
Noble Dave Beard
During the quarter, the last of the Company's three newbuild jackups, the commenced mobilization from the shipyard in Dalian, China to the North Sea. The unit is expected to begin its two-year contract with Venture Production at a dayrate of $210,000 during the third quarter 2009.
Noble Scott Marks,
Finally, in Nigeria, the Company signed a contract extension on the , a 250 foot independent leg cantilever jackup, with ExxonMobil at a dayrate of $115,000. The 213-day contract is subject to a 30-day notice of cancellation by either party.
Noble Ed Noble
"Looking ahead, we do not expect the near-term contracting environment to change significantly despite the gradual recovery we are seeing in crude prices," said Williams. "However, every day that crude prices stay at a reasonable level or continue to improve builds confidence in our future. Our backlog is at a very healthy level and we continue to exercise discipline on the cost side. At the same time, we are making investments to improve the reliability and performance of our fleet. Our strong balance sheet and customer base allow us to add capacity when attractive opportunities come along that meet our disciplined investment process. Investors can count on us to act prudently as we confront this difficult climate and remain focused on increasing value now and when the economy improves."
About Noble
Noble is a leading offshore drilling contractor for the oil and gas industry. Noble performs, through its subsidiaries, contract drilling services with a fleet of 62 offshore drilling units (including four rigs currently under construction) located worldwide, including in the Middle East, India, the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, Mexico, the North Sea, Brazil, and West Africa. Noble's shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "NE".
 
Statements regarding costs, safety performance, margins, rig demand, fleet performance, acquisitions, contract commitments, dayrates, contract commencements, penalties, newbuilds, industry fundamentals, global economic conditions, financial strength, contract backlog, customer base, future performance, growth opportunities, market outlook, as well as any other statements that are not historical facts in this release, are forward-looking statements that involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions. These include but are not limited to operating hazards and delays, risks associated with operations outside of the U.S., actions by customers and other third parties, factors affecting the level of activity in the oil and gas industry, supply and demand of drilling rigs, factors affecting the duration of contracts, the actual amount of downtime, factors that reduce applicable dayrates, violations of anti-corruption laws, hurricanes and other weather conditions, the future price of oil and gas and other factors detailed in the Company's most recent
Form 10-K
,
Form 10-Q
and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those indicated.
Conference Call
Noble will host a conference call and web cast related to its second-quarter 2009 results on Thursday, July 23, 2009, at 1:00 p.m. Central Time. Interested parties are invited to listen to the call by dialing (866) 461-7129, or internationally (706) 679-3084, using access code: 72480778 or by asking for the Noble Corporaiton conference call. A replay of the conference call will be available on Thursday, July 23, 2009, beginning at 5:00 p.m., Central Time, through Friday, July 31, 2009, ending at 5:00 p.m., Central Time. The phone number for the conference call replay is (800) 642-1687 or, for calls from outside of the U.S., 1-706-645-9291, using access code: 72480778. The conference call may include non-GAAP financial measures. Noble will post a reconciliation of any such measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in the "Investor Relations" section of the Company's Web site under the heading "Regulation G Reconciliations." All individuals listening to the conference call or the replay are reminded that all conference call material is copyrighted by the Company and cannot be recorded or rebroadcast without the Company's express written consent.
7/22/2009
For additional information, contact:
 
 
 
 
 
The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted net income per share:


