FILE:NE/NE-8K-20090422175424.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 22, 2009, the Noble Corporation ("Company" "we," "us," and "our") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the three months ended March 31, 2009. A copy of such press release is included as Exhibit 99.1 and will be published in the "Newsroom" area on the Company's Web site at http://www.noblecorp.com.
Statements made herein, including the accompanying exhibit, regarding contract commitments, dayrates, contract commencements, newbuilds, industry fundamentals, global economic conditions, financial strength, contract backlog, customer base, future performance, growth opportunities, market outlook, as well as any other statements that are not historical facts, are forward-looking statements that involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions. These include but are not limited to operating hazards and delays, risks associated with operations outside of the U.S., actions by customers and other third parties, factors affecting the level of activity in the oil and gas industry, supply and demand of drilling rigs, factors affecting the duration of contracts, the actual amount of downtime, factors that reduce applicable dayrates, violations of anti-corruption laws, hurricanes and other weather conditions, the future price of oil and gas and other factors detailed in our most recent Form 10-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those indicated.
Pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the press release is being furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
ITEM 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
SUGAR LAND, Texas, April 22, 2009  Noble Corporation (NYSE: NE) today reported first quarter 2009 earnings of $414 million, or $1.58 per diluted share, versus $384 million, or $1.42 per diluted share, for the first quarter of last year. Per share earnings were in line with the fourth quarter 2008 earnings of $1.58 per diluted share. The results for the first quarter 2009 include net after-tax charges of $0.04 per share primarily related to an impairment charge taken for the , as a result of a decision to evaluate disposition alternatives for this submersible drilling unit.
Noble Fri Rodli
Contract drilling services revenues for the 2009 first quarter were $872 million, up 9.3 percent from the year-earlier quarter. Contract drilling margins for the first quarter 2009 were approximately 72 percent, generating $548 million in net cash provided by operating activities. Noble invested $251 million in capital projects during the quarter. Debt as a percentage of total capitalization declined to 11.7 percent at March 31, 2009, from approximately 14.9 percent at the end of the fourth quarter of 2008.
"Despite a turbulent global economy and pressure on demand for drilling services, the strength of our $10.6 billion backlog and focus on execution enabled us to deliver another great quarter," said David W. Williams, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. "We remain committed to maintaining our financial flexibility through the disciplined execution of our capital program, continued improvement in our cost structure and the active pursuit of opportunities to create shareholder value."
During the first quarter, Noble repurchased approximately 1.7 million shares at an average cost per share of $25.28. At the end of the first quarter 2009, the Company had approximately 16.6 million shares remaining on its existing repurchase authorization.
 
Highlights
Noble's newbuild deepwater semisubmersible arrived in Brazil to undergo final outfitting and commissioning before commencement of a five year contract, which is expected to occur in the fourth quarter of 2009. In the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, the Company reached an agreement with Noble Energy to substitute the for the in fulfillment of a two year commitment at a dayrate of $605,000. This strategic substitution will accelerate earnings for the Company and allow our customer earlier commencement of its planned drilling program. The will commence operations for Noble Energy following the conclusion of its current commitment in the fourth quarter of 2009. The will be available in the first quarter of 2010.
Noble Dave Beard
Noble Clyde Boudreaux
Noble Paul Romano
Noble Clyde Boudreaux
Noble Paul Romano
The Company's newbuild jackup commenced operations during the first quarter 2009 under its contract with Shell. Additionally, the Company's and completed their moves from West Africa to Mexico, and commenced separate contracts with PEMEX in March.
Noble Hans Deul
Noble Roy Butler
Noble Carl Norberg
During the quarter, the Company also completed its previously disclosed change in place of incorporation from the Cayman Islands to Switzerland.
About Noble
Noble is a leading offshore drilling contractor for the oil and gas industry. Noble performs, through its subsidiaries, contract drilling services with a fleet of 62 offshore drilling units (including five rigs currently under construction) located worldwide, including in the Middle East, India, the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, Mexico, the North Sea, Brazil, and West Africa. Noble's shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "NE".
Statements regarding contract commitments, dayrates, contract commencements, newbuilds, industry fundamentals, global economic conditions, financial strength, contract backlog, customer base, future performance, growth opportunities, market outlook, as well as any other statements that are not historical facts in this release, are forward-looking statements that involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions. These include but are not limited to operating hazards and delays, risks associated with operations outside of the U.S., actions by customers and other third parties, factors affecting the level of activity in the oil and gas industry, supply and demand of drilling rigs, factors affecting the duration of contracts, the actual amount of downtime, factors that reduce applicable dayrates, violations of anti-corruption laws, hurricanes and other weather conditions, the future price of oil and gas and other factors detailed in the Company's most recent Form 10-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those indicated.
 
Conference Call
Noble will conduct its earnings related conference call on Thursday, April 23, 2009, at 1:00 p.m. Central Daylight Time. Interested parties are invited to listen to the call by dialing (866) 461-7129, or internationally (706) 679-3084, using access code: 72479162 or by asking for the Noble Corporation conference call. A replay of the conference call will be available on Thursday, April 23, 2009, beginning at 5:00 p.m., Central Daylight Time, through Friday, May 1, 2009 ending at 5:00 p.m. Central Daylight Time. The phone number for the conference call replay is (800) 642-1687 or internationally (706) 645-9291, using access code: 72479162. The conference call may include non-GAAP financial measures. Noble will post a reconciliation of any such measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in the "Investor Relations" section of the Company's Web site under the heading "Regulation G Reconciliations." All individuals listening to the conference call or the replay are reminded that all conference call material is copyrighted by the Company and cannot be recorded or rebroadcast without the Company's express written consent.
4/22/09
For additional information, contact:
 
 
 
 
 
The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted net income per share:


