FILE:NE/NE-8K-20100802172845.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     This combined filing on Form 8-K is separately filed by Noble Corporation, a Swiss Corporation ("Noble-Swiss"), and Noble Corporation, a Cayman Island company ("Noble-Cayman"). Information in this filing relating to Noble-Cayman is filed by Noble-Swiss and separately by Noble-Cayman on its own behalf. Noble-Cayman makes no representation as to information relating to Noble-Swiss (except as it may relate to Noble-Cayman) or any other affiliate or subsidiary of Noble-Swiss. This report should be read in its entirety as it pertains to each of Noble-Swiss and Noble-Cayman. Any reference in this filing to "Noble," "Noble Corporation," the "Company," "we," "us," "our," and words of similar meaning refer collectively to Noble-Swiss and its consolidated subsidiaries, including Noble-Cayman.
Bully Credit Facilities
     As a result of our acquisition of FDR Holdings Limited, a Cayman Islands company ("Frontier"), we acquired a 50% interest in two joint ventures that are constructing and own the rights to the and drillships. Each of these joint ventures will be consolidated in our consolidated financial statements.
Bully I
Bully II
     Each of the Bully I and Bully II joint ventures has a secured credit facility in place to finance the construction of the drillship being constructed by such joint venture, and these credit facilities will continue in effect after the consummation of our acquisition of Frontier.
     The indebtedness under each of the Bully I and Bully II credit facilities is non-recourse to Frontier. In addition, none of Noble-Cayman, Noble-Swiss or any other subsidiary of Noble-Swiss has guaranteed the indebtedness under the Bully I or Bully II credit facilities.
     The Bully I secured credit facility consists of a $375 million senior term loan facility, a $40 million senior revolving loan facility and a $50 million junior term loan facility. As of May 31, 2010, loans in an aggregate principal amount of $350 million were outstanding under the Bully I facility. The senior term loan facility requires 20 quarterly payments of $15.75 million each, beginning at the end of the first complete fiscal quarter after the earlier of (i) delivery and acceptance of the drillship and (ii) December 30, 2010. A one-time balloon payment of up to $60 million is due on the date of the final quarterly payment under the senior term loan facility (the "Final Payment Date"). In addition, all outstanding advances under the senior revolving credit facility are due in full on the Final Payment Date. The junior term loan facility requires quarterly payments in amounts based on an excess cash flow calculation defined in the Bully I credit agreement, commencing in the third complete quarter following the earlier of (i) delivery and acceptance of the drillship and (ii) December 30, 2010, with final payment to be made on the Final Payment Date. The senior term loan facility and the senior revolving loan facility provide for floating interest rates that are fixed for one-, three- or six-month periods at LIBOR plus 2.5% prior to delivery and acceptance of the drillship and LIBOR plus 1.5% thereafter (which may be reduced to LIBOR plus 1.25% if the drillship has a utilization rate of at least 95% during the first year after its acceptance). The junior term loan facility provides for floating interest rates that are fixed for one-, three- or six-month periods at LIBOR plus 3.5% prior to delivery and acceptance of the drillship and LIBOR plus 2.5% thereafter (which may be reduced to LIBOR plus 2.25% if the drillship has a
Bully I
Bully I
Bully I
Bully I
Bully I
Bully I
 
utilization rate of at least 95% during the first year after its acceptance). The Bully I credit facility is secured by assignments of the major contracts for the construction of the drillship and its equipment, the drilling contract for the drillship, and various other rights. In addition, following completion of construction of the drillship, the credit facility is required to be secured by a first-preferred ship mortgage on the drillship.
Bully I
Bully I
     The Bully II secured credit facility consists of a $435 million senior term loan facility, a $10 million senior revolving loan facility and a $50 million cost overrun term loan facility. As of May 31, 2010, loans in an aggregate principal amount of $271.9 million were outstanding under the Bully II facility. The senior term loan facility requires 28 quarterly payments beginning on the earlier of (i) a specified date that is soon after the first full fiscal quarter to occur after commencement of operations by the drillship and (ii) July 15, 2011. The final quarterly payment will be paid together with a one-time balloon payment of up to $90 million plus any amounts outstanding under the senior revolving loan facility on the final quarterly installment payment date. The senior term loan facility and the senior revolving loan facility provide for floating interest rates that are fixed for three months or such other period selected by the borrower and agreed by the agent (but not to exceed three months), at LIBOR plus 2.5% prior to the occurrence of the delivery date of the hull, thereafter at LIBOR plus 2.3% until contract commencement, thereafter at LIBOR plus 2.25% until the first day of the sixth anniversary of the contract commencement, and thereafter at LIBOR plus 2.4%. The secured cost overrun term loan has floating interest rates of LIBOR plus 3.5% prior to the occurrence of the contract commencement and LIBOR plus 3.25% thereafter. The Bully II credit facility is secured by assignments of the major contracts for the construction of the drillship and its equipment, the drilling contract for the drillship, and various other rights. In addition, when the drillship is registered (flagged), the credit facility is required to be secured by a first-preferred ship mortgage.
Bully II
Bully II
Bully II
     The descriptions of Bully I and Bully II Credit Facilities are summaries, do not purport to be complete and are subject to, and qualified in their entirety by, the full text of the agreements, which are filed as exhibits to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated by reference herein.
     On July 28, 2010, Noble-Swiss and Noble AM Merger Co, a Cayman Islands company and indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Noble-Swiss ("Merger Sub"), completed the acquisition of FDR Holdings Limited, a Cayman Islands company ("Frontier"). Under the terms of the Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement") with Frontier and certain of Frontier's shareholders, Merger Sub merged with and into Frontier, with Frontier surviving as an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Noble-Swiss (the "Merger") and a wholly owned subsidiary of Noble-Cayman. Frontier owns three dynamically positioned drillships (including the Bully-class joint venture-owned drillships under construction), two conventionally moored drillships, including one which is Arctic-class, a conventionally moored deepwater semisubmersible drilling rig and one dynamically positioned floating production, storage and offloading vessel. At the effective time of the Merger, each outstanding ordinary share of Frontier was exchanged for cash. The estimated accounting purchase price was approximately $2.6 billion, and includes $1.7 billion in cash that was paid to, or on behalf of, Frontier and its equity holders, the assumption of approximately $622 million in secured non-recourse debt related to consolidated joint ventures (the Bully credit facilities described under Item 1.01 above)
Bully I and Bully II,
 
and other liabilities. We based the consideration on an enterprise value of $2.16 billion for Frontier, which does not include our joint venture partner's obligations related to the non-recourse debt and other liabilities for the construction of the two Bully-class rigs.
     The following table sets forth certain information concerning Frontier's fleet at June 30, 2010. Frontier operates and, with the exception of the and , which are owned through a 50/50 joint venture, owns all of the units included in the table.
Bully I
Bully II
 
     The foregoing summary of the Merger Agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby does not purport to be complete and is subject to, and qualified in its entirety by, the full text of the Merger Agreement, which was filed as Exhibit 2.1 to Noble-Swiss' and Noble-
 
Cayman's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 28, 2010 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
     The information included under Item 1.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated by reference under this Item 2.03.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
     On July 28, 2010, Noble-Swiss issued a press release announcing the completion of the Merger and the transactions contemplated thereby. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
     Pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the press release is being furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
     Statements regarding the Frontier transaction, including the integration, contract backlog, fleet, and benefits, our operating capabilities, backlog, customer and shareholder value, safety culture and uses of financing, as well as any other statements that are not historical facts in this Current Report, are forward-looking statements that involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions. These include but are not limited to actions by regulatory authorities or other third parties, costs and difficulties related to the integration of acquired businesses, delays, costs and difficulties related to the transactions and the construction of newbuild rigs, market conditions, the combined companies' financial results and performance, consummation, availability and terms of any financing, ability to repay debt and timing thereof, actions by customers and other third parties, factors affecting the level of activity in the oil and gas industry, supply and demand of drilling rigs, factors affecting the duration of contracts, the actual amount of downtime, factors that reduce applicable dayrates, violations of anti-corruption laws, hurricanes and other weather conditions, the future price of oil and gas and other factors detailed in Noble-Swiss' and Noble-Cayman's most recent Form 10-K, Form 10-Q's and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those indicated.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     
(a) Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired.
     The audited consolidated financial statements of Frontier as of and for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, and the related notes thereto, are incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99.1 of Noble-Swiss' and Noble-Cayman's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on July 21, 2010. The unaudited consolidated financial statements of Frontier as of and for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, and the related notes thereto, are incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99.2 of Noble-Swiss' and Noble-Cayman's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on July 21, 2010.
 
     Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Balance Sheets of Noble-Swiss and Noble-Cayman, as of March 31, 2010, and the related notes thereto, and the Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Statement of Operations of Noble-Swiss and Noble-Cayman for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009 and the three months ended March 31, 2010, and the related notes thereto, showing the pro forma effect of our acquisition of Frontier and related transactions and financing, are incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99.3 of Noble-Swiss' and Noble-Cayman's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on July 21, 2010.
     
(d) 
Exhibits
 
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 4.1
EXECUTION VERSION
 
 
 
 
 
 
          THIS TERM LOAN AND CREDIT FACILITY AGREEMENT is made as of the 21 day of December, 2007, by and among (i) BULLY 1, LTD., an exempt company incorporated in the Cayman Islands, as borrower (the "Borrower"), (ii) the financial institutions listed on the signature pages hereto as senior and/or junior lenders, as the case may be (together with their respective successors and assigns, the "Lenders"), (iii) STANDARD CHARTERED BANK, a company incorporated by Royal Charter in England (with reference number ZC18, hereinafter "SCB"), BANK OF SCOTLAND PLC, a banking corporation organized and existing under the laws of Scotland ("BOS") and NIBC BANK N.V., a banking corporation organized under the laws of The Netherlands ("NIBC"), as arrangers (in such capacity and any successor thereto, the "Arrangers") and (iv) NIBC as agent (in such capacity and any successor thereto, the "Agent") and security trustee (in such capacity and any successor thereto, the "Security Trustee") for the Lenders.
          WHEREAS, the Borrower desires to partly finance the construction of the drillship to be named FRONTIER BULLY I (the "Vessel") and registered under the laws and flag of the Republic of the Marshall Islands pursuant to terms of the Construction Contracts and the Construction Plan (as such terms are defined herein);
          WHEREAS, the Borrower has entered into the Bareboat Charter (as hereinafter defined) with the Operating Entity (as hereinafter defined) relating to the Vessel and the Operating Entity will use the Vessel to perform its obligations under the MDO Contract (as hereinafter defined);
          WHEREAS, at the request of the Borrower, SCB and BOS have agreed to serve as Arrangers and NIBC has agreed to serve as an Arranger, the Agent and the Security Trustee under this Agreement and the Lenders have agreed to provide to the Borrower senior and junior secured term loans and a revolving credit facility in the aggregate amount of Four Hundred Sixty Five Million Dollars (US$465,000,000) on the terms and conditions set forth herein;
          WHEREAS, as security for the obligations under the Bareboat Charter the Operating Entity shall pledge to the Borrower all of its interest in the MDO Contract and the MDO Account (as hereinafter defined) and as security for the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement, the Borrower shall pledge to the Security Trustee, all of its interest in the MDO Contract and the MDO Account;
          NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises set forth above, the covenants and agreements hereinafter set forth, and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as set forth below:
 
1.
DEFINITIONS
     1.1 . In this Agreement the words and expressions specified below shall, except where the context otherwise requires, have the meanings attributed to them below:
Specific Definitions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     1.2 . In this Agreement, the Notes and the Security Documents, in the computation of periods of time from a specified date to a later specified date, the word "from" means "from and including" and the words "to" and "until" each mean "to but excluding"; words importing either gender include the other gender; references to "writing" include printing, typing, lithography and other means of reproducing words in a tangible visible form; the words "including," "includes" and "include" shall be deemed to be followed by the words "without limitation"; references to articles, clauses (or subdivisions of clauses), exhibits, annexes or schedules are to this Agreement, the Notes or such Security Document, as applicable; references to agreements and other contractual instruments (including this Agreement, the Notes and the Security Documents) shall be deemed to include all subsequent amendments, amendments and restatements, supplements, extensions, replacements and other modifications to such instruments (without, however, limiting any prohibition on any such amendments, extensions and other modifications by the terms of this Agreement, the Notes or any Security Document); references to any matter that is "approved" or requires "approval" of a party shall mean approval given in the sole and absolute discretion of such party unless otherwise specified.
Computations of Time Periods; Other Definitional Provisions
     1.3 . Unless otherwise specified herein, all accounting terms used in this Agreement, the Notes and in the Security Documents shall be interpreted, and all financial statements and certificates and reports as to financial matters required to be delivered to the Agent or to the Lenders under this Agreement shall be prepared, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles for the United States ("GAAP").
Accounting Terms
     1.4 . To the extent that any representation, warranty, covenant or other undertaking of the Borrower in this Agreement is qualified by reference to those which are not reasonably expected to result in a "material adverse effect" or language of similar import, no inference shall be drawn therefrom that any Agent or any Lender has knowledge or approves of any noncompliance by the Borrower with any governmental rule, as in effect from time to time.
Certain Matter Regarding Materiality
     1.5 . Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement, references to documents or certificates "substantially in the form" of Exhibits to another document shall mean that such documents or certificates are duly completed in the form
Forms of Documents
 
of the related Exhibits with substantive changes subject to the provisions of Section 19.6 of this Agreement, as the case may be, or the correlative provisions of the Security Documents.
2. 
REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES
     2.1 . In order to induce the Agent, the Security Trustee and the Lenders to enter into this Agreement and to make the Facilities, the Borrower on its own behalf and, where applicable, on behalf of the Security Parties (other than Shell EP Offshore Ventures Limited), represents and warrants to the Agent, the Security Trustee and the Lenders (which representations and warranties shall survive the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the making of the Facilities) that:
Representations and Warranties
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.
AMOUNT AND TERMS OF THE FACILITIES
     3.1 . Subject to the terms and conditions hereof, the Lenders shall make the Facilities available to the Borrower or its order in an aggregate amount of up to Four Hundred Sixty Five Million Dollars ($465,000,000).
Purposes
     3.2 .
Making the Facilities
 
     3.3 . Each of the Facilities shall be evidenced by a separate Note. Each Advance made by the Lenders to the Borrower may be evidenced by a notation of the same made by Agent on the grid attached to the applicable Note relating to the Facility under which such Advance was made, which notation, absent manifest error, shall be evidence of the amount of the relevant Advance.
The Notes
prima
facie
     3.4 . The Borrower shall, at least three (3) Banking Days before each of the Drawdown Dates, serve a notice (a "") for an Advance under any of the Facilities substantially in the form of Exhibit A on the Agent. Each such notice
Drawdown Notice
Drawdown Notice
 
shall (a) be in writing addressed to the Agent, (b) be effective on receipt by the Agent, (c) specify the amount of the Advance to be drawn and identify the Facility and, if applicable, the tranche of such Facility to which such Advance relates, (d) specify the Banking Day on which such Advance is to be drawn, (e) specify the initial Interest Period for such Advance, (f) in respect of any Advance under the Junior Term Loan or the Senior Revolver identify the costs being funded by such Advance, certify compliance with the Construction Plan and on a quarterly basis thereafter provide invoices with respect to such costs, (g) specify the disbursement instructions and (h) be irrevocable.
     3.5 . Each such Drawdown Notice shall be deemed to constitute a warranty by the Borrower (a) that the representations and warranties stated in Section 2 (updated mutatis mutandis) are true and correct on and as of the date of such Drawdown Notice and will be true and correct on and as of such Drawdown Date as if made on such date, and (b) that no Event of Default nor any event which with the giving of notice or lapse of time or both would constitute an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing.
Effect of Drawdown Notice
4.
CONDITIONS
     4.1 . The obligation of the Lenders to enter into this Agreement with the Borrower shall be expressly subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions precedent:
Conditions Precedent to the Effectiveness of this Agreement
 
 
 
 
     4.2 . In addition to the conditions set forth elsewhere in this Section 4, the Borrower shall procure that on the Delivery Date:
Conditions Precedent to the Delivery Date
            (a) . unless previously delivered pursuant to Section 9.1(s) hereof, the Borrower shall have, or shall have procured that the Operating Entity shall have, as applicable and in accordance with the Bareboat Charter, executed and delivered to the Agent any Assignments, Account Pledges and other Security Documents and applicable assignment notices as the Agent shall require and such Uniform Commercial Code Financing
Security Documents
 
Statements (each in form and substance satisfactory to the Agent) with respect thereto as the Agent shall require shall have been filed;
          (b) . The Agent shall have received the following documents in form and substance satisfactory to the Agent:
Corporate Documents
          (c) . the Agent shall have received evidence satisfactory to it and its legal advisers that upon the Delivery Date the Vessel:
The Vessel
 
          (d) . the Agent shall have received a favorable report from the Borrower's insurance brokers confirming that the insurances placed on the Vessel are in compliance with the terms of the Mortgage;
Insurance
          (e) . the Agent shall have received opinions, dated the Delivery Date, each in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Agent and its counsel, from (i) Gardere Wynne Sewell LLP, special counsel to the Security Parties (other than Shell EP Offshore Ventures Limited) and the Operating Entity, (ii) Appleby, special Cayman Islands counsel to the Borrower, (iii) Seward & Kissel LLP, special counsel to the Agent and (iv) such other legal counsel as requested by the Agent;
Legal Opinions
          (f) . the Agent shall have received satisfactory evidence that the Mortgage on the Vessel has been duly recorded under the laws of the Republic of the Marshall Islands and constitutes a first preferred mortgage lien on the Vessel under the laws of such jurisdiction; and
Recording of the Mortgage
          (g) . If the Junior Term Loan has been advanced, the Borrower shall enter into an interest rate Hedging Agreement in which One Hundred Percent (100%) of the aggregate outstanding amount of the Junior Term Loan shall be secured on a pari passu basis with the Junior Term Loan.
Junior Term Loan Hedging Agreement
     4.3 . The obligation of the Lenders to make any Advance available to the Borrower under this Agreement shall be expressly and separately subject to the following further conditions precedent on the relevant Drawdown Date:
Further Conditions Precedent
 
 
     4.4 . In the event that, on the date specified for making available any Advances hereunder in the notice requesting the same given pursuant to Section 3.4, the Lenders shall not be obliged under this Agreement to make an Advance available under this Agreement, the Borrower shall indemnify and hold the Lenders fully harmless against any losses which the Lenders may sustain as a result of borrowing or agreeing to borrow funds to meet the drawdown requirement in respect thereof and the certificate of the Agent shall (save and except for manifest error) be conclusive and binding on the Borrower as to the extent of any losses sustained by the Lenders.
Breakfunding Indemnity
     4.5 . Without prejudice to any of the other terms and conditions of this Agreement, in the event that the Lenders, in their sole discretion, make any Advances available to the Borrower prior to the satisfaction of all or any of the conditions referred to elsewhere in this Section 4, the Borrower hereby covenants and undertakes to satisfy or procure the satisfaction of such condition or conditions within fourteen (14) days.
Post-Closing Satisfaction
5.
REPAYMENT AND PREPAYMENT
     5.1 . The Borrower shall repay:
Repayment
 
     5.2 . The Borrower shall prepay the Facility Balance in full within five (5) Banking Days of the occurrence of any of the following events:
Prepayment; Enforceability
     5.3 . The Borrower shall prepay:
Mandatory Prepayment; Sale, Loss or Cancellation of any Construction Contract
 
     5.4 . The Borrower shall be entitled to prepay the Facilities in whole or in part without penalty at the end of any Interest Period in minimum amounts equal to Five Million Dollars ($5,000,000), and integral multiples of Five Million Dollars ($5,000,000), upon giving to the Agent not less than five (5) Banking Days prior written notice (which notice shall be irrevocable) provided that any amounts received by the Lenders as a prepayment of the Loan under this Section 5.4 shall be applied toward the payment of principal and interest as due on each Payment Date in inverse order of maturity. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the Borrower shall not be permitted to prepay the Facilities under this Section 5.4 during the six month period following the Initial Payment Date.
Voluntary Prepayment
     5.5 . Any and all repayments and prepayments hereunder, whether mandatory or voluntary, are subject to the following:
Repayments and Prepayments Generally
6.
INTEREST AND RATE
     6.1 . For purposes of funding the Facilities, the Borrower may select Interest Periods of one(1), three (3) or six (6) months by giving the Agent at least three (3) Banking Days notice prior to the end of any then existing Interest Period. Unless and until the Borrower makes an election of a period for funding, the relevant Interest Period shall be a period of three (3) months. The Borrower's right to select the Interest Period shall be subject to the restriction that no selection of an Interest Period shall be effective unless the Lenders are satisfied that the necessary funds will be available to the Lenders for such period and that no Event of Default or event which with notice or the passage of time or both would constitute an Event of Default shall have occurred and is continuing. The Borrower's right to select the Interest Period is further subject to the requirement that if the Borrower selects an Interest Period which extends beyond the next one (1) or more Payment Dates there shall in respect of such part of the Facilities as shall be equivalent to the amount of each installment of principal falling due for payment before the expiry of that Interest Period be such separate Interest Period or Interest Periods so as to ensure that an Interest Period shall expire in respect of each such part of the Facilities on the relevant Payment Date. The Borrower shall pay all administrative costs and any breaking of funding costs incurred by the Lenders by reason of the Borrower's selection of
Floating Rate
 
Interest Periods under this Section 6.1 (the Agent's certification as to the amount such costs shall be conclusive save for manifest error).
     6.2 . The Facilities shall bear interest at the rate per annum equal to the Applicable Margin plus LIBOR (the "Applicable Rate"). Any payment hereunder not paid when due, whether on a Payment Date or by acceleration, shall bear interest thereafter at a rate per annum (the "Default Rate") of either (i) the Applicable Margin plus two percent (2%) over the cost to the Lenders of funding such overdue amount, or (ii) two percent (2%) over the Applicable Rate, whichever is greater.
Applicable Rate; Default Rate
     6.3 . Interest shall be payable in arrears on the last day of each Interest Period, except that if the Borrower selects an Interest Period in excess of three (3) months accrued interest shall be payable during such Interest Period on each three (3) month anniversary of the commencement of such Interest Period and upon the end of such Interest Period; , Interest Periods for all Advances will be consolidated on the last Banking Day of the quarter following the Delivery Date that any and all costs incurred by the Lenders in connection with any breaking of funding (as certified by such Lender which certification shall, absent any manifest error, be conclusive and binding on the Borrower) as a consequence of such consolidation or otherwise shall be for the account of the Borrower.
Interest Payments
provided
that
provided
further
     6.4 . If interest would, under this Section 6, be payable on a day which is not a Banking Day, it shall then be payable on the next following Banking Day, unless such next following Banking Day falls in the following month in which case it shall be payable on the Banking Day immediately preceding the day on which such interest would otherwise be payable.
Banking Days
     6.5 . All interest shall accrue from day to day and be calculated on the actual number of days elapsed and on the basis of a 360 day year.
360 Day Year
7.
PAYMENTS
     7.1 . All payments to be made hereunder by the Borrower shall be made on the due date of such payment to the Lenders:
Borrower Payments
 
     7.2 . All sums advanced by the Lenders to the Borrower hereunder shall be advanced in Dollars to the account of the Borrower with the Agent or as the Borrower shall otherwise direct in the Drawdown Notice.
Advances
     7.3 . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 7, payments described herein may be made in such other manner as shall be reasonably directed by the Agent with notice to the Borrower prior to the next payment to which such instructions shall apply.
Other Manner of Payment
     7.4 . Each Lender agrees that if it shall, through the exercise of a right of banker's lien, setoff or counterclaim or pursuant to a secured claim under Section 506 of the Federal Bankruptcy Code or other security or interest arising from, or in lieu of, such secured claim, exercised or received by such Lender under any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law or otherwise, or by any other means, obtain payment (voluntary or involuntary) in respect of any Advance or Advances as a result of which its funded Commitment shall be proportionately less than the funded Commitment of any other Lender, it shall be deemed simultaneously to have purchased from such other Lender at face value, and shall promptly pay to such other Lender the purchase price for, a participation in the funded Commitment of such other Lender so that the aggregate funded Commitment of each Lender shall be in the same proportion to the aggregate funded Commitments then outstanding as its funded Commitment prior to such exercise of banker's lien, setoff or counterclaim or other event was to the principal amount of all funded Commitments outstanding prior to such exercise of banker's lien, setoff or counterclaim or other event; provided, however, that, if any such purchase or purchases or adjustments shall be made pursuant to this Section 7.4 and the payment giving rise thereto shall thereafter be recovered, such purchase or purchases or adjustments shall be rescinded to the extent of such recovery and the purchase price or prices or adjustment restored without interest. Any Lender holding a participation in a funded Commitment deemed to have been so purchased may exercise any and all rights of banker's lien, setoff or counterclaim with respect to any and all moneys owing to such Lender by reason thereof as fully as if such Lender had made an Advance in the amount of such participation. The Borrower expressly consents to the foregoing arrangement.
Sharing of Setoffs
 
8.
EVENTS OF DEFAULT
     8.1 . In the event that any of the following events shall occur:
Events of Default
 
 
 
then the Lenders' obligation to make the Facilities available shall cease and the Agent shall, upon instructions of the Majority Lenders, by notice to the Borrower, declare any amount of the Facilities then outstanding, accrued interest and any other sums payable by the Borrower hereunder, under the Notes or under the Security Documents due and payable whereupon the same shall forthwith be due and payable without presentment, demand, protest, or notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived; provided, that upon the happening of an event specified in subsections (k) or (l) of this Section 8.1 with respect to the Borrower, the Notes shall be immediately due and payable without declaration or other notice to the Borrower.
     8.2 . The Borrower shall indemnify the Agent, the Security Trustee and each Lender against any losses or costs or expenses (including legal expenses on a full indemnity basis) which the Agent, the Security Trustee or any Lender sustains or incurs as a consequence of any default hereunder, under the Notes or the Security Documents including (but without limitation) all losses incurred in liquidating or re-employing fixed deposits made by third parties for funds acquired to effect or maintain the Facilities or any part thereof.
Indemnity
     8.3 . All moneys received by the Agent, the Security Trustee or any Lender under or pursuant to this Agreement, the Notes or any of the Security Documents after the happening of any Event of Default or under 5.3 (except as otherwise provided in any Security Document) shall be applied by the Agent, in its discretion, in the following manner:
Application of Moneys
 
9.
COVENANTS
     9.1 . The Borrower hereby covenants and undertakes with the Lenders that, from the date hereof and so long as any principal, interest or other moneys are owing in respect of the Facilities or under this Agreement, the Notes, the Security Documents or any of them that the Borrower will:
Affirmative Covenants
 
 
 
 
 
 
     9.2 . The Borrower hereby covenants and undertakes with the Lenders that, from the date hereof and so long as any principal, interest or other moneys are owing in respect of the Facilities or under this Agreement, the Notes, the Security Documents or any of them, that the Borrower will not, nor will it permit any Subsidiary, to the extent applicable, to:
Negative Covenants
 
 
 
10.
ACCOUNTS
     10.1 . (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain an account in the name of the Borrower (the "Earnings Account") with the Agent or another financial institution acceptable to the Agent, into which the Borrower shall cause all earnings relating to the Bareboat Charter to be paid. The Borrower shall cause the Operating Entity to establish and maintain an account in the name of the Operating Entity (the "MDO Account") with the Agent or another financial institution acceptable to the Borrower, into which the Operating Entity shall cause all earnings relating to the MDO Contract to be paid. The Borrower agrees that the MDO Account shall be with a financial institution acceptable to the Agent.
Earnings Account, MDO Account and all other Accounts
          (b) Upon establishing the Earnings Account, the Borrower shall deliver to the Agent a duly executed Pledge of Earnings Account and Notice of Pledge of Earnings Account (including the duly executed consent of the Depositary), and any such other pledge, assignment or security agreement as the Agent shall require in order to grant a valid, perfected security interest in the Earnings Account in favor of the Security Trustee. Upon establishing the MDO Account (a) the Operating Entity shall, pursuant to the terms of the Bareboat Charter, deliver to the Borrower a duly executed Collateral Pledge and related notices (including, with respect to any Account Pledge, the duly executed consent of the Depositary) and any such other pledge, assignment or security agreement as shall be required in order to grant a valid, perfected security interest in the MDO Account in favor of the Borrower and (b) the Borrower shall deliver to the Security Trustee a duly executed Assignment of Collateral Pledge (including, with respect to any Account Pledge, the duly executed consent of the Depositary) and any such other pledge, assignment or security agreement as the Agent shall require in order to grant a valid, perfected security interest in the MDO Account in favor of the Security Trustee.
          (c) The Borrower shall be permitted to establish up to six (6) additional Accounts, the Borrower execute a notice of pledge of account (including the duly executed consent of the Depositary), substantially in the form of Exhibit H hereto, and any such other pledge, assignment or security agreement as the Agent shall require in order to grant a valid, perfected security interest in the Account in favor of the Security Trustee. All moneys of the Borrower on deposit in the Earnings Account or any other Account shall be collateral security for the payment and performance by the Borrower of its obligations hereunder, under the Notes, and under the Security Documents and the Borrower, by its execution of this Agreement, hereby pledge, assign and grant to the Security Trustee a security interest in such moneys. The Security Trustee shall retain all Assigned Moneys until all of the Borrower's obligations hereunder shall have been paid and discharged in full, provided, however, that so long as no Event of Default has occurred or is continuing, the Borrower may from time to time withdraw from the Earnings Account or any other Account amounts required by the Borrower to pay expenses and taxes related to the operation, insurance, maintenance and repair of the Vessel, including taxes on themselves, on their earnings and on their distributions, amounts necessary to service the Facilities, and for other purposes permitted by this Agreement. The Security Trustee may debit
provided
 
the relevant Account in order to pay the Agent, the Security Trustee and the Lenders any amounts due thereto hereunder if the Borrower fails to make such payments.
     10.2 . Upon the occurrence of an Event of Default all moneys then held in the Earnings Account, the MDO Account, or any other Account or account and any Assigned Moneys thereafter received by the Agent shall be retained by the Agent as collateral security for the Facilities to be applied by the Agent in the manner set forth in Section 8.3.
Application of Earnings Account, MDO Account and all other Accounts
11.
ASSIGNMENT AND CERTIFICATIONS
     11.1 . This Agreement shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the Borrower, the Lenders, the Arranger, the Security Trustee and the Agent and their respective successors and assigns, except that the Borrower may not assign any rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of each of the Lenders, not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed (which consent the Lenders shall be at full liberty to withhold). In giving any consent as aforesaid to any assignment by the Borrower, the Lenders shall be entitled to impose such conditions as it shall deem appropriate.
Benefit of Agreement
     11.2 . The Lenders may assign the whole or any part of their respective rights or obligations under this Agreement to any subsidiary or holding company thereof or, with the consent of the Borrower, to any other bank or financial institution whatsoever, with such consent not to be unreasonably withheld; that such assignment shall not give rise to liability under Section 12.1 or Section 12.2; provided further that no assignment of a Lender's rights to payment of principal, stated interest, or other rights hereunder shall be effective unless and until properly recorded in the Register under Section 11.4.
Assignment by the Lenders
provided
     11.3 . Provided the Agent remains the agent for such other bank or financial institution, the Agent may syndicate or grant participations in respect of the Facilities to any other bank or financial institution with the consent of the Borrower not to be unreasonably withheld; that such syndication shall not give rise to liability under Section 12.1 or Section 12.2
Syndication
provided
     11.4 . The Agent, acting solely for this purpose as an agent of the Borrower, shall maintain at its offices in The Hague, The Netherlands, a copy of each assignment agreement by a Lender delivered to the Agent and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Commitments of, and principal amounts of the Loans owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the "Register"). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive, and the Borrower, the Agent and the Lenders shall treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary. The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrower and any Lender, at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
Register
 
     11.5 . Prior to becoming a Lender hereunder, each Foreign Lender shall establish an exemption from withholding tax under the law of the jurisdiction in which the Borrower is resident for tax purposes and the United States, or any treaty to which such jurisdictions are a party, with respect to payments hereunder. Each Foreign Lender shall deliver to the Borrower (with a copy to the Agent), at the time or times prescribed by applicable law or reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, such properly completed and executed documentation prescribed by applicable law as would permit such payments to be made without withholding. In addition, any Lender, if requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, shall deliver such other documentation prescribed by applicable law or reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent as will enable the Borrower or the Agent to determine whether or not such Lender was subject to backup withholding or information reporting requirements. Furthermore, without limiting any of the foregoing, any Foreign Lender shall deliver to the Borrower and the Agent (in such number of copies as shall be requested by the recipient) on or prior to the date on which such Foreign Lender becomes a Lender under this Agreement (and from time to time thereafter upon the request of the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, but only if such Foreign Lender is legally entitled to do so), whichever of the following would be applicable if the Borrower were a resident of the United States:
Status of Lenders
     11.6 . If the Agent or a Lender reasonably determines, in its sole discretion, that it has received a refund of any Taxes as to which it has been indemnified by the Borrower or with respect to which the Borrower has paid additional amounts pursuant to this Section, it shall pay to the Borrower an amount equal to such refund
Treatment of Certain Refunds
 
(but only to the extent of indemnity payments made, or additional amounts paid by the Borrower under this Section with respect to the Taxes giving rise to such refund), net of all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses of the Agent or such Lender, as the case may be, and without interest (other than any interest paid by the relevant taxing authority with respect to such refund), provided that the Borrower, upon the request of the Agent or such Lender, agrees to repay the amount paid over to the Borrower (plus any penalties, interest or other charges imposed by the relevant taxing authority) to the Agent or such Lender in the event the Agent or such Lender is required to repay such refund to such taxing authority. This paragraph shall not be construed to require the Agent or any Lender to make available its tax returns (or any other information relating to its taxes that it deems confidential) to the Borrower or any other Person.
12.
ILLEGALITY, INCREASED COST, NON-AVAILABILITY, ETC.
     12.1 . In the event that by reason of any change in any applicable law, regulation or regulatory requirement or in the interpretation thereof any of the Lenders concludes that it has become unlawful for such Lender to maintain or give effect to its obligations as contemplated by this Agreement, such Lender shall inform the Agent and the Borrower to that effect, whereafter the liability of such Lender to make its Commitment available shall forthwith cease and the Borrower shall within thirty (30) days after receipt of written notice prepay the then outstanding portion of such Lender's Commitment immediately and in accordance with and subject to the provisions of Section 12.5. In any such event, but without prejudice to the aforesaid obligations of the Borrower to prepay the Commitment, the relevant Borrower and such Lender shall negotiate in good faith with a view to agreeing on terms for making its portion of the Commitment available from another jurisdiction or otherwise restructuring the Commitment on a basis which is not unlawful.
Illegality
     12.2 . If any change in applicable law, regulation or regulatory requirement or in the interpretation or application thereof by any governmental or other authority, shall:
Increased Costs
 
PROVIDED, however, that the foregoing provisions shall not be applicable in the event that increased costs to the Lender result from the exercise by a Lender of its right to assign its rights or obligations under Section 11 or are otherwise attributable to acts of a Lender.
     12.3 . If the Agent shall determine that, by reason of circumstances affecting the London Interbank Market generally, adequate and reasonable means do not or will not exist for ascertaining the Applicable Rate for the Facilities for any Interest Period, the Agent shall give notice of such determination to the Borrower. The Borrower and the Agent shall then negotiate in good faith in order to agree upon a mutually satisfactory interest rate and/or Interest Period to be substituted for those which would otherwise have applied under this Agreement. If the Borrower and the Agent are unable to agree upon such a substituted interest rate and/or Interest Period within thirty (30) days of the giving of such determination notice, the Agent shall set an interest rate and Interest Period to take effect from the expiration of the Interest Period in effect at the date of determination, which rate shall be equal to the Applicable Margin plus the cost to the Lenders (as noticed by the Lenders to the Agent and as certified by the Agent to the Borrower) of funding the Facilities. In the event the state of affairs referred to in this Section 12.3 shall extend beyond the end of such Interest Period, the foregoing procedure shall continue to apply until circumstances are such that the Applicable Rate may be determined pursuant to Section 6.
Interest Rate Determination
 
     12.4 . A certificate or determination notice of the Agent as to any of the matters referred to in this Section 12 shall, save for any manifest error, be conclusive and binding on the Borrower.
Agent's Certificate
     12.5 . Where the Facilities or any portion thereof are to be prepaid by the Borrower pursuant to any of the foregoing provisions of this Section 12, the Borrower shall simultaneously with such prepayment pay to the affected Lenders all accrued interest to the date of actual payment and all other sums payable by the Borrower to the Agent, the Security Trustee or the Lenders pursuant to this Agreement together with such amounts as may be certified by the Agent to be necessary to compensate the Agent, the Security Trustee or the Lenders for any loss, premium or penalties incurred or to be incurred by them on account of funds borrowed to make, fund or maintain the Facilities or any part thereof for the remainder (if any) of the then current Interest Period or Interest Periods but otherwise without penalty or premium.
Compensation for Losses
13.
CURRENCY INDEMNITIES
     13.1 . If for the purpose of obtaining or enforcing a judgment in any court in any country it becomes necessary to convert into any other currency (the "judgment currency") an amount due in Dollars under this Agreement, the Notes or any of the Security Documents then the conversion shall be made, in the discretion of the Agent, at the rate of exchange prevailing either on the date of default or on the day before the day on which the judgment is given or the order for enforcement is made, as the case may be (the "conversion date"), provided that the Lenders shall not be entitled to recover under this clause any amount in the judgment currency which exceeds at the conversion date the amount in Dollars due under this Agreement, the Notes or any of the Security Documents.
Currency Conversion
     13.2 . If there is a change in the rate of exchange prevailing between the conversion date and the date of actual payment of the amount due, the Borrower shall pay such additional amounts (if any) as may be necessary to ensure that the amount paid in the judgment currency when converted at the rate of exchange prevailing on the date of payment will produce the amount then due under this Agreement, the Notes or any of the Security Documents in Dollars. Any excess over the amount due received or collected by the Lenders shall be remitted to the Borrower.
Currency Indemnity
     13.3 . Any amount due from the Borrower under Section 13.2 shall be due as a separate debt and shall not be affected by judgment being obtained for any other sums due under or in respect of this Agreement, the Notes or any of the Security Documents.
Additional Debt Due
     13.4 . The term "rate of exchange" in this Section 13 means the rate at which the Agent in accordance with its normal practices is able on the relevant date to purchase Dollars with the judgment currency and includes any premium and costs of exchange payable in connection with such purchase.
Rate of Exchange
 
14.
FEES AND EXPENSES
     14.1 . On or prior to the Initial Drawdown Date, the Borrower shall pay to the Agent and the Lenders such fees as the parties have agreed pursuant to each of the Fee Letter and the Underwriting Letter.
Fee Letter and Underwriting Letter
     14.2 . The Borrower shall pay to the Agent on behalf of the Lenders quarterly in arrears a commitment fee equal to 40% of the Applicable Margin per annum payable on the average undrawn and uncancelled portion of the Facilities.
Commitment Fee
     14.3 . The Borrower agree to pay the Arrangers, the Agent, the Security Trustee and the Lenders promptly (whether or not the Facilities or any part thereof are ever made available hereunder) all reasonable costs, charges and expenses (not including overhead) incurred by or on behalf of the Agent, the Security Trustee or the Lenders (including, without limitation, external technical advisor, insurance advisor and legal fees on a full indemnity basis and out-of-pockets expenses, inclusive of travel expenses thereof) in connection with the negotiation, preparation, execution and enforcement or attempted enforcement of or the restructuring of the Borrower's obligations under this Agreement, the Note and the Security Documents or otherwise in connection with the Facilities, as well as in connection with any supplements, amendments, waivers or consents relating thereto.
Expenses
15.
APPLICABLE LAW AND JURISDICTION
     
15.1
GOVERNING LAW
. THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW (EXCLUDING SECTION 5-1401 OF THE NEW YORK GENERAL OBLIGATIONS LAW).
     15.2 . The Borrower hereby (i) irrevocably submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of the State of New York and of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York in any action or proceeding brought against it by the Agent, the Security Trustee or the Lenders under this Agreement, the Notes, the Security Documents or any instrument delivered hereunder or thereunder, (ii) agrees that all claims in respect of any such action or proceeding may be heard and determined in such courts, (iii) irrevocably waives (to the extent permitted by applicable law) any objection which it now or hereafter may have to the laying of venue of any such action or proceeding brought in any of the foregoing courts, and any objection on the ground that any such action or proceeding in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum and (iv) agrees that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner permitted by law. The Borrower hereby irrevocably appoints, for the duration of this Agreement and until the Facility has been repaid in full, C T Corporation System, with a place of business at 111 Eighth Avenue, New York, New York 10011, its attorney-in-fact and agent for service of summons or other legal process thereon,
Submission to Jurisdiction
 
which service may be made by serving a copy of any summons or other legal process in any such action or proceeding on such agent and such agent is hereby authorized and directed to receive and forward by and on behalf of the Borrower, service of summons and other legal process in any such action or proceeding against it. The service, as herein provided, of such summons or other legal process in any such action or proceeding shall be deemed personal service and accepted by the Borrower as such, and shall be legal and binding upon the Borrower for all the purposes of any such action or proceeding. Final judgment (a certified or exemplified copy of which shall be conclusive evidence of the fact and of the amount of any indebtedness of the Borrower to the Lenders) against the Borrower in any such legal action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment. In the event that the Borrower shall not be conveniently available for such service, the Borrower hereby irrevocably appoints the Person who then is the Secretary of State of the State of New York as such attorney-in-fact and agent. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Agent, the Security Trustee or the Lenders may bring any legal action or proceeding in any other appropriate jurisdiction.
     15.3
WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL
. IT IS MUTUALLY AGREED BY AND AMONG THE BORROWER, THE AGENT, THE SECURITY TRUSTEE AND THE LENDERS THAT EACH OF THEM HEREBY WAIVES TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY ACTION, PROCEEDING OR COUNTERCLAIM BROUGHT BY ANY PARTY HERETO AGAINST ANY OTHER PARTY HERETO ON ANY MATTER WHATSOEVER ARISING OUT OF OR IN ANY WAY CONNECTED WITH THIS AGREEMENT, THE NOTES OR THE SECURITY DOCUMENTS.
16.
THE AGENT
     16.1 . Each of the Lenders hereby irrevocably appoints and authorizes the Agent (which for purposes of this Section 16 shall be deemed to include the Agent acting in its capacity as Security Trustee pursuant to Section 17) to take such action as agent on its behalf and to exercise such powers under this Agreement, the Notes, and the Security Documents as are delegated to the Agent by the terms hereof and thereof. Neither the Agent nor any of its directors, officers, employees or agents shall be liable for any action taken or omitted to be taken by it or them under this Agreement, the Notes, or the Security Documents or in connection therewith, except for its or their own gross negligence or willful misconduct.
Appointment of Agent
     16.2 . Whenever any payment is received by the Agent from the Borrower for the account of the Lenders, or any of them, whether of principal or interest on the Note, commissions, fees, or otherwise, it will thereafter cause to be distributed on the same day if received before 11 a.m. New York time, or on the next day if received thereafter, like funds relating to such payment ratably to the Lenders according to their respective interests in the Facilities unless otherwise specified in the Fee Letter or the Underwriting Letter, in each case to be applied according to the terms of this Agreement or pursuant to the terms of the Fee Letter or the Underwriting Letter.
Distribution of Payments
 
     16.3 . If and whenever any amount is to be paid to the Agent for the account of another Person, the Agent may assume that that amount will be paid when due and the Agent may (but shall not be obliged to) make that amount available to the Person for whose account it is to be paid. If that amount is not paid to the Agent when due, the Person to whom that amount was so made available shall on request refund that amount to the Agent together with interest thereon sufficient to compensate the Agent for the cost of making available that amount up to the date of such refund and the Person by whom that amount was payable shall indemnify each of the Agent and the Person to whom that amount was made available by the Agent against all costs, expenses, losses and liabilities paid, suffered or incurred by the Agent or that Person as a consequence of that amount not having been paid when due.
Assume Receipt
     16.4 . The Agent may treat each Lender as the holder of all of the interest of such Lender in the Notes, as the case may be, until written notice of transfer, in form and substance satisfactory to the Agent, signed by such Lender shall have been filed with the Agent.
Holder of Interest in Note
     16.5 . The Agent shall not be under any duty to examine or pass upon the validity, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement, the Notes or the Security Documents or any instrument, document or communication furnished pursuant to this Agreement or in connection therewith or in connection with any Notes or Security Document, and the Agent shall be entitled to assume that the same are valid, effective and genuine, have been signed or sent by the proper parties and are what they purport to be.
No Duty to Examine, etc
     16.6 . With respect to that portion of the Facilities made available by it, the Agent shall have the same rights and powers hereunder as any other Lenders and may exercise the same as though it were not the Agent, and the term "Lender" or "Lenders" shall include the Agent in its capacity as a Lender. The Agent and its affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to and generally engage in any kind of business with, the Borrower, as if it were not the Agent.
Agent as Lender
     16.7 . The Agent shall have duties and discretion, and shall act as follows:
Acts of the Agent
 
     16.8 . Except as otherwise provided in Section 16.14, the Agent shall be entitled to assume that no Event of Default, or event which with the giving of notice or lapse of time, or both, would constitute an Event of Default, has occurred and is continuing, unless the Agent has been notified by the Borrower of such fact, or has been notified by a Lender that such Lender considers that an Event of Default or such an event (specifying in detail the nature thereof) has occurred and is continuing. In the event that the Agent shall have been notified by the Borrower or any Lender in the manner set forth in the preceding sentence of any Event of Default or of an event which with the giving of notice or lapse of time, or both, would constitute an Event of Default, the Agent shall notify the Lenders and shall take action and assert such rights under this Agreement, under the Notes, and under Security Documents as the Majority Lenders shall request in writing.
Assumption re: Events of Default
     16.9 . Neither the Agent nor any of the Lenders shall be under any liability or responsibility whatsoever:
Limitation of Liability
 
     16.10 . The Lenders agree to indemnify the Agent (to the extent not reimbursed by the Borrower), pro rata according to the respective amounts of their Commitments, from and against any and all liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements of any kind or nature whatsoever (including legal fees and expenses incurred in investigating claims and defending itself against such liabilities) which may be imposed on, incurred by or asserted against, the Agent in any way relating to or arising out of this Agreement, the Notes, or any Security Document, any action taken or omitted by the Agent thereunder or the preparation, administration, amendment or enforcement of, or waiver of any provision of, this Agreement, the Notes, or any Security Document, except that no Lenders shall be liable for any portion of such liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements resulting from the Agent's gross negligence or willful misconduct.
Indemnity
     16.11 . The Agent may consult with legal counsel selected by it and shall not be liable for any action taken, permitted or omitted by it in good faith in accordance with the advice or opinion of such counsel.
Consultation with Counsel
     16.12 . The Agent may resign at any time by giving 60 days written notice thereof to the Lenders and the Borrower. Upon any such resignation, the Lenders shall have the right to appoint a successor Agent reasonably acceptable to the Borrower. If no successor Agent shall have been so appointed by the Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 60 days after the retiring Agent's giving notice of resignation, then the retiring Agent may, on behalf of the Lenders, appoint a successor Agent which shall be a bank or trust company of recognized standing. The appointment of any successor Agent shall be subject to the prior written consent of the Borrower, such consent not be unreasonably withheld. After any retiring Agent's resignation as Agent hereunder, the provisions of this Section 16 shall continue in effect for its benefit with respect to any actions taken or omitted by it while acting as Agent.
Resignation
     16.13 . Each Lender represents and warrants to the Borrower, each other Lender and the Agent that:
Lender Representations
 
     16.14 . The Agent hereby undertakes to promptly notify the Lenders, and the Lenders hereby promptly undertake to notify the Agent and the other Lenders, of the existence of any Event of Default which shall have occurred and be continuing of which the Agent or any Lender has actual knowledge.
Notification of Event of Default
     16.15 . If at any other time NIBC is the only Lender, all references to the terms "Agent" and "Security Trustee" shall be deemed to be references to NIBC as Lender and not as agent or security trustee.
No Agency or Trusteeship if NIBC only Lender
17.
THE SECURITY TRUSTEE
     17.1 . Each of the Lenders irrevocably appoints the Security Trustee as security trustee on their respective behalf with regard to the (i) security, powers, rights, titles, benefits and interests (both present and future) constituted by and conferred on the Lenders or any of them or for the benefit thereof under or pursuant to this Agreement, the Note or any Security Documents (including, without limitation, the benefit of all covenants, undertakings, representations, warranties and obligations given, made or undertaken to any Lender in this Agreement, the Notes or any Security Document), (ii) all moneys, property and other assets paid or transferred to or vested in any Lender or any agent of any Lender or received or recovered by any Lender or any agent of any Lender pursuant to, or in connection with, this Agreement, the Notes or the Security Documents whether from the Borrower or any other Person and (iii) all money, investments, property and other assets at any time representing or deriving from any of the foregoing, including all interest, income and other sums at any time received or receivable by any Lender or any agent of any Lender in respect of the same (or any part thereof). The Security Trustee hereby accepts such appointment.
Appointment of Security Trustee
18.
NOTICES AND DEMANDS
     18.1 . Every notice or demand required or permitted under this Agreement shall be in writing and may be given or made by facsimile, mail, prepaid overnight courier or other means, sent as follows:
Addresses
If to the Security Parties:
BULLY 1, LTD. Appleby Trust (Cayman) Ltd.
 
Clifton House 75 Fort Street P.O. Box 1350, Grand Cayman KY1-1108 Cayman Islands Facsimile No.: +1-345-949-4901 Attention: The Secretary
with a copy to:
FRONTIER DRILLING USA, INC. 1000 Louisiana, Suite 1210 Houston, TX 77002 Telephone No.: +1-713-481-7500 Attention: John Stevenson
If to the Agent or the Security Trustee:
NIBC Bank N.V. Carnegieplein 4, 2517 KJ The Hague, The Netherlands Attention: Credit & Agency Services Facsimile No.: +31-70-342-5366
If to the Lenders:
            To their respective addresses set forth on Schedule 1 hereto.
     18.2 . Every notice or demand required or permitted under this Agreement shall except so far as otherwise expressly provided by this Agreement, be deemed to have been received in the case of a facsimile at the time of dispatch thereof (provided that if the date of dispatch is not a Banking Day in the locality of the party to whom such notice or demand is sent it shall be deemed to have been received on the next following Banking Day in such locality), in the case of a letter delivered by hand or by courier, at the time of delivery and, in the case of a letter, on the expiration of five (5) days after the same is put into the mail.
Receipt
19.
MISCELLANEOUS
     19.1 . Time is of the essence of this Agreement but no failure or delay on the part of any Lender to exercise any power or right under this Agreement shall operate or be construed as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise by such Lender of any power or right hereunder preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the
Time of Essence
 
exercise of any other right. The remedies provided herein are cumulative and are not exclusive of any remedies provided by law.
     19.2 . In case any one or more of the provisions contained in this Agreement, the Notes or any of the Security Documents should be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect under any law applicable in any relevant jurisdiction, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions herein or therein contained shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Severability
     19.3 . References herein to Sections, Schedules and Exhibits are to be construed as references to sections of, exhibits to, and schedules to, this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires.
References
     19.4 . The Borrower agrees that if this Agreement, the Notes or any of the Security Documents shall at any time be deemed by the Agent, the Security Trustee or the Lenders for any reason insufficient in whole or in part to carry out the true intent and spirit hereof or thereof, it will execute or cause to be executed such other and further assurances and documents as in the opinion of the Agent, the Security Trustee or the Majority Lenders may be required in order more effectively to accomplish the purposes of this Agreement, the Notes or any of the Security Documents.
Further Assurances
     19.5 . In this Agreement, Section headings are inserted for convenience of reference only and shall not be taken into account in the interpretation of this Agreement.
Headings
     19.6 . This Agreement, the Underwriting Letter and the Reset Letter constitute the entire agreement of the parties hereto concerning the Facility including all parties added hereto pursuant to any assignment made pursuant to Section 11. This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of will shall be deemed an original, but all such counterparts together shall constitute one and the same instrument. Any provision of this Agreement may be amended or waived if, but only if, such amendment or waiver is in writing and is signed by the Borrower and the Majority Lenders (and, if the rights or duties of the Agent or the Security Trustee are affected thereby, by the Agent and/or the Security Trustee, as the case may be); provided that no amendment or waiver shall, unless agreed in writing by all the Lenders, (i) increase or decrease the Commitment of any Lender or subject any Lender to any additional obligation, (ii) reduce the principal of or rate of interest on the Facilities or any fees hereunder, (iii) postpone the date fixed for any payment of principal of or interest on the Facilities or any fees hereunder or for any termination of any Commitment, (iv) amend Section 11, (v) waive any condition precedent to the making of the Facilities, (vi) release any collateral or (vii) amend or modify this Section 19.6 or otherwise change the percentage of the Commitments or of the aggregate unpaid principal amount of the Facilities, or the number or category of Lenders which shall be required for the Lenders or any of them to take any action under this Section or any other provision of this Agreement.
Entire Agreement
 
     19.7 . TO THE EXTENT THAT ANY SECURITY PARTY HAS OR HEREAFTER MAY ACQUIRE ANY IMMUNITY FROM SUIT, JURISDICTION OF ANY COURT OR ANY LEGAL PROCESS (WHETHER THROUGH ATTACHMENT PRIOR TO JUDGMENT, ATTACHMENT IN AID OF EXECUTION, EXECUTION OF A JUDGMENT, OR FROM ANY OTHER LEGAL PROCESS OR REMEDY) WITH RESPECT TO ITSELF OR ITS PROPERTY, SUCH SECURITY PARTY HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES SUCH IMMUNITY IN RESPECT OF ITS OBLIGATIONS UNDER THIS AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER SECURITY DOCUMENTS.
WAIVER OF IMMUNITY
     19.8 . The Agent hereby notifies the Borrower and each other Security Party that pursuant to the requirements of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56, signed into law October 26, 2001) (the "Act"), and the Agent's policies and practices, the Agent and each of the Lenders is required to obtain, verify and record certain information and documentation that identifies each Security Party, which information includes the name and address of each Security Party and such other information that will allow the Agent and the Lenders to identify each Security Party in accordance with the Act. In addition, each Security Party shall (a) ensure that no Person who owns a controlling interest in or otherwise controls any Security Party or any subsidiary of any thereof is or shall be listed on the Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Person List or other similar lists maintained by the Office of Foreign Assets Control ("OFAC"), the Department of the Treasury or included in any Executive Orders, (b) not use or permit the use of the proceeds of the Facilities to violate any of the foreign asset control regulations of OFAC or any enabling statute or Executive Order relating thereto, and (c) comply, and cause any of its subsidiaries to comply, with all applicable Bank Secrecy Act laws and regulations, as amended.
USA Patriot Act Notice; OFAC and Bank Secrecy Act
 
          IN WITNESS whereof the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed by their respective duly authorized representative on the day and year first above written.
 
Schedule 1
 
Schedule 2
 
EXECUTION VERSION
 
          THIS AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO TERM LOAN AND CREDIT FACILITY AGREEMENT (this "") is made as of the 12th day of February, 2008 by and among (i) BULLY 1, LTD., an exempt company incorporated in the Cayman Islands, as borrower (the "Borrower"), (ii) the financial institutions listed on the signature pages hereto as senior and/or junior lenders, as the case may be (together with their respective successors and assigns, the "Lenders"), (iii) STANDARD CHARTERED BANK, a company incorporated by Royal Charter in England (with reference number ZC18), BANK OF SCOTLAND PLC, a banking corporation organized and existing under the laws of Scotland, and NIBC BANK N.V., a banking corporation organized under the laws of The Netherlands ("NIBC"), as arrangers, and (iv) NIBC as agent (in such capacity, the "Agent") and security trustee (in such capacity, the "Security Trustee") for the Lenders, and amends and is supplemental to the Term Loan and Credit Facility Agreement dated as of December 21, 2007 (the "") made by and among the Borrower, the Lenders, Agent and Security Trustee in which, subject to the terms of the Original Agreement, the Lenders agreed to lend to the Borrower, and the Borrower agreed to borrow from the Lenders, the principal amount of up to Four Hundred Sixty Five Million Dollars (US$465,000,000) for the purpose of partly financing the construction of the drillship to be named FRONTIER BULLY I.
Amendment
Original Agreement
          WHEREAS, in accordance with the Original Agreement, Frontier Drillships, Ltd., an exempt company incorporated in the Cayman Islands, and Shell EP Offshore Ventures Limited, a company organized under the laws of the United Kingdom (collectively, the "Joint Venturers") committed to provide Capital Contribution Funding pursuant to the Contribution Agreement in the maximum aggregate principal amount of One Hundred Fifteen Million Dollars ($115,000,000);
          WHEREAS, in accordance with Section 4.1(t) of the Original Agreement, the Agent received evidence that Forty Eight Million Dollars ($48,000,000) of the Capital Contribution Funding had been made by the Joint Venturers to the Borrower prior to the Drawdown Date of the Initial Advance;
          WHEREAS, the Borrower and the Lenders have agreed to amend the Original Agreement in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth herein to further clarify the parties' understanding relating to when the remaining Sixty Seven Million Dollars ($67,000,000) of Capital Contribution Funding shall be required to be made available to the Borrower;
          WHEREAS, the Borrower and the Lenders have agreed to amend the Original Agreement to add a new Section 4.6 to require the Joint Venturers to make payments of Capital Contribution Funding prior to Borrower receiving certain Advances under the Senior Facility. The Borrower shall provide evidence to the Agent that payments of Capital Contribution Funding has been made to the Borrower in amounts equal to (i) Thirty Five Million Dollars ($35,000,000) if the amount outstanding under the Senior Facilities shall exceed Two Hundred and Thirty Million Dollars ($230,000,000) at any time; and (ii) Thirty Two Million Dollars ($32,000,000) if the amount outstanding under the Senior Facilities shall exceed Three Hundred and Fifty Million Dollars ($350,000,000) at any time; and
 
          WHEREAS, each party hereto has agreed to consent to the amendment on the terms and conditions herein contained.
          NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and such other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged by the parties, it is hereby agreed as follows:
          1. . Unless otherwise defined herein, words and expressions defined in the Original Agreement shall have the same meanings when used herein, including in the recitals hereto.
Definitions
          2. . The Borrower hereby reaffirms, as of the date hereof, each and every representation and warranty made thereby in the Original Agreement, the Notes and the Security Documents (updated ).
Representations and Warranties
mutatis mutandis
          3. . The Borrower hereby reaffirms that it has duly performed and observed the covenants and undertakings set forth in the Original Agreement, the Notes and the Security Documents on its part to be performed, and covenants and undertakes to continue duly to perform and observe such covenants and undertakings, as amended hereby, so long as the Original Agreement, the Notes and the Security Documents, as the same are amended hereby may hereafter be amended or supplemented, shall remain in effect.
Performance of Covenants
          4. . Subject to the terms and conditions of this Amendment, the Original Agreement is hereby amended and supplemented as follows:
Amendment to the Original Agreement
 
          5. . The effectiveness of this Amendment shall be expressly subject to the following conditions precedent:
Conditions Precedent
          6. . All other terms and conditions of the Original Agreement shall remain in full force and effect and the Original Agreement shall be read and construed as if the terms of this Amendment were included therein by way of addition or substitution, as the case may be.
No Other Amendment
          7. . By the execution and delivery of this Amendment, the Borrower and the Lenders hereby consent and agree that all references in the Notes and the Security Documents shall be deemed to refer to the Original Agreement as amended by this Amendment and all references to the Notes and the Security Documents or any thereof shall be deemed to be references to such documents as amended or substituted as required hereby. By the execution and delivery of this Amendment, the Borrower hereby consents and agrees that the Notes and the Security Documents shall remain in full force and effect notwithstanding the amendments contemplated hereby.
Other Documents
          8. . This Amendment shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law
          9. . This Amendment may be executed in as many counterparts as may be deemed necessary or convenient, and by the different parties hereto on separate counterparts each of which, when so executed, shall be deemed to be an original but all such counterparts shall constitute but one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
 
          10. . In this Amendment, section headings are inserted for convenience of reference only and shall be ignored in the interpretation of this Amendment. This Amendment cannot be amended other than by written agreement signed by the parties hereto.
Headings; Amendment
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the parties hereto has executed this Amendment by its duly authorized representative on the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
EXECUTION VERSION
 
          THIS AMENDMENT NO. 2 AND CONSENT TO TERM LOAN AND CREDIT FACILITY AGREEMENT (this "") is made as of the 28th day of July, 2010 by and among (i) BULLY 1, LTD., an exempt company incorporated in the Cayman Islands, as borrower (the ""), (ii) the financial institutions listed on the signature pages hereto as senior and/or junior lenders, as the case may be (together with their respective successors and assigns, the ""), (iii) STANDARD CHARTERED BANK, a company incorporated by Royal Charter in England (with reference number ZC18), BANK OF SCOTLAND PLC, a banking corporation organized and existing under the laws of Scotland, and NIBC BANK N.V., a banking corporation organized under the laws of The Netherlands (""), as arrangers (the ""), and (iv) NIBC as agent (in such capacity, the "") and security trustee (in such capacity, the "") for the Lenders, and amends and is supplemental to the Term Loan and Credit Facility Agreement dated as of December 21, 2007 (as heretofore amended, restated or otherwise modified, the "") made by and among the Borrower, the Lenders, the Arrangers, the Agent and the Security Trustee in which, subject to the terms of the Existing Agreement, the Lenders agreed to lend to the Borrower, and the Borrower agreed to borrow from the Lenders, the principal amount of up to Four Hundred Sixty Five Million Dollars (US$465,000,000) for the purpose of partly financing the construction of a Bully-class drillship.
Amendment
Borrower
Lenders
NIBC
Arrangers
Agent
Security Trustee
Existing Agreement
          WHEREAS, FDR Holdings is party to that certain Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "") dated June 27, 2010 among Noble Corporation, a Swiss corporation (""), Noble AM Merger Co. (""), FDR Holdings, certain shareholders of FDR Holdings and the other parties thereto, pursuant to which, on the terms and subject to the conditions provided for therein, Merger Sub shall merge with and into FDR Holdings, with FDR Holdings being the surviving company (the "");
Merger Agreement
Noble
Merger Sub
Merger
          WHEREAS, as a result of the Merger, FDR Holdings will become an indirect, wholly-owned Subsidiary of Noble;
          WHEREAS, in connection with the Merger, FDR Holdings, Frontier Drillships and the Purchasers desire to terminate the Sponsor Purchase Agreement (the "") and to amend the Existing Agreement for certain other purposes provided for herein; and
Sponsor Purchase Agreement Termination
          WHEREAS, the Borrower and the Lenders party hereto (which Lenders constitute Majority Lenders) have agreed to amend the Existing Agreement for the purposes provided for herein on the terms and conditions set forth herein.
          NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and such other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged by the parties, it is hereby agreed as follows:
 
          1. Unless otherwise defined herein, words and expressions defined in the Existing Agreement shall have the same meanings when used herein, including in the recitals hereto.
Definitions
          2. (a) The Borrower hereby reaffirms, as of the date hereof, each and every representation and warranty made by the Borrower in the Existing Agreement (as amended hereby).
Representations and Warranties
(b) The Borrower hereby represents and warrants that, immediately after the consummation of the Merger on the closing date thereof, FDR Holdings will be wholly-owned, directly or indirectly, by Noble Corporation.
          3. The Borrower hereby represents and warrants that, as of the date hereof, no Event of Default or event which with the passing of time or the giving of notice, or both, would constitute an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing.
Events of Default
          4. The Borrower hereby reaffirms that it has duly performed and observed the covenants and undertakings set forth in the Existing Agreement, the Notes and the Security Documents on its part to be performed, and covenants and undertakes to continue duly to perform and observe such covenants and undertakings as are contained in the Existing Agreement, the Notes and the Security Documents (each as amended hereby), so long as the Existing Agreement, the Notes and the Security Documents, as the same are amended hereby or may hereafter be amended or supplemented, shall remain in effect.
Performance of Covenants
          5. Subject to the terms and conditions of this Amendment, the Existing Agreement is hereby amended and supplemented as follows:
Amendments to the Existing Agreement
 
          6. The Borrower hereby informs the Agent, Security Trustee and Lenders that, at or after the consummation of the Merger, the name of the Vessel may be changed to a new name (the ""). The undersigned Lenders hereby acknowledge and agree that, upon receipt by the Agent of written notice from the Borrower specifying the New Vessel Name, (i) the Existing Agreement (as amended hereby), the Notes and each Security Document shall be automatically amended without any further action by any party thereto to replace the phrase "Frontier Bully I" in each instance where such phrase appears therein with the New Vessel Name, except the Borrower agrees to register and submit all documentation required by the Republic of the Marshall Islands Maritime Administrator (or, if the Vessel's name is changed after giving effect to the Vessel Reflagging (as defined in Section 7 below), by the maritime authorities of Liberia) to effect the Vessel's name change and (ii) the
New Vessel Name
New Vessel Name
 
defined term "Vessel" in the Existing Agreement (as amended hereby) shall be automatically amended without any further action by any party thereto to reflect the New Vessel Name.
          7. The Borrower hereby requests that, at or after the consummation of the Merger, the Vessel may be reflagged in Liberia (the ""). The undersigned Lenders hereby consent to the Vessel Reflagging at any time within one (1) calendar year after the date hereof, that the Borrower shall deliver to the Agent (i) copies of such documents and instruments as are necessary to evidence the reflagging of the Vessel in Liberia promptly after receipt thereof and (ii) prior to giving effect to the Vessel Reflagging, any Security Documents, including a first preferred Liberian mortgage over the Vessel, and documents related thereto as the Agent shall reasonably require with respect to the Vessel, such Security Documents, first preferred Liberian mortgage over the Vessel, and documents related thereto to be in such form and substance as is satisfactory to the Security Trustee. Upon receipt by the Agent of written notice from the Borrower of the consummation of the Vessel Reflagging, the Existing Agreement (as amended hereby), the Notes and each Security Document (other than the Mortgage) shall be automatically amended without any further action by any party thereto to reflect the Vessel Reflagging. The undersigned Lenders hereby agree that the Vessel Reflagging shall not result in an Event of Default under the Existing Agreement, any Notes or any of the Security Documents.
Reflagging
Vessel Reflagging
provided
          8. (a) The Borrower hereby informs the Agent that, at or after the consummation of the Merger, the registered office of the Borrower and the Operating Entity may be changed to Maples & Calder, PO Box 309, Ugland House, South Church Street, George Town, Grand Cayman KY1-1104, Cayman Islands (the ""). The undersigned Lenders hereby acknowledge and agree that, upon receipt by the Agent of written notice from the Borrower that the registered office has been changed to the New Registered Office, Section 2.1(q) of the Existing Agreement (as amended hereby) shall be automatically amended and restated without any further action by any party thereto as follows:
New Registered Office
New Registered Office
"(q) . The registered office of each of the Borrower and the Operating Entity is located at Maples & Calder, PO Box 309, Ugland House, South Church Street, George Town, Grand Cayman KY1-1104, Cayman Islands."
Offices
     (b) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Existing Agreement (as amended hereby), the Notes or any Security Document to the contrary, the undersigned Lenders hereby (a) consent to the change in the location of the Borrower's and the Operating Entity's registered office to the New Registered Office pursuant to Section 8(a) above, and (b) agree that the change in the location of the Borrower's and the Operating Entity's registered office to the New Registered Office pursuant to Section 8(a) above shall not result in an Event of Default under the Existing Agreement, any Notes or any of the Security Documents.
          9. Notwithstanding anything contained in the Existing Agreement (as amended hereby), the Notes or any Security Document to the contrary, the undersigned Lenders hereby (a) consent to the Sponsor Purchase Agreement Termination pursuant to Section 8.1(p) of the Existing Agreement, (b) agree that the Sponsor Purchase Agreement Termination shall not result in an Event of Default under the Existing Agreement, any Notes or any of the Security Documents, (c) consent to the Vessel Reflagging pursuant to
Consents
 
Section 9.2(l) of the Existing Agreement and (d) agree that the Vessel Reflagging shall not result in an Event of Default under the Existing Agreement, any Notes or any of the Security Documents.
          10. The effectiveness of this Amendment shall be expressly subject to the following conditions precedent:
Conditions Precedent
          11. All other terms and conditions of the Existing Agreement not expressly amended, waived or otherwise modified pursuant hereto shall remain in full force and effect and the Existing Agreement shall be read and construed as if the terms of this Amendment were included therein by way of addition or substitution, as the case may be.
No Other Amendment
          12. By the execution and delivery of this Amendment, the Borrower and the Lenders hereby consent and agree that each reference to "hereof", "hereunder", "herein" and "hereby" and each other similar reference and each reference to "this Agreement" and each other similar reference contained in the Existing Agreement, any Note or any Security Document shall refer to the Existing Agreement, as amended hereby. By the execution and delivery of this Amendment, the Borrower hereby consents and agrees that the Notes and the Security Documents shall remain in full force and effect notwithstanding the amendments contemplated hereby; , , that any reference in the Notes or the Security Documents to the Sponsor Purchase Agreement shall be deleted.
Effect of Amendment
provided
however
          13. This Amendment shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law
          14. This Amendment may be executed in as many counterparts as may be deemed necessary or convenient, and by the different parties hereto on separate
Counterparts
 
counterparts each of which, when so executed, shall be deemed to be an original but all such counterparts shall constitute but one and the same agreement.
          15. In this Amendment, section headings are inserted for convenience of reference only and shall be ignored in the interpretation of this Amendment. This Amendment cannot be amended other than by written agreement signed by the parties hereto.
Headings; Amendment
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the parties hereto has executed this Amendment by its duly authorized representative on the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 4.2
EXECUTION VERSION
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
          THIS TERM LOAN AND REVOLVING LOAN CREDIT FACILITY AGREEMENT (this "Agreement") is made as of the 21st day of October, 2008, as amended and restated on October 9, 2009, by and among (i) BULLY 2, LTD., an exempt company incorporated in the Cayman Islands, as borrower (the "Borrower"), (ii) CHINA DEVELOPMENT BANK CORPORATION, THE EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF CHINA, STANDARD CHARTERED BANK, a company incorporated by Royal Charter in England (with reference number ZC18, hereinafter "SCB"), HSBC BANK PLC, RZB FINANCE LLC (together with their respective successors and assigns, the "Lenders"), (iii) SCB, as lead arranger (in such capacity and any successor thereto, the "Lead Arranger"), (iv) CHINA DEVELOPMENT BANK CORPORATION, THE EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF CHINA, SCB and HSBC BANK PLC, as mandated lead arrangers (the "Mandated Lead Arrangers"), (v) RZB FINANCE LLC, as Cost Overrun Term Loan Lead Arranger (the "Cost Overrun Term Loan Lead Arranger") and (vi) SCB as administrative agent (in such capacity and any successor thereto, the "Administrative Agent") and collateral agent (in such capacity and any successor thereto, the "Collateral Agent", and together with the Administrative Agent, the "Agents") for the Lenders.
          WHEREAS, the Borrower, certain of the Lenders, the Lead Arranger, the Administrative Agent and the Collateral Agent entered into a Credit Agreement (the "Original Credit Agreement"), dated as of October 21, 2008 in order to, among other things, (i) partly finance the construction of the drillship to be named FRONTIER BULLY II and registered under the laws and flag of the Republic of the Marshall Islands pursuant to terms of the Construction Contracts, the Approved AFE and the Master Construction Schedule (as such terms are defined herein) and (ii) operate the Vessel to perform its obligations under the Drilling Contract (as hereinafter defined) (the "Project");
          WHEREAS, at the request of the Borrower, SCB has agreed to serve as Lead Arranger and as the Administrative Agent and the Collateral Agent under this Agreement and the Lenders have agreed to provide to the Borrower secured term loans and a revolving credit facility in the aggregate amount of Four Hundred Ninety Five Million Dollars (US$495,000,000) on the terms and conditions set forth herein;
          WHEREAS, the Borrower has pledged all of its interest in the Collateral and the Accounts (as hereinafter defined) as security for the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement;
          WHEREAS, in connection with the syndication of the Advances under the Original Credit Agreement, the parties hereto desire to amend and restate the Original Credit Agreement in its entirety as described herein;
          NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises set forth above, the covenants and agreements hereinafter set forth, and other good and valuable consideration, the
 
receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as set forth below:
1.
DEFINITIONS
     1.1 . In this Agreement the words and expressions specified below shall, except where the context otherwise requires, have the meanings attributed to them below:
Specific Definitions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     1.2 .
Computations of Time Periods; Other Definitional Provisions
          In this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, unless the context requires otherwise, (a) in the computation of periods of time from a specified date to a later specified date, the word "from" means "from and including" and the words "to" and "until" each mean "to
 
but excluding", (b) references to "writing" include printing, typing, lithography and other means of reproducing words in a tangible visible form, (c) the words "including," "includes" and "include" shall be deemed to be followed by the words "without limitation", (d) references to sections, articles, clauses (or subdivisions of clauses), exhibits, annexes or schedules are to this Agreement, (e) references to any definition of or reference to agreements, instruments or other contractual instruments (including this Agreement and the other Loan Documents) shall be deemed to include all subsequent amendments, amendments and restatements, supplements, and other modifications to such instruments (provided, however, such amendments, amendments and restatements, supplements, and other modifications occur in accordance with the terms of thereof), (f) any reference herein to any Person shall be construed to include such Person's successors and assigns, (g) the words "herein", "hereof" and "hereunder", and words of similar import, shall be construed to refer to this Agreement in its entirety and not to any particular provision hereof, (h) any reference to any law or regulation herein shall, unless otherwise specified, refer to such law or regulation as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, (i) the words "asset" and "property" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect and to refer to any and all tangible and intangible assets and properties, including cash, securities, accounts and contract rights, (j) references to days, months, quarters and years refer to calendar days, months, quarters and years, respectively. The definitions of terms herein shall apply equally to the singular and plural forms of the terms defined. The word "will" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the word "shall" and the words importing either gender include the other gender.
     1.3 . Unless otherwise specified herein, all accounting terms used in this Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall be interpreted, and all financial statements and certificates and reports as to financial matters required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent or to the Lenders under this Agreement shall be prepared, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles for the United States ("GAAP").
Accounting Terms
     1.4 . To the extent that any representation, warranty, covenant or other undertaking of the Borrower in this Agreement is qualified by reference to those which are not reasonably expected to have a "Material Adverse Effect" or language of similar import, no inference shall be drawn therefrom that any Administrative Agent or any Lender has knowledge or approves of any noncompliance by the Borrower with any Governmental Rule, as in effect from time to time.
Certain Matter Regarding Materiality
     1.5 . Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement, references to documents or certificates "substantially in the form" of Exhibits to another document shall mean that such documents or certificates are duly completed in the form of the related Exhibits with substantive changes subject to the provisions of Section 19.7 of this Agreement, as the case may be, or the correlative provisions of the Security Documents.
Forms of Documents
     1.6 . All references herein to "the date hereof", "the date of this Agreement" and the like are, unless otherwise specified, references to October 21, 2008.
References to Date of Agreement
 
2.
REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES
     2.1 . In order to induce the Administrative Agent, the Collateral Agent and the Lenders to enter into this Agreement and to make the Facilities, the Borrower on its own behalf and, where applicable, on behalf of the Security Parties, other than Shell EP Offshore Ventures Limited (the "Frontier Security Parties"), represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent, the Collateral Agent and the Lenders (which representations and warranties shall survive the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the making of the Facilities) that:
Representations and Warranties
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     3. 
AMOUNT AND TERMS OF THE FACILITIES
            . Subject to the terms and conditions hereof, the Senior Lenders and Cost Overrun Lenders, as applicable, shall make the Facilities available to the Borrower or its order in an aggregate amount of up to Four Hundred Ninety Five Million Dollars ($495,000,000).
Purposes
 
     3.2 .
Advances
 
     3.3 . Each of the Facilities shall be evidenced by a separate Note payable to the order of applicable Lender and dated the Closing Date. Each Advance made by the Lenders to the Borrower may be evidenced by a notation of the same made by the Administrative Agent on the grid attached to the applicable Note relating to the Facility under which such Advance was made, which notation, absent manifest error, shall be evidence of the amount of the relevant Advance.
The Notes
prima
facie
     3.4 .
Borrowing; Drawdown Notice
          (a) The Borrower shall, not later than 11:00 a.m. London, England time on the date three (3) Banking Days prior to the relevant Drawdown Date, serve a notice (a "Drawdown Notice") for an Advance under any of the Facilities substantially in the form of Exhibit A on the Administrative Agent. Each such notice shall (i) be in writing addressed to the Administrative Agent, (ii) be effective on receipt by the Administrative Agent, (iii) specify the amount of the Advance to be drawn and identify the Facility and, if applicable, the tranche of such Facility to which such Advance relates, (iv) specify the initial Interest Period for such Advance, (v) specify the Banking Day on which such Advance is to be drawn and (vi) be irrevocable. The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Lenders of the contents of each such notice. The Borrower shall not be permitted to request more than two Advances during each calendar month.
          (b) Not later than 11:00 a.m. London, England time on each Drawdown Date, each Lender shall make available the amount of the Advance to be made by such Lender on such Drawdown Date to the Administrative Agent, at the Administrative Agent's Account, in immediately available funds, for the account of the Borrower. The amount so received by the Administrative Agent shall, subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, be remitted by the Administrative Agent in such manner as may be agreed by the Administrative Agent and the Borrower.
     3.5 .
Changes of Commitments
          (a) The aggregate amount of the Senior Revolver Commitments shall be automatically reduced to zero on the last day of the Senior Revolver Availability Period.
 
          (b) The aggregate amount of the Senior Term Loan Commitments and Cost Overrun Term Loan Commitments shall be automatically reduced to zero on the last day of the Term Loan Availability Period.
          (c) The Borrower shall have the right to terminate or reduce the aggregate unused amount of the Commitments at any time or from time to time; (i) the Borrower shall provide no less than fifteen (15) Banking Days' prior notice to the Administrative Agent (which shall promptly notify the Lenders thereof) of each such termination or reduction, which notice shall specify the effective date of such termination or reduction and the amount of any such reduction ( the amount of any such reduction of the Commitments shall be equal to $5,000,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof or, if less than such amount remains unutilized, the remaining Commitments) and (ii) the Commitments may not be reduced below an amount which is available and sufficient, in the reasonable judgment of the Administrative Agent and the Technical and Environmental Consultant, to achieve the Construction Completion Date in accordance with the Approved AFE and the Master Construction Schedule; provided that the Commitments shall terminate upon payment in full of the Facilities. Any notice provided pursuant to this Section 3.5(c) shall be irrevocable and effective only upon receipt by the Administrative Agent.
provided
that
provided
that
          (d) The Commitments once terminated or reduced may not be reinstated.
     3.6 . The failure of any Lender to make any Advance required to be made by it shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligation to make its Advances, but neither any Lender nor either Agent shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to make an Advance to be made by such other Lender, and (except as otherwise provided in Section 7.7) no Lender shall have any obligation to either Agent or any other Lender for the failure by such Lender to make any Advance required to be made by such Lender. The amounts payable by the Borrower at any time hereunder to each Lender shall be a separate and independent debt, and each Lender shall be entitled to protect and enforce its individual rights arising out of this Agreement and the Notes independently of any other Lender, and it shall not be necessary for any other Lender or either Agent to consent to, or be joined as an additional party in, any proceedings to recover the payment of any overdue amounts.
Several Obligations; Certain Remedies Independent
4.
CONDITIONS
     4.1 . The occurrence of the Closing Date is subject to (1) the Lenders having completed their commercial, legal, technical and environmental due diligence review with respect to the Security Parties and the Project in scope and with results satisfactory to the Lenders and (2) receipt by the Administrative Agent of each of the agreements and other documents, and the satisfaction of the conditions precedent, set forth below, each of which shall be (x) in form and substance satisfactory to the Lenders and (y) if applicable, in full force and effect (unless, in each case, waived by each Lender):
Conditions Precedent to the Closing Date
 
 
 
 
 
 
     4.2 . The amendment and restatement shall become effective on the first date on which all of the following conditions precedent have been satisfied (the "Effective Date"):
Conditions Precedent to the Effective Date
 
     4.3 . In addition to the conditions set forth in Section 4.4, the obligation of the Lenders to make any Advance available to the Borrower under the Senior Term Loan or the Cost Overrun Term Loan shall be expressly and separately subject to the following conditions precedent on the relevant Drawdown Date, in each case in form and substance satisfactory to the Lenders, unless in each case, waived by the Administrative Agent (acting on the behalf of the Majority Lenders):
Conditions Precedent to Senior Term Loans and Cost Overrun Term Loans
 
 
 
     4.4 . The obligation of the Lenders to make any Advance available to the Borrower shall be expressly and separately subject to the following conditions precedent on the relevant Drawdown Date, in each case in form and substance satisfactory to the Lenders, unless in each case, waived by the Administrative Agent (acting on the behalf of the Majority Lenders):
Further Conditions Precedent
 
 
5.
REPAYMENT AND PREPAYMENT
     5.1 . The Borrower shall repay:
Repayment
 
     5.2 . In addition to mandatory repayments of principal of Advances as set forth in Section 5.1 above, the Borrower shall make the following mandatory prepayments (to be effected in each case in the manner specified in Section 5.4 below):
Mandatory Prepayments
 
     5.3 .
Voluntary Prepayment
 
     5.4 . Any and all repayments and prepayments hereunder, whether mandatory or voluntary, are subject to the following:
Repayments and Prepayments Generally
6.
INTEREST AND RATE
     6.1 . Each Interest Period (other than the initial Interest Period) shall be a period of three (3) months (unless otherwise provided below) and shall be subject to the following restrictions: (a) no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, (b) during the Term Loan Availability Period, no Interest Period may commence before and end after any Quarterly Date, and, after the Term Loan Availability Period, no Interest Period may commence before and end after any Principal Payment Date unless, after giving effect to such Advance, the aggregate principal amount of the Advances having Interest Periods that end after such Principal Payment Date shall be equal to or less than the aggregate principal amount of the Advances scheduled to be outstanding after giving effect to the payments of principal required to be made on such Principal Payment Date, as applicable; provided that no Interest Period should commence before and end after the Final Payment Date, (c) subject to clause (b) above, the initial Interest Period in respect of each Advance made after the initial Advance shall end on the last day of the then current Interest Period for the initial Advance and (d) any Interest Period that would otherwise end on a day that is not a Banking Day shall end on the next succeeding Banking Day unless such succeeding Banking Day would fall in the next month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the immediately preceding Banking Day. The Borrower shall pay any and all administrative costs incurred by the Lenders and any costs incurred pursuant to Section 12.5 by reason of the Borrower's selection of Interest Periods and as a consequence of the Interest Period consolidation referenced in clause (c) of this Section 6.1 (the Administrative Agent's certification as to the amount such costs shall be conclusive absent manifest error).
Floating Rate
     6.2 . The Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Advance of such Lender for the period from the relevant Drawdown Date until the date such Advance shall be paid in full at a rate per annum equal to the Applicable Margin plus LIBOR (the "Applicable Rate") for each Interest Period in respect of such Advance. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any payment hereunder not paid when due, whether on a Principal Payment Date or by acceleration, shall bear interest thereafter at a rate per annum (the "Default Rate") equal to either (i) the
Applicable Rate; Default Rate
 
Applicable Margin plus two percent (2%) over the cost to the Lenders of funding such overdue amount, or (ii) two percent (2%) over the Applicable Rate, whichever is greater.
     6.3 . During the Term Loan Availability Period interest will be capitalized and added to the principal amount of the Senior Term Loan or Cost Overrun Term Loan, as applicable, on the Interest Payment Date. Following the Term Loan Availability Period, the Borrower shall pay interest on all Advances on each Interest Payment Date; interest payable at the Default Rate shall be payable from time to time on demand.
Interest Payments
provided
that
     6.4 . If interest would, under this Article 6, be payable on a day which is not a Banking Day, it shall then be payable on the next following Banking Day, unless such next following Banking Day falls in the following month in which case it shall be payable on the Banking Day immediately preceding the day on which such interest would otherwise be payable.
Banking Days
     6.5 . All interest on the Advances and fees hereunder shall accrue from day to day and be calculated on the actual number of days elapsed occurring in the period for which payable and on the basis of a 360 day year.
360 Day Year
     6.6 . Promptly after the determination of any interest rate provided for herein or any change therein, the Administrative Agent shall give notice thereof to the Lenders and to the Borrower. Each determination by the Administrative Agent of an interest rate hereunder shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
Interest Determinations
     6.7 .
Consolidation of Advances
 
7.
PAYMENTS
     7.1 . Each payment of principal, interest and other amounts to be made by the Borrower under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall be made in Dollars, in immediately available funds, without deduction, set-off or counterclaim, to the Administrative Agent's Account not later than 11:00 a.m. London, England time on the date on which such payment shall become due (each such payment made after such time on such due date to be deemed to have been made on the next succeeding Banking Day).
Borrower Payments Generally
     7.2 . The Borrower shall, subject to Section 7.6 and the order of priority set forth in Section 3.2(d) of the Depositary Agreement, at the time of making each payment under this Agreement and the Notes for account of any Lender, specify to the Administrative Agent (which shall notify the intended recipient(s) thereof) the amounts payable by the Borrower hereunder to which such payment is to be applied (and in the event that the Borrower fails to so specify, or if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Administrative Agent shall distribute such payment to the Lenders for application in accordance with an order of priority consistent with Section 3.2(d) of the Depositary Agreement).
Advances
     7.3 . Each payment received by the Administrative Agent under this Agreement for account of any Lender shall be paid by the Administrative Agent promptly to such Lender, in the same funds as received, for account of such Lender's Applicable Lending Office.
Payments by Administrative Agent to Lenders
     7.4 .
Set-Off; Sharing of Payments
          (a) . Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default, each Lender and each of its Affiliates is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final, in whatever currency) at any time held and other indebtedness at any time owing by such Lender or such Affiliate to or for the credit or the account of the Borrower against any and all of the obligations of the Borrower now or hereafter existing under this Agreement or any other Loan Document to such Lender, irrespective of whether or not such Lender shall have made any demand under this Agreement or any other Loan Document and although such obligations of the Borrower may be contingent or unmatured or are owed to a branch or office of such Lender different from the branch or office holding such deposit or obligated on such indebtedness. Each Lender agrees promptly to notify the Borrower after any such set-off and application, the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such set-off and application. The rights of each Lender and its Affiliates under this Section 7.4(a) are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of set-off) that such Lender and its Affiliates may have.
Set-Off Generally
provided
that
          (b) . Each Lender agrees that if it shall, through the exercise of a right of banker's lien, setoff or counterclaim or pursuant to a secured claim under Section 506 of the Federal Bankruptcy Code or other security or interest arising from, or in lieu of, such secured claim, exercised or received by such Lender under any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law or otherwise, or by any other means, obtain payment (voluntary or involuntary) in respect of any Advance or Advances and accrued interest thereon or other such
Sharing Among Lenders
 
obligations greater than its pro rata share thereof as provided herein, it shall (i) notify the Administrative Agent of such fact and (ii) be deemed simultaneously to have purchased from such other Lender at face value, and shall promptly pay to such other Lender the purchase price for, a participation in the funded Commitment of such other Lender so that the aggregate funded Commitment of each Lender shall be in the same proportion to the aggregate funded Commitments then outstanding as its funded Commitment prior to such exercise of banker's lien, setoff or counterclaim or other event was to the principal amount of all funded Commitments outstanding prior to such exercise of banker's lien, setoff or counterclaim or other event; provided, however, that, if any such purchase or purchases or adjustments shall be made pursuant to this Section 7.4(b) and the payment giving rise thereto shall thereafter be recovered, such purchase or purchases or adjustments shall be rescinded to the extent of such recovery and the purchase price or prices or adjustment restored without interest. The Borrower expressly consents to the foregoing arrangement and agrees, to the extent it may effectively do so under applicable law, that any Lender holding a participation in a funded Commitment deemed to have been so purchased may exercise any and all rights of banker's lien, setoff or counterclaim with respect to any and all moneys owing to such Lender by reason thereof as fully as if such Lender had made an Advance in the amount of such participation. The provisions of this Section 7.4(b) shall not be construed to apply to (i) any payment made by the Borrower pursuant to and in accordance with the express terms of this Agreement or (ii) any payment obtained by a Lender as consideration for the assignment of or sale of a participation in any of its Advances to an assignee or Participant, other than to the Borrower or any Affiliate thereof (as to which the provisions of this subsection shall apply).
          (c) . Nothing contained herein shall require any Lender to exercise any such right or shall affect the right of any Lender to exercise, and retain the benefits of exercising, any such right with respect to any other indebtedness or obligation of the Borrower.
Exercise of Rights Not Required
     7.5 . If at any time insufficient funds are received by and available to the Administrative Agent to pay fully all amounts of principal, interest, fees and other amounts then due and payable hereunder, such funds shall be applied in accordance with an order of priority consistent with Section 3.2(d) of the Depositary Agreement and then, after application thereof, to pay other amounts then due and payable hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of such other amounts then due and payable to such parties.
Application of Insufficient Payments
     7.6 . Except to the extent otherwise expressly provided herein or any other Loan Document, (a) the Advances under each of the Facilities shall be made, and any reduction of Commitments under each of the Facilities shall be made, according to the respective amounts of the Commitments; (b) each payment or prepayment of principal of the (i) Advances under the Senior Term Loan and Senior Revolver shall be made for account of the Senior Lenders in accordance with the respective unpaid principal amounts of the Advances under the Senior Term Loan and Senior Revolver, as the case may be, held by them and (ii) Advances under the Cost Overrun Term Loan shall be made for account of the Cost Overrun Lenders in accordance with the respective unpaid principal amounts of the Advances under the Cost Overrun Term Loan held by them; (c) each payment of interest on the Advances under the Senior Facility and fees applicable to the Senior Facility hereunder shall be
Pro Rata Treatment
pro
rata
pro
rata
pro
rata
 
made for account of the Senior Lenders in accordance with the respective amounts of interest on the Advances under the Senior Facility or fees hereunder, as applicable, then due and payable to the Senior Lenders; and (d) each payment of interest on the Advances under the Cost Overrun Term Loan and fees applicable to the Cost Overrun Term Loan hereunder shall be made for account of the Cost Overrun Lenders in accordance with the respective amounts of interest on the Advances under the Cost Overrun Term Loan or fees hereunder, as applicable, then due and payable to the Cost Overrun Lenders.
pro
rata
pro
rata
     7.7 .
Non-Receipt of Funds by the Administrative Agent
          (a) . Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the proposed Drawdown Date that such Lender will not make available to the Administrative Agent such Lender's share of the applicable Advance, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has made such share available at such time in accordance with Section 3.4(b) and may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Borrower a corresponding amount. In such event, if a Lender has not in fact made its share of such Advance available to the Administrative Agent, then the applicable Lender and the Borrower severally agree to pay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount with interest thereon, for each day from the date such amount is made available to the Borrower until the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at (i) in the case of a payment to be made by such Lender, a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation and (ii) in the case of a payment to be made by the Borrower, a rate per annum equal to the sum of (x) the rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation (y) the Applicable Margin per annum. If the Borrower and such Lender shall pay such interest to the Administrative Agent for the same or an overlapping period, the Administrative Agent shall promptly remit to the Borrower the amount of such interest paid by the Borrower for such period. If such Lender pays its share of the relevant Advance to the Administrative Agent, then the amount so paid shall constitute such Lender's Advance included in such Advance. Any payment by the Borrower shall be without prejudice to any claim the Borrower may have against a Lender that shall have failed to make such payment to the Administrative Agent.
Funding By Lenders
plus
          (b) . Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from the Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lender hereunder that the Borrower will not make such payment, the Administrative Agent may assume that the Borrower has made such payment on such date in accordance herewith and may, in reliance upon such assumption, distribute to the Lenders the amount due. In such event, if the Borrower has not in fact made such payment, then each of the Lenders severally agrees to repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand the amount so distributed to such Lender with interest thereon, for each day from the date such amount is distributed to it until the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation.
Payments by Borrower
     7.8 . Subject to Section 6.4, if the due date of any payment under this Agreement would otherwise fall on a day that is not a Banking Day, such date shall be
Non-Banking Days
 
extended to the next succeeding Banking Day and, in the case of any payment accruing interest, interest thereon shall be payable for the period of such extension.
8.
EVENTS OF DEFAULT
     8.1 . In the event that one or more of the following events shall occur and be continuing:
Events of Default
 
 
 
 
 
THEREUPON: in any such event, (1) the Administrative Agent may, and shall if so directed by the Majority Lenders, by notice to the Borrower, declare the Commitments to be terminated forthwith, whereupon the Commitments shall forthwith terminate, and/or (2) the Administrative Agent shall, upon request of the Majority Lenders, by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of and the accrued interest on the Advances and the Notes and all other amounts whatsoever payable by the Borrower hereunder (including any amounts payable under Section 12.5) to be forthwith due and payable, whereupon such amounts shall be immediately due and payable without presentment, demand, protest or other formalities of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrower; , in the case of an Event of Default of the kinds referred to in clauses (j)(i) or (j)(ii) with respect to the Borrower, the Commitments shall automatically terminate and the Advances and such other amounts shall automatically become due and payable, without any further action by any party.
provided
that
9.
COVENANTS
     9.1 . The Borrower hereby covenants and undertakes with the Lenders that, from the date hereof and so long as any Secured Obligations remain outstanding the Borrower will, and will cause it Subsidiaries, if any, to:
Affirmative Covenants
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     9.2 . The Borrower hereby covenants and undertakes with the Lenders that, from the date hereof and so long as any principal, interest or other moneys are owing in respect of the Facilities or under this Agreement or any other Loan Document, that the Borrower will not, nor will it permit any Subsidiary, to the extent applicable, to:
Negative Covenants
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.
JOINT COMMITTEE
     10.1 . Each Lender hereby appoints and authorizes SCB to act as a member of the joint committee hereunder and further agrees that SCB, in consultation with the Borrower may appoint on behalf of the Lenders another lender as the second member of the joint committee (SCB and such second member, together with any replacement members, the "Joint Committee") with such powers as are expressly delegated to the Joint Committee by the terms of Section 9.2(p), together with such other powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. The Joint Committee shall not have any duties or responsibilities except those expressly set forth in Section 9.2(p) and such other powers as are reasonably incidental thereto, or be a trustee or fiduciary for any Lender. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the Joint Committee shall not be required to take any action which is contrary to this Agreement or any other Loan Document or any Government Rule. All determinations to be made by the Joint Committee under this Agreement shall be made by unanimous vote of its members and otherwise in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Agreement. In the event that either member of the Joint Committee at any time reduces its Commitments to less than $10,000,000, ceases to be a Lender hereunder, or otherwise resigns from the Joint Committee, the remaining member of the Joint Committee shall appoint a Lender as a successor member to the Joint Committee; (a) such Lender shall be a Lender with one of the five largest Commitments at such time among the Lenders who are not then members of the Joint Committee and (b) the Borrower approves of such Lender's appointment (such approval not to be unreasonably withheld) within two Business Days of receipt of notice of such Lender's appointment to the Joint Committee. For any period that SCB is the sole Lender under this Agreement, the Joint Committee shall be deemed to consist solely of SCB.
Appointment of the Joint Committee
provided
     10.2 . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, any Proposed Transaction in which each Person proposed as a Permitted Person is a wholly owned Subsidiary of the Borrower shall be automatically approved in accordance with the following protocol:
Approval of a Wholly Owned Subsidiary Proposed Transaction
 
     10.3 . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, approval of any Proposed Transaction in which any Permitted Person is not a wholly-owned Subsidiary of the Borrower shall be determined in accordance with the following protocol:
Approval of a Proposed Transaction
 
     10.4 . Commencing with and including the third Proposed Transaction presented to the Joint Committee under Section 10.3 and each Proposed Transaction thereafter, the Borrower shall pay a non-refundable fee of $7,500.00 per member of the Joint Committee to the Administrative Agent, acting on the behalf of the members of the Joint Committee, prior to the delivery of the Proposed Transaction Documentation for such Proposed Transaction.
Proposed Transaction Fee
     10.5 . Approval of a Proposed Transaction under this Article 10 shall not be construed to waive any other provision of this Agreement in respect of such Proposed Transaction.
No Waiver; Proposed Transaction
11.
SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS
     11.1 . The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, except that the Borrower may not assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent and each Lender and no Lender may assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder except (i) to an assignee in accordance with the provisions of Section 11.2, (ii) by way of participation in accordance with the provisions of Section 11.5 or (iii) by way of pledge or assignment of a security interest pursuant to Section 11.6 (and any other attempted assignment or transfer by any party hereto shall be null and void). Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon any Person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, Participants to the extent provided in paragraph (d) of Section 11.2 and, to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the respective Related Parties of the Administrative Agent, Collateral Agent and the Lenders) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement.
Successors and Assigns Generally
     11.2 . Any Lender may at any time assign to one or more Eligible Assignees all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Advances at the time owing to it); any such assignment shall be subject to the following conditions:
Assignment; Participations; Etc. by the Lenders
provided
that
 
 
Subject to acceptance and recording thereof by the Administrative Agent pursuant to Section 11.4, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Assumption, the assignee thereunder shall be a party to this Agreement and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement, and the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Assumption covering all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto) but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of Article 12 and 19.5 with respect to facts and circumstances occurring prior to the effective date of such assignment. Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this paragraph shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with Section 11.5.
     11.3 .
Assignment by SCB
          (a) (i) SCB hereby irrevocably sells and assigns to China Development Bank Corporation all of its rights and obligations in its capacity as a Senior Lender under this Agreement and any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant hereto to the extent related to the Advances and the unutilized Senior Term Loan Commitment amount identified on Schedule 1A hereto and (ii) China Development Bank Corporation hereby irrevocably purchases and assumes such assignment (and its Senior Term Loan Commitment Amount shall be utilized by virtue of such assignment to the amount set forth on Schedule 1A hereto). By the execution and delivery of this Agreement the Administrative Agent and Borrower consent to such assignment. The Administrative Agent shall make all payments in respect of the outstanding rights and obligations assigned pursuant to this subclause (a) (including all payments of principal, interest and other amounts) to SCB for amounts which have accrued to but excluding the Effective Date and to China Development Bank Corporation for amounts which have accrued from and after the Effective Date.
          (b) (i) SCB hereby irrevocably sells and assigns to The Export-Import Bank of China all of its rights and obligations in its capacity as a Senior Lender under this Agreement and any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant hereto to the extent related to the Advances and the unutilized Senior Term Loan Commitment amount identified on Schedule 1A hereto and (ii) The Export-Import Bank of China hereby irrevocably purchases and assumes such assignment (and its Senior Term Loan Commitment Amount shall be utilized by virtue of such assignment to the amount set forth on Schedule 1A hereto). By the execution and delivery of this Agreement the Administrative Agent and Borrower consent to such assignment. The Administrative Agent shall make all payments in respect of the outstanding rights and obligations assigned pursuant to this subclause (b) (including all payments of principal, interest and other amounts) to SCB for amounts which have accrued to but excluding the Effective Date
 
and to The Export-Import Bank of China for amounts which have accrued from and after the Effective Date.
          (c) SCB (a) represents and warrants that (i) it is the legal and beneficial owner of the interests being assigned by it hereunder, (ii) such interests are free and clear of any lien, encumbrance or other adverse claim and (iii) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Agreement and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby; and (b) assumes no responsibility with respect to (i) any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with this Agreement, (ii) the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of this Agreement or any collateral hereunder, (iii) the financial condition of the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person obligated in respect of this Agreement or (iv) the performance or observance by the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates.
          (d) Each of China Development Bank Corporation and The Export-Import Bank of China (a) represents and warrants that (i) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Agreement and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and to become a Lender under this Agreement, (ii) it meets all requirements of an eligible assignee under this Agreement, (iii) from and after the Effective Date, it shall be bound by the provisions of this Agreement as a Lender hereunder and, to the extent of the interests being assigned to it hereunder, shall have the obligations of a Lender hereunder, (iv) it has received copies of such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement and to purchase the interests being assigned to it hereunder on the basis of which it has made such analysis and decision independently and without reliance on the Administrative Agent or any other Lender; and (b) agrees that (i) it will, independently and without reliance on the Administrative Agent, SCB or any other Lender, and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under this Agreement and (ii) it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations which by the terms of this Agreement are required to be performed by it as a Lender.
     11.4 . The Administrative Agent, acting solely for this purpose as an agent of the Borrower, shall maintain a copy of each Assignment and Assumption delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Commitments of, and principal amounts of the Advances owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the "Register"). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive, and the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary. The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrower and any Lender, at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
Register
     11.5 . Any Lender may at any time, without the consent of, or notice to, the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, sell participations to any Person (other than a natural person or the Borrower or any of the Borrower's Affiliates or Subsidiaries) (each, a "Participant") in all or a portion of such Lender's rights and/or obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and/or the Advances owing to it);
Participations
provided
that
 
(i) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (ii) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations and (iii) the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement.
          Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement; such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, modification or waiver that would (i) increase or extend the term of such Lender's Commitment, (ii) extend the date fixed for the payment of principal of or interest on any Advance or any portion of any fee hereunder payable to the Participant, (iii) reduce the amount of any such payment of principal, (iv) reduce the rate at which interest is payable thereon to a level below the rate at which the Participant is entitled to receive such interest, (v) release any Guarantor from the Guarantee Agreement (other than in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Documents) or (vi) release any Property covered by any Security Document, except in connection with Dispositions permitted hereunder or as otherwise provided herein or in the Security Documents. The Borrower agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of Article 12 to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to Section 11.2. To the extent permitted by law, each Participant also shall be entitled to the benefits of Section 7.4 as though it were a Lender, such Participant agrees to be subject to Section 7.4 as though it were a Lender.
provided
that
provided
that
     11.6 . Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement and any Note to secure obligations of such Lender, including any pledge or assignment to secure obligations to a Federal Reserve Bank; no such pledge or assignment shall release such Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender as a party hereto.
Certain Pledges
provided
that
     11.7
Taxes.
          (a) . Any and all payments by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower hereunder or under any other Loan Document shall be made free and clear of and without reduction or withholding for any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes; if the Borrower shall be required by applicable law to deduct any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes from such payments, then (i) the sum payable shall be increased as necessary so that after making all required deductions for Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes (including deductions for Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes applicable to additional sums payable under this Section) each Administrative Agent and each Lender receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions for Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes been made, (ii) the Borrower shall make such deductions and (iii) the Borrower shall timely pay the full amount deducted to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
Payments Free of Taxes
provided
that
 
          (b) . Without limiting the provisions of subsection (a) above, the Borrower shall timely pay any Other Taxes that arise from any payment made under, or otherwise with respect to, any Loan Document to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
Payment of Other Taxes by the Borrower
          (c) . The Borrower shall indemnify each Agent and each Lender, within thirty (30) days after demand therefor, for the full amount of any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes (including Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes imposed or asserted on or attributable to amounts payable under this Section) attributable to the Borrower or that arise from any payment made under, or otherwise with respect to, any Loan Document, and paid by such Administrative Agent or such Lender and any penalties, interest and reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority. A certificate as to the amount of such payment or liability delivered to the Borrower by a Lender or the Collateral Agent (in each case with a copy to the Administrative Agent), or by the Administrative Agent on its own behalf or on behalf of a Lender or the Collateral Agent, shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
Indemnification by the Borrower
          (d) . As soon as practicable after any payment of Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes by the Borrower to a Governmental Authority, the Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment, a copy of the return reporting such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
Evidence of Payments
          (e) Any Lender that is not resident for tax purposes in the jurisdiction in which the Borrower is resident for such purposes and is entitled to an exemption from or reduction of withholding tax under the law of the jurisdiction in which the Borrower is resident, or any treaty to which such jurisdiction is a party, with respect to payments hereunder or under any other Loan Document shall, to the extent legally able to do so, use reasonable efforts to deliver to the Borrower (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), at the time or times prescribed by applicable law, such properly completed and executed documentation prescribed by applicable law or reasonably requested by the Borrower or Administrative Agent as will permit such payments to be made without withholding or at a reduced rate; nothing herein shall obligate any Lender to disclose any confidential information in connection therewith.
provided
that
     11.8 . If the Administrative Agent or a Lender reasonably determines, in its sole discretion, that it has received a refund of any Taxes as to which it has been indemnified by the Borrower or with respect to which the Borrower has paid additional amounts pursuant to this Section, it shall pay to the Borrower an amount equal to such refund (but only to the extent of indemnity payments made, or additional amounts paid by the Borrower under this Section with respect to the Taxes giving rise to such refund), net of all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses of the Administrative Agent or such Lender, as the case may be, and without interest (other than any interest paid by the relevant taxing authority with respect to such refund); the Borrower, upon the request of the Administrative Agent or such Lender, agrees to repay the amount paid over to the Borrower (plus any penalties, interest or other charges imposed by the relevant taxing authority) to the Administrative Agent or such Lender in the event the Administrative Agent or such Lender is required to repay such refund to
Treatment of Certain Refunds
provided
that
 
such taxing authority. This paragraph shall not be construed to require the Administrative Agent or any Lender to make available its tax returns (or any other information relating to its taxes that it deems confidential) to the Borrower or any other Person.
12.
YIELD PROTECTION, ETC.
     12.1 . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, in the event that any Change in Law shall make it unlawful for any Lender or its Applicable Lending Office to make or maintain its Advances or give effect to its obligations as contemplated by this Agreement (and, in the opinion of such Lender, the designation of a different Applicable Lending Office would either not avoid such unlawfulness or would be disadvantageous to such Lender), such Lender shall inform the Administrative Agent and the Borrower to that effect, whereafter (a) such Lender's Commitment shall be suspended until such time as such Lender may again make and maintain its Advances hereunder and (b) if such Change in Law shall so mandate, such Lender's Advances shall be prepaid by the Borrower, together with accrued and unpaid interest thereon and all other amounts payable by the Borrower under this Agreement, on or before such date as shall be mandated by such Change in Law. In any such event, but without prejudice to the aforesaid obligations of the Borrower to prepay the amounts referenced above, the Borrower and relevant Lender shall negotiate in good faith with a view to agreeing on terms for making its portion of the Commitment available from another jurisdiction on a basis which is not unlawful.
Illegality
     12.2 .
Increased Costs
and the result of any of the foregoing is either to increase the cost to such Lender of making available or maintaining its Advances or of maintaining its Commitments, or any part thereof or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by such Lender hereunder (whether of principal, interest or any other amount) then, upon request of such Lender, the Borrower will pay to such Bank such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Bank for such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered. This Section 12.2(a) shall not apply to matters covered by Section 11.7.
 
     12.3 . If on or prior to the first day of any Interest Period (an "Affected Interest Period"):
Interest Rate Determination
 
the Administrative Agent shall give notice thereof (a "Rate Determination Notice") to the Borrower and the Lenders as soon as practicable thereafter.
If such notice is given, during the fifteen (15) day period following such Rate Determination Notice, the Administrative Agent shall notify (a "Substitute Basis Notice") the Borrower of a substitute interest rate basis for the Advances under the Senior Facility or Cost Overrun Term Loan, as the case may be, determined by the Supermajority Lenders or Supermajority Cost Overrun Lenders, as the case may be, which shall constitute for purposes of this Agreement the cost to the Lenders of funding or maintaining their Advances under the Senior Facility or Cost Overrun Term Loan, as the case may be (a "Substitute Basis"), and thereafter the Borrower and the Administrative Agent shall consult in good faith regarding such Substitute Basis and if such Substitute Basis is agreed to by the Borrower in writing within ten (10) Banking Days following delivery of the Substitute Basis Notice, such Substitute Basis shall apply in lieu of LIBOR to all Interest Periods under the applicable Facility commencing on or after the first day of the Affected Interest Period, until notified by the Administrative Agent (acting on the behalf of the Supermajority Lenders or Supermajority Cost Overrun Lenders, as the case may be) that the circumstances giving rise to such notice have ceased to apply; provided that the Borrower may, at least five (5) Banking Days prior to the end of each Affected Interest Period, request that the Supermajority Lenders or Supermajority Cost Overrun Lenders, as the case may be, provide confirmation that the circumstances giving rise to the applicable Substitute Basis continue and if so whether the Substitute Basis will remain the same, increase or decrease for the immediately subsequent Affected Interest Period. If the Borrower rejects the Substitute Basis or fails to approve the Substitute Basis within the required ten (10) Banking Days, the Borrower may elect to prepay the Advances under the Senior Facility or Cost Overrun Term Loan, as the case may be, pursuant to Section 5.3, applying such Substitute Basis with respect to the calculation of interest accrued on and after the first day of the Affected Interest Period until the date of such prepayment; provided, however, that if the Borrower does not elect so to prepay, each Senior Lender or Cost Overrun Term Loan, as applicable, shall determine (and shall certify from time to time in a certificate delivered by such Lender to the Administrative Agent setting forth in
 
reasonable detail the basis of the computation of such amount) the rate basis reflecting the cost to such Lender of funding and maintaining, as applicable, its Advances for the Interest Period commencing on or after the first day of the Affected Interest Period, until the circumstances giving rise to such notice have ceased to apply, and such rate basis shall be binding upon the Borrower and such Lender and shall apply in lieu of LIBOR for the relevant Interest Period. Solely for purposes of this Section, at any time that there is more than one (1) Senior Lender but four (4) or less Senior Lenders under this Agreement, the determination of the Required Senior Lender or Supermajority Lender (as applicable) threshold shall require the approval of at least two (2) Senior Lenders in addition to satisfaction of the percentage requirements for such voting threshold.
     12.4 . A certificate or determination notice of the Administrative Agent as to any of the matters referred to in this Article 12 shall, save for any manifest error, be conclusive and binding on the Borrower.
Administrative Agent's Certificate
     12.5 . The Borrower shall pay to the Administrative Agent for account of each Lender, upon the request of such Lender through the Administrative Agent, such amount or amounts (if any) as shall be sufficient to compensate it for any loss, cost or expense that such Lender determines is attributable to:
Break-Funding
Each Lender will furnish to the Borrower a certificate setting forth the basis and amount of each request by such Lender for compensation under this Section 12.5, which certificate shall be conclusive and binding on the Borrower in the absence of manifest error.
     12.6 . If any Lender requests compensation under Section 12.2, or requires the Borrower to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to Section 11.7, then such Lender shall use reasonable efforts to designate a different Applicable Lending Office for funding or booking its Advances hereunder or to assign its rights and obligations hereunder to another of its offices, branches or affiliates, if, in the judgment of such Lender, such designation or assignment (i) would eliminate or reduce amounts payable pursuant to Section 11.7 or 12.2, as the case may be, in the future and (ii) would not subject such Lender to any unreimbursed cost or expense and would not otherwise be materially disadvantageous to such Lender. The Borrower hereby agrees to pay all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by each Lender in connection with any such designation or assignment.
Mitigation Obligations
 
13.
CURRENCY INDEMNITY
     13.1 . This is an international loan transaction in which the specification of Dollars and payment in New York, New York, is of the essence, and the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents to each Lender or the Administrative Agent or the Collateral Agent (in this Section 13.1 called an "Entitled Person") to make payment in Dollars shall not be discharged or satisfied by any tender or recovery pursuant to any judgment expressed in or converted into any other currency or in another place except to the extent that on the Banking Day following receipt of any sum adjudged to be so due in the judgment currency such Entitled Person may in accordance with normal banking procedures purchase, and transfer to New York, New York, Dollars in the amount originally due to such Entitled Person with the judgment currency. If for the purpose of obtaining judgment in any court it is necessary to convert a sum due hereunder in Dollars into another currency (in this Section 13.1 called the "judgment currency"), the rate of exchange that shall be applied shall be that at which in accordance with normal banking procedures the Administrative Agent could purchase such Dollars at New York, New York, with the judgment currency on the Banking Day immediately preceding the day on which such judgment is rendered. The Borrower hereby, as a separate obligation and notwithstanding any such judgment, agrees to indemnify such Entitled Person against, and to pay each Entitled Person on demand, in Dollars, the amount (if any) by which the sum originally due to such Entitled Person in Dollars hereunder exceeds the amount of the Dollars purchased and transferred as aforesaid.
Judgment Currency
14.
FEES AND EXPENSES
     14.1 .
Fee Letters
          (a) . The Borrower shall pay to SCB such fees as the parties have agreed pursuant to (i) the Upfront Fee and Coordination Fee Letter and (ii) the Additional Upfront Fee Letter in accordance with the terms therewith.
Upfront Fee and Coordination Fee
          (b) . The Borrower shall pay to the Administrative Agent, for its own account, the Agency and Depositary Fee commencing on the earlier to occur of (i) the Initial Drawdown Date and (ii) the date occurring fifteen (15) days after the Closing Date, and annually in advance on each anniversary of the Closing Date thereafter until the Termination Date (as defined in the Collateral Agency Agreement) in the amounts set forth in the Agency and Depositary Fee Letter. The Agency and Depositary Fee shall be payable in advance in accordance with the terms and in the amounts as set forth in the Agency and Depositary Fee Letter.
Agency and Depositary Fee
     14.2 . The Borrower shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender (as applicable), for each day during the period from the date hereof until the last day of (a) the Senior Revolver Availability Period, with respect to the unused Senior Revolver Commitments at a rate equal to 1.25% per annum, (b) the Term Loan Availability Period, with respect to the unused Senior Term Loan Commitments at a rate equal to 1.25% per annum and (c) the Term Loan Availability Period, with respect to the unused Cost Overrun Term Loan Commitments at a rate equal to 1.25% per annum, accrued commitment fees to be payable on each Quarterly Date and upon termination or expiry of the Commitments.
Commitment Fee
 
     14.3 .
Expenses
          (a) Subject to Section 14.3(b) below, the Borrower shall pay (i) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Lead Arranger, member of the Joint Committee, Agent and its respective Affiliates (including the reasonable fees and expenses of Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy LLP, special New York counsel to the Administrative Agent, Stamford Law Corporation special Singapore local counsel to the Administrative Agent and any other counsel to the Administrative Agent retained in connection with Section 9.1(p)(v) and retained in connection with the review of a Proposed Transaction by the Joint Committee), in connection with the syndication of the Facilities provided for herein, the preparation, negotiation, execution, delivery and administration of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents or any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions hereof or thereof (including, without limitation, reasonable out-of-pocket expenses with respect to the Technical and Environmental Consultant, Insurance Consultant, (whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby shall be consummated) and (ii) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Lead Arranger, the Mandated Lead Arrangers, the Agents or any Lender (including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for the Agents or any Lender) in connection with the enforcement or, during the continuance of an Event of Default, protection of its rights (A) in connection with this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, including its rights under this Section, or (B) in connection with the Advances made hereunder, including all such out-of-pocket expenses incurred during any workout, restructuring or negotiations in respect of such Advances.
          (b) Any out of pocket expenses of the Lead Arranger and member of the Joint Committee that are reasonably expected to exceed $5,000 shall require the Borrower's written consent, which shall not be unreasonably withheld, prior to the Lead Arranger incurring such out of pocket expense; (i) the Borrower's approval shall be deemed given if (1) the Borrower does not respond within five Banking Days of the relevant request for approval, (2) such costs and expenses are reasonably necessary to keep the Advances and/or the Lenders' rights in respect thereof unaffected and in full force and effect or (3) an Event of Default has occurred.
provided
that
15.
APPLICABLE LAW AND JURISDICTION
     15.1
GOVERNING LAW
. THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW (EXCLUDING SECTION 5-1401 OF THE NEW YORK GENERAL OBLIGATIONS LAW).
     15.2 . The Borrower hereby (i) irrevocably submits, for itself and its Property, to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of the State of New York and of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York , and any applicable appellate court, in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to any Loan Document or any instrument delivered hereunder or thereunder, or for recognition or enforcement of any judgment, and each of the parties hereto, (ii) irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that all claims in respect of any such
Submission to Jurisdiction; Process Agent; Alternative Process; Waiver of Venue, Etc.
 
action or proceeding may be heard and determined in such New York State court or, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, in such Federal court, (iii) irrevocably waives (to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law) any objection which it now or hereafter may have to the laying of venue of any such action or proceeding brought in any of the foregoing courts, and any objection on the ground that any such action or proceeding in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum and (iv) agrees that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner permitted by law. The Borrower hereby irrevocably appoints, for the duration of this Agreement and until the Facility has been repaid in full, C T Corporation System, with a place of business at 111 Eighth Avenue, New York, New York 10011, its attorney-in-fact and agent for service of summons or other legal process thereon, which service may be made by serving a copy of any summons or other legal process in any such action or proceeding on such agent and such agent is hereby authorized and directed to receive and forward by and on behalf of the Borrower, service of summons and other legal process in any such action or proceeding against it. The service, as herein provided, of such summons or other legal process in any such action or proceeding shall be deemed personal service and accepted by the Borrower as such, and shall be legal and binding upon the Borrower for all the purposes of any such action or proceeding. Nothing herein shall in any way be deemed to limit the ability of the Administrative Agent, Collateral Agent or any Lender to serve any such process or summonses in any other manner permitted by applicable law. Final judgment (a certified or exemplified copy of which shall be conclusive evidence of the fact and of the amount of any indebtedness of the Borrower to the Lenders) against the Borrower in any such legal action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment. In the event that the Borrower shall not be conveniently available for such service, the Borrower hereby irrevocably appoints the Person who then is the Secretary of State of the State of New York as such attorney-in-fact and agent. Nothing in this Agreement or in any other Loan Document shall affect any right that the Administrative Agent, the Collateral Agent or any Lender may otherwise have to bring any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or any other Loan Document against the Borrower or its properties in the courts of any other appropriate jurisdiction.
     15.3
WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL
. IT IS MUTUALLY AGREED BY EACH PARTY HERETO THAT EACH OF THEM HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES , TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY ACTION, PROCEEDING OR COUNTERCLAIM BROUGHT BY ANY PARTY HERETO AGAINST ANY OTHER PARTY HERETO ON ANY MATTER WHATSOEVER ARISING OUT OF OR IN ANY WAY CONNECTED WITH THIS AGREEMENT OR THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY OR THEREBY (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER THEORY). EACH PARTY HERETO (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PERSON HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PERSON WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT AND THE NOTES BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION.
 
16.
THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT
     16.1 .
Appointment of Administrative Agent
     16.2 .
Duties of the Administrative Agent
     16.3 . Except as specifically provided in the Loan Documents, the Lead Arranger has no obligations of any kind to any other party under or in connection with any Loan Document. The Mandated Lead Arrangers and the Cost Overrun Term Loan Lead Arranger have no obligations of any kind to any other party under or in connection with any Loan Document.
Role of the Lead Arranger; Mandated Lead Arrangers
     16.4 .
No Fiduciary Duties
 
     16.5 . The Administrative Agent, the Lead Arranger, the Mandated Lead Arrangers and the Cost Overrun Term Loan Lead Arranger may accept deposits from, lend money to and generally engage in any kind of banking or other business with the any Security Party.
Business with the Borrower and the Joint Venturers
     16.6 .
Rights and Discretions
 
     16.7 .
Required Lenders' Instructions
     16.8 . The Administrative Agent, the members of the Joint Committee, the Lead Arranger, the Mandated Lead Arrangers and the Cost Overrun Term Loan Lead Arranger shall not be:
Responsibility for Documentation
 
     16.9 .
Exclusion of Liability
     16.10 .
Resignation of the Administrative Agent
 
     16.11 .
Confidentiality
 
     16.12 .
Relationship with the Lenders
     16.13 .
Credit Appraisal by the Lenders
          Without affecting the responsibility of the any Security Party for information supplied by it or on its behalf in connection with any Loan Document, each Lender confirms to the Administrative Agent, the Lead Arranger, the Mandated Lead Arrangers and the Cost Overrun Term Loan Lead Arranger that it has been, and will continue to be, solely responsible for making its own independent appraisal and investigation of all risks arising under or in connection with any Loan Document including but not limited to:
 
     16.14 . Any amount payable to the Administrative Agent under Article 14, Section 19.5(a) and Section 19.5(b) shall include any reasonable costs in utilizing the Administrative Agent's management time or other resources (as shall be approved in writing by the Borrower (such approval not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed)) and will be calculated on the basis of such reasonable daily or hourly rates as the Administrative Agent and members of the Joint Committee may notify to the Borrower and the Lenders, and is in addition to any fee paid or payable to the Administrative Agent under Article 14 or to the Joint Committee.
Administrative Agent's and Joint Committee Management Time
     16.15 . If any party hereto owes an amount to the Administrative Agent under the Loan Documents the Administrative Agent may, after giving notice to that party, deduct an amount not exceeding that amount from any payment to that party which the Administrative Agent would otherwise be obligated to make under the Loan Documents and apply the amount deducted in or towards satisfaction of the amount owed. For the purposes of the Loan Documents that party shall be regarded as having received any amount so deducted.
Deduction from Amounts payable by the Administrative Agent
     16.16 . Each Lender confirms that each of the Lead Arranger and the Administrative Agent has authority to accept on its behalf (and ratifies the acceptance on its behalf of any letters, engagement letters or reports from the Insurance Consultant and Technical and Environmental Consultant already accepted by the Lead Arranger or Administrative Agent) the terms of any letters, engagement letters or reports relating to the Insurance Consultant and Technical and Environmental Consultant in connection with the Loan Documents or the transactions contemplated in the Loan Documents and to bind it in respect of those letters, engagement letters or reports and to sign such documents on its behalf and further confirms that it accepts the terms and qualifications set out in such documents.
Reliance and Engagement Letters
17.
COLLATERAL AGENT
     17.1 . Each Lender hereby irrevocably authorizes the Administrative Agent to act as its agent under the Collateral Agency Agreement to appoint the Collateral Agent thereunder on behalf of such Lender and the other Secured Parties, such appointment subject to the terms and conditions of such agreement.
Appointment by Administrative Agent
18.
NOTICES AND DEMANDS
     18.1 . Every notice or demand required or permitted under this Agreement shall be in writing and may be given or made by facsimile, mail, prepaid overnight courier or other means, sent as follows:
Addresses
If to the Security Parties:
 
If to the Administrative Agent:
If to the Joint Committee:
If to the Lenders:
          To their respective addresses set forth on Schedule 1 hereto or as otherwise set forth in any Assignment and Assumption provided to the Administrative Agent by such Lender.
     18.2 . Every notice or demand required or permitted under this Agreement shall except so far as otherwise expressly provided by this Agreement, be deemed to have been received in the case of a facsimile at the time of dispatch thereof ( if the date of dispatch is not a Banking Day in the locality of the party to whom such notice or demand is sent it shall be deemed to have been received on the next following Banking Day in such locality), in
Receipt
provided
that
 
the case of a letter delivered by hand or by courier, at the time of delivery and, in the case of a letter, on the expiration of five (5) days after the same is put into the mail.
19.
MISCELLANEOUS
     19.1 . No failure or delay on the part of the Administrative Agent, Collateral Agent or any Lender to exercise and no delay in exercising, and no course of dealing with respect to, any right, remedy, power or privilege under any Loan Document shall operate or be construed as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right, remedy, power or privilege under any Loan Document preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, remedy, power or privilege. The remedies provided herein are cumulative and are not exclusive of any remedies provided by law.
No Waiver
     19.2 . The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 11.7, 12.2, 12.5 and 14.3, 19.5, and the obligations of the Lenders under Section 14.3, shall survive the repayment of the Advances and the termination of the Commitments and, in the case of any Lender that may assign any interest in its Commitment or Advances hereunder, shall survive, in the case of any event or circumstance that occurred prior to the effective date of such assignment, the making of such assignment, notwithstanding that such assigning Lender may cease to be a "Lender" hereunder. In addition, each representation and warranty made, or deemed to be made by a notice of any Advance, herein or pursuant hereto shall survive the making of such representation and warranty.
Survival
     19.3 . In case any one or more of the provisions contained in this Agreement or any other Loan Document is found by a court to be invalid or unenforceable, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law the parties agree that such invalidity or unenforceability shall not impair the validity or enforceability of any other provision hereof.
Severability
     19.4 . The Borrower acknowledges that the Lenders have no fiduciary relationship with, or fiduciary duty to, the Borrower arising out of or in connection with this Agreement or the other Loan Documents, and the relationship between each Lender and the Borrower is solely that of creditor and debtor. This Agreement and the other Loan Documents do not create a joint venture among the parties.
No Fiduciary Relationship
     19.5 .
Indemnification by Borrower
          (a) The Borrower shall indemnify each Agent, each member of the Joint Committee, each Lender and each Related Party of any of the foregoing Persons (each such Person being called an "Indemnitee") against, and hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and related expenses (including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for any Indemnitee), incurred by any Indemnitee or asserted against any Indemnitee by any third party or by any Security Party arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of (i) the execution or delivery of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby or thereby, the performance by the parties hereto of their respective obligations hereunder or thereunder or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, (ii) any Advance or the use or proposed use of the proceeds therefrom, (iii) any actual or alleged
Indemnification by Borrower.
 
presence or Release of Hazardous Materials on or from any property owned or operated by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or any Environmental Liability related in any way to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or (iv) any actual or prospective claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether based on contract, tort or any other theory, whether brought by a third party or by the Borrower and regardless of whether any Indemnitee is a party thereto, such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses (x) are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee or (y) result from a claim brought by the Borrower against an Indemnitee for breach in bad faith of such Indemnitee's obligations hereunder or under any other Loan Document, if the Borrower has obtained a final and nonappealable judgment in its favor on such claim as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction.
provided
that
          (b) . To the extent that the Borrower for any reason fails to indefeasibly pay any amount required under Section 14.3 and Section 19.5(a) to be paid by it to either Agent, member of the Joint Committee or any Related Party thereof, each Lender severally agrees to pay to such Agent or such Related Party, as the case may be, in accordance with such Lender's Commitment (determined as of the time that the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity payment is sought), such unpaid amount, the unreimbursed expense or indemnified loss, claim, damage, liability or related expense, as the case may be, was incurred by or asserted against either Agent in its capacity as such, or against any Related Party of any of the foregoing acting for such Agent in connection with such capacity.
Reimbursement by Lenders
pro rata
provided
that
          (c) To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, each party hereto agrees that it will not assert, and hereby waives, any claim against any other party hereto, on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages) arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of, any Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, any Advance or the use of the proceeds thereof.
Waiver of Consequential Damages, Etc.
          (d) . All amounts due under this Section 19.5 shall be payable not later than ten days after demand therefor.
Payments
     19.6 . The table of contents and captions and section headings appearing herein are included solely for convenience of reference and shall not be taken into account in the interpretation of any provisions of this Agreement.
Captions
     19.7 . Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement, any provision of this Agreement may be modified or supplemented only by an instrument in writing signed by the Borrower and the Majority Lenders, or by the Borrower and the Administrative Agent acting with the consent of the Majority Lenders, and any provision of this Agreement may be waived by the Majority Lenders or by the Administrative Agent acting with the consent of the Majority Lenders; (a) no modification, supplement or waiver shall, unless by an instrument signed by all of the Lenders or by the Administrative Agent acting with the consent of all of the Lenders (i) increase or extend the term of the Commitments, (ii) extend the date fixed
Amendments
provided
that
 
for the payment of principal of or interest on any Advance or any fee hereunder, (iii) reduce the amount of any such payment of principal, (iv) reduce the rate at which interest is payable thereon or any fee is payable hereunder, (v) release any Property covered by any Security Document, except in connection with Dispositions permitted hereunder or as otherwise provided herein or in the Security Documents, (vi) alter the terms of this Section 19.7, or (vii) subject to Section 19.12, modify the definition of the term "Requisite Lenders" or modify in any other manner the number or percentage of the Lenders required to make any determinations or waive any rights hereunder or to modify any provision hereof, or (viii) alter the (1) terms of priority among the Secured Parties in the Lien granted to the Collateral Agent or (2) the priority of payment of the Secured Obligations to the Lenders as set forth in the Loan Documents and (b) any modification or supplement of Article 16, or of any of the rights or duties of an Agent hereunder, shall require the consent of such Agent.
     19.8 . The Lenders shall keep information provided by the Borrower or relating to the Borrower confidential except that the Lenders may disclose such information to:
Lender Confidentiality
     19.9 . This Agreement and the other Loan Documents constitute the entire agreement among the parties hereto (including all parties added hereto pursuant to any assignment made pursuant to Section 11.2) relating to the subject matter hereof and supercede any and all previous agreements and understandings, oral written, relating to the subject matter hereof. This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts (and by different parties hereto in different counterparts), each of which shall be deemed an original, but all such counterparts when taken together shall constitute a single contract. This Agreement shall become effective when it shall have been executed by the Administrative Agent and when the Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts hereof that, when taken together, bear the signatures of each of the other parties hereto. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Agreement by telecopy or electronic transmission shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement.
Entire Agreement
     19.10 . TO THE EXTENT THAT ANY SECURITY PARTY MAY BE OR BECOME ENTITLED TO CLAIM ANY IMMUNITY FROM SUIT,
WAIVER OF IMMUNITY
 
JURISDICTION OF ANY COURT OR ANY LEGAL PROCESS (WHETHER THROUGH ATTACHMENT PRIOR TO JUDGMENT, ATTACHMENT IN AID OF EXECUTION, EXECUTION OF A JUDGMENT, OR FROM ANY OTHER LEGAL PROCESS OR REMEDY) AND TO THE EXTENT THAT IN ANY SUCH JURISDICTION THERE MAY BE ATTRIBUTED SUCH AN IMMUNITY (WHETHER OR NOT CLAIMED) WITH RESPECT TO ITSELF OR ITS PROPERTY OR REVENUES, SUCH SECURITY PARTY HEREBY IRREVOCABLY AGREES NOT TO CLAIM AND HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES SUCH IMMUNITY WITH RESPECT TO ITS OBLIGATIONS UNDER THIS AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS.
     19.11 . The Administrative Agent hereby notifies the Borrower and each other Security Party that pursuant to the requirements of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56, signed into law October 26, 2001) (the "Act"), and the Administrative Agent's policies and practices, the Administrative Agent and each of the Lenders is required to obtain, verify and record certain information and documentation that identifies each Security Party, which information includes the name and address of each Security Party and such other information that will allow the Administrative Agent and the Lenders to identify each Security Party in accordance with the Act. In addition, each Security Party shall (a) ensure that no Person who owns a controlling interest in or otherwise controls any Security Party or any subsidiary of any thereof is or shall be listed on the Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Person List or other similar lists maintained by the Office of Foreign Assets Control ("OFAC"), the Department of the Treasury or included in any Executive Orders, (b) not use or permit the use of the proceeds of the Facilities to violate any of the foreign asset control regulations of OFAC or any enabling statute or Executive Order relating thereto, and (c) comply, and cause any of its subsidiaries to comply, with all applicable Bank Secrecy Act laws and regulations, as amended.
USA Patriot Act Notice; OFAC and Bank Secrecy Act
     19.12 .
Defaulting Lenders
 
 
 
          IN WITNESS whereof the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed by their respective duly authorized representative on the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXECUTION VERSION
 
 
          dated as of July 28, 2010 (this "") is made between (i) BULLY 2, LTD., an exempt company incorporated in the Cayman Islands (the "") and (ii) STANDARD CHARTERED BANK, a company incorporated by Royal Charter in England (with reference number ZC18, hereinafter ""), as administrative agent (in such capacity and any successor thereto, the "") acting on the behalf of the Majority Lenders and as collateral agent (in such capacity and any successor thereto, the "") for the Secured Parties.
THIS OMNIBUS AMENDMENT AND CONSENT AGREEMENT
Agreement
Borrower
SCB
Administrative Agent
Collateral Agent
          , the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, SCB, in its capacity as lead arranger, China Development Bank Corporation, The Export-Import Bank of China, SCB and HSBC Bank PLC, as mandated lead arrangers, RZB Finance LLC, as cost overrun term loan lead arranger, the Collateral Agent, and the financial institutions identified therein as lenders party thereto (the "") are parties to that certain Term Loan and Revolving Loan Credit Facility Agreement dated as of October 21, 2008, and amended and restated as of October 9, 2009 (as amended, supplemented or modified from time to time, the "");
WHEREAS
Lenders
Credit Agreement
          , FDR Holdings, certain shareholders of FDR Holdings and Noble Corporation ("") intend to consummate a transaction whereby Noble shall acquire a 100% ownership interest in FDR Holdings (the "");
WHEREAS
Noble
Transaction
          , in connection with the Transaction, the Borrower desires to effectuate certain amendments to the Credit Agreement, obtain certain consents from the required Lenders with respect to certain actions to be taken in connection with the Transaction and terminate the Sponsor Purchase Agreement;
WHEREAS
          , in consideration of the foregoing premises and the covenants and agreements contained herein, the parties hereto hereby enter into this Agreement in order to effectuate certain amendments to the Credit Agreement and grant the referenced consents.
NOW, THEREFORE
          1.01 . Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, capitalized terms used herein which are defined in the Credit Agreement shall have the same meanings herein (including in the introductory paragraph and recitals hereto) as therein and the principles of interpretation set forth therein shall apply herein.
Certain Defined Terms
          "" has the meaning ascribed thereto in the recitals.
Administrative Agent
          "" has the meaning ascribed thereto in the recitals.
Agreement
          "" has the meaning ascribed thereto in the recitals.
Collateral Agent
          "" has the meaning ascribed thereto in the recitals.
Borrower
          "" has the meaning ascribed thereto in the recitals.
Credit Agreement
 
          "" has the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 4.01.
Effective Date
          "" has the meaning ascribed thereto in the recitals.
Lenders
          "" has the meaning ascribed thereto in the Mortgage.
Mortgagee
          "" has the meaning ascribed thereto in the recitals.
Noble
          "" has the meaning ascribed thereto in the recitals.
SCB
          "" has the meaning ascribed thereto in the recitals.
Transaction
          "" means the date of consummation of the Transaction as confirmed in writing by the Borrower to the Administrative Agent.
Transaction Closing Date
          2.01 .
Amendments to the Representations and Warranties
          (a) . Subject to Section 4.01, Section 2.1(q) of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the words "and the Purchasers" in clause (iii) thereof and by deleting the words "the Sponsor Purchase Agreement or" in the second sentence thereof.
Ownership
          (b) . Subject to Section 4.01, Section 2.1(bb) of the Credit Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the word "Reserved".
Sponsor Purchase Agreement
          2.02 . Subject to Section 4.01, Section 8.1(n) of the Credit Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the word "Reserved."
Amendments to Events of Default
          2.03 . Subject to Section 4.01, the definition of "Loan Documents" in Section 1.1 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by (i) deleting the phrase "and the Fee Letters" in its entirety and (ii) inserting the phrase ", the Fee Letters and the Omnibus Amendment and Consent Agreement dated as of July 28, 2010 among the Borrower and SCB, as Administrative Agent and Collateral Agent" immediately after words "the Fee Letters" in place thereof.
Amendments to Loan Document Definition
          2.04 .
Amendment to Notice Information
          (a) Subject to Section 4.01, the notice information for the Security Parties contained in Section 18.1 of the Credit Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following (the ""):
New Notice Information
"BULLY 2, LTD. c/o Maples and Calder PO Box 309, Ugland House South Church Street, George Town
 
Grand Cayman KY1-1104 Cayman Islands
with a copy to:
BULLY 2, LTD. c/o Noble Drilling Services Inc. 13135 South Dairy Ashford, Suite 800 Sugar Land, TX 77478 Attn: Steve Donley Facsimile No.: 281.276.6344"
          (b) Subject to Section 4.01, Section 18.1 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended to add the following sentence directly at the end thereof:
"Any party hereto may change its address or facsimile number for notices and other communications hereunder by providing prior written notice to the other parties hereto."
          (c) Subject to Section 4.01, the Borrower hereby notifies the Administrative Agent and the Collateral Agent that, pursuant to each of Section 20 of the Mortgage, Section 23 of the Assignment of Earnings, Section 19 of the Assignment of Insurances, Section 21 of each Assignment of Construction Contract, Section 21 of the Assignment of Drilling Contract, Section 21 of the Assignment of Management Contract, Section 5.04 of the Security Agreement, Section 7.04 of the Collateral Agency Agreement, Section 6.2 of the Depositary Agreement, Section 7(b) of the Direct Agreement, Section 8(b) of the Consent and Agreement in respect of the Management Agreement, Section 7(b) of the Consent and Agreement in respect of the Shanghai Construction Contract, and Section 18 of the Control Agreement with Wells Fargo Bank, National Association and with respect to the notice information of the Borrower in any other Loan Document, on and after the Effective Date, it designates the New Notice Information as its address for notices delivered pursuant to any of the foregoing Loan Documents.
          2.05 .
New Vessel Name
          (a) The Borrower hereby informs the Administrative Agent that, at or after the consummation of the Transaction, the name of the Vessel may be changed to a new name (the "").
New Vessel Name
          (b) The Borrower hereby agrees to (i) deliver written notice from the Borrower to the Administrative Agent specifying the New Vessel Name, (ii) execute an amendment to the Mortgage in form and substance reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent and the Mortgagee effectuating such change in vessel name, (iii) deliver evidence reasonably requested and satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, Collateral Agent and Mortgagee that all actions required by applicable law for effectuating such amendment to the Mortgage and change in vessel name have been completed and (iv) pay all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Agents and their respective Affiliates (including the reasonable fees and expenses of
 
Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy LLP, special New York counsel to the Administrative Agent, Holland and Knight, special maritime counsel to the Administrative Agent and any other counsel to the Administrative Agent) in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Section 2.05.
          (c) The Administrative Agent (acting on the behalf of the Majority Lenders) hereby acknowledges and agrees that upon satisfaction of the requirements set forth in Section 2.05(b), (i) the Credit Agreement (as amended hereby) and each other Loan Document (other than the Mortgage) shall be automatically amended without any further action by any party thereto to replace the phrase "Frontier Bully II" in each instance where such phrase appears therein with the New Vessel Name and (ii) the defined term "Vessel" in the Credit Agreement (as amended hereby) shall be automatically amended without any further action by any party thereto to reflect the New Vessel Name.
          3.01 .
Sponsor Purchase Agreement
          (a) Subject to Section 4.01, the Borrower hereby requests, and the Administrative Agent (acting on the behalf of the Majority Lenders) hereby consents to, the termination of the Sponsor Purchase Agreement, and the Administrative Agent (acting on the behalf of the Majority Lenders) agrees that such termination shall not constitute an Event of Default under Section 8.1(n) of the Credit Agreement.
          3.02 .
Change of Office
          (a) The Borrower hereby informs the Administrative Agent that, at or after the consummation of the Transaction, the registered office of the Borrower may be changed to Maples & Calder, PO Box 309, Ugland House, South Church Street, George Town, Grand Cayman KY1-1104, Cayman Islands (the "").
New Registered Office
          (b) In connection with the change of the Borrower's registered office to the New Registered Office, the Borrower hereby agrees to: (i) deliver written notice from the Borrower to the Administrative Agent that the registered office shall be changed to the New Registered Office, (ii) execute an amendment to the Mortgage in form and substance reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent and the Mortgagee evidencing such change in registered office and deliver such evidence as is reasonably requested and satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and Mortgagee that all actions required by applicable law for effectuating such amendment to the Mortgage have been completed, (iii) deliver evidence reasonably requested and satisfactory to the Administrative Agent that all actions required by applicable law for effectuating such change in registered office have been completed, including but not limited to (A) that the register of mortgages and charges and register of directors and officers are maintained at the New Registered Office and (B) notifications with respect to such change in registered office have been made in accordance with applicable law and within the statutory time limits for such notification and (iv) pay all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses
 
incurred by the Agents and their respective Affiliates (including the reasonable fees and expenses of Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy LLP, special New York counsel to the Administrative Agent, Holland and Knight, special maritime counsel to the Administrative Agent and any other counsel to the Administrative Agent) in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Section 3.02.
          (c) The Administrative Agent (acting on the behalf of the Majority Lenders) hereby acknowledges and agrees that upon satisfaction of the requirements set forth in Section 3.02(b), (i) Section 2.1(s) of the Credit Agreement (as amended hereby) shall be automatically amended and restated as follows:
"(s) . The registered office of the Borrower is located at Maples & Calder, PO Box 309, Ugland House, South Church Street, George Town, Grand Cayman KY1-1104, Cayman Islands"
Offices
and (ii) each reference to the Borrower's registered office in each of the Security Documents (other than the Mortgage) shall be automatically amended and restated to refer to "Maples & Calder, PO Box 309, Ugland House, South Church Street, George Town, Grand Cayman KY1-1104, Cayman Islands".
          (d) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Credit Agreement (as amended hereby), the Notes or any Security Document to the contrary, the Administrative Agent (acting on the behalf of the Majority Lenders) hereby (i) subject to the satisfaction of the requirements set forth in Section 3.02(b), consents to the change in the location of the Borrower's registered office to the New Registered Office pursuant to this Section 3.02, and (ii) agrees that the change in the location of the Borrower's registered office to the New Registered Office pursuant to this Section 3.02 shall not result in an Event of Default under the Credit Agreement, any Notes or any of the Security Documents.
          3.03 .
Reflagging
          (a) The Borrower hereby informs the Administrative Agent that, at or after the consummation of the Transaction but in any event no later than within one (1) calendar year after the date hereof, the Vessel may be reflagged in Liberia (the "").
Vessel Reflagging
          (b) The Administrative Agent (acting on the behalf of the Majority Lenders) hereby consents to the Vessel Reflagging, provided that the Borrower shall, prior to giving effect to the Vessel Reflagging, (i) give, execute, deliver, file and record any financing statement, notice, instrument, document (including Security Document), agreement, legal opinions or other papers that may be necessary or desirable or that may be reasonably requested by the Administrative Agent, Collateral Agent or Mortgagee in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, Collateral Agent and Mortgagee with respect to the Vessel and the creation and perfection, in favor of the Collateral Agent for the benefit of the Secured Parties, of a legal, valid and enforceable first priority Lien on and security interest in all right, title and interest of the Borrower in the Vessel, (ii) take such necessary and appropriate actions with respect to the Vessel Reflagging (and provide evidence thereof) as may be reasonably requested by the Administrative Agent and (iii) pay all
 
reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Agents and their respective Affiliates (including the reasonable fees and expenses of the Insurance Consultant, Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy LLP, special New York counsel to the Administrative Agent, Holland and Knight, special maritime counsel to the Administrative Agent and any other counsel to the Administrative Agent) in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Section 3.03. The Borrower shall deliver certified copies of such documents and instruments as are required by applicable law to evidence the reflagging of the Vessel in Liberia promptly after receipt thereof.
          (c) Upon receipt by the Administrative Agent of written notice from the Borrower of the consummation of the Vessel Reflagging and satisfaction of the requirements set forth in Section 3.03(b), the Credit Agreement (as amended hereby), the Notes and each Security Document shall be automatically amended without any further action by any party thereto to reflect the Vessel Reflagging. The Administrative Agent (acting on the behalf of the Majority Lenders) hereby agrees that the Vessel Reflagging shall not result in an Event of Default under the Credit Agreement, any Notes or any of the Security Documents.
          4.01 .
Effectiveness
          (a) The parties hereto acknowledge and agree that for all purposes under the Loan Documents this Agreement shall become effective upon (a) the Transaction Closing Date and (b) delivery of evidence of payment by the Borrower to the Administrative Agent for all reasonable and documented out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Agents and their respective Affiliates (including the reasonable fees and expenses of Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy LLP, special New York counsel to the Administrative Agent, Holland and Knight, special maritime counsel to the Administrative Agent and any other counsel to the Administrative Agent) in connection with the negotiation, execution, delivery and administration of this Agreement and the provisions hereof (the "").
Effective Date
          (b) The amendments in Articles 2 and 3 shall be applicable solely with respect to those matters expressly provided herein and no other amendments may be construed or implied. Each reference in the Credit Agreement and each of the other Loan Documents to "the Credit Agreement", "hereunder", "hereof", "thereunder", "thereof" or words of like import referring to the Credit Agreement, shall mean and be a reference to the Credit Agreement as amended by this Agreement. Except as modified pursuant hereto, each of the Loan Documents are and shall continue to be in full force and effect and are hereby in all respects ratified and confirmed. The execution, delivery and effectiveness of this Agreement shall not, except as expressly provided herein, operate as a waiver of any right, power or remedy of any Secured Party under any of the Loan Documents nor constitute a waiver of any provision of any of the Loan Documents.
          (c) The Borrower hereby agrees that this Agreement shall constitute a "Loan Document" for purposes of the Credit Agreement.
 
          5.01 . The Borrower represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent that (a) the representations and warranties set forth in Article 2 of the Credit Agreement are true and complete on the date hereof as if made on and as of the date hereof (or, if any such representation or warranty is expressly stated to have been made as of a specific date, such representation or warranty shall be true and correct as of such specific date), and (b) no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing. No Default or Event of Default will occur under the Loan Documents as a result of the execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of this Agreement.
Representations and Warranties
          6.01 . The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby.
Successors and Assigns Generally
          6.02 . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same instrument and any of the parties hereto may execute this Agreement by signing any such counterpart.
Counterparts
          6.03
GOVERNING LAW
. THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW (EXCLUDING SECTION 5-1401 OF THE NEW YORK GENERAL OBLIGATIONS LAW).
          6.04
WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL
. IT IS MUTUALLY AGREED BY EACH PARTY HERETO THAT EACH OF THEM HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY ACTION, PROCEEDING OR COUNTERCLAIM BROUGHT BY ANY PARTY HERETO AGAINST ANY OTHER PARTY HERETO ON ANY MATTER WHATSOEVER ARISING OUT OF OR IN ANY WAY CONNECTED WITH THIS AGREEMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER THEORY). EACH PARTY HERETO (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PERSON HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PERSON WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT AND THE NOTES BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION.
 
          6.05
SUBMISSION TO JURISDICTION
. EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY SUBMITS TO THE NONEXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK AND OF ANY NEW YORK STATE COURT SITTING IN NEW YORK COUNTY (INCLUDING ANY APPELLATE DIVISION THEREOF), AND OF ANY OTHER APPELLATE COURT IN THE STATE OF NEW YORK, FOR THE PURPOSES OF ALL LEGAL PROCEEDINGS ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY. EACH PARTY HERETO IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY OBJECTION THAT IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE TO THE LAYING OF THE VENUE OF ANY SUCH PROCEEDING BROUGHT IN SUCH A COURT AND ANY CLAIM THAT ANY SUCH PROCEEDING BROUGHT IN SUCH A COURT HAS BEEN BROUGHT IN AN INCONVENIENT FORUM.
          6.06 . In case any one or more of the provisions contained in this Agreement is found by a court to be invalid or unenforceable, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law the parties agree that such invalidity or unenforceability shall not impair the validity or enforceability of any other provision hereof.
Severability
 
          , the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed and delivered as of the day and year first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 

Exhibit 99.1
Press Release
ZUG, Switzerland, July 28, 2010 /PRNewswire via COMTEX/ 
Noble Corporation Closes Acquisition of Frontier Drilling
Noble Corporation (NYSE: NE) today announced that it has closed its acquisition of FDR Holdings Limited ("Frontier"). The acquisition of Frontier, formerly an independent drilling company, and previously announced agreements with Shell increase Noble's drilling fleet size to 69 from 62 units, with the addition of three dynamically positioned drillships (including two -class joint venture-owned ultra-deepwater rigs under construction), two conventionally moored drillships, including one which is Arctic-class, and a conventionally moored deepwater semisubmersible drilling rig. Additionally, as a result of this acquisition, Noble will own and operate a dynamically positioned floating production, storage, offloading vessel (FPSO).
Bully
The closing comes one month after Noble's June 28, 2010 announcement that it had entered into an agreement to acquire Frontier in a transaction that values the enterprise at $2.16 billion. The transaction was financed with proceeds from the Company's $1.25 billion bond offering on July 21, 2010 and cash on hand. The Company did not utilize a bridge financing facility that had been previously arranged.
"With the addition of Frontier's units and personnel to the Noble fleet and in conjunction with our separate agreements with Shell, we have strengthened our capabilities and broadened our global footprint, doubled our backlog, and positioned the Company to deliver even greater value both to our shareholders and our customers," said David W. Williams, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Noble. "We are implementing a plan designed to rapidly integrate these units and their personnel into the Noble framework, with particular focus on our strong safety culture, something we see as a fundamental element of our success on every rig we operate."
About Noble
Noble is a leading offshore drilling contractor for the oil and gas industry. Noble performs, through its subsidiaries, contract drilling services with a fleet of 69 offshore drilling units (including five drilling rigs currently under construction or to be constructed), located worldwide, including in the Middle East, India, the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, Mexico, the Mediterranean, the North Sea, Brazil, West Africa and Asian Pacific. Noble also owns and operates a dynamically positioned floating production, storage, offloading vessel. Noble's shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "NE". Additional information on Noble Corporation is available via the worldwide web at .
http://www.noblecorp.com/
Statements regarding the Frontier transaction, including the integration, contract backlog, fleet, and benefits, our operating capabilities, backlog, customer and shareholder value, safety culture and uses of financing, as well as any other statements that are not historical facts in this release, are forward-looking statements that involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions. These include but are not limited to actions by regulatory authorities or other third parties, costs and difficulties related to the integration of acquired businesses, delays, costs and difficulties related to the transactions and the construction of newbuild rigs, market conditions, the combined companies' financial results and performance, consummation, availability and terms of any financing, satisfaction of closing conditions, ability to repay debt and timing thereof, actions by customers and other third parties, factors affecting the level of activity in the oil and gas industry, supply and demand of drilling rigs, factors affecting the duration of contracts, the actual amount of downtime, factors that reduce applicable dayrates, violations of anti-corruption laws, hurricanes and other weather conditions, the future price of oil and gas and other factors detailed in the Company's most recent Form 10-K, Form 10-Q's and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those indicated.
SOURCE Noble Corporation


