FILE:NE/NE-8K-20100719171108.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
o
o
o
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 19, 2010, Noble Corporation ("Company" "we," "us," and "our") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the three and six months ended June 30, 2010. A copy of such press release is included as Exhibit 99.1 and will be published in the "Newsroom" area on the Company's web site at http://www.noblecorp.com.
Statements regarding the Frontier transaction, including the closing, integration, contract backlog, fleet, and benefits, protection of the Companys backlog and shareholder value, Shell agreements, contract backlog, completion and acceptance of the , earnings, costs, revenue, rig demand, fleet performance, contract commitments, dayrates, contract commencements, contract extensions or renewals, letters of award, industry fundamentals, future performance, growth opportunities, market outlook, as well as any other statements that are not historical facts in this release, are forward-looking statements that involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions. These include but are not limited to operating hazards and delays, risks associated with operations outside of the U.S., actions by regulatory authorities, customers and other third parties, legislation and regulations affecting drilling operations, costs and difficulties relating to the integration of acquired businesses, consummation, availability and terms of any financing, satisfaction of any closing conditions, factors affecting the level of activity in the oil and gas industry, supply and demand of drilling rigs, factors affecting the duration of contracts, the actual amount of downtime, factors that reduce applicable dayrates, violations of anti-corruption laws, hurricanes and other weather conditions, the future price of oil and gas and other factors detailed in the Companys most recent Form 10-K, Form 10-Qs and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those indicated.
Noble Jim Day
Pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the press release is being furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
ITEM 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
PRESS RELEASE
ZUG, Switzerland, July 19, 2010  Noble Corporation (NYSE: NE) today reported second quarter 2010 earnings of $218 million, or $0.85 per diluted share, versus $392 million, or $1.49 per diluted share, for the second quarter of last year. Results for the quarter include approximately $0.06 per share due to a higher than anticipated effective tax rate of 19 percent versus 13 percent in the first quarter 2010 which resulted primarily from the current drilling restrictions in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and a net after-tax charge of approximately $0.02 per share resulting from an accrual relating to the Company's ongoing Nigeria FCPA investigation, a matter which has not yet been resolved.
Contract drilling services revenues for the second quarter of 2010 were $688 million versus $868 million in the second quarter of 2009. Contract drilling margins for the second quarter of 2010 were approximately 60 percent and the Company generated $510 million in net cash provided by operating activities in the quarter. Noble invested $193 million in capital projects during the quarter. The Company also reported that it still expects to close the previously announced acquisition of FDR Holdings Limited ("Frontier") at the end of July 2010.
"Noble's second-quarter revenues declined due to a combination of factors, not the least of which was the government-ordered drilling limitations in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico," said David W. Williams, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. "However, we have moved quickly on a variety of fronts to protect our backlog and shareholder value. At the same time, we were delighted to announce the acquisition of Frontier and separate agreements with Shell which, following the closing of the transaction, will add seven drilling units and an FPSO to the fleet, double our contract backlog, and provide further backlog protection for units operating in the Gulf."
Operations Highlights
At the end of the second quarter 2010, approximately 61 percent of the Company's available rig operating days were committed for the remainder of 2010 and approximately 35 percent were committed for 2011. The Company's total backlog at June 30, 2010 was approximately $6.7 billion.
 
During the quarter, the , the Company's last 10,000' ultra-deepwater semisubmersible under construction, began its mobilization to the U.S. Gulf of Mexico from Singapore. It is expected to arrive during the third quarter and will undergo thruster installation, final testing and customer acceptance before commencing its contract.
Noble Jim Day
Also, Noble secured additional work for a number of its jackup units in several different countries around the world. In Mexico, the Company obtained commitments on seven of our units through a combination of contract extensions and direct assignments. The Company also secured a letter of award for a 254-day contract at a dayrate of $63,500 for the . In the North Sea, the secured a two-year contract at a dayrate of $175,000 and the received a one-year extension at a dayrate of approximately $86,000. In West Africa, the and both secured two-year commitments at dayrates of $85,000. In the Middle East and India, the received an 18-month contract at a dayrate of approximately $60,000 and the will soon commence a three-year modified bareboat charter at a dayrate of approximately $50,000.
Noble Roy Butler
Noble Hans Deul
Noble Piet van Ede
Noble Percy Johns
Noble Ed Noble
Noble Harvey Duhaney
Noble Kenneth Delaney
"Despite an uncertain environment in the U.S. Gulf, drilling continues around the world both in shallow and deepwater. We intend to maintain our focus on safety as we plan for the rapid integration of Frontier's operations, and we are generally optimistic about opportunities during the remainder of the year," Williams said.
About Noble Corporation
Noble is a leading offshore drilling contractor for the oil and gas industry. Noble performs, through its subsidiaries, contract drilling services with a fleet of 62 offshore drilling units (including two rigs currently under construction) located worldwide, including in the Middle East, India, the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, Mexico, the Mediterranean, the North Sea, Brazil, and West Africa. Noble's shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "NE". Additional information on Noble Corporation is available via the worldwide web at .
http://www.noblecorp.com
 
Statements regarding the Frontier transaction, including the closing, integration, contract backlog, fleet, and benefits, protection of the Company's backlog and shareholder value, Shell agreements, contract backlog, completion and acceptance of the , earnings, costs, revenue, rig demand, fleet performance, contract commitments, dayrates, contract commencements, contract extensions or renewals, letters of award, industry fundamentals, future performance, growth opportunities, market outlook, as well as any other statements that are not historical facts in this release, are forward-looking statements that involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions. These include but are not limited to operating hazards and delays, risks associated with operations outside of the U.S., actions by regulatory authorities, customers and other third parties, legislation and regulations affecting drilling operations, costs and difficulties relating to the integration of acquired businesses, consummation, availability and terms of any financing, satisfaction of any closing conditions, factors affecting the level of activity in the oil and gas industry, supply and demand of drilling rigs, factors affecting the duration of contracts, the actual amount of downtime, factors that reduce applicable dayrates, violations of anti-corruption laws, hurricanes and other weather conditions, the future price of oil and gas and other factors detailed in the Company's most recent Form 10-K, Form 10-Q's and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those indicated.
Noble Jim Day
Conference Call
Noble has scheduled a conference call and webcast related to its second quarter 2010 results on Tuesday, July 20, 2010, at 9:00 a.m. U.S. Central Daylight Time. Interested parties are invited to listen to the call by dialing from the U.S. 1-866-461-7129, or +1-706-679-3084 from outside the U.S., using access code: 38611304 or by asking for the Noble Corporation conference call. Interested parties may also listen over the Internet through a link posted in the Investor Relations section of the Company's Web site.
A replay of the conference call will be available on Tuesday, July 20, 2010, beginning at 12:00 p.m. U.S. Central Daylight Time, through Tuesday, July 27, 2010, ending at 5:00 p.m. U.S. Central Daylight Time. The phone number for the conference call replay is 1-800-642-1687 from the U.S. or, for calls from outside of the U.S., +1-706-645-9291, using access code: 38611304. The replay will also be available on the Company's Web site following the end of the live call. The conference call may include non-GAAP financial measures. Noble will post a reconciliation of any such measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in the "Investor Relations" section of the Company's Web site under the heading "Regulation G Reconciliations."
For additional information, contact:
 
 
 
 
 
The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted net income per share:


