FILE:NE/NE-8K-20100721085540.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
          This combined filing on Form 8-K is separately filed by Noble Corporation, a Swiss Corporation ("Noble-Swiss"), and Noble Corporation, a Cayman Island company ("Noble-Cayman"). Information in this filing relating to Noble-Cayman is filed by Noble-Swiss and separately by Noble-Cayman on its own behalf. Noble-Cayman makes no representation as to information relating to Noble-Swiss (except as it may relate to Noble-Cayman) or any other affiliate or subsidiary of Noble-Swiss. This report should be read in its entirety as it pertains to each of Noble-Swiss and Noble-Cayman. Any reference in this filing to "Noble," "Noble Corporation," the "Company," "we," "us," "our," and words of similar meaning refer collectively to Noble-Swiss and its consolidated subsidiaries, including Noble-Cayman.
          As previously announced, on June 27, 2010 Noble-Swiss and Noble AM Merger Co, a Cayman Islands company and indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Noble-Swiss ("Merger Sub"), entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Agreement") with FDR Holdings Limited, a Cayman Islands company ("Frontier"), and certain of Frontier's shareholders, pursuant to which Merger Sub would merge with and into Frontier, with Frontier surviving as an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Noble-Swiss (the "Frontier acquisition") and a wholly owned subsidiary of Noble-Cayman. The closing of the Merger is expected to occur by the end of July 2010, subject to various conditions.
          In connection with the proposed financing of the Merger, we are filing this Form 8-K.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
Backlog as of June 30, 2010
     Our contract drilling services backlog consists of commitments we believe to be firm and reflects estimated future revenues attributable to both signed contracts and letters of intent. For a number of reasons, however, including the risk that some customers with letters of intent may not sign definitive drilling contracts, our backlog as of any particular date may not be indicative of our actual operating results for the subsequent periods for which the backlog is calculated. See "Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements." For a description of additional qualifications relating to our backlog, please see our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 and our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2010.
     As of June 30, 2010, our contract drilling services backlog aggregated $6.72 billion, of which $5.86 billion related to floaters (semisubmersibles and drillships) and $0.86 billion related to non-floaters (jackups and submersibles). Of the total amount of our backlog as of June 30, 2010, approximately 19.7% relates to the last six months of 2010, 26.1% relates to 2011, 17.0% relates to 2012 and 37.2% relates to periods after 2012.
     Our June 30, 2010 backlog 
     Each of our drilling contracts relating to our seven rigs (including the ) in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico contains force majeure contract clauses that, if validly exercised, may result in modification or cancellation of such contracts. See "Restrictions on U.S. Gulf of Mexico Operations" below for a brief description of the negative impact on our existing U.S. Gulf of Mexico operations to date from developments following the fire and explosion on the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and U.S. government actions in response to that event, including a moratorium and suspension of specified types of drilling activities in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico.
Noble Jim Day
     After giving effect to the Shell agreements and the pending Frontier acquisition, Shell and Petroleo Brasileiro S.A. ("Petrobras") are expected to represent more than 50% and 20%, respectively, of our backlog.
Table of Contents
Restrictions on U.S. Gulf of Mexico Operations
Governmental Restrictions on Operations
     Subsequent to the April 20, 2010 fire and explosion on the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, U.S. governmental authorities took the following steps:
Noble's Affected U.S. Gulf of Mexico Operations
     Our existing U.S. Gulf of Mexico operations have been negatively impacted by the events and governmental action described above. Our U.S. Gulf of Mexico operations include six drilling units: the , , , , and . During the quarter ended March 31, 2010, revenues from these drilling units represented approximately 25% of our consolidated revenue for such period. We have worked and continue to work closely with our customers for drilling services in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico to address the hardships imposed by the governmental actions described above. The discussion below briefly describes the current status of each of these drilling units.
Noble Amos Runner
Noble Clyde Boudreaux
Noble Danny Adkins
Noble Jim Thompson
Noble Paul Romano
Noble Lorris Bouzigard
     . We have been advised by our customer, Anadarko Petroleum, that it believes that the government-imposed moratorium described above is a force majeure event permitting termination of the contract on the . We do not agree with this position and plan to enforce our contractual rights under that contract and under our other U.S. Gulf of Mexico drilling contracts. We are currently in litigation with Anadarko over this dispute. If we do not prevail in the litigation, the contract may be terminated. Pending resolution of the legal dispute, no revenues are being recognized under this contract.
Noble Amos Runner
Noble Amos Runner
     . In late June 2010, we reached agreement with our customer, Noble Energy, relating to the to place the drilling unit on standby for a daily fee of $145,000 per day from June 15 through December 15, 2010, which period may be extended by mutual agreement with Noble Energy. We also agreed to negotiate in good faith a new contract that would apply after the standby period at a dayrate of $397,500, although Noble Energy is not obligated to enter into the new contract.
Noble Clyde Boudreaux
Noble Clyde Boudreaux
     and . In connection with the execution of the Frontier merger agreement, we entered into an agreement with Shell that:
Noble Danny Adkins
Noble Jim Thompson
     . This drilling unit is currently idle, having completed a contract in June 2010.
Noble Paul Romano
     . Our customer has a work program allowed under the U.S. government-imposed moratorium, and we believe it will have available work after a brief recertification process.
Noble Lorris Bouzigard
Risk Factors Relating to Our Business
          The risk factors below update and supplement the risks described under "Risk Factors Relating to Our Business" in Part I, Item 1A, "Risk Factors," of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, and should be considered together with the risk factors described in that report.
We are subject to certain risks related to acquisitions, including the pending Frontier acquisition, and these risks may materially adversely affect our revenues, expenses, operating results and financial condition.
          The Frontier acquisition will require us to integrate Frontier, a privately held business that has been operating independently and as a competitor of ours, into the Noble group. Our ability to achieve the expected benefits of the Frontier acquisition will depend in part upon meeting the challenges inherent in the successful combination and integration of global business enterprises of the size and scope of the Noble group and Frontier and the possible resulting diversion of management attention for an extended period of time. There can be no assurance that we will meet these challenges and that such diversion will not negatively affect our operations. In addition, delays encountered in the transition process could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, expenses, operating results and financial condition. There can be no assurance that we will achieve anticipated benefits of the Frontier acquisition at the levels expected or at all.
          Any acquisition, including the pending Frontier acquisition, presents a number of risks, including but not limited to risks of:
Table of Contents
          Our failure to successfully integrate the Frontier acquisition and any other acquisition in a timely and cost effective manner could have an adverse affect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
We and Frontier have and will continue to incur significant transaction costs in connection with the pending Frontier acquisition.
          We expect to incur costs associated with consummating the Frontier acquisition of approximately $15 million. These costs include investment banking, financing, legal and accounting fees and expenses and other related charges, and benefit plan harmonization costs. These amounts are preliminary estimates that are subject to change, and any such change could be material. A portion of these costs will be incurred regardless of whether the Frontier acquisition is completed.
If we consummate the pending Frontier acquisition and the Shell agreements become effective, we will be substantially dependent on Shell, and the loss of Shell or another substantial customer, Petrobras, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.
          If we consummate the pending Frontier acquisition and the Shell agreements described in our Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 27, 2010 become effective, Shell and Petrobras are expected to represent more than 50% and 20%, respectively, of our backlog. This concentration of customers increases the risks associated with any possible termination or nonperformance of contracts by either customer and our exposure to credit risk of either customer. If, after we consummate the pending Frontier acquisition and the Shell agreements become effective, either of these customers were to terminate or fail to perform their obligations under their contracts and we were not able to find other customers for the affected drilling units promptly, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.
The U.S. governmental and regulatory response to the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig accident and resulting oil spill could have a prolonged and material adverse impact on our U.S. Gulf of Mexico operations.
          Subsequent to the April 20, 2010 fire and explosion on the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, U.S. governmental authorities:
These new safety requirements obligate operators, among other things, to (a) conduct certain operational reviews, (b) certify to regulatory authorities as to compliance with the new requirements and current regulations, (c) submit independent third-party reports on the design and operation of certain pieces of drilling equipment, including blowout preventers and other well control systems, (d) conduct tests on the functionality of various rig parts and (e) submit the results of those tests to regulatory authorities. With respect to operations subject to the moratorium, the reports and certifications are required to be provided to regulatory authorities prior to commencement of operations following expiration of the moratorium.
     There have been and may continue to be judicial and other challenges made with respect to some of the restrictions on U.S. Gulf of Mexico drilling operations. However, we cannot predict (1) how those challenges will be resolved, (2) how the resolution of those challenges may affect the scope or duration of the government-imposed restrictions or (3) the actions the U.S. government may take, whether in response to those challenges or otherwise.
     Our existing U.S. Gulf of Mexico operations have been and may continue to be negatively impacted by the events and governmental actions described above. The moratorium and other U.S. governmental restrictions described above may result in a number of our rigs and those of others being moved, or becoming available for moving, to locations outside of the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, which could potentially reduce global dayrates and negatively affect our ability to contract our floating rigs that are currently uncontracted or coming off contract. In addition, U.S. or other governmental authorities could implement additional regulations concerning licensing, taxation, equipment specifications and training requirements that could increase the costs of our operations. Additionally, increased costs for our customers' operations, along with permitting delays, could negatively affect the economics of currently planned or future exploration and development activity and result in a reduction in demand for our services. Furthermore, due to the Deepwater Horizon accident and resulting spill, insurance costs across the industry could increase, and certain insurance may be less available or not available at all, which could negatively affect us over time.
Table of Contents
     At this time, we cannot predict for how long or to what extent our operations will be adversely impacted by the governmental and regulatory response to the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig accident and resulting oil spill. At this time, we cannot predict:
Depending on their duration and extent, these and related developments could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity relating to the U.S. Gulf of Mexico.
          
We could be adversely affected by violations of applicable anti-corruption laws and regulations, including the outcome of our pending internal investigation relating to potential violations of the FCPA.
          We and Frontier operate in a number of countries throughout the world, including countries known to have a reputation for corruption. We are committed to doing business in accordance with applicable anti-corruption laws and our code of business conduct and ethics. We are subject, however, to the risk that we, our affiliated entities (including Frontier once the acquisition is consummated) or their respective officers, directors, employees and agents may take action determined to be in violation of such anti-corruption laws, including the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the "FCPA"). Detecting, investigating, and resolving actual or alleged violations is expensive and can consume significant time and attention of our senior management.
          In 2007, we began, and voluntarily contacted the SEC and the U.S. Department of Justice ("DOJ") to advise them of, an internal investigation of the legality under the FCPA and local laws of certain reimbursement payments made by our Nigerian affiliate to customs agents in Nigeria. The SEC and the DOJ have indicated that they believe that violations of the FCPA occurred and will seek civil and/or criminal sanctions against us, including monetary penalties, and may include additional sanctions against us and/or certain of our employees, as well as additional changes to our business practices and compliance programs. We could also face fines or sanctions in relevant foreign jurisdictions.
          We consider the matter relating to the Nigeria investigation to be ongoing and cannot predict (a) when it will conclude, (b) whether either the SEC or the DOJ will open its own proceeding to investigate this matter, or (c) if a proceeding is opened, what potential sanctions, penalties or other remedies these agencies may seek. Based on information obtained to date, we believe it is probable that we will pay an amount to settle this matter with the DOJ and SEC. Given that the matter is not finally resolved, we cannot predict with certainty what amount we will pay in civil and criminal fines and penalties; however, as of June 30, 2010, we accrued approximately $5.1 million relating to this ongoing matter. Any of the sanctions as a result of the Nigerian investigation or any other future violation of the FCPA or similar law could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition and could damage our reputation and ability to do business, to attract and retain employees and to access capital markets.
Table of Contents
          Frontier identified certain payments totaling approximately $35,000 made by one of its former agents to Nigeria immigration officials in 2009 and reported this matter to the DOJ as a possible violation of the FCPA. We reviewed this matter as part of our diligence investigation of Frontier. The DOJ has not indicated what, if any, action it may take with respect to such payments, although the DOJ could seek civil and/or criminal sanctions against Frontier. Upon closing the Frontier acquisition, we would be responsible for such sanctions as well as any other sanctions relating to violations of applicable laws by Frontier, except to the extent that they may be covered by indemnities contained in the merger agreement with Frontier. Any such sanctions could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition.
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
          This Current Report on Form 8-K includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements other than statements of historical facts included in this Current Report on Form 8-K regarding the benefits, effects, results and timing of the pending acquisition of Frontier, the expected financing of the pending acquisition of Frontier, future U.S. regulations relating to offshore drilling for oil and natural gas and possible implications in other jurisdictions, drilling activities in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, the financial position, business strategy, backlog, plans and objectives of management for future operations and industry conditions are forward-looking statements. When used in this Current Report on Form 8-K, the words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "plan," "project," "should" and similar expressions are intended to be among the statements that identify forward-looking statements. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot assure you that such expectations will prove to be correct. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Current Report on Form 8-K, and we undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statement for any reason, except as required by law. We have identified factors that could cause actual plans or results to differ materially from those included in any forward-looking statements. These factors include the failure to complete the acquisition of Frontier, unknown liabilities of Frontier or liabilities for which there is not or insufficient indemnification, actions by third parties, including governmental agencies, relating to increased regulation of offshore drilling and responses thereto and, among others, those referenced or described under "Risk Factors" included in this Current Report on Form 8-K and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such risks and uncertainties are beyond our ability to control and, in many cases, we cannot predict the risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated by the forward-looking statements.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
          
(a) 
Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired.
          The audited consolidated financial statements of Frontier as of and for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, and the related notes thereto, together with the report of Deloitte & Touche LLP, independent registered public accounting firm, concerning those statements and related notes, are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. The unaudited consolidated financial statements of Frontier as of and for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, and the related notes thereto, are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2.
          
(b) 
Pro Forma Financial Information.
          Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Balance Sheets of Noble-Swiss and Noble-Cayman, as of March 31, 2010, and the related notes thereto, and the Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Statement of Operations of Noble-Swiss and Noble-Cayman for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009 and the three months ended March 31, 2010, and the related notes thereto, showing the pro forma effect of our pending acquisition of Frontier and related transactions and financing, are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.3.
Table of Contents
          
(d)
Exhibits
Table of Contents
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 12.1
 

Exhibit 23.1
We consent to the incorporation by reference, in Registration Statement No. 333-165403 on Form S-3 of Noble Corporation and Noble Holding International Limited, of our report dated June 22, 2010, relating to the consolidated financial statements of FDR Holdings Limited as of and for the year ended December 31, 2009, appearing in this Current Report on Form 8-K of Noble Corporation filed with the SEC on July 21, 2010. We also consent to the reference to under the heading Experts in the prospectus supplement dated July 21, 2010, which is part of Registration Statement No. 333-165403.
/s/
Deloitte & Touche LLP
Houston, Texas July 21, 2010

Exhibit 99.1
FDR Holdings Limited and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2009 and Independent Auditors' Report
 
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT To the Board of Directors of FDR Holdings Limited and Subsidiaries Houston, Texas
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of FDR Holdings Limited and Subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2009, and the related consolidated statements of operations, shareholders' equity, and cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2009. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2009, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2009, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted the provisions of Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 810, "," which requires retrospective changes in the presentation of the noncontrolling interest on the consolidated financial statements.
Consolidation
Deloitte & Touche LLP
Houston, Texas June 22, 2010
 
FDR HOLDINGS LIMITED AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2009 (In thousands, except share and per-share amounts)
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
FDR HOLDINGS LIMITED AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2009 (In thousands)
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
     
FDR HOLDINGS LIMITED AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF EQUITY FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2009 (In thousands, except share amounts)
See notes to consolidated financial statements
 
FDR HOLDINGS LIMITED AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2009 (In thousands)
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
FDR HOLDINGS LIMITED AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS OF AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2009
FDR Holdings Limited ("FDR"), together with its subsidiaries (collectively, "Frontier," "Company," "us," "we," or "our"), is a Cayman Islands entity formed in November 2003 to acquire all of the shares of Frontier Drilling ASA ("ASA"), a Norwegian offshore drilling company. Frontier is engaged in offshore drilling and completion of exploratory and developmental oil and gas wells in international locations, with a particular focus on the operation and management of conventional drillships, semisubmersibles, and floating production, storage, offloading (FPSO) vessels. Frontier maintains local subsidiaries in the areas where it operates.
Presently, Frontier owns and operates a fleet of the following five vessels:
Frontier is also a party to joint venture agreements with Shell to build and deploy a new drillship concept, known as the Bully rig, which is an ultra-efficient drilling unit designed for a wide range of demanding services. The and drillships are currently under construction in a Singapore shipyard and scheduled for completion in September 2010 and March 2011, respectively. Both and will begin operations under long-term contracts with Shell after completion. Bully 1, Ltd ("Bully 1") is 50% owned by Frontier Drillships, Ltd ("Drillships"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Frontier and 50% owned by Shell. Bully 2, Ltd ("Bully 2") is 50% owned by Drillships 2, Ltd ("Drillships 2") and 50% owned by Shell. Frontier and our equity investors hold 30% and 70% interests, respectively, in Drillships 2 (see Note 7).
Bully I
Bully II
Bully I
Bully II
Additionally, Frontier managed, under a contract with Shell, the , a purpose-built arctic drilling barge. This contract was cancelled in February 2009 due to Shell's discontinuing its 2009 Alaskan offshore drilling program in the Beaufort Sea.
Kulluk
 
 The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Frontier and all majority-owned and non-majority-owned subsidiaries required to be consolidated under Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) standards for the Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities. All intercompany balances and transactions between consolidated entities have been eliminated.
Consolidation
 The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date, and the amounts of revenues and expenses recognized during the reporting period. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions, including those related to financial instruments, depreciation and amortization of property and equipment, impairment of long-lived assets, income taxes, share-based compensation, and contingent liabilities. We base our estimates and assumptions on historical experience and on various other factors we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results could differ from such estimates.
Accounting Estimates
 Operating revenues are recognized as earned, based on contractual daily rates. In connection with drilling contracts, we may receive revenues for preparation and mobilization of equipment and personnel or for capital improvements to rigs. Revenues earned and incremental costs incurred directly related to contract preparation and mobilization are deferred and recognized over the primary contract term of the drilling project using the straight-line method. Our policy to amortize the revenues and incremental costs related to contract preparation, mobilization, and capital upgrades on a straight-line basis over the primary contract term of drilling is consistent with the general pace of activity, level of services being provided, and dayrates being earned over the life of the contract. Upon completion of drilling contracts, any demobilization fees received are reported in income, as are any related expenses. Capital upgrade revenues received are deferred and recognized over the primary contract term of the drilling project. The actual cost incurred for the capital upgrade is depreciated over the estimated useful life of the asset.
Revenue Recognition
We record reimbursements received for the purchase of supplies, equipment, personnel services, and other services provided at the request of our customers in accordance with a contract or agreement, for the gross amount billed to the customer, as "Revenues related to reimbursable expenses" in our Consolidated Statement of Operations.
 Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash in banks and highly liquid investments that have an original maturity of three months or less at date of purchase.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
 We record trade accounts receivable at the amount we invoice our customers. Included within our accounts receivable as of December 31, 2009 are unbilled receivable balances totaling $0.2 million that represent amounts for which contract drilling services have been performed, revenue has been earned based on contractual dayrate provisions, and for which collection is deemed probable. Such unbilled amounts were billed subsequent to our respective fiscal year-end.
Accounts Receivable
 Typically, we do not require collateral or other security for our receivables. We provide an allowance for doubtful accounts, as necessary, based on a review of outstanding receivables, historical collection information, and existing economic conditions. We had no allowance for doubtful accounts as of December 31, 2009.
Allowance for Doubtful Accounts
 
 Costs of supplies and consumables for the initial construction or major refurbishment of a drilling rig are capitalized as a component of the rig until the completion of construction or refurbishment and up to the date the rig is placed in service for its initial drilling contract. Capitalized costs are amortized over the remaining life of the related equipment. Supplies and consumables purchased after the rig is placed in service are expensed as purchased.
Inventories of Supplies and Consumables
 We are required to obtain certifications from various regulatory bodies in order to operate our vessels and must maintain such certifications through periodic inspection and surveys. The costs associated with obtaining and maintaining such certifications, including inspections and surveys, and drydock costs to the rigs are deferred and amortized over the corresponding period until the next required certification.
Rig Certifications
As of December 31, 2009, the deferred and unamortized portion of such costs on our balance sheet was $20.9 million. The portion of the costs that are expected to be amortized in the 12 month periods following the balance sheet date are included in other current assets on the balance sheet and the costs expected to be amortized after more than 12 months from the balance sheet date are included in other long-term assets. The costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over the period of validity of the certifications obtained. These certifications are typically for five to ten years, but in some cases are for shorter periods. Accordingly, the remaining useful lives for these deferred costs are up to ten years.
 Deferred financing costs associated with long-term debt are carried at cost and are amortized to expense over the term of the applicable long-term debt.
Deferred Financing Costs
 Comprehensive income (loss) is comprised of net income (loss) and other comprehensive unrealized gains and losses related to hedges.
Comprehensive Income (Loss)
 We record deferred income taxes to reflect the tax consequences on future years of differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and their financial reporting amounts at each year-end given the provisions of enacted tax laws in each respective jurisdiction. Deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance when, based upon management's estimates, it is more likely than not that a portion of the deferred tax assets will not be realized in a future period. In making such a determination we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial operations.
Income Taxes
In December 2008, the FASB issued a statement that deferred the effective date for nonpublic enterprises to adopt the application of provisions of uncertain tax positions for annual financial statements until fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. The Company adopted the provisions of uncertain tax positions effective January 1, 2009 for its annual 2009 financial statements, which had no impact on our consolidated financial statements (see Note 8).
Under this standard, we account for uncertain tax positions by creating a single model to address uncertainty in income tax positions and prescribe the minimum recognition threshold a tax position is required to meet before being recognized in the financial statements. The standard also provides guidance on derecognition, measurement, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure, and transition.
We may recognize tax benefits from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained upon examination by taxing authorities based on the technical merits of the issue. The amount recognized is the largest benefit that we believe has greater than a 50% likelihood of being realized upon settlement. Actual income taxes paid may vary from estimates depending upon changes in income tax laws, actual results of operations, and the final audit of tax returns by taxing authorities. Tax assessments may arise several years after tax returns have been filed.
 
 We record property and equipment, including renewals, replacements, and improvements at cost. Maintenance, routine repairs, and minor replacements are expensed as incurred. Once a rig is placed in service, it is depreciated up to its salvage value on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life. Depreciation is discontinued during periods when a drilling unit is out of service while undergoing a significant upgrade that extends its useful life. Upon retirement or sale of a rig, the cost and related accumulated depreciation are removed from the respective accounts at the time of the disposition and any gains or losses are included in our results of operations. Depreciation is provided based on the following estimated lives:
Property and Equipment
 We review our property and equipment for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of such assets or asset groups may be less than their net realizable value. Changes that could trigger such an assessment may include significant declines in utilization and dayrates and recovery is not contemplated in the near future, obsolescence, completion of specific contracts, and overall general market conditions. We assess asset impairment using estimated undiscounted cash flows for the assets being evaluated by applying assumptions regarding future operations, market conditions, dayrates, utilization, and idle time. An impairment loss is recorded in the period if the carrying amount of the asset is not recoverable. There were no long-lived asset impairments during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009.
Impairment of Property and Equipment
 We capitalize interest costs for the construction and upgrade of qualifying assets.
Capitalized Interest
A reconciliation of our total interest cost to interest expense as reported in our Consolidated Statement of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2009 is as follows (in thousands):
 The United States dollar (USD) is the functional currency for all areas of our operations, and therefore, local currency transaction gains and losses arising from remeasurement of payables and receivables denominated in local currency are included in the Consolidated Statement of Operations.
Foreign Currency
 In September 2006, the FASB issued a standard which provides guidance for using fair value to measure assets and liabilities by providing a definition of fair value, stating that fair value should be based upon assumptions market participants would use to price an asset or liability, and establishing a hierarchy that prioritizes the information used to determine fair value, whereby quoted market prices in active markets would be given highest priority, with lowest priority given to data provided by the reporting entity based on unobservable facts. Disclosure of significant fair value measurements by level within the prescribed hierarchy is required. We adopted this statement on January 1, 2008, for all financial assets and liabilities, and have applied its guidance prospectively.
Fair Value Measurements
 
We apply cash flow hedge accounting to interest rate swaps and collars designated as hedges of the variability of future cash flows from floating rate liabilities due to the benchmark interest rate. Additionally, we utilize foreign currency exchange forward contracts to reduce our forward currency exchange risk. A forward currency exchange contract obligates a contract holder to exchange predetermined amounts of specified foreign currencies at specified foreign currency exchange rates on specified dates (see Note 12). We record derivative financial instruments in our Consolidated Balance Sheet at fair value as either assets or liabilities.
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities
In March 2008, the FASB issued a standard which changed the disclosure requirements for derivative instruments and hedging activities and is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008. Companies are required to provide enhanced disclosures about how and why an entity uses derivative instruments, how derivative instruments and related hedged items are accounted for, and how derivative instruments and related hedged items affect a company's financial position, financial performance, and cash flows. We adopted this standard as of January 1, 2009.
 We have a share-based compensation plan for our employees, officers, and directors to acquire common shares. We measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the grant-date fair value of the award, with limited exceptions, by using an option-pricing model to determine fair value and record compensation expense.
Share-Based Compensation
In December 2007, the FASB issued a standard that establishes accounting and reporting standards for noncontrolling interests, formerly known as minority interests, in a subsidiary and for the deconsolidation of a subsidiary. The standard requires that a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary be reported as equity in the consolidated financial statements and requires that consolidated net income attributable to the parent and to the noncontrolling interests be shown separately on the face of the income statement. This statement requires retroactive adoption of presentation and disclosure requirements for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. We adopted this standard on January 1, 2009.
Noncontrolling Interests 
Reclassifications were made to reflect the retrospective adoption of this standard. The reclassification resulted in the reclassification of the Company's minority interests to "noncontrolling interests," a component of equity on the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheet, and the reclassification of minority interest to "net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests" on the Company's Consolidated Statement of Operations. The reclassifications had no impact on previously reported net losses or the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
 In May 2009, the FASB established general standards of accounting for and disclosures of events that occur after the balance sheet date, but before the financial statements are issued or are available to be issued. It requires the disclosure of the date through which an entity has evaluated subsequent events. The standard was effective for interim and annual periods ending after June 15, 2009.
New Accounting Pronouncements
In June 2009, the FASB clarified the characteristics that identify a variable interest entity (VIE) and changes how a reporting entity identifies a primary beneficiary that would consolidate the VIE from a quantitative risk and rewards calculation to a qualitative approach based on which variable interest holder has controlling financial interest and the ability to direct the most significant activities that impact the VIE's economic performance. This standard requires the primary beneficiary assessment to be performed on a continuous basis. It also requires additional disclosures about an entity's involvement with the VIE, restrictions on the VIE's assets and liabilities that are included in the reporting entity's consolidated balance sheet, significant risk exposures due to the entity's involvement with the VIE, and how its involvement with a VIE impacts the reporting entity's consolidated financial statements. The standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2009. We adopted this standard on
 
January 1, 2010 and reclassified "Property and Equipment of a Variable Interest Entity" and "Third-Party Non-Recourse Long-Term Debt of a Variable Interest Entity" within our Consolidated Balance Sheets. There was no impact to our operating results or cash flows as a result of adoption.
In June 2009, FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 168 (Statement 168), . Statement 168 established the FASB Accounting Standards Codification (FASB ASC) as the source of authoritative GAAP recognized by the FASB for non-governmental entities. Rules and interpretive releases of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under authority of federal securities laws are also sources of authoritative GAAP for SEC registrants. On the effective date of this statement, the Codification superseded all then existing non-SEC accounting and reporting standards. All other nongrandfathered non-SEC accounting literature not included in the Codification became nonauthoritative. Statement 168 is effective for these financial statements. Subsequent issuances of new standards will be in the form of Accounting Standards Updates, or ASU, that will be included in the FASB ASC. Pursuant to the adoption of Statement 168, we have adjusted references to authoritative accounting literature in our financial statements. Adoption of Statement 168 had no effect on our financial position, operating results, or cash flows.
The FASB Accounting Standards and the Codification and the Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
3. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT
Cost and accumulated depreciation of drilling and other property and equipment as of December 31, 2009 are summarized as follows (in thousands):
Construction-in-progress, recorded in property and equipment, was $687 million as of December 31, 2009.
Depreciation expense was $51.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2009.
 
4. THIRD-PARTY LONG-TERM DEBT
A summary of third-party long-term debt as of December 31, 2009 is as follows (in thousands):
 In June 2006, ASA entered into a senior secured credit facility with a borrowing base of $315 million, consisting of a senior secured term loan of $265 million and a $50 million secured revolving credit facility. The interest rate on the senior secured term loan was initially set at the one, three, or six month London InterBank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus 3.25% in respect to Eurodollar Advances or at the Base Rate ("Base Rate" means interest rate equal to the higher of (a) the rate of interest published by the Wall Street Journal, as the prime lending rate and (b) / of 1% above the federal funds rate), plus 2.25% in respect to Base Rate Advances. The senior secured term loan is subject to mandatory prepayments based on an excess cash flow calculation defined in the senior secured credit facility agreement, matures June 2013, and contains representations, warranties, covenants, events of default, and indemnities. The senior secured revolving credit facility matures June 2011. In August 2007, ASA entered into an Amended and Restated First Lien Credit Agreement with the same lender group to increase the borrowing base from $315 million to $350 million, consisting of a senior secured term loan of $290 million and a senior secured revolving credit facility of $60 million that was drawn in March 2008. The interest rate was increased to LIBOR plus 3.75% for Eurodollar Rate Advances or a Base Rate plus 2.75% for Base Rate Advances. There was no change in the maturity date of the senior secured credit facility as part of this amendment.
ASA
1
2
Additionally, in August 2007, ASA entered into a second lien secured credit facility of $100 million. This facility bears interest at a rate of LIBOR plus 7.5% in respect of Eurodollar Advances and the Base Rate plus 6.5% in respect of Base Rate Advances. The Second Lien Credit Agreement is subject to mandatory prepayments based on an excess cash flow calculation defined in the agreement, matures in
 
February 2014, and contains representations, warranties, covenants, events of default, and indemnities, including the maintenance of interest rate derivative financial instruments covering a notional amount not less than 50% of the facility for a period of no less than one year.
The credit facilities are secured by a first priority lien and security interest in all of the shares of capital stock and other ownership interests of ASA and its subsidiaries, property and assets, and assignment of earnings, insurance, and mortgages as set forth in the credit agreement.
The Amended and Restated First Lien Credit Agreement was further modified in 2008 in order to maintain compliance with specified debt covenants, whereby the interest rate was increased to LIBOR plus 6% in respect of Eurodollar Advances and to Base Rate plus 5% in respect of Base Rate Advances. The Second Lien Secured Credit Agreement was also modified to increase the interest rate to LIBOR plus 10% in respect of Eurodollar Advances and at Base Rate plus 9% in respect of Base Rate Advances. LIBOR is subject to a floor of 3.25%.
Frontier was in compliance with all ASA debt covenants during the periods presented (see Note 19).
 In September 2006, Frontier Driller entered into a $230 million senior secured credit facility, which included a $200 million senior secured term loan, a $15 million senior secured revolving credit facility, and a $15 million senior secured standby cost overrun facility. The interest rate on the senior secured credit facility was set (as amended) at LIBOR plus 2.5% for the period ending on June 30, 2008, 4% for the period starting July 1, 2008, and ending on the date on which Shell has accepted the vessel under contract, and 1.5% thereafter. Frontier Driller was required to pay a fee of approximately 0.75% on the unused portion of any undrawn amount under the senior secured credit facility, which was fully drawn in November 2008, and certain other administrative costs. The senior secured term loan required one $15 million payment on June 30, 2008 and requires quarterly payments of $15 million that began on June 30, 2009, with a final payment of the remaining principal on September 30, 2011. The senior secured term loan is also subject to mandatory prepayments based on an excess cash flow calculation defined in the senior secured credit facility agreement. The senior secured revolving credit facility is due in full on September 30, 2011. The senior secured standby cost overrun facility required one $750,000 payment on June 30, 2008 and requires 9 consecutive quarterly installments of $750,000 that began on June 30, 2009, with a final payment of the remaining principal amount on September 30, 2011. The debt covenants of the senior secured credit agreement require Frontier Driller to enter into interest rate derivative financial instruments for at least 50% of the amount outstanding under the facilities at all times.
Driller
In December 2007, the senior secured credit facility was amended to allow Frontier Driller to obtain a second lien secured credit facility from another lender in the amount of $80 million with payment in full due December 31, 2012 and is subject to mandatory prepayments based on an excess cash flow calculation defined in the agreement. The interest rate on the second lien secured credit facility was set (as amended) at LIBOR plus 7%, plus 1.5% for the period starting on July 1, 2008 and ending on completion date of the vessel, if the completion date is after December 31, 2008 and before April 1, 2009, then on January 1, 2009, and thereafter at 8%, plus 1.5% until the completion date of the vessel, and if the completion date is after March 31, 2009, then on April 1, 2009, and thereafter at 9% plus 1.5% until completion. The vessel was completed on May 15, 2009 and has accrued interest at 9% thereafter. The debt covenants of the second lien secured credit facility require Frontier Driller to enter into interest rate derivative financial instruments for 100% of the amount outstanding under the facilities for a minimum of two years.
Driller
Driller
The collateral for the credit facilities consists primarily of a preferred mortgage on the and common shares of this entity are pledged as security. The credit facilities contain financial covenants, including, but not limited to, requirements for disposing of any material assets and incurring any additional indebtedness other than normal trade credit without the permission of the lender.
Driller
 
Frontier was in compliance with all Driller debt covenants during the periods presented.
 In December 2007, Bully 1 entered into a $465 million senior secured term loan and credit facility (Bully 1 Credit Facility) with a group of lenders to finance the construction of the drillship. The Bully 1 Credit Facility consists of a $375 million senior secured term loan, a $40 million senior secured credit facility revolver, and a $50 million junior secured credit facility. No amounts have been drawn on either the senior secured credit facility revolver or the junior secured credit facility as of December 31, 2009. The senior secured term loan requires 20 quarterly payments of $15.75 million, starting the end of the first complete quarter after delivery of the drillship or March 2011. A final balloon payment of $60 million is due on the earlier occurrence of 4.75 years after the delivery of the or December 31, 2015. The senior secured credit facility revolver is also due in full on the final balloon payment date. The junior secured credit facility requires quarterly payments commencing after the third complete quarter following delivery and acceptance by Shell of the drillship with final payment to be made on the final balloon payment date. The Bully 1 Credit Facility is also subject to mandatory prepayments based on an excess cash flow calculation defined in the agreement.
Bully 1
Bully I
Bully I
Bully I
Bully I
The senior secured term loan provides for floating interest rates that are fixed for one-, three-, or six-month periods at LIBOR plus 2.5% prior to the completion and delivery of the drillship and 1.5% thereafter. Bully 1 is required to pay fees of approximately 1% on the unused portion of any undrawn amount under the senior secured term loan and senior secured credit facility revolver. Bully 1 is also required to pay fees of approximately 1.4% on the unused portion of any undrawn amount under the junior secured credit facility.
The Bully 1 Credit Facility contains representations, warranties, covenants, events of default, and indemnities, including the maintenance of interest rate derivative financial instruments for at least 75% of outstanding amount of the senior secured term loan and senior secured credit facility revolver. The Bully 1 Credit Facility is secured by assignments of the major contracts for the construction of the drillship and its equipment, the drilling contract for the drillship with Shell, assignment of the insurances on the drillship, and assignment of earnings from the drilling contract and charter parties concerning the drillship. In addition, when the drillship is registered under Marshall Islands flag following completion of construction, the Bully 1 Credit Facility will be secured by a Marshall Islands first-preferred ship mortgage on the drillship.
Frontier was in compliance with all Bully 1 debt covenants during the periods presented.
 In October 2008, Bully 2 entered into a $495 million senior secured term loan and credit facility (Bully 2 Credit Facility) with a lender to finance the construction of the drillship. The Bully 2 Credit Facility consists of a senior secured term loan of $435 million, a senior secured revolving credit facility of $10 million, and a secured cost overrun term loan of $50 million. No amounts have been drawn on either the senior secured revolving credit facility or the secured cost overrun term loan as of December 31, 2009. The principal of the senior secured term loan is to be repaid in 28 consecutive quarterly installments beginning at the earlier of the end of the first complete quarter after delivery and acceptance by Shell of the drillship or July 2011. The final amount will be paid together with a one-time balloon payment of $90 million and all amounts outstanding under the senior secured revolving credit facility on the final 28 consecutive quarterly installment payment date.
Bully 2
Bully II
Bully II
th
The senior secured term loans as amended provide for floating interest rates that are fixed for three months, one month, one week, or such other period selected by Bully 2 and agreed by the agent, at LIBOR plus 2.5% prior to the occurrence of the delivery date of the hull, thereafter LIBOR plus 2.3% until contract commencement, thereafter LIBOR plus 2.25% until the first day of the sixth anniversary of the contract commencement, and thereafter 2.4%.
 
The secured cost overrun term loan has floating interest rates of LIBOR plus 3.5% prior to the occurrence of the contract commencement and 3.25% thereafter.
Bully 2 is required to pay fees of 1.25% on the unused portion of any undrawn amount under the Bully 2 Credit Facility.
Interest on the term loans is added to principle during the period from the Bully 2 Credit Facility closing date until the earlier of construction completion date or March 30, 2011.
The Bully 2 Credit Facility contains representations, warranties, covenants, events of default, and indemnities, including the maintenance of interest rate derivative financial instruments at least 60% of the amount of the senior secured term loan and senior secured revolving credit facility and 100% of the amount of the secured cost overrun term loan. The Bully 2 Credit Facility is secured by assignments of the major contracts for the construction of the drillship and its equipment, the drilling contract for the drillship with Shell, assignment of the insurances on the drillship, and assignment of earnings from the drilling contract and charter parties concerning the drillship. In addition, following the completion of construction of the drillship, the Bully 2 Credit Facility will be secured by first preferred ship mortgage on the drillship.
Bully II
Frontier was in compliance with all Bully 2 debt covenants during the periods presented.
Maturities of third-party long-term debt for each of the five years ending after 2009 and thereafter are as follows (in thousands):
 
5. LONG-TERM SHAREHOLDER DEBT
A summary of long-term shareholder debt as of December 31, 2009 is as follows (in thousands):
 In conjunction with a 2008 share purchase agreement, FDR had the option to require certain equity investors to purchase $25 million of FDR preferred and common shares. In consideration for the commitments to purchase these shares, FDR accrued commitment fees at a rate of 8% interest. These fees were paid in the form of 8% shareholders' guarantee fee notes with interest payable in kind. FDR exercised the option for the shareholders to purchase the full commitment of $25 million. The shareholders received $25 million in Series A Frontier Drilling ASA Redeemable Preferred Shares and 43,750,000 FDR common shares.
FDR
 In 2001, ASA issued $30 million and $10 million, respectively, of 7% shareholders' convertible subordinated notes due August 1, 2014 (as amended) (the Convertible Notes) to certain of its equity investors. ASA is required to pay interest in kind on the Convertible Notes quarterly. We assumed the obligation to deliver shares, if any, upon conversion of the Convertible Notes in ASA subject to mandatory conversion into shares of FDR. The Convertible Notes may be converted at a conversion price equal to Norwegian krone (NOK) 2.3 for each common share or at the current adjusted conversion price if an adjustment is required by the securities purchase agreement. The Convertible Notes may be redeemed, in whole but not in part, at any time on or after January 2, 2005. At the option of the holders of the Convertible Notes, any note or portion thereof may be converted into a number of fully paid and nonassessable common shares equal to (a) the principal amount as expressed in NOK using as conversion formula the NOK-US Dollar rate on the business day immediately prior to the date of conversion, plus accrued interest divided by (b) the conversion price at the time of conversion. The conversion right expires at the close of business on the business day immediately preceding August 1,
ASA
 
2014. Subsequent to January 2, 2005, no holder has opted to convert the notes. Frontier is not aware of any holder plans to convert the notes in the foreseeable future.
During 2003 and 2004, ASA issued 12% senior shareholders' notes to certain of its equity investors. The interest accumulates and is added to the principal amount of the loan. The maturity date is in August 2014.
The 10% shareholders' guarantee fee note of $2.4 million originated from the guarantees provided by the equity investors in 2004 to a lender, on behalf of ASA, as a condition for granting a $49 million credit facility. This credit facility was subsequently refinanced with another lender as part of the $315 million senior secured credit facility obtained in June 2006. The 10% interest that is unpaid on the shareholders' guarantee fee note accumulates in the 12% shareholders' guarantee fee interest notes at a rate of 12%. The 10% shareholders' guarantee fee notes and the 12% shareholders' guarantee fee interest notes are due August 2014.
 In September 2006, FDR, in conjunction with Frontier Driller, entered into a Preferred Shares, Notes, and Common Shares Purchase Agreement with certain of our equity investors (Driller September 2006 Agreement). In August 2007, under the terms of the September 2006 Purchase Agreement, Frontier Driller issued 15% shareholders' guarantee notes and 49,200,000 FDR common shares in exchange for proceeds of $30 million. The interest accumulates and is added to the principal amount of the 15% shareholders' guarantee notes. The amount attributable to contributed capital has been deducted as a discount to the guarantee note proceeds received of $30 million. The discount is amortized to principal over the term of the guarantee notes. The notes mature in September 2014.
Driller
Additionally, in December 2007, FDR, in conjunction with Frontier Driller entered into an agreement with certain of our equity investors (Driller December 2007 Agreement), whereby, Frontier Driller issued 15% shareholders' subordinated guarantee notes in the amounts of $17 million in February 2008 and $13 million in June 2008, respectively, and FDR issued 38,250,000 common shares and 29,250,000 common shares, respectively. The notes carry an annual interest rate of 15%. The amount attributable to contributed capital has been deducted as a discount to the 15% shareholders' subordinated guarantee notes proceeds received of $30 million. The discount is amortized to principal over the term of the 15% shareholders' subordinated guarantee notes. The notes mature in September 2014.
In consideration for commitments by our equity investors to purchase additional Driller Series B Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Shares and FDR common shares, Driller was required to pay to the equity investors a fee of 15% on the daily unused capital commitment amount. The unpaid fees on the unused capital commitments are recorded in the 15% shareholders' cost overrun paid-in-kind notes. The 15% interest on the 15% shareholders' cost overrun paid-in-kind notes accumulates and is added to the principal amount of the loan. The notes mature in September 2014.
 In October 2007, Frontier, in conjunction with Drillships, entered into a Preferred Shares, Notes, and Common Shares Purchase Agreement (Drillships October 2007 Agreement) with certain of our equity investors. The agreement provides for the issuance of Series A Mandatorily Redeemable Drillships preferred shares and FDR common shares (see Note 6) and at a later date an additional $50 million in cost overrun notes of which none have been drawn as of December 31, 2009. The cost overrun notes mature on December 31, 2016. The agreement also provides for Drillships to issue additional notes as payment for accrued but unpaid interest on cost overrun notes when issued. There were no amounts drawn at December 31, 2009.
Drillships
In consideration for their commitments to purchase additional Series A Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Shares and FDR common shares, the agreement provides for Drillships to pay to the equity investors a fee of 8% on the daily unused capital commitment amount. The unpaid fees on the unused capital commitments are recorded in the 8% shareholders' guarantee notes and cost overrun notes.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13. SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION
 
14. RETIREMENT PLAN
15. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
 
16. CONCENTRATIONS OF CREDIT AND MARKET RISK
 
17. SEGMENTS & GEOGRAPHIC AREA ANALYSIS
 
18. SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW
19. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
 

Exhibit 99.2
FDR Holdings Limited and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2010 and 2009
 
FDR HOLDINGS LIMITED AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS AS OF MARCH 31, 2010 AND DECEMBER 31, 2009 (In thousands, except share and per-share amounts)
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
FDR HOLDINGS LIMITED AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE THREE MONTHS ENDED MARCH 31, 2010 AND 2009 (In thousands)
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
FDR HOLDINGS LIMITED AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EQUITY FOR THE THREE MONTHS ENDED MARCH 31, 2010 (In thousands, except share amounts) (unaudited)
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
FDR HOLDINGS LIMITED AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS FOR THE THREE MONTHS ENDED MARCH 31, 2010 AND 2009 (In thousands)
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
FDR HOLDINGS LIMITED AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED) AS OF AND FOR THE QUARTER ENDED MARCH 31, 2010 AND 2009
 
 
 
 
Frontier was in compliance with all ASA debt covenants during the periods presented (see Note 14).
 In September 2006, Frontier Driller entered into a $230 million senior secured credit facility, which included a $200 million senior secured term loan, a $15 million senior secured revolving credit facility, and a $15 million senior secured standby cost overrun facility. The interest rate on the senior secured credit facility was set (as amended) at LIBOR plus 2.5% for the period ending on June 30, 2008, 4% for the period starting July 1, 2008, and ending on the date on which Shell has accepted the vessel under contract, and 1.5% thereafter. Frontier Driller was required to pay a fee of approximately 0.75% on the unused portion of any undrawn amount under the senior secured credit facility, which was fully drawn in November 2008, and certain other administrative costs. The senior secured term loan required one $15 million payment on June 30, 2008 and requires quarterly payments of $15 million that began on June 30, 2009, with a final payment of the remaining principal on September 30, 2011. The senior secured term loan is also subject to mandatory prepayments based on an excess cash flow calculation defined in the senior secured credit facility agreement. The senior secured revolving credit facility is due in full on September 30, 2011. The senior secured standby cost overrun facility required one $750,000 payment on June 30, 2008 and requires 9 consecutive quarterly installments of $750,000 that began on June 30, 2009, with a final payment of the remaining principal amount on September 30, 2011. The debt covenants of the senior secured credit agreement require Frontier Driller to enter into interest rate derivative financial instruments for at least 50% of the amount outstanding under the facilities at all times.
Driller
In December 2007, the senior secured credit facility was amended to allow Frontier Driller to obtain a second lien secured credit facility from another lender in the amount of $80 million with payment in full due December 31, 2012 and is subject to mandatory prepayments based on an excess cash flow calculation defined in the agreement. The interest rate on the second lien secured credit facility was set (as amended) at LIBOR plus 7%, plus 1.5% for the period starting on July 1, 2008 and ending on completion date of the vessel, if the completion date is after December 31, 2008 and before April 1, 2009, then on January 1, 2009, and thereafter at 8%, plus 1.5% until the completion date of the vessel, and if the completion date is after March 31, 2009, then on April 1, 2009, and thereafter at 9% plus 1.5% until completion. The vessel was completed on May 15, 2009 and has accrued interest at 9% thereafter. The debt covenants of the second lien secured credit facility require Frontier Driller to enter into interest rate derivative financial instruments for 100% of the amount outstanding under the facilities for a minimum of two years.
Driller
Driller
The collateral for the credit facilities consists primarily of a preferred mortgage on the and common shares of this entity are pledged as security. The credit facilities contain financial covenants, including, but not limited to, requirements for disposing of any material assets and incurring any additional indebtedness other than normal trade credit without the permission of the lender.
Driller
Frontier was in compliance with all Driller debt covenants during the periods presented.
 
A summary of third-party non-recourse debt of a variable interest entity as of March 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, is as follows (in thousands):
 In December 2007, Bully 1 entered into a $465 million senior secured term loan and credit facility (Bully 1 Credit Facility) with a group of lenders to finance the construction of the drillship. The Bully 1 Credit Facility consists of a $375 million senior secured term loan, a $40 million senior secured credit facility revolver, and a $50 million junior secured credit facility. No amounts have been drawn on either the senior secured credit facility revolver or the junior secured credit facility as of March 31, 2010. The senior secured term loan requires 20 quarterly payments of $15.75 million, starting the end of the first complete quarter after delivery of the drillship or March 2011. A final balloon payment of $60 million is due on the earlier occurrence of 4.75 years after the delivery of the or December 31, 2015. The senior secured credit facility revolver is also due in full on the final balloon payment date. The junior secured credit facility requires quarterly payments commencing after the third complete quarter following delivery and acceptance by Shell of the drillship with final payment to be made on the final balloon payment date. The Bully 1 Credit Facility is also subject to mandatory prepayments based on an excess cash flow calculation defined in the agreement.
Bully 1
Bully I
Bully I
Bully I
Bully I
The senior secured term loan provides for floating interest rates that are fixed for one-, three-, or six-month periods at LIBOR plus 2.5% prior to the completion and delivery of the drillship and 1.5% thereafter. Bully 1 is required to pay fees of approximately 1% on the unused portion of any undrawn amount under the senior secured term loan and senior secured credit facility revolver. Bully 1 is also required to pay fees of approximately 1.4% on the unused portion of any undrawn amount under the junior secured credit facility.
The Bully 1 Credit Facility contains representations, warranties, covenants, events of default, and indemnities, including the maintenance of interest rate derivative financial instruments for at least 75% of outstanding amount of the senior secured term loan and senior secured credit facility revolver. The Bully 1 Credit Facility is secured by assignments of the major contracts for the construction of the drillship and its equipment, the drilling contract for the drillship with Shell, assignment of the insurances on the drillship, and assignment of earnings from the drilling contract and charter parties concerning the drillship. In addition, when the drillship is registered under Marshall Islands flag following completion of construction, the Bully 1 Credit Facility will be secured by a Marshall Islands first-preferred ship mortgage on the drillship.
Frontier was in compliance with all Bully 1 debt covenants during the periods presented.
 In October 2008, Bully 2 entered into a $495 million senior secured term loan and credit facility (Bully 2 Credit Facility) with a lender to finance the construction of the drillship. The Bully 2 Credit Facility consists
Bully 2
Bully II
 
of a senior secured term loan of $435 million, a senior secured revolving credit facility of $10 million, and a secured cost overrun term loan of $50 million. No amounts have been drawn on either the senior secured revolving credit facility or the secured cost overrun term loan as of March 31, 2010. The principal of the senior secured term loan is to be repaid in 28 consecutive quarterly installments beginning at the earlier of the end of the first complete quarter after delivery and acceptance by Shell of the drillship or July 2011. The final amount will be paid together with a one-time balloon payment of $90 million and all amounts outstanding under the senior secured revolving credit facility on the final 28 consecutive quarterly installment payment date.
Bully II
th
The senior secured term loans as amended provide for floating interest rates that are fixed for three months, one month, one week, or such other period selected by Bully 2 and agreed by the agent, at LIBOR plus 2.5% prior to the occurrence of the delivery date of the hull, thereafter LIBOR plus 2.3% until contract commencement, thereafter LIBOR plus 2.25% until the first day of the sixth anniversary of the contract commencement, and thereafter 2.4%.
The secured cost overrun term loan has floating interest rates of LIBOR plus 3.5% prior to the occurrence of the contract commencement and 3.25% thereafter.
Bully 2 is required to pay fees of 1.25% on the unused portion of any undrawn amount under the Bully 2 Credit Facility.
Interest on the term loans is added to principle during the period from the Bully 2 Credit Facility closing date until the earlier of construction completion date or March 30, 2011.
The Bully 2 Credit Facility contains representations, warranties, covenants, events of default, and indemnities, including the maintenance of interest rate derivative financial instruments at least 60% of the amount of the senior secured term loan and senior secured revolving credit facility and 100% of the amount of the secured cost overrun term loan. The Bully 2 Credit Facility is secured by assignments of the major contracts for the construction of the drillship and its equipment, the drilling contract for the drillship with Shell, assignment of the insurances on the drillship, and assignment of earnings from the drilling contract and charter parties concerning the drillship. In addition, following the completion of construction of the drillship, the Bully 2 Credit Facility will be secured by first preferred ship mortgage on the drillship.
Bully II
Frontier was in compliance with all Bully 2 debt covenants during the periods presented.
 
A summary of long-term shareholder debt as of March 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, is as follows (in thousands):
 In conjunction with a 2008 share purchase agreement, FDR had the option to require certain equity investors to purchase $25 million of FDR preferred and common shares. In consideration for the commitments to purchase these shares, FDR accrued commitment fees at a rate of 8% interest. These fees were paid in the form of 8% shareholders' guarantee fee notes with interest payable in kind. FDR exercised the option for the shareholders to purchase the full commitment of $25 million. The shareholders received $25 million in Series A Frontier Drilling ASA Redeemable Preferred Shares and 43,750,000 FDR common shares.
FDR
 In 2001, ASA issued $30 million and $10 million, respectively, of 7% shareholders' convertible subordinated notes due August 1, 2014 (as amended) (the Convertible Notes) to certain of its equity investors. ASA is required to pay interest in kind on the Convertible Notes quarterly. We assumed the obligation to deliver shares, if any, upon conversion of the Convertible Notes in ASA subject to mandatory conversion into shares of Frontier. The Convertible Notes may be converted at a conversion price equal to Norwegian krone (NOK) 2.3 for each common share or at the current adjusted conversion price if an adjustment is required by the securities purchase agreement. The Convertible Notes may be redeemed, in whole but not in part, at any time on or after January 2, 2005. At the option of the holders of the Convertible Notes, any note or portion thereof may be converted into a number of fully paid and nonassessable common shares equal to (a) the principal amount as expressed in NOK using as conversion formula the NOK-US Dollar rate on the business day immediately prior to the date of conversion, plus accrued interest divided by (b) the conversion price at the time of conversion. The conversion right expires at the close of business on the business day immediately preceding August 1, 2014. Subsequent to January 2, 2005, no holder has opted to convert the notes. Frontier is not aware of any holder plans to convert the notes in the foreseeable future.
ASA
During 2003 and 2004, ASA issued 12% senior shareholders' notes to certain of its equity investors. The interest accumulates and is added to the principal amount of the loan. The maturity date is in August 2014.
 
The 10% shareholders' guarantee fee note of $2.4 million originated from the guarantees provided by the equity investors in 2004 to a lender, on behalf of ASA, as a condition for granting a $49 million credit facility. This credit facility was subsequently refinanced with another lender as part of the $315 million senior secured credit facility obtained in June 2006. The 10% interest that is unpaid on the shareholders' guarantee fee note accumulates in the 12% shareholders' guarantee fee interest notes at a rate of 12%. The 10% shareholders' guarantee fee notes and the 12% shareholders' guarantee fee interest notes are due August 2014.
 In September 2006, FDR, in conjunction with Frontier Driller, entered into a Preferred Shares, Notes, and Common Shares Purchase Agreement with certain of our equity investors (Driller September 2006 Agreement). In August 2007, under the terms of the September 2006 Purchase Agreement, Frontier Driller issued 15% shareholders' guarantee notes and 49,200,000 FDR common shares in exchange for proceeds of $30 million. The interest accumulates and is added to the principal amount of the 15% shareholders' guarantee notes. The amount attributable to contributed capital has been deducted as a discount to the guarantee note proceeds received of $30 million. The discount is amortized to principal over the term of the guarantee notes. The notes mature in September 2014.
Driller
Additionally, in December 2007, FDR, in conjunction with Frontier Driller entered into an agreement with certain of our equity investors (Driller December 2007 Agreement), whereby, Frontier Driller issued 15% shareholders' subordinated guarantee notes in the amounts of $17 million in February 2008 and $13 million in June 2008, respectively, and FDR issued 38,250,000 common shares and 29,250,000 common shares, respectively. The notes carry an annual interest rate of 15%. The amount attributable to contributed capital has been deducted as a discount to the 15% shareholders' subordinated guarantee notes proceeds received of $30 million. The discount is amortized to principal over the term of the 15% shareholders' subordinated guarantee notes. The notes mature in September 2014.
In consideration for commitments by our equity investors to purchase additional Driller Series B Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Shares and FDR common shares, Driller was required to pay to the equity investors a fee of 15% on the daily unused capital commitment amount. The unpaid fees on the unused capital commitments are recorded in the 15% shareholders' cost overrun paid-in-kind notes. The 15% interest on the 15% shareholders' cost overrun paid-in-kind notes accumulates and is added to the principal amount of the loan. The notes mature in September 2014.
 In October 2007, Frontier, in conjunction with Drillships, entered into a Preferred Shares, Notes, and Common Shares Purchase Agreement (Drillships October 2007 Agreement) with certain of our equity investors. The agreement provides for the issuance of Series A Mandatorily Redeemable Drillships preferred shares and FDR common shares (see Note 8) and at a later date an additional $50 million in cost overrun notes of which none have been drawn as of March 31, 2010. The cost overrun notes mature on December 31, 2016. The agreement also provides for Drillships to issue additional notes as payment for accrued but unpaid interest on cost overrun notes when issued. There were no amounts drawn as of March 31, 2010.
Drillships
In consideration for their commitments to purchase additional Series A Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Shares and FDR common shares, the agreement provides for Drillships to pay to the equity investors a fee of 8% on the daily unused capital commitment amount. The unpaid fees on the unused capital commitments are recorded in the 8% shareholders' guarantee notes and cost overrun notes.
 In July and September 2008, Frontier issued $27 million of 15% shareholders' promissory notes. The 15% interest that is unpaid on the shareholders' promissory notes accumulated in the 15% shareholders' promissory notes paid-in-kind. In February 2009, both notes were cancelled in exchange for Series A Mandatorily Redeemable Drillships 2 preferred shares.
Drillships 2
In September 2008, Frontier, in conjunction with Drillships 2, entered into a Purchase and Sale Agreement (Drillships 2 September 2008 Agreement) that provides for $50 million 8% cost overrun notes of which none have been drawn as of March 31, 2010. The cost overrun notes mature on April 15, 2018.
In consideration for their commitments to provide the 8% cost overrun notes, fees of 8% on the daily unused capital commitment amount accumulated in the 8% cost overrun notes.
 
8. MANDATORILY REDEEMABLE PREFERRED SHARES
A summary of mandatorily redeemable preferred shares as of March 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, is as follows (in thousands):
In conjunction with the Driller September 2006 Agreement, Frontier Driller issued 90,000,000 Series A mandatorily redeemable preferred shares (authorized 5,000,000,000 shares at $0.0001 par value) and FDR issued 122,500,000 common shares, in exchange for proceeds of $90 million. The liquidation value of the preferred shares is $1 per share plus all accrued and unpaid dividends. The Driller Series A mandatorily redeemable preferred shares accrue dividends at the rate of 15%, as amended from 8% in August 2008, and are redeemable for cash by Frontier Driller at any time subject to certain restrictions of the senior secured credit facility. Mandatory redemption of the Driller Series A mandatorily redeemable preferred shares is required in September 2014. The amount attributable to contributed capital has been deducted as a discount to the preferred share proceeds. The preferred shares discount is amortized to principal over the term of the preferred shares.
Driller
In November 2007, FDR, in conjunction with Frontier Driller, entered into a Preferred Shares, Notes, and Common Shares Purchase Agreement with certain of our equity investors. Thereafter, Frontier Driller issued 30,000,000 Series B mandatorily redeemable preferred shares (authorized 5,000,000,000 shares at $0.0001 par value) and FDR issued 52,500,000 common shares, in exchange for proceeds of $30 million. The liquidation value of the preferred shares is $1 per share plus all accrued and unpaid dividends. The Driller Series B mandatorily redeemable preferred shares accrue dividends at the rate of 15% and are redeemable for cash by Frontier Driller at any time subject to certain restrictions of the senior secured credit facility. Mandatory redemption of the Driller Series B mandatorily redeemable preferred shares is required in September 2014. The amount attributable to contributed capital has been deducted as a discount to the preferred share proceeds received. The preferred shares discount is amortized to principal over the term of the preferred shares.
In conjunction with the Driller December 2007 Agreement, Frontier Driller issued 40,000,000 Driller Series B mandatorily redeemable preferred shares and FDR issued 70,000,000 common shares, in exchange for proceeds of $40 million. The amount attributable to contributed capital has been deducted as a discount to the preferred share proceeds received of $40 million. The preferred shares discount is amortized over the term of the preferred shares.
In August 2008, FDR, in conjunction with Frontier Driller, entered into a Preferred Shares and Common Shares Purchase Agreement with certain of our equity investors. Thereafter, Frontier Driller issued 100,000,000 Driller Series B mandatorily redeemable preferred shares and FDR issued 175,000,000 common shares in exchange for proceeds of $100 million. The amount attributable to contributed capital has been deducted as a discount to the preferred share proceeds received. The preferred shares discount is amortized to principal over the term of the preferred shares.
 
Pursuant to the terms of the September 2006, November 2007, December 2007, and August 2008 purchase agreements, the holders of the Driller Series A mandatorily redeemable preferred shares and Driller Series B mandatorily redeemable preferred shares, guarantee notes, and subordinated notes issued under those purchase agreements were granted irrevocable put options (the "Put Options") and call options ("Call Options"). The Put Options grant the holders the right, upon an event of default under the terms of the security, to exchange such security for promissory notes of FDR having a principal value equal to the aggregate liquidation value or principal value of the security being exchanged, bearing interest at a rate of 15% and with other terms and conditions similar to the security being exchanged. Holders representing at least 66 2/3rds of the outstanding shares or notes of each class of such security must deliver written notice to FDR of the desire to exercise such exchange right. No event of default under the terms of any of such securities had occurred as of December 31, 2009. The Call Options grant the holders the right to require FDR to transfer to the holders up to all of the issued and outstanding Frontier Driller common shares in exchange for up to 85,850,000 FDR common shares in the event that FDR has not completed a qualifying public offering of its common shares prior to August 15, 2009. Holders representing at least 66 2/3rds of the outstanding shares of each class of Driller Series A mandatorily redeemable preferred shares and Driller Series B mandatorily redeemable preferred shares must deliver written notice to FDR of the desire to exercise such exchange right. If at least 66 2/3rds of holders representing shares deliver such notice, all holders are bound by such call option and all shares will be exchanged. Subsequent to August 15, 2009, no holder has provided notice of desire to exercise exchange rights. Frontier is not aware of any holder plans to exercise exchange rights in the foreseeable future.
 In conjunction with the Drillships October 2007 Agreement, Drillships during 2007 issued 25,577,778 Drillships Series A mandatorily redeemable preferred shares of $0.0001 par value per preferred share in Drillships, and 44,761,111 of FDR common shares for proceeds of $25.6 million. The October 2007 Agreement provided for additional issuances of 32,500,000 Series A Mandatorily Redeemable Drillships preferred shares and 56,875,000 of FDR common shares, for proceeds of $32.5 million. In February 2009, the Company issued 17,500,000 Series A Mandatorily Redeemable Drillships preferred shares and 30,625,000 of FDR common shares for proceeds of $17.5 million. In March 2010, the Company issued 15,000,000 Series A Mandatorily Redeemable Drillships preferred shares and 26,250,000 of FDR common shares for proceeds of $15 million. The amount attributable to contributed capital has been deducted as a discount to the Series A Mandatorily Redeemable Drillships preferred share proceeds. The Series A Mandatorily Redeemable Drillships discount is amortized over the term of the preferred shares. The outstanding Drillships Series A mandatorily redeemable preferred shares bear dividends at 8% and mature on December 31, 2016.
Drillships
Pursuant to the terms of the Drillships October 2007 Agreement, the holders of the Drillships Series A mandatorily redeemable preferred shares and cost overrun notes issued under those purchase agreements were granted irrevocable put options (the "Put Options") and call options ("Call Options"). The Put Options grant the holder the right, upon an event of default under the terms of the security, to exchange such security for promissory notes of FDR having a principal value equal to the aggregate liquidation value or principal value of the security being exchanged, bearing interest at a rate of 8% on the Drillships Series A mandatorily redeemable preferred shares and 15% on the cost overrun notes and with other terms and conditions similar to the security being exchanged. Holders representing at least 66 2/3rds of the outstanding shares or notes must deliver written notice to FDR of the desire to exercise such exchange right. No event of default under the terms of any of such securities had occurred as of March 31, 2010. The Call Options grant the holders of the Drillships Series A mandatorily redeemable preferred shares the right to require FDR to transfer to the holders up to all of the issued and outstanding Frontier Drillships common shares in exchange for up to 50% of the FDR common shares issued pursuant to the Drillships October 2007 Agreement in the event that FDR has not completed a qualifying public offering of its common shares prior to October 30, 2010. Holders representing at least 66 2/3rds of the outstanding shares must deliver written notice to Frontier of the desire to exercise such exchange right. If at least 66 2/3rds of the holders of the shares deliver such notice, all holders are bound by such call option and all shares will be exchanged.
 In conjunction with the Drillships 2 September 2008 Agreement, Frontier issued 21,445,000 Drillships 2 Series A mandatorily redeemable preferred shares of $0.0001 par value per preferred share, and 700,000 (or 70%) of Drillships 2 common stock of $0.0001 par value per common stock. In February 2009, Drillships 2 issued 29,397,153 Drillships 2 Series A mandatorily redeemable preferred shares in exchange for the cancellation of the Drillships 2 15% shareholders' promissory notes and the 15% shareholders' promissory notes paid-in-kind. The
Drillships 2
 
outstanding shares of Drillships 2 Series A mandatorily redeemable preferred shares bear dividends at 12% and will mature on April 15, 2018.
Pursuant to the terms of the Drillships 2 September 2008 Agreement, the holders of the Drillships 2 Series A mandatorily redeemable preferred shares and cost overrun notes issued under those purchase agreements were granted an irrevocable put option (the "Put Options") and Frontier was granted an irrevocable call option (the "Call Option"). The Put Options grant the holder the right, upon an Event of Default under the terms of the security, to exchange such security for promissory notes of FDR having a principal value equal to the aggregate liquidation value or principal value of the security being exchanged, bearing interest at a rate of 12% on the Drillships 2 Series A mandatorily redeemable preferred shares and 17% on the cost overrun notes and with other terms and conditions similar to the security being exchanged. Holders representing at least 66 2/3rds of the outstanding shares or notes must deliver written notice to Frontier of the desire to exercise such exchange right. No event of default under the terms of any of such securities had occurred as of March 31, 2010. The Call Option grants Frontier the right, exercisable any time prior to September 30, 2011, to require the holders of the Drillships 2 Series A mandatorily redeemable preferred shares, cost overrun notes and FDR common shares issued pursuant to the Drillships 2 September 2008 Agreement to transfer all of such securities to FDR for cash or publicly-traded equity securities with a value equal to the call price as defined in the purchase agreement.
9. VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES
We have interests in three VIEs. A legal entity is a VIE if the entity's equity investment at risk does not provide its holders, as a group, with the power through voting or similar rights to direct the activities that most significantly impact the entity's economic performance. We are required to consolidate VIEs if we have the power to direct the activities of a VIE that most significantly impact the entity's economic performance and the obligation to absorb losses of the entity or the right to receive benefits from the VIE that could potentially be significant to the VIE. If these conditions are met, we have a controlling financial interest and are the primary beneficiary of the VIE.
Once an entity is identified as a VIE, we perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether we are the primary beneficiary. A qualitative assessment begins with an understanding of nature of the risks in the entity as well as the nature of the entity's activities, including terms of the contracts entered into by the entity, ownership interests issued by the entity, and how they were marketed, and the parties involved in the design of the entity. We then identify all of the variable interests held by parties involved with the VIE including, among other things, equity investments, debt financing, any financial and performance guarantees, and significant contracted service providers. Once we identify the variable interests, we determine those activities that are most significant to the economic performance of the entity and which variable interest holder has the power to direct those activities.
In September 2007, we acquired a 50 percent interest in Bully 1, Ltd., a Cayman Islands Joint Venture Company formed to commission the construction, ownership and, operation of the ultra-deepwater drillship, the . The company is owned 50 percent by Drillships, Ltd (Drillships), a fully owned subsidiary of Frontier, and 50 percent by Shell. Each party contributed $24 million to capitalize the company. Frontier's contribution consisted of non-cash items totaling $23.4 million and cash contributions of $0.6 million. Bully 1 has entered into a marine drilling order with Shell to contract the inclusive of all personnel and equipment for a primary term of five years with the right to extend the contract terms for four one-year options at mutually agreed rates for the additional periods. Additionally, in October 2007, the parties entered into a management agreement with Frontier Drilling USA, Inc. (Frontier Drilling USA), a wholly owned subsidiary of Frontier, under which it will be responsible for all daily operational, supervision, and management decisions of the .
Bully I
Bully I
Bully I
In December 2007, Drillships, along with Shell, formed Bully 2, Ltd, a 50/50 owned Cayman Islands Joint Venture Company to commission the construction, ownership and operation of a second ultra-deepwater drillship, the . Each party contributed $47 million in cash to capitalize the company. Bully 2 has entered into an offshore drilling contract with Shell to contract the drillship inclusive of all personnel and equipment for a primary term of ten years with the right to extend the contract terms for five one-year options at mutually agreed rates. Additionally, in July 2008, the parties entered into a management agreement, under which Frontier Drilling USA will be responsible for all daily operational, supervision, and management decisions of the . Drillships' interest in the Bully 2 Joint Venture was subsequently assigned to Drillships 2, Ltd (Drillships 2).
Bully II
Bully II
Bully II
 
Since Bully 1's equity investment at risk is insufficient to permit the entity to direct the activities that most significantly impact the entity's economic performance without additional subordinated financial support, Bully 1 meets the criteria for a variable interest entity. We have determined that we are the primary beneficiary for accounting purposes. Our determination is based on the fact that Frontier effectively controls the principal activities of Bully 1 as the maker of operational decisions. Our determination is also supported by the fact that when evaluating whether substantially all of the activities either involve or are conducted on behalf of the investor, the investor must combine interests held by its related parties. Shell meets the definition of a related party. Shell will be the initial customer of Bully 1 and has the option to invest in and contract with additional vessels constructed by the Bully Joint Venture. Accordingly, we consolidate the Bully 1 in our consolidated financial statements, intercompany transactions are eliminated, and the equity interest that is not owned by us is presented as noncontrolling interests on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Bully 1 
As a result of the consolidation of Bully 1, we have included on our Consolidated Balance Sheets the following assets and liabilities at March 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009:
Included in long-term liabilities is $334.3 million and $310.0 million of third-party non-recourse debt as of March 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively. For terms of the Bully 1 debt, see Note 6. Bully 1 debt is presented on the face of the Consolidated Balance Sheets within "Third-Party Non-Recourse Debt of a Variable Interest Entity" as it is non-recourse to FDR. The debt was incurred to finance the construction of the drillship. Assets collateralizing the debt include cash and equivalents of $47.0 million and property and equipment of approximately $409.0 million as of March 31, 2010. Bully 1 property and equipment is presented on the face of the Consolidated Balance Sheets within "Property and Equipment of a Variable Interest Entity" as the assets can only be used to settle the obligations of Bully 1.
Bully I
Since Bully 2's equity investment at risk is insufficient to permit the entity to direct the activities that most significantly impact the entity's economic performance without additional subordinated financial support, Bully 2 meets the criteria for a variable interest entity. We have determined that we are the primary beneficiary for accounting purposes. As a result, we consolidate Bully 2 in our consolidated financial statements, intercompany transactions are eliminated, and the equity interest that is not owned by us is presented as noncontrolling interests on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Bully 2 
 
As a result of the consolidation of Bully 2, we have included on our Consolidated Balance Sheets the following assets and liabilities at March 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009:
Included in long-term liabilities is $255.3 million and $238.9 million of third-party non-recourse debt as of March 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively. For terms of the Bully 2 debt, see Note 6. Bully 2 debt is presented on the face of the Consolidated Balance Sheets within "Third-Party Non-Recourse Debt of a Variable Interest Entity" as it is non-recourse to FDR. The debt was incurred to finance the construction of the drillship. Assets collateralizing the debt include cash and equivalents of $33.7 million and property and equipment of approximately $316.5 million as of March 31, 2010. Bully 2 property and equipment is presented on the face of the Consolidated Balance Sheets within "Property and Equipment of a Variable Interest Entity" as the assets can only be used to settle the obligations of Bully 2.
Bully II
Drillships 2, a Cayman Islands entity was formed on September 10, 2008, as a wholly owned direct subsidiary of Frontier with an authorized share capital of $50,000 for the purpose of providing partial financing and guarantees for building, rolling out, and operating the drillship. On September 30, 2008, Drillships 2 acquired Frontier's 50 percent interest in the Bully 2 Joint Venture that was held by Drillships in consideration to assume and discharge the liabilities related to the outstanding notes in the total amount of $27 million. Additionally, on the same date, Drillships 2 and Frontier entered into a Purchase and Sale Agreement with our equity investors to sell Series A Preferred Shares, of Drillships 2 common shares, and cost overrun notes. Following the sale, our equity investors held 70 percent of common shares in Drillships 2, and the remaining 30 percent is held by Frontier. Accordingly, our interest in the Bully 2 Joint Venture was diluted from 50 percent to 15 percent. Under the terms of the governing legal agreements, Frontier has no voting interest in the entity. As such, Frontier's voting rights are disproportionate relative to its obligation to absorb the expected losses and its right to the expected residual returns of the entity.
Drillships 2 
Bully II
We have determined that Drillships 2 is a variable interest entity for which we are the primary beneficiary for accounting purposes, even though Frontier does not have a majority voting interest over the operations of Drillships 2, because its equity investment at risk is insufficient to permit the entity to direct the activities that most significantly impact the entity's economic performance without additional subordinated financial support from its investors. We have determined that we are the primary beneficiary because when evaluating whether substantially all of the activities either involve or are conducted on behalf of the investor, the investor must combine interests held by its related parties. Our equity investors meet the definition of related party, as they have invested significant amounts in FDR since July 2001. Accordingly, we consolidate Drillships 2 in our consolidated financial statements, intercompany transactions are eliminated, and the interest that is not owned by us is presented as noncontrolling interests on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
 
As a result of the consolidation of Drillships 2, we have included on our Consolidated Balance Sheets the following assets and liabilities at March 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009:
10. FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
We have estimated fair value by using appropriate valuation methodologies and information available to management as of March 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009. Considerable judgment is required in developing these estimates, and accordingly, estimated values may differ from actual results.
The estimated fair value of accounts receivable and accounts payable approximates their carrying value due to their short-term nature. The estimated fair value of the Company's third-party debt instruments approximates their carrying value because their respective variable rates approximate current market rates. FASB guidance on fair value provides a framework for measuring fair value under GAAP and provides a three-tier fair value hierarchy of pricing inputs used to report assets and liabilities that are adjusted to fair value. Level 1 includes inputs such as quoted prices, which are available in active markets for identical assets or liabilities as of the report date. Level 2 includes inputs other than quoted prices in active markets included in Level 1, which are either directly or indirectly observable as of the report date. Level 3 includes unobservable pricing inputs that are not corroborated by market data or other objective sources.
 
The following table sets forth within FASB's fair value hierarchy, Frontier's financial assets and liabilities that were accounted for at fair value on a recurring basis as of March 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009 (in thousands):
We utilize market data or assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. Our assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement requires judgment and may affect the valuation of fair value assets and liabilities and their placement within the fair value hierarchy.
We use an income approach to value assets and liabilities for outstanding derivative contracts, including interest rate swaps and foreign exchange forward contracts. These contracts are valued using a discounted cash flow model that calculates the present value of future cash flows under the terms of the contracts using market information as of the reporting date, such as prevailing interest rates and foreign exchange spot, and forward rates and are reported under Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. The determination of the fair values above incorporates various factors, including the impact of the counterparty's non-performance risk with respect to the Company's financial assets and the Company's non-performance risk with respect to the Company's financial liabilities. The Company has not elected to offset the fair value amounts recognized for multiple derivative instruments executed with the same counterparty, but report them gross on its Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Refer to Note 11 for further discussion of the Company's use of derivative instruments and their fair values.
 
11. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
We have established policies and procedures for derivative instruments. These policies and procedures provide for the prior approval of derivative instruments by the Chief Financial Officer of Frontier Drilling USA. From time to time, we may enter into a variety of derivative financial instruments in connection with the management of our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates and to meet our debt covenant requirements. We do not enter into derivative transactions for speculative purposes; however, for accounting purposes, certain transactions may not meet the criteria for hedge accounting.
Frontier is currently exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and changes in interest rates. Frontier applies cash flow hedge accounting to certain derivative instruments, including interest rate swaps, costless collars, and forward foreign currency contracts designated as hedges of the variability of future cash flows. We record derivative financial instruments on our Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value as either assets or liabilities. Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges, to the extent the hedge is effective, are recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. Hedge effectiveness is measured quarterly to ensure the ongoing validity of the hedges based on the relative cumulative changes in fair value between the derivative contract and the hedged item over time. Any change in fair value resulting from ineffectiveness is recognized immediately in earnings. Hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively if it is determined that the derivative is no longer effective in offsetting changes in the cash flows of the hedged item. If we determine that it is probable that a hedged forecasted transaction will not occur, deferred gains or losses on the hedging instrument are recognized in earnings immediately. For interest rate hedges of debt not used to construct fixed assets, other comprehensive income is released to earnings as interest expense is accrued on the underlying debt. For foreign currency swaps and interest rate hedges related to interest capitalized in the construction of fixed assets, other comprehensive income (OCI) is released to earnings as the vessel is depreciated over its useful life. Changes in the fair value of derivatives not designated as cash flow hedges are recognized immediately in earnings.
The mark to market impact on undesignated derivatives on the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009 was a net gain of $90,819 and net loss of $3.0 million, respectively. The gains and losses above include earnings from derivatives that were not designated in cash flow hedge relationships at inception of the derivative contract.
Ineffectiveness losses for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009 were $11,088 and $123,260, respectively. Frontier records time value on the costless collars designated as cash flow hedges currently in earnings, as it elected to exclude time value from its assessment of hedge effectiveness. Changes in time value of the costless collar for the three months ended March 31, 2010 was a loss of $79,301. There were no outstanding costless collars for the three months ended March 31, 2009.
 As of March 31, 2010, Frontier had several interest rate swaps that we designated as cash flow hedges, which were entered into to reduce the variability of future cash flows in the interest payments for variable-rate debt. All interest rates swaps have been designated as cash flow hedges for accounting purposes.
Interest Rate Swaps/Collar
In June 2006, ASA entered into a $315 million First Lien Credit Agreement and was subsequently restated and amended during August 2007, whereby the borrowing base increased to $350 million (see Note 5). The debt bears interest at LIBOR. Under the debt covenants, ASA is required to hedge 50% of the floating rate interest expense for a period of no less than three years from June 2006. In June 2006, ASA entered into a three-year interest rate swap in which Frontier pays fixed rate interest of 5.4% and receives three month LIBOR. This swap matured in June 2009. Additionally, in August 2007, ASA entered into a $100 million Second Lien Credit Agreement that bears interest at LIBOR. The covenants of this debt agreement require ASA to hedge 50% of the floating-rate interest expense for a period of no less than one year. In November 2007, ASA entered into a one-year interest rate swap in which ASA pays fixed rate interest of 5.02% and receives LIBOR. This swap matured in November 2008.
In September 2006, Frontier Driller entered into a $230 million senior secured credit facility (see Note 5). Frontier Driller is required by the terms of the credit agreement to hedge 50% of the floating rate interest expense. As such, Frontier Driller entered into an interest rate swap in which the Company pays fixed rate interest of 5.39% and
 
receives LIBOR (see Note 5). The term of this swap is three years and the notional amount changes based on the outstanding loan balance at the end of each quarter. Additionally, in December 2007 Frontier Driller entered into a second lien secured credit facility for $80 million (see Note 5). Frontier Driller is required by the terms of this credit agreement to hedge 100% of the floating rate interest expense. In December 2007, Frontier Driller entered into a two-year interest rate swap in which Frontier pays a fixed rate interest of 3.96% and receives LIBOR. Additionally, Frontier Driller entered into a three month LIBOR interest rate collar in June 2009. The collar has a floor rate of 1.45% and a cap rate of 4% and began settling quarterly on September 30, 2009. The collar terminates on September 30, 2011.
In December 2007, Bully 1 entered into a $465 million senior secured term loan and credit facility (see Note 6). The debt facility's covenants require Bully 1 to hedge the interest payments associated with 75% of the outstanding debt. During January 2008, Bully 1 entered into three identical interest rate swaps in which Bully 1 pays fixed rate interest of 3.65% and receives LIBOR. The term of the three swaps is six and a half years and the notional amount changes based on the forecasted cash requirements.
In October 2008, Bully 2 entered into a $495 million senior secured term loan and credit facility (see Note 6). The debt facility's covenants require Bully 2 to enter into interest rate hedging agreements for no less than 60% of the aggregate of the senior secured term loan commitments and foreign currency derivative financial instruments for no less than 100% of the amounts denominated in foreign currency and to be paid to construction contracts. During December 2008, Bully 2 entered into an interest rate swap in which Bully 2 pays fixed rate interest of 3.13% and receives LIBOR. The term of the swap is nine years and the notional amount changes based on forecasted cash requirements.
As of March 31, 2010, the Company expects to reclassify a net loss of $15.1 million into earnings within the next 12 months.
 As of March 31, 2010, we had several foreign currency forward contracts with varying notional amounts, which were entered into to hedge exposure to currency fluctuations in various foreign currencies.
Foreign Currency Forward Contracts
In January 2008, Bully 1 entered into several Singapore dollar (SGD) and Euro forward contracts with varying maturity dates, to protect its cash flow from variability resulting from currency fluctuations in USD against SGD and Euro exchange rates on anticipated SGD and Euro denominated payments associated with the construction of the drillship. Bully 1 designated the Euro forward contracts as cash flow hedges, but did not elect hedge accounting for SGD forward contracts.
Bully I
In November 2008, Bully 2 entered into several SGD and Euro forward contracts that were designated as cash flow hedges with varying maturity dates, to protect its cash flow from variability resulting from currency fluctuations in the USD against SGD and Euro exchange rates on anticipated SGD and Euro denominated payments associated with the construction of the drillship.
Bully II
The following derivative transactions were outstanding with associated volumes and rates for the index specified as of March 31, 2010:
 
The table below provides data about the fair values of derivatives that are and are not designated as hedge instruments as of March 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009:
The following table summarizes the cash flow hedge gains and losses and their locations on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of March 31, 2010 and Consolidated Statements of Operations for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009 (in thousands):
 
 
12. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
 As of March 31, 2010, our purchase obligations are $178.9 million and $34.0 million, which is expected to be incurred in 2010 and 2011, respectively. The purchase obligations relate to the new build construction of and .
Commitments
Bully I
Bully II
 The Company may be the subject of certain claims and lawsuits occurring in the normal course of business. No pending or known threatened claims, actions, or proceedings against us are expected to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.
Contingencies
The Company conducted an internal review that identified certain payments totaling approximately $35,000 that were paid by one of our former agents to Nigeria immigration officials in the spring and summer of 2009. The Company retained outside counsel to investigate these payments and, based on their advice, made adjustments to our accounts to properly record the payments. The Company has conferred with outside counsel and understands that the Company has available arguments that the payments did not violate the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA") because they were made after a Nigeria immigration official threatened the health and safety of one of our employees. In May 2010, the Company voluntarily disclosed these matters to the U.S. Department of Justice and will cooperate with any government's review. The Company cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these matters at this time nor can the Company estimate any potential liability. Since identifying these payments, the Company has implemented a comprehensive FCPA policy, including the adoption of Foreign Anti-Corruption Policy and Procedures to: (1) establish principles for ethical business conduct by the Company and its agents and other representatives who are involved in business dealings outside the United States; (2) focus on compliance with the FCPA and all other equivalent applicable anti-corruption legislation; and (3) provide the Company, including its directors, officers, employees, agents, and other representatives, with the tools and resources necessary to enable, monitor and enforce the Company's full compliance with the FCPA and all other equivalent anti-corruption and/or anti-bribery legislation.
13. SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW
We paid interest totaling $12.8 million and $17.7 million on debt during the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
Capital expenditures for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, included $38.8 million and $43.9 million of capital expenditures that were accrued but unpaid at March 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Accrued capital expenditures are included in "trade accounts payable" and "accrued liabilities" in our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Non-cash amortization of deferred financing costs, unpaid commitment fees, and unpaid interest expense totaling $2.4 million and $9.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, were capitalized to property and equipment. Capital expenditures paid for directly by Shell on the behalf of FDR totaling $6.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2010 were capitalized to property and equipment. There were no capital expenditures paid for directly by Shell for the three months ended March 31, 2009. Accordingly, these amounts are excluded from capital expenditures in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009.
14. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
We have evaluated subsequent events through July 21, 2010, the date the financial statements were issued.
On May 24, 2010, ASA entered into an amendment and waiver to the Amended and Restated First Lien Credit Agreement and an amendment and waiver to the Second Lien Credit Agreement in order to maintain compliance with debt covenants. For the period prior to and including April 15, 2010, the senior secured credit facility was modified to increase the interest rate to LIBOR plus 6% in respect of Eurodollar Advances and to Base Rate plus 5% in respect of Base Rate Advances. For the period after April 15, 2010, the senior secured credit facility was modified to increase the interest rate to LIBOR plus 9% in respect of Eurodollar Advances and to Base Rate plus 8% in respect of Base Rate Advances.
 
The Second Lien Credit Agreement was also modified for the period prior to and including April 15, 2010 to increase the interest rate to LIBOR plus 10% in respect of Eurodollar Advances and to Base Rate plus 9% in respect to Base Rate Advances. For the period after April 15, 2010, the Second Lien Credit Agreement was also modified to increase the interest rate to LIBOR plus 13% in respect of Eurodollar Advances and to Base Rate plus 12% in respect to Base Rate Advances.
ASA was required to make a payment of $6.6 million for fees and costs of the amendments and waivers.
In conjunction with the amendments and waivers, a Shareholder Subordinated Note of $40 million was obtained from our equity investors. The interest that is unpaid on the Shareholder Subordinated Note will accumulate in a Shareholder's Subordinated Interest Note at a rate of 18% for the first six months, increasing by 1% on each six month anniversary of issuance thereafter up to 22%. The Shareholder Subordinated Note and Shareholder's Subordinated Interest Note will be due May 24, 2016.
On June 21, 2010, Frontier entered into an agreement with BP Exploration & Production Inc. for the services of Frontier in the Gulf of Mexico. The contract is a short-term agreement that provides for extensions on a day-to-day basis.
Seillean
On June 27, 2010, Noble Corporation, a Swiss corporation ("Noble-Swiss"), and Noble AM Merger Co, a Cayman Islands company and indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Noble-Swiss ("Merger Sub"), entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Agreement") with Frontier and certain of Frontier's shareholders, pursuant to which Merger Sub would merge with and into Frontier, with Frontier surviving as an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Noble-Swiss (the "Merger") and a wholly owned subsidiary of Noble Corporation, a Cayman Islands company and wholly owned subsidiary of Noble-Swiss ("Noble-Cayman").

Exhibit 99.3
     The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements and related notes give effect to the acquisition by Noble Corporation, a Swiss corporation ("Noble-Swiss"), of all of the issued and outstanding equity interests of FDR Holdings Limited, a Cayman Islands company ("Frontier"). On June 27, 2010, Noble-Swiss, Noble AM Merger Co, a Cayman Islands company and indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Noble-Swiss ("Merger Sub"), entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Agreement") with Frontier, and certain of Frontier's shareholders, pursuant to which Merger Sub would merge with and into Frontier, with Frontier surviving as an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Noble-Swiss (the "Merger") and a wholly owned subsidiary of Noble Corporation, a Cayman Islands company and wholly owned subsidiary of Noble-Swiss ("Noble-Cayman"). Completion of the Merger is subject to customary closing conditions. References to "Noble" refer to Noble-Swiss and its consolidated subsidiaries, including Noble-Cayman (except as it may relate specifically to Noble-Cayman).
     The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information sets forth: (i) the historical financial information as of March 31, 2010 and for the three months then ended, as derived from the unaudited financial statements of Noble-Swiss, Noble-Cayman and Frontier, and the historical financial information for the year ended December 31, 2009, as derived from the audited financial statements of Noble-Swiss, Noble-Cayman and Frontier; and (ii) pro forma adjustments assuming the pending Merger and related transactions and financing were completed as of March 31, 2010 for purposes of the unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet and as of January 1, 2009 for purposes of the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of operations.
     The unaudited pro forma combined financial information should be read in conjunction with, and are qualified in their entirety by, the notes thereto and with the historical annual and quarterly consolidated financial statements of Noble-Swiss, Noble-Cayman and Frontier, including the respective notes thereto. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements give effect to the Merger under the acquisition method of accounting. In the opinion of Noble-Swiss management, all significant adjustments necessary to reflect the effects of the Merger and related transactions and financing have been made. Those adjustments are preliminary and are based on certain estimates and currently available information. Such adjustments could change as additional information becomes available, as estimates are refined or as additional events occur. However, management does not expect any changes in the purchase price to be paid pursuant to the Merger Agreement or the allocation of such purchase price to be significant.
     The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements are presented for comparative purposes only and are not necessarily indicative of what the actual combined financial position and results of operations of Noble-Swiss, Noble-Cayman and Frontier would have been as of and for the periods presented, nor does it purport to represent the future combined financial position or results of operations of Noble-Swiss, Noble-Cayman and Frontier.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. Basis of Presentation
     The unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial statements were prepared in accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation S-X Article 11, using the acquisition method of accounting, and are based on the historical financial statements of Noble-Swiss, Noble-Cayman and Frontier after giving effect to the cash to be paid by Noble to consummate the Merger and related transactions and financing, as well as pro forma adjustments.
     Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 805, requires, among other things, that most assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recognized at their fair values, as determined in accordance with ASC 820, , as of the acquisition date. In addition, ASC 805 establishes that the consideration transferred be measured at the closing date of the asset acquisition at the then-current market price, which may be different than the amount of consideration assumed in these unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial statements.
Business Combinations,
Fair Value Measurements
     ASC 820, as amended, defines the term "fair value" and sets forth the valuation requirements for any asset or liability measured at fair value, expands related disclosure requirements and specifies a hierarchy of valuation techniques based on the nature of the inputs used to develop the fair value measures. Fair value is defined in ASC 820, as amended, as "the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date." This is an exit price concept for the valuation of the asset or liability. In addition, market participants are assumed to be buyers and sellers in the principal (or the most advantageous) market for the asset or liability. Fair value measurements for an asset assume the highest and best use by these market participants. As a result of these standards, Noble-Swiss may be required to record assets which are not intended to be used or sold and/or to value assets at fair value measures that do not reflect Noble-Swiss' intended use of those assets. Many of these fair value measurements can be highly subjective, and it is also possible that other professionals, applying reasonable judgment to the same facts and circumstances, could develop and support a range of alternative estimated amounts.
     Under the acquisition method of accounting, the assets acquired and liabilities assumed will be recorded as of the completion of the acquisition, primarily at their respective fair values and added to those of Noble-Swiss. Financial statements and reported results of operations of Noble-Swiss and Noble-Cayman issued after completion of the acquisition will reflect these values, but will not be retroactively restated to reflect the historical financial position or results of operations of Frontier.
     The unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated balance sheet is presented as if the Merger had occurred on March 31, 2010. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated statements of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and the twelve months ended December 31, 2009 are presented as if the Merger had occurred on January 1, 2009.
     Under ASC 805, acquisition-related transaction costs (advisory, legal, valuation, other professional fees) and certain acquisition-related restructuring charges impacting the target company are expensed in the period in which the costs are incurred. Total advisory, legal, regulatory, and valuation costs incurred by Noble-Swiss are estimated to total approximately $15 million.
i.e.,
2. Accounting Policies
     The unaudited pro forma financial information has been compiled in a manner consistent with the accounting policies adopted by Noble-Swiss.
 
3. Purchase Price Allocation
     The total purchase price of $2.6 billion (including 100% of the long-term debt of two 50% owned joint ventures) was allocated to the net tangible and intangible assets acquired based on their estimated fair values as follows (in thousands):
4. Pro Forma Adjustments
     The pro forma adjustments included in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated balance sheet and statements of operations are as follows:
     Description
 
5. Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Earnings per Share
     The following table sets forth the computation of unaudited pro forma combined basic and diluted net income per share for Noble-Swiss.


