FILE:NE/NE-8K-20110720171237.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
On July 20, 2011, Noble Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the three and six months ended June 30, 2011. A copy of such press release is included as Exhibit 99.1 and will be published in the "Newsroom" area on the Company's web site at http://www.noblecorp.com.
Pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the press release is being furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
PRESS RELEASE
ZUG, Switzerland, July 20, 2011  Noble Corporation (NYSE: NE) today reported second quarter 2011 earnings of $54 million, or $0.21 per diluted share, matching earnings reported for the first quarter of 2011. Results for the second quarter included a $0.04 per diluted share benefit relating to the settlement of certain discrete tax matters. First quarter 2011 results included a one-time after-tax net gain of $0.06 per diluted share relating to the substitution of the drillship for the drillship in Brazil. Contract drilling services revenues totaled $590 million in the second quarter of 2011, up nine percent from $543 million in the first quarter of 2011. Contract drilling margin percentage for the second quarter of 2011 was approximately 43 percent compared to 44 percent in the prior quarter. Noble invested $815 million in capital projects during the second quarter.
Noble Phoenix
Noble Muravlenko
At June 30, 2011, approximately 73 percent of the Company's available rig operating days were committed for the remainder of 2011 and approximately 43 percent were committed for 2012. The Company's total backlog at June 30, 2011 was approximately $13 billion.
David W. Williams, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, noted, "Second quarter results were significantly hindered by several downtime events involving five rigs. Although we were disappointed by the interruption in service on these rigs, most of which pertained to subsea equipment and control systems, four out of five rigs returned to service prior to the end of the second quarter. Despite the fleet downtime, the quarter was characterized by an improvement in business fundamentals, as utilization and tendering activity improved for both jackups and deepwater units, and several Noble rigs returned to active status."
 
Operations Highlights
In Mexico, six of Noble's jackups returned to active status during the second quarter following the award of contracts, while a contract on the is expected to commence by the end of July. Also, the was awarded a three-year contract in July, which is expected to commence in September 2011 following the completion of a leg-extension project. Dayrates for the rigs that have or will soon return to work range from approximately $80,000 to $100,000. Noble now has all 12 of its jackup rigs in Mexico under contract, with 10 of the 12 units under contract into late 2011 or beyond.
Noble Sam Noble
Noble Roy Butler
In the North Sea, the jackup was awarded a three-well contract at a dayrate of $91,000, while the jackup was awarded a two-well contract at a dayrate of $105,000. Both rigs are expected to commence their new contracts in or around January 2012.
Noble Byron Welliver
Noble Lynda Bossler
The Company continued to build its presence in Saudi Arabia following the award of contracts for the jackups and . The three-year contracts are expected to commence in September 2011 with an operating dayrate for each rig of $81,000. With these awards, the Company now has four jackups committed to Saudi Aramco.
Noble Gene House
Noble Joe Beall
Finally, in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, the semisubmersible began receiving its full contract dayrate of $485,000 on July 11 following the award to our client of permits necessary to commence well operations in the region. In addition, certification of the subsea control system on the semisubmersible was completed in July and the rig is expected to resume operations shortly at its full operating dayrate, pending receipt of a drilling permit. The Company now has certified subsea equipment and control systems on all six of its active semisubmersibles in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico.
Noble Jim Day
Noble Driller
"Offshore demand continues to build in most regions around the world, supporting expectations for gradually improving utilization and dayrates among our jackups and floating rigs," said Williams. He added, "Additional client demand for jackups is visible in Mexico and the Middle East. In the deepwater sector, Petrobras continues to tender for dynamically positioned and moored rigs for offshore Brazil with contract lengths of three to five years and we continue to see client interest in some of the emerging deepwater frontiers."
 
In closing, Williams stated, "Our fleet enhancement program, currently composed of the construction of seven ultra-deepwater drillships and four high-specification jackups, is transforming Noble into one of the industry's most modern and capable offshore drilling contractors. As client demand in the offshore sector increases and expands geographically, so does the need for technically advanced, versatile and efficient rigs that address both shallow and deepwater prospects. We believe our strategic growth initiatives strongly position the Company to benefit from further client demand and offshore industry expansion."
About Noble Corporation
Noble is a leading offshore drilling contractor for the oil and gas industry. Noble performs, through its subsidiaries, contract drilling services with a fleet of 76 offshore drilling units (including seven ultra-deepwater rigs and four jackup drilling rigs currently under construction), located worldwide, including in the Middle East, India, the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, Mexico, the Mediterranean, the North Sea, Brazil, West Africa and Asian Pacific. Noble's shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "NE". Additional information on Noble Corporation is available on the Company's Web site at .
http://www.noblecorp.com
Statements regarding contract backlog, earnings, costs, revenue, rig demand, fleet condition or performance, shareholder value, timing of delivery of newbuilds, contract commitments, dayrates, contract commencements, contract extensions or renewals, letters of intent or award, industry fundamentals, customer relationships, future performance, growth opportunities, market outlook, as well as any other statements that are not historical facts in this release, are forward-looking statements that involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions. These include but are not limited to operating hazards and delays, risks associated with operations outside of the U.S., actions by regulatory authorities, customers and other third parties, legislation and regulations affecting drilling operations, compliance with regulatory requirements, costs and difficulties relating to the integration of acquired businesses, factors affecting the level of activity in the oil and gas industry, supply and demand of drilling rigs, factors affecting the duration of contracts, delays in the construction of newbuilds, the actual amount of downtime, factors that reduce applicable dayrates, violations of anti-corruption laws, hurricanes and other weather conditions, the future price of oil and gas and other factors detailed in the Company's most recent Form 10-K, Form 10-Q's and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those indicated.
 
Conference Call
Noble has scheduled a conference call and webcast related to its second quarter 2011 results on Thursday, July 21, 2011, at 8:00 a.m. U.S. Central Daylight Time. Interested parties are invited to listen to the call by dialing 1-866-461-7129, or internationally 1-706-679-3084, using access code: 27255924 or by asking for the Noble Corporation conference call. Interested parties may also listen over the Internet through a link posted in the Investor Relations section of the Company's Web site.
A replay of the conference call will be available on Thursday, July 21, 2011, beginning at 11:00 a.m. U.S. Central Daylight Time, through Thursday, August 4, 2011, ending at 5:00 p.m. U.S. Central Daylight Time. The phone number for the conference call replay is 1-800-642-1687 or, for calls from outside of the U.S., 1-706-645-9291, using access code: 27255924. The replay will also be available on the Company's Web site following the end of the live call. The conference call may include non-GAAP financial measures. Noble will post a reconciliation of any such measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in the "Investor Relations" section of the Company's Web site under the heading "Regulation G Reconciliations."
For additional information, contact:
For Investors: Jeffrey L. Chastain, Vice President  Investor Relations,
Noble Drilling Services Inc., 281-276-6383
For Media: John S. Breed, Director of Corporate Communications,
Noble Drilling Services Inc., 281-276-6729
 
 
 
 
 
The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted net income per share:


