FILE:NE/NE-8K-20110131072928.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
     This combined filing on Form 8-K is separately filed by Noble Corporation, a Swiss Corporation ("Noble-Swiss"), and Noble Corporation, a Cayman Island Company ("Noble-Cayman"). Information in this filing relating to Noble-Cayman is filed by Noble-Swiss and separately by Noble-Cayman on its own behalf. Noble-Cayman makes no representation as to information relating to Noble-Swiss (except as it may relate to Noble-Cayman) or any other affiliate or subsidiary of Noble-Swiss. This report should be read in its entirety as it pertains to each of Noble-Swiss and Noble-Cayman. Any reference in this filing to "Noble," "Noble Corporation," the "Company," "we," "us," "our," and words of similar meaning refer collectively to Noble-Swiss and its consolidated subsidiaries, including Noble-Cayman.
Item 8.01 Other Information.
Backlog as of December 31, 2010
     Our contract drilling services backlog consists of commitments we believe to be firm and reflects estimated future revenues attributable to both signed contracts and letters of intent. For a number of reasons, however, including the risk that some customers with letters of intent may not sign definitive drilling contracts, our backlog as of any particular date may not be indicative of our actual operating results for the subsequent periods for which the backlog is calculated.
     As of December 31, 2010, our contract drilling services backlog aggregated $12.69 billion, of which $11.43 billion related to floaters (semisubmersibles, drillships and an FPSO) and $1.26 billion related to non-floaters (jackups and submersibles). Of the total amount of our backlog as of December 31, 2010, approximately 18.5% relates to 2011, 16.2% relates to 2012, 14.4% relates to 2013 and 50.9% relates to periods after 2013.
     Our December 31, 2010 backlog 
     Our December 31, 2010 backlog does not reflect the impact of events occurring subsequent to December 31, 2010, including the previously announced proposed substitution of the for the and letter of intent for a newbuild ultra-deepwater drillship with a subsidiary of Royal Dutch Shell plc, which are expected to contribute, on a net basis, approximately $455 million to our backlog.
Noble Phoenix
Noble Muravlenko
 
     Shell and Petroleo Brasileiro S.A. represent approximately 62% and approximately 26%, respectively, of our backlog as of December 31, 2010.
Estimated 2011 Capital Expenditure Budget
     We currently estimate that our total capital expenditures budget for 2011 will be approximately $2.1 billion. Certain portions of this capital expenditures budget remain subject to approval of our board of directors. Our capital expenditures budget for 2011 includes both expenditures under commitments, including shipyard and purchase commitments, and additional expenditures that will generally be spent at our discretion. We may accelerate, delay or cancel certain capital projects, as needed.
Proposed New Revolving Credit Facility
     Noble-Cayman is currently negotiating with certain banks, serving as joint lead arrangers, to enter into an additional revolving credit facility in the first quarter of 2011. If entered into, this additional revolving credit facility is expected to have an initial capacity of $300 million. The facility will then be syndicated to a broader bank group and, subject to certain conditions, have a targeted capacity of $600 million. The facility is expected to mature in 2015 and provide Noble-Cayman with the ability to issue up to $150 million in letters of credit. We expect the covenants and events of default under the proposed additional revolving credit facility to be substantially similar to Noble-Cayman's existing revolving credit facility, which will remain in place. We also expect the facility to be guaranteed by Noble Holding International Limited and Noble Drilling Corporation, which are indirect wholly owned subsidiaries of Noble-Swiss.
Nigerian Customs Matter
     In November 2010, Noble-Swiss reached a settlement with the U.S. Department of Justice and the Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with their investigation under the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of certain reimbursement payments made by its Nigerian affiliate to customs agents in Nigeria. In January 2011, the Nigerian Economic and Financial Crimes Commission and the Nigerian Attorney General Office initiated an investigation into these same activities. A subsidiary of Noble-Swiss has resolved this matter through the execution of a non-prosecution agreement dated January 28, 2011. Pursuant to this agreement, the subsidiary will pay $2.5 million to resolve all charges and claims of the Nigerian government.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     As previously announced, on July 28, 2010, pursuant to a definitive agreement and plan of merger dated June 27, 2010, we acquired privately held FDR Holdings Limited ("Frontier"). In connection with the acquisition of Frontier, we are filing this Form 8-K to provide the financial statements attached as exhibits hereto and described in this Item 9.01.
     
(a) 
Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired.
     The unaudited consolidated financial statements of Frontier as of and for the six months ended June 30, 2010, and the related notes thereto, are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
     
(b) 
Pro Forma Financial Information.
     The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of operations of Noble-Swiss and Noble-Cayman for the nine months ended September 30, 2010, and the related notes thereto, showing the pro forma effect of our acquisition of Frontier and related transactions, are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2.
     
(d) 
Exhibits
 
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
FDR Holdings Limited and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the Six Months Ended June 30, 2010 and 2009 (Unaudited)
 
FDR HOLDINGS LIMITED AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
 
 
 
 
 
FDR HOLDINGS LIMITED AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED) AS OF AND FOR THE SIX MONTHS ENDED JUNE 30, 2010 AND 2009
 
 In June 2009, the FASB issued guidance which expanded disclosures that a reporting entity provides about transfers of financial assets and its effect on the financial statements. This guidance is effective for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after November 15, 2009. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations or financial disclosures.
New Accounting Pronouncements
Also in June 2009, the FASB issued guidance that revises how an entity evaluates variable interest entities. This guidance is effective for annual and interim reporting periods
 
beginning after November 15, 2009. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations and cash flows.
In October 2009, the FASB issued guidance that impacts the recognition of revenue in multiple-deliverable arrangements. The guidance establishes a selling-price hierarchy for determining the selling price of a deliverable. The goal of this guidance is to clarify disclosures related to multiple-deliverable arrangements and to align the accounting with the underlying economics of the multiple-deliverable transaction. This guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010. We are in the process of evaluating this guidance but do not believe this guidance will have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations and cash flows.
In January 2010, the FASB issued guidance relating to the disclosure of the fair value of assets. This guidance calls for additional information to be given regarding the transfer of items in and out of respective categories. In addition, it requires additional disclosures regarding the purchase, sales, issuances, and settlements of assets that are classified as level three within FASB's fair value hierarchy. This guidance is effective for annual and interim periods beginning on or after December 15, 2010. These additional disclosures are not expected to have a significant impact on our financial disclosures or our financial condition.
Construction-in-progress, recorded in property and equipment, was $869 million and $687 million as of June 30, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively. These amounts include property and equipment of a variable interest entity of $814 million and $675 million as of June 30, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively.
Depreciation expense was $36 million and $18 million for the six months ended June 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
Capitalized interest totaled $8 million for the six months ended June 30, 2010 and $29 million for the six months ended June 30, 2009.
 
 In December 2007, Bully 1 entered into a $465 million senior secured term loan and credit facility (Bully 1 Credit Facility) with a group of lenders to finance the construction of the drillship. The Bully 1 Credit Facility consists of a $375 million senior secured term loan, a $40 million senior secured credit facility revolver, and a $50 million junior secured credit facility. No amounts have been drawn on either the senior secured credit facility revolver or the junior secured credit facility as of December 31, 2009. The senior secured term loan requires 20 quarterly payments of $15.75 million, starting the end of the first complete quarter after delivery of the drillship or March 2011. A final balloon payment of $60 million is due on the earlier occurrence of 4.75 years after the delivery of the or December 31, 2015. The senior secured credit facility revolver is also due in full on the final balloon payment date. The junior secured credit facility requires quarterly payments commencing after the third complete quarter following delivery and acceptance by Shell of the drillship with final payment to be made on the final balloon payment date. The Bully 1 Credit Facility is also subject to mandatory prepayments based on an excess cash flow calculation defined in the agreement.
Bully 1
Bully I
Bully I
Bully I
Bully I
The senior secured term loan provides for floating interest rates that are fixed for one-, three-, or six-month periods at LIBOR plus 2.5% prior to the completion and delivery of the drillship and 1.5% thereafter. Bully 1 is required to pay fees of approximately 1% on the unused portion of any undrawn amount under the senior secured term loan and senior secured credit facility revolver. Bully 1 is also required to pay fees of approximately 1.4% on the unused portion of any undrawn amount under the junior secured credit facility.
The Bully 1 Credit Facility contains representations, warranties, covenants, events of default, and indemnities, including the maintenance of interest rate derivative financial instruments
 
for at least 75% of outstanding amount of the senior secured term loan and senior secured credit facility revolver. The Bully 1 Credit Facility is secured by assignments of the major contracts for the construction of the drillship and its equipment, the drilling contract for the drillship with Shell, assignment of the insurances on the drillship, and assignment of earnings from the drilling contract and charter parties concerning the drillship. In addition, when the drillship is registered under Marshall Islands flag following completion of construction, the Bully 1 Credit Facility will be secured by a Marshall Islands first-preferred ship mortgage on the drillship.
A total of $350 million was outstanding as of June 30, 2010 and includes $40 million which was drawn during the six months ended June 30, 2010.
 In October 2008, Bully 2 entered into a $495 million senior secured term loan and credit facility (Bully 2 Credit Facility) with a lender to finance the construction of the drillship. The Bully 2 Credit Facility consists of a senior secured term loan of $435 million, a senior secured revolving credit facility of $10 million, and a secured cost overrun term loan of $50 million. No amounts have been drawn on either the senior secured revolving credit facility or the secured cost overrun term loan as of June 30, 2010. The principal of the senior secured term loan is to be repaid in 28 consecutive quarterly installments beginning at the earlier of the end of the first complete quarter after delivery and acceptance by Shell of the drillship or July 2011. The final amount will be paid together with a one-time balloon payment of $90 million and all amounts outstanding under the senior secured revolving credit facility on the final 28 consecutive quarterly installment payment date.
Bully 2
Bully II
Bully II
th
The senior secured term loans as amended provide for floating interest rates that are fixed for three months, one month, one week, or such other period selected by Bully 2 and agreed by the agent, at LIBOR plus 2.5% prior to the occurrence of the delivery date of the hull, thereafter LIBOR plus 2.3% until contract commencement, thereafter LIBOR plus 2.25% until the first day of the sixth anniversary of the contract commencement, and thereafter 2.4%.
The secured cost overrun term loan has floating interest rates of LIBOR plus 3.5% prior to the occurrence of the contract commencement and 3.25% thereafter.
Bully 2 is required to pay fees of 1.25% on the unused portion of any undrawn amount under the Bully 2 Credit Facility.
Interest on the term loans is added to the principal during the period from the Bully 2 Credit Facility closing date until the earlier of construction completion date or March 30, 2011.
The Bully 2 Credit Facility contains representations, warranties, covenants, events of default, and indemnities, including the maintenance of interest rate derivative financial instruments at least 60% of the amount of the senior secured term loan and senior secured revolving credit facility and 100% of the amount of the secured cost overrun term loan. The Bully 2 Credit Facility is secured by assignments of the major contracts for the construction of the drillship and its equipment, the drilling contract for the drillship with Shell, assignment of the insurances on the drillship, and assignment of earnings from the drilling contract and charter parties concerning the drillship. In addition, following the completion of construction of the drillship, the Bully 2 Credit Facility will be secured by first-preferred ship mortgage on the drillship.
Bully II
 
A total of $317 million was outstanding as of June 30, 2010 and includes $78 million which was either drawn or interest rolled into the debt balance during the six months ended June 30, 2010.
Frontier was in compliance with all financial debt covenants of third-party debt as of June 30, 2010.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
     The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of operations and related notes give effect to the acquisition by Noble Corporation, a Swiss corporation ("Noble-Swiss"), of all of the issued and outstanding equity interests of FDR Holdings Limited, a Cayman Islands company ("Frontier"). On July 28, 2010, Noble-Swiss and Noble AM Merger Co., a Cayman Islands company and indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Noble-Swiss ("Merger Sub"), completed the acquisition of Frontier. Under the terms of the Agreement and Plan of Merger with Frontier and certain of Frontier's shareholders, Merger Sub merged with and into Frontier, with Frontier surviving as an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Noble-Swiss and a wholly owned subsidiary of Noble-Cayman. The Frontier acquisition was completed in order to strategically expand and enhance our global fleet. The Frontier acquisition added three dynamically positioned drillships (including two Bully-class joint venture-owned drillships under construction), two conventionally moored drillships, including one which is Arctic-class, a conventionally moored deepwater semisubmersible drilling rig and one dynamically positioned floating production, storage and offloading vessel ("FPSO") to our fleet. The purchase price was $1.7 billion in cash plus liabilities assumed. We funded the cash consideration paid at closing using proceeds from our July 2010 offering of senior notes and existing cash on hand.
     The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of operations sets forth: (i) the historical information of Noble-Swiss and Noble-Cayman for the nine months ended September 30, 2010, which includes Frontier results for the period from July 28, 2010 to September 30, 2010, (ii) the historical information of Frontier for the period from January 1, 2010 to July 28, 2010 and (iii) pro forma adjustments assuming the Frontier acquisition had occurred on January 1, 2009.
     The unaudited pro forma combined financial information should be read in conjunction with, and are qualified in their entirety by, the notes thereto and with the historical annual and quarterly consolidated financial statements of Noble-Swiss, Noble-Cayman and Frontier, including the respective notes thereto. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statement gives effect to the merger under the acquisition method of accounting. In the opinion of Noble-Swiss management, all significant adjustments necessary to reflect the effects of the merger and related transactions and financing have been made. Those adjustments were based on certain estimates and currently available information. Such adjustments could change as additional information becomes available, as estimates are refined or as additional events occur. However, management does not expect any changes in the purchase price or the allocation of such purchase price to be significant.
     The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of operations is presented for comparative purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of what the actual combined results of operations of Noble-Swiss, Noble-Cayman and Frontier would have been for the period presented, nor does it purport to represent the future results of operations of Noble-Swiss, Noble-Cayman and Frontier.
 
 
 
1. Basis of Presentation
     The unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial statements were prepared in accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation S-X Article 11, using the acquisition method of accounting, and are based on the historical financial statements of Noble-Swiss, Noble-Cayman and Frontier after giving effect to the cash paid by Noble to consummate the Merger and related transactions and financing, as well as pro forma adjustments.
     Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 805, requires, among other things, that most assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recognized at their fair values, as determined in accordance with ASC 820, , as of the acquisition date.
Business Combinations,
Fair Value Measurements
     ASC 820, as amended, defines the term "fair value" and sets forth the valuation requirements for any asset or liability measured at fair value, expands related disclosure requirements and specifies a hierarchy of valuation techniques based on the nature of the inputs used to develop the fair value measures. Fair value is defined in ASC 820, as amended, as "the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date." This is an exit price concept for the valuation of the asset or liability. In addition, market participants are assumed to be buyers and sellers in the principal (or the most advantageous) market for the asset or liability. Fair value measurements for an asset assume the highest and best use by these market participants. Many of these fair value measurements can be highly subjective, and it is also possible that other professionals, applying reasonable judgment to the same facts and circumstances, could develop and support a range of alternative estimated amounts.
     Under the acquisition method of accounting, the assets acquired and liabilities assumed were recorded as of the acquisition date at their respective fair values and added to those of Noble-Swiss and Noble-Cayman. Financial statements and reported results of operations of Noble-Swiss and Noble-Cayman issued after completion of the acquisition reflect these values, but are not retroactively restated to reflect the historical financial position or results of operations of Frontier.
     The unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated statements of operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2010 is presented as if the Merger had occurred on January 1, 2009.
     Under ASC 805, acquisition-related transaction costs (advisory, legal, valuation, other professional fees) and certain acquisition-related restructuring charges impacting the target company are expensed in the period in which the costs are incurred. Total advisory, legal, regulatory, and valuation costs incurred by Noble-Swiss were approximately $19 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2010.
i.e.,
2. Accounting Policies
     The unaudited pro forma financial information has been compiled in a manner consistent with the accounting policies adopted by Noble-Swiss and Noble-Cayman.
 
3. Purchase Price Allocation
     The following table summarizes our preliminary allocation of the purchase price to the estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed on the acquisition date of July 28, 2010 (in thousands):
4. Pro Forma Adjustments
     The pro forma adjustments included in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated statements of operations are as follows:
Description
 
5. Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Earnings per Share
     The following table sets forth the computation of unaudited pro forma combined basic and diluted net income per share for Noble-Swiss (in thousands, except per share amounts).


