FILE:NE/NE-8K-20120919175154.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This combined filing on Form 8-K is separately filed by Noble Corporation, a Swiss corporation ("Noble-Swiss"), and Noble Corporation, a Cayman Islands company ("Noble-Cayman"). Information in this filing relating to Noble-Cayman is filed by Noble-Swiss and separately by Noble-Cayman on its own behalf. Noble-Cayman makes no representation as to information relating to Noble-Swiss (except as it may relate to Noble-Cayman) or any other affiliate or subsidiary of Noble-Swiss. This report should be read in its entirety as it pertains to each of Noble-Swiss and Noble-Cayman.
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On September 19, 2012, Noble-Cayman and its wholly-owned subsidiaries, Noble Holding International Limited, a Cayman Islands company ("Noble Holding"), and Noble Drilling Corporation, a Delaware corporation (together with Noble Holding, the "Guarantors"), entered into dealer agreements (the "Dealer Agreements") with certain investment banks (collectively, the "Dealers") and an Issuing and Paying Agent Agreement (the "Agent Agreement") with a commercial bank relating to a $1,800,000,000 commercial paper program (the "CP Program"). Proceeds from issuances under the CP Program are anticipated to be used for general corporate purposes.
The Dealer Agreements provide the terms under which the Dealers will either purchase from Noble-Cayman or arrange for the sale by Noble-Cayman of unsecured commercial paper notes ("Notes") on an uncommitted basis. The Dealer Agreements contain customary representations, warranties, covenants and indemnification provisions. The maturities of the Notes may vary, but will not exceed 397 days from date of issue, and the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Notes will not exceed $1,800,000,000. Borrowings under the CP Program will be guaranteed by the Guarantors. The Notes will be supported by the unused committed capacity under Noble-Cayman's $1.2 billion senior unsecured five-year revolving credit facility that matures on June 8, 2017 and $600 million senior unsecured four-year revolving credit facility that matures on February 11, 2015. The Notes will not be redeemable prior to maturity and will not be subject to voluntary prepayment. The Notes will be issued, at our option, either at a discounted price to their principal face value or will bear interest. The rate of interest will depend on whether the Note will bear interest at a fixed or floating rate. The interest on a floating rate Note may be based on any of the following: (a) CD rate, (b) commercial paper rate; (c) the federal funds rate; (d) LIBOR; (e) prime rate; (f) treasury rate; and (g) other base rate as may be specified in a supplement. The Notes will be issued pursuant to a private placement exemption from federal and state securities laws. The Agent Agreement provides for the issuance and payment of the Notes and contains customary representations, warranties, covenants and indemnification provisions. The Notes will be Noble-Cayman's direct financial obligation upon their issuance. As of the date hereof, we have not issued any Notes.
The Dealers, and their respective affiliates, have performed, and may in the future perform, various commercial banking, investment banking and other financial advisory services for Noble-Cayman, the Guarantors and their affiliates for which they have received, and will receive, customary fees and expenses.
The description above is a summary of the Dealer Agreements and the Agent Agreement and is qualified in its entirety by the form of Dealer Agreements and the form of Agent Agreement, which are attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and Exhibit 10.2, respectively, and are incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
Among:
NOBLE CORPORATION, a Cayman Islands exempted
company limited by shares, as Issuer,
NOBLE HOLDING INTERNATIONAL LIMITED, a
Cayman Islands exempted company limited by shares, as a Guarantor,
NOBLE DRILLING CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation, as
a Guarantor, and
, as Dealer
                                                     
Concerning Notes to be issued pursuant to a Commercial Paper Issuing and Paying Agent Agreement dated as of                 , 2012 between the Issuer and                            , as Issuing and Paying Agent
Dated as of                 , 2012
This agreement (the "Agreement") sets forth the understandings among the Issuer, the Guarantors and the Dealer, each named on the cover page hereof, in connection with the issuance and sale by the Issuer of its short-term promissory notes (the "Notes") through the Dealer.
Each of Noble Drilling Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("NDC"), and Noble Holding International Limited, a Cayman Islands exempted company limited by shares ("NHIL" and, together with NDC, the "Guarantors"), has agreed unconditionally and irrevocably to guarantee payment in full of the principal of and interest (if any) on all such Notes of the Issuer, pursuant to a guarantee, dated the date hereof, in the form of Exhibit D hereto (the "Guarantee").
Certain terms used in this Agreement are defined in Section 6 hereof.
The Addendum to this Agreement, and any Annexes or Exhibits described in this Agreement or such Addendum, are hereby incorporated into this Agreement and made fully a part hereof.
1. Offers, Sales and Resales of Notes.
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) Offers and sales of the Notes by or through the Dealer shall be made only to: (i) investors reasonably believed by the Dealer to be Qualified Institutional Buyers, Institutional Accredited Investors or Sophisticated Individual Accredited Investors and (ii) non-bank fiduciaries or agents that will be purchasing Notes for one or more accounts, each of which is reasonably believed by the Dealer to be a Qualified Institutional Buyer, an Institutional Accredited Investor or Sophisticated Individual Accredited Investor.
 
(b) Resales and other transfers of the Notes by the holders thereof shall be made only in accordance with the restrictions in the legend described in clause (e) below and to the extent such resale is of a Note purchased directly by the Dealer from the Issuer, the Dealer will comply with the provisions of such legend and this Section 1.6.
(c) No general solicitation or general advertising shall be used in connection with the offering of the Notes. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, without the prior written approval of the other party, neither the Issuer nor any Guarantor, on the one hand, nor the Dealer, on the other hand, shall issue any press release, make any other statement to any member of the press making reference to the Notes, the offer or sale of the Notes, the Guarantee or this Agreement or place or publish any "tombstone" or other advertisement relating to the Notes, the offer or sale of the Notes or the Guarantee. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any publication by the Issuer of a notice in accordance with Rule 135c under the Securities Act shall not be deemed to constitute general solicitation or general advertising hereunder and shall not require prior written approval of the Dealer. Except as required by applicable law or regulation, the Issuer and each Guarantor, as applicable, shall (i) omit the names of the Dealer from any publicly available filing by the Issuer or any Guarantor that makes reference to the offer or sale of the Notes, the issuance of the Guarantee or this Agreement and (ii) redact the Dealer's name and any contact or other information that could identify the Dealer from any agreement or other information included in such filing.
(d) No sale of Notes to any one purchaser shall be for less than $250,000 principal or face amount, and no Note shall be issued in a smaller principal or face amount. If the purchaser is a non-bank fiduciary or agent acting on behalf of others, each person for whom such purchaser is acting must purchase at least $250,000 principal or face amount of Notes.
(e) Offers and sales of the Notes by the Issuer through the Dealer acting as agent for the Issuer shall be made in accordance with Rule 506 under the Securities Act, and shall be subject to the restrictions described in the legend appearing on Exhibit A hereto. A legend substantially to the effect of such Exhibit A shall appear as part of the Private Placement Memorandum used in connection with offers and sales of Notes hereunder, as well as on each individual certificate representing a Note and each Master Note representing book-entry Notes offered and sold pursuant to this Agreement.
 
(f) The Dealer shall furnish or shall have furnished to each purchaser of Notes for which it has acted as the dealer a copy of the then-current Private Placement Memorandum unless such purchaser has previously received a copy of the Private Placement Memorandum as then in effect. The Private Placement Memorandum shall expressly state that any person to whom Notes are offered shall have an opportunity to ask questions of, and receive information from the Issuer, the Guarantors and the Dealer and shall provide the names, addresses and telephone numbers of the persons from whom information regarding the Issuer and the Guarantors may be obtained.
(g) The Issuer and the Guarantors, jointly and severally, agree for the benefit of the Dealer and each of the holders and prospective purchasers from time to time of the Notes that, if at any time the Issuer and the Guarantors shall not be subject to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, the Issuer and the Guarantors will furnish, upon request and at their expense, to the Dealer and to holders and prospective purchasers of Notes information required by Rule 144A(d)(4)(i) in compliance with Rule 144A(d).
(h) In the event that any Note offered or to be offered by the Dealer would be ineligible for resale under Rule 144A, the Issuer shall promptly notify the Dealer (by telephone, confirmed in writing) of such fact and shall promptly prepare and deliver to the Dealer an amendment or supplement to the Private Placement Memorandum describing the Notes that are ineligible, the reason for such ineligibility and any other relevant information relating thereto.
(i) The Issuer and the Guarantors represent that neither the Issuer nor any Guarantor is currently issuing commercial paper in the United States market in reliance upon the exemption provided by Section 3(a)(3) of the Securities Act. The Issuer and the Guarantors agree that, if the Issuer or any Guarantor shall issue commercial paper after the date hereof in reliance upon such exemption (a) the proceeds from the sale of the Notes will be segregated from the proceeds of the sale of any such commercial paper by being placed in a separate account; (b) the Issuer and the Guarantors will institute appropriate corporate procedures to ensure that the offers and sales of notes issued by the Issuer or a Guarantor, as the case may be, pursuant to the Section 3(a)(3) exemption are not integrated with offerings and sales of Notes hereunder; and (c) the Issuer and the Guarantors will comply with each of the requirements of Section 3(a)(3) of the Securities Act in selling commercial paper or other short-term debt securities other than the Notes in the United States.
 
(a) The Issuer and each Guarantor hereby confirm to the Dealer that within the preceding six months neither the Issuer nor any Guarantor nor any person other than the Dealer or the other dealers referred to in Section 1.2 hereof acting on behalf of the Issuer or any Guarantor has offered or sold any Notes, or any substantially similar security of the Issuer or any Guarantor (including, without limitation, medium-term notes issued by the Issuer or a Guarantor with maturities less than 365 days), to, or solicited offers to buy any such security from, any
 
person other than the Dealer or the other dealers referred to in Section 1.2 hereof. The Issuer and each Guarantor also agree that (except as permitted by Section 1.6(i)), as long as the Notes are being offered for sale by the Dealer and the other dealers referred to in Section 1.2 hereof as contemplated hereby and until at least six months after the offer of Notes hereunder has been terminated, none of the Issuer, any Guarantor nor any person other than the Dealer or the other dealers referred to in Section 1.2 hereof (except as contemplated by Section 1.2 hereof) will offer the Notes or any substantially similar security of the Issuer or a Guarantor for sale to, or solicit offers to buy any such security from, any person other than the Dealer or the other dealers referred to in Section 1.2 hereof, it being understood that such agreement is made with a view to bringing the offer and sale of the Notes within the exemption provided by Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act and Rule 506 thereunder and shall survive any termination of this Agreement. Each of the Issuer and each Guarantor hereby represents and warrants that it has not taken or omitted to take, and will not take or omit to take, any action that would cause the offering and sale of Notes hereunder to be integrated with any other offering of securities, whether such offering is made by the Issuer or a Guarantor or some other party or parties.
(b) The Issuer represents and agrees that the proceeds of the sale of the Notes are not currently contemplated to be used for the purpose of buying, carrying or trading securities within the meaning of Regulation T and the interpretations thereunder by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. In the event that the Issuer determines to use such proceeds for the purpose of buying, carrying or trading securities, whether in connection with an acquisition of another company or otherwise, the Issuer shall give the Dealer at least five business days' prior written notice to that effect but shall not be required to identify or disclose such securities. Thereafter, in the event that the Dealer purchases Notes as principal and does not resell such Notes on the day of such purchase, to the extent necessary to comply with Regulation T and the interpretations thereunder, the Dealer will sell such Notes either (i) only to offerees it reasonably believes to be Qualified Institutional Buyers or to Qualified Institutional Buyers it reasonably believes are acting for other Qualified Institutional Buyers, in each case in accordance with Rule 144A or (ii) in a manner which would not cause a violation of Regulation T and the interpretations thereunder.
2. Representations and Warranties of the Issuer and the Guarantors.
Each of the Issuer and each Guarantor represents and warrants as to itself that:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. Covenants and Agreements of the Issuer and the Guarantors.
Each of the Issuer and each Guarantor covenants and agrees as to itself that:
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. Disclosure.
 
 
 
(b) In the event that the Issuer or a Guarantor gives the Dealer notice pursuant to Section 4.3(a) and the Dealer notifies the Issuer that it then has Notes it is holding in inventory, the Issuer and the Guarantors agree promptly to supplement or amend the Private Placement Memorandum (including through documents incorporated by reference or referred to therein) so that the Private Placement Memorandum, as amended or supplemented, shall not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements contained therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, and the Issuer and the Guarantors shall make such supplement or amendment available to the Dealer.
(c) In the event that (i) the Issuer or a Guarantor gives the Dealer notice pursuant to Section 4.3(a), (ii) the Dealer does not notify the Issuer or the Guarantors that it is then holding Notes in inventory and (iii) the Issuer or any Guarantor chooses not to promptly amend or supplement the Private Placement Memorandum in the manner described in clause (b) above, then all solicitations and sales of Notes shall be suspended until such time as the Issuer and the Guarantors have so amended or supplemented the Private Placement Memorandum, and made such amendment or supplement available to the Dealer.
(d) Without limiting the generality of Section 4.3(a), the Issuer and the Guarantors shall review, amend and supplement the Private Placement Memorandum (including through documents incorporated by reference or referred to therein) on a periodic basis, but no less than at least once annually, to incorporate current financial information of the Issuer and the Guarantors to the extent necessary to ensure that the information provided in the Private Placement Memorandum is accurate and complete.
 
5. Indemnification and Contribution.
 
 
 
6. Definitions.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7. General
 
 
 
(b) Each of the Issuer and each Guarantor hereby irrevocably accepts and submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of each of the aforesaid courts in personam, generally and unconditionally, for itself and in respect of its properties, assets and revenues, with respect to any suit, action or proceeding in connection with or arising out of this Agreement, the Guarantee or the Notes or the offer and sale of the Notes.
 
(c) Each of the Issuer and each Guarantor hereby irrevocably designates, appoints and empowers CT Corporation System, with offices at 111 8th Avenue, New York, New York 10011, as its designee, appointee and agent to receive, accept and acknowledge for and on its behalf, and its properties, assets and revenues, service for any and all legal process, summons, notices and documents which may be served in any such action, suit or proceeding brought in the courts listed in Section 7.3(a) which may be made on such designee, appointee and agent in accordance with legal procedures prescribed for such courts, with respect to any suit, action or proceeding in connection with or arising out of this Agreement or the Notes or the offer and sale of the Notes. If for any reason such designee, appointee and agent hereunder shall cease to be available to act as such, each of the Issuer and each Guarantor agrees to designate a new designee, appointee and agent in The City of New York on the terms and for the purposes of this Section 7.3 satisfactory to the Dealer. Each of the Issuer and each Guarantor further hereby irrevocably consents and agrees to the service of any and all legal process, summons, notices and documents out of any of the aforesaid courts in any such action, suit or proceeding by serving a copy thereof upon the agent for service of process referred to in this Section 7.3 (whether or not the appointment of such agent shall for any reason prove to be ineffective or such agent shall accept or acknowledge such service) or by mailing copies thereof by registered or certified airmail, postage prepaid, to it at its address specified in or designated pursuant to this Agreement. Each of the Issuer and each Guarantor agrees that the failure of any such designee, appointee and agent to give any notice of such service to it shall not impair or affect in any way the validity of such service or any judgment rendered in any action or proceeding based thereon. Nothing herein shall in any way be deemed to limit the ability of the holders of any Notes or the Dealer to serve any such legal process, summons, notices and documents in any other manner permitted by applicable law or to obtain jurisdiction over the undersigned or bring actions, suits or proceedings against the undersigned in such other jurisdictions, and in such other manner, as may be permitted by applicable law. Each of the Issuer and each Guarantor hereby irrevocably and unconditionally waives any objection which it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any of the aforesaid actions, suits or proceedings arising out of or in connection with this Agreement brought in the courts listed in Section 7.3(a) and hereby further irrevocably and unconditionally waives and agrees not to plead or claim in any such court that any such action, suit or proceeding brought in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum.
(d) To the extent that the Issuer or any Guarantor or any of their respective properties, assets or revenues may have or may hereafter become entitled to, or have attributed to them, any right of immunity, on the grounds of sovereignty or otherwise, from any legal action, suit or proceeding in connection with or arising out of this Agreement, the Guarantee or the Notes or the offer and sale of the Notes, from the giving of any relief in any thereof, from setoff or counterclaim, from the jurisdiction of any court, from service
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) Each of the Issuer and each Guarantor agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Dealer and each holder from time to time of Notes against any loss incurred by the Dealer or such holder as a result of any judgment or order being given or made for any amount due hereunder or under the Notes or the Guarantee and such judgment or order being expressed and paid in a currency (the "Judgment Currency") other than United States dollars and as a result of any variation as between (i) the rate of exchange at which the United States dollar amount is converted into the Judgment Currency for the purpose of such judgment or order, and (ii) the rate of exchange at which the Dealer or such holder is able to purchase United States dollars with the amount of Judgment Currency actually received by the Dealer or such holder. The foregoing indemnity shall constitute separate and independent obligations of the Issuer and the Guarantors and shall continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any such judgment or order as aforesaid. The term "rate of exchange" shall include any premiums and costs of exchange payable in connection with the purchase of, or conversion into, the relevant currency.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed as of the date and year first above written.
 
 
Addendum
The following additional clauses shall apply to the Agreement and be deemed a part thereof.
 
 
For the Issuer:
Address: Noble Corporation, Suite 3D, Landmark Square, 64 Earth Close, P.O. Box 31327, Georgetown, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands, BWI
Attention: Alan R. Hay, Vice President
Telephone number: (345) 938-0293
For the Guarantors:
Address: Noble Holding International Limited, c/o Noble Corporation, Suite 3D, Landmark Square, 64 Earth Close, P.O. Box 31327, Georgetown, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands, BWI
Attention: Alan R. Hay, Vice President
Telephone number: (345) 938-0293
With a copy to:
Address: Noble Drilling Corporation, 13135 South Dairy Ashford, Suite 800, Sugar Land, Texas 77478
Attention: Legal Department
Telephone number: (281) 276-6160
Fax number: (281) 491-2092
For the Dealer:
Address:
Attention:
Telephone number:
 
Exhibit A
Form of Legend for Private Placement Memorandum and Notes
NEITHER THE NOTES NOR THE GUARANTEE THEREOF HAVE BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "ACT"), OR ANY OTHER APPLICABLE SECURITIES LAW, AND OFFERS AND SALES THEREOF MAY BE MADE ONLY IN COMPLIANCE WITH AN APPLICABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE ACT AND ANY APPLICABLE STATE SECURITIES LAWS. BY ITS ACCEPTANCE OF A NOTE, THE PURCHASER WILL BE DEEMED TO REPRESENT THAT (I) IT HAS BEEN AFFORDED AN OPPORTUNITY TO INVESTIGATE MATTERS RELATING TO THE ISSUER, THE GUARANTORS, THE NOTES AND THE GUARANTEE, (II) IT IS NOT ACQUIRING SUCH NOTE WITH A VIEW TO ANY DISTRIBUTION THEREOF AND (III) IT IS EITHER (A)(1) AN INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR OR SOPHISTICATED INDIVIDUAL INVESTOR THAT IS AN ACCREDITED INVESTOR WITHIN THE MEANING OF RULE 501(a) UNDER THE ACT AND WHICH, IN THE CASE OF AN INDIVIDUAL, (i) POSSESSES SUCH KNOWLEDGE AND EXPERIENCE IN FINANCIAL AND BUSINESS MATTERS THAT HE OR SHE IS CAPABLE OF EVALUATING AND BEARING THE ECONOMIC RISK OF AN INVESTMENT IN THE NOTES AND (ii) HAS NOT LESS THAN $5 MILLION IN INVESTMENTS (AN "INSTITUTIONAL ACCREDITED INVESTOR" OR "SOPHISTICATED INDIVIDUAL ACCREDITED INVESTOR", RESPECTIVELY) AND (2)(i) PURCHASING NOTES FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT, (ii) A BANK (AS DEFINED IN SECTION 3(a)(2) OF THE ACT) OR A SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATION OR OTHER INSTITUTION (AS DEFINED IN SECTION 3(a)(5)(A) OF THE ACT) ACTING IN ITS INDIVIDUAL OR FIDUCIARY CAPACITY OR (iii) A FIDUCIARY OR AGENT (OTHER THAN A U.S. BANK OR SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATION) PURCHASING NOTES FOR ONE OR MORE ACCOUNTS EACH OF WHICH ACCOUNTS IS SUCH AN INSTITUTIONAL ACCREDITED INVESTOR OR SOPHISTICATED INDIVIDUAL ACCREDITED INVESTOR; OR (B) A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER ("QIB") WITHIN THE MEANING OF RULE 144A UNDER THE ACT THAT IS ACQUIRING NOTES FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR ONE OR MORE ACCOUNTS, EACH OF WHICH ACCOUNTS IS A QIB AND WITH RESPECT TO EACH OF WHICH ACCOUNTS THE PURCHASER HAS SOLE INVESTMENT DISCRETION; AND THE PURCHASER ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT IS AWARE THAT THE SELLER MAY RELY UPON THE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION PROVISIONS OF SECTION 5 OF THE ACT PROVIDED BY RULE 144A. BY ITS ACCEPTANCE OF A NOTE, THE PURCHASER THEREOF SHALL ALSO BE DEEMED TO AGREE THAT ANY RESALE OR OTHER TRANSFER THEREOF WILL BE MADE ONLY (A) IN A TRANSACTION EXEMPT FROM REGISTRATION UNDER THE ACT, EITHER (1) TO THE ISSUER OR TO A PLACEMENT AGENT DESIGNATED BY THE ISSUER AS A PLACEMENT AGENT FOR THE NOTES (COLLECTIVELY, THE "PLACEMENT AGENTS"), NONE OF WHICH SHALL HAVE ANY OBLIGATION TO ACQUIRE SUCH NOTE, (2) THROUGH A PLACEMENT AGENT TO AN INSTITUTIONAL ACCREDITED INVESTOR, SOPHISTICATED INDIVIDUAL ACCREDITED INVESTOR OR A QIB, OR (3) TO A QIB IN A TRANSACTION THAT MEETS THE REQUIREMENTS OF RULE 144A AND (B) IN MINIMUM AMOUNTS OF $250,000.
Exhibit B
Further Provisions Relating to Indemnification
(a) The Issuer and the Guarantors, jointly and severally, agree to reimburse each Indemnitee for all expenses (including reasonable fees and disbursements of external counsel) as they are incurred by it in connection with investigating or defending any loss, claim, damage, liability or action in respect of which indemnification may be sought under Section 5 of the Agreement (whether or not it is a party to any such proceedings).
(b) Promptly after receipt by an Indemnitee of notice of the existence of a Claim, such Indemnitee will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against the Issuer or the Guarantors, notify the Issuer and the Guarantors in writing of the existence thereof; provided that (i) the omission to so notify the Issuer or any Guarantor will not relieve the Issuer or any Guarantor from any liability which it may have hereunder unless and except to the extent it did not otherwise learn of such Claim and such failure results in the forfeiture by the Issuer or the Guarantors of substantial rights and defenses, and (ii) the omission to so notify the Issuer or any Guarantor will not relieve them from liability which they may have to an Indemnitee otherwise than on account of this indemnity agreement. In case any such Claim is made against any Indemnitee and it notifies the Issuer or the Guarantors of the existence thereof, the Issuer and the Guarantors will be entitled to participate therein, and to the extent that any of them may elect by written notice delivered to the Indemnitee, to assume the defense thereof, with counsel reasonably satisfactory to such Indemnitee; provided that if the defendants in any such Claim include both the Indemnitee and either the Issuer or any of the Guarantors or all of the foregoing, and the Indemnitee shall have concluded that there may be legal defenses available to it which are different from or additional to those available to the Issuer or any Guarantor, the Issuer and the Guarantors shall not have the right to direct the defense of such Claim on behalf of such Indemnitee, and the Indemnitee shall have the right to select separate counsel to assert such legal defenses on behalf of such Indemnitee. Upon receipt of notice from the Issuer or the Guarantors to such Indemnitee of the election of the Issuer and the Guarantors to assume the defense of such Claim and approval by the Indemnitee of counsel, the Issuer and the Guarantors will not be liable to such Indemnitee for expenses incurred thereafter by the Indemnitee in connection with the defense thereof (other than reasonable costs of investigation) unless (i) the Indemnitee shall have employed separate counsel in connection with the assertion of legal defenses in accordance with the proviso to the next preceding sentence (it being understood, however, that neither the Issuer nor the Guarantors shall be liable for the expenses of more than one separate counsel (in addition to any local counsel in the jurisdiction in which any Claim is brought), approved by the Dealer, representing the Indemnitee who is party to such Claim), (ii) the Issuer and the Guarantors shall not have employed counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnitee to represent the Indemnitee within a reasonable time after notice of existence of the Claim or (iii) the Issuer or the Guarantors have authorized in writing the employment of counsel for the Indemnitee. The indemnity, reimbursement and contribution obligations of the Issuer and the Guarantors hereunder shall be in addition to any other liability the Issuer or the Guarantors may otherwise have to an Indemnitee and shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of any successors, assigns, heirs and personal representatives of the Issuer, the Guarantors and any Indemnitee. Each of the Issuer and each Guarantor agrees that without the Dealer's prior written consent, it will not settle, compromise or consent to the entry of any judgment in any Claim in respect of which indemnification may be sought under the indemnification provision of the Agreement
(whether or not the Dealer or any other Indemnitee is an actual or potential party to such Claim), unless such settlement, compromise or consent (i) includes an unconditional release of each Indemnitee from all liability arising out of such Claim and (ii) does not include a statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or failure to act, by or on behalf of any Indemnitee. Neither the Issuer nor any Guarantor shall be liable hereunder to any Indemnitee regarding any settlement, compromise or entry of judgment with respect to any Claim unless such settlement, compromise or entry of judgment is consented to by the Issuer, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed.
Exhibit C
Statement of Terms for Interest  Bearing Commercial Paper Notes of Noble Corporation
THE PROVISIONS SET FORTH BELOW ARE QUALIFIED TO THE EXTENT APPLICABLE BY THE TRANSACTION SPECIFIC PRIVATE PLACEMENT MEMORANDUM SUPPLEMENT (THE "SUPPLEMENT") (IF ANY) SENT TO EACH PURCHASER AT THE TIME OF THE TRANSACTION.
1. . (a) The obligations of the Issuer to which these terms apply (each a "Note") are represented by one or more Master Notes (each, a "Master Note") issued in the name of (or of a nominee for) The Depository Trust Company ("DTC"), which Master Note includes the terms and provisions for the Issuer's Interest-Bearing Commercial Paper Notes that are set forth in this Statement of Terms, since this Statement of Terms constitutes an integral part of the Underlying Records as defined and referred to in the Master Note.
General
(b) "" means any day other than a Saturday or Sunday that is neither a legal holiday nor a day on which banking institutions are authorized or required by law, executive order or regulation to be closed in New York City and, with respect to LIBOR Notes (as defined below) is also a London Business Day. "London Business Day" means a day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, on which dealings in deposits in U.S. dollars are transacted in the London interbank market.
Business Day
2. . (a) Each Note will bear interest at a fixed rate (a "Fixed Rate Note") or at a floating rate (a "Floating Rate Note").
Interest
(b) The Supplement sent to each holder of such Note will describe the following terms: (i) whether such Note is a Fixed Rate Note or a Floating Rate Note and whether such Note is an Original Issue Discount Note (as defined below); (ii) the date on which such Note will be issued (the "Issue Date"); (iii) the Stated Maturity Date (as defined below); (iv) if such Note is a Fixed Rate Note, the rate per annum at which such Note will bear interest, if any, and the Interest Payment Dates; (v) if such Note is a Floating Rate Note, the Base Rate, the Index Maturity, the Interest Reset Dates, the Interest Payment Dates and the Spread and/or Spread Multiplier, if any (all as defined below), and any other terms relating to the particular method of calculating the interest rate for such Note; and (vi) any other terms applicable specifically to such Note. "Original Issue Discount Note" means a Note which has a stated redemption price at the Stated Maturity Date that exceeds its Issue Price by more than a specified de minimis amount and which the Supplement indicates will be an "Original Issue Discount Note".
(c) Each Fixed Rate Note will bear interest from its Issue Date at the rate per annum specified in the Supplement until the principal amount thereof is paid or made available for payment. Interest on each Fixed Rate Note will be payable on the dates specified in the Supplement (each an "Interest Payment Date" for a Fixed Rate Note) and on the Maturity Date (as defined below). Interest on Fixed Rate Notes will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
If any Interest Payment Date or the Maturity Date of a Fixed Rate Note falls on a day that is not a Business Day, the required payment of principal, premium, if any, and/or interest will be payable on the next succeeding Business Day, and no additional interest will accrue in respect of the payment made on that next succeeding Business Day.
(d) The interest rate on each Floating Rate Note for each Interest Reset Period (as defined below) will be determined by reference to an interest rate basis (a "Base Rate") plus or minus a number of basis points (one basis point equals one-hundredth of a percentage point) (the "Spread"), if any, and/or multiplied by a certain percentage (the "Spread Multiplier"), if any, until the principal thereof is paid or made available for payment. The Supplement will designate which of the following Base Rates is applicable to the related Floating Rate Note: (a) the CD Rate (a "CD Rate Note"), (b) the Commercial Paper Rate (a "Commercial Paper Rate Note"), (c) the Federal Funds Rate (a "Federal Funds Rate Note"), (d) LIBOR (a "LIBOR Note"), (e) the Prime Rate (a "Prime Rate Note"), (f) the Treasury Rate (a "Treasury Rate Note") or (g) such other Base Rate as may be specified in such Supplement.
The rate of interest on each Floating Rate Note will be reset daily, weekly, monthly, quarterly or semi-annually (the "Interest Reset Period"). The date or dates on which interest will be reset (each an "Interest Reset Date") will be, unless otherwise specified in the Supplement, in the case of Floating Rate Notes which reset daily, each Business Day, in the case of Floating Rate Notes (other than Treasury Rate Notes) that reset weekly, the Wednesday of each week; in the case of Treasury Rate Notes that reset weekly, the Tuesday of each week; in the case of Floating Rate Notes that reset monthly, the third Wednesday of each month; in the case of Floating Rate Notes that reset quarterly, the third Wednesday of March, June, September and December; and in the case of Floating Rate Notes that reset semiannually, the third Wednesday of the two months specified in the Supplement. If any Interest Reset Date for any Floating Rate Note is not a Business Day, such Interest Reset Date will be postponed to the next day that is a Business Day, except that in the case of a LIBOR Note, if such Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar month, such Interest Reset Date shall be the immediately preceding Business Day. Interest on each Floating Rate Note will be payable monthly, quarterly or semiannually (the "Interest Payment Period") and on the Maturity Date. Unless otherwise specified in the Supplement, and except as provided below, the date or dates on which interest will be payable (each an "Interest Payment Date" for a Floating Rate Note) will be, in the case of Floating Rate Notes with a monthly Interest Payment Period, on the third Wednesday of each month; in the case of Floating Rate Notes with a quarterly Interest Payment Period, on the third Wednesday of March, June, September and December; and in the case of Floating Rate Notes with a semiannual Interest Payment Period, on the third Wednesday of the two months specified in the Supplement. In addition, the Maturity Date will also be an Interest Payment Date.
If any Interest Payment Date for any Floating Rate Note (other than an Interest Payment Date occurring on the Maturity Date) would otherwise be a day that is not a Business Day, such Interest Payment Date shall be postponed to the next day that is a Business Day, except that in the case of a LIBOR Note, if such Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar month, such Interest Payment Date shall be the immediately preceding Business Day. If the Maturity Date of a Floating Rate Note falls on a day that is not a Business Day, the payment of principal and interest will be made on the next succeeding Business Day, and no interest on such payment shall accrue for the period from and after such maturity.
Interest payments on each Interest Payment Date for Floating Rate Notes will include accrued interest from and including the Issue Date or from and including the last date in respect of which interest has been paid, as the case may be, to, but excluding, such Interest Payment Date. On the Maturity Date, the interest payable on a Floating Rate Note will include interest accrued to, but excluding, the Maturity Date. Accrued interest will be calculated by multiplying the principal amount of a Floating Rate Note by an accrued interest factor. This accrued interest factor will be computed by adding the interest factors calculated for each day in the period for which accrued interest is being calculated. The interest factor (expressed as a decimal) for each such day will be computed by dividing the interest rate applicable to such day by 360, in the cases where the Base Rate is the CD Rate, Commercial Paper Rate, Federal Funds Rate, LIBOR or Prime Rate, or by the actual number of days in the year, in the case where the Base Rate is the Treasury Rate. The interest rate in effect on each day will be (i) if such day is an Interest Reset Date, the interest rate with respect to the Interest Determination Date (as defined below) pertaining to such Interest Reset Date, or (ii) if such day is not an Interest Reset Date, the interest rate with respect to the Interest Determination Date pertaining to the next preceding Interest Reset Date, subject in either case to any adjustment by a Spread and/or a Spread Multiplier.
The "Interest Determination Date" where the Base Rate is the CD Rate or the Commercial Paper Rate will be the second Business Day next preceding an Interest Reset Date. The Interest Determination Date where the Base Rate is the Federal Funds Rate or the Prime Rate will be the Business Day next preceding an Interest Reset Date. The Interest Determination Date where the Base Rate is LIBOR will be the second London Business Day next preceding an Interest Reset Date. The Interest Determination Date where the Base Rate is the Treasury Rate will be the day of the week in which such Interest Reset Date falls when Treasury Bills are normally auctioned. Treasury Bills are normally sold at auction on Monday of each week, unless that day is a legal holiday, in which case the auction is held on the following Tuesday or the preceding Friday. If an auction is so held on the preceding Friday, such Friday will be the Interest Determination Date pertaining to the Interest Reset Date occurring in the next succeeding week.
The "Index Maturity" is the period to maturity of the instrument or obligation from which the applicable Base Rate is calculated.
The "Calculation Date," where applicable, shall be the earlier of (i) the tenth calendar day following the applicable Interest Determination Date or (ii) the Business Day preceding the applicable Interest Payment Date or Maturity Date.
All times referred to herein reflect New York City time, unless otherwise specified.
The Issuer shall specify in writing to the Issuing and Paying Agent which party will be the calculation agent (the "Calculation Agent") with respect to the Floating Rate Notes. The Calculation Agent will provide the interest rate then in effect and, if determined, the interest rate which will become effective on the next Interest Reset Date with respect to such Floating Rate Note to the Issuing and Paying Agent as soon as the interest rate with respect to such Floating Rate Note has been determined and as soon as practicable after any change in such interest rate.
All percentages resulting from any calculation on Floating Rate Notes will be rounded to the nearest one hundred-thousandth of a percentage point, with five-one millionths of a percentage point rounded upwards. For example, 9.876545% (or .09876545) would be rounded to 9.87655% (or .0987655). All dollar amounts used in or resulting from any calculation on Floating Rate Notes will be rounded, in the case of U.S. dollars, to the nearest cent or, in the case of a foreign currency, to the nearest unit (with one-half cent or unit being rounded upwards).
CD Rate Notes
"CD Rate" means the rate on any Interest Determination Date for negotiable certificates of deposit having the Index Maturity as published by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the "FRB") in "Statistical Release H.15(519), Selected Interest Rates" or any successor publication of the FRB ("H.15(519)") under the heading "CDs (Secondary Market)".
If the above rate is not published in H.15(519) by 3:00 p.m. on the Calculation Date, the CD Rate will be the rate on such Interest Determination Date set forth in the daily update of H.15(519), available through the world wide website of the FRB at http://www.federalreserve.gov/releases/h15/Update, or any successor site or publication or other recognized electronic source used for the purpose of displaying the applicable rate ("H.15 Daily Update") under the caption "CDs (Secondary Market)".
If such rate is not published in either H.15(519) or H.15 Daily Update by 3:00 p.m. on the Calculation Date, the Calculation Agent will determine the CD Rate to be the arithmetic mean of the secondary market offered rates as of 10:00 a.m. on such Interest Determination Date of three leading nonbank dealers
1
in negotiable U.S. dollar certificates of deposit in New York City selected by the Calculation Agent for negotiable U.S. dollar certificates of deposit of major United States money center banks of the highest credit standing in the market for negotiable certificates of deposit with a remaining maturity closest to the Index Maturity in the denomination of $5,000,000.
If the dealers selected by the Calculation Agent are not quoting as set forth above, the CD Rate will remain the CD Rate then in effect on such Interest Determination Date.
Commercial Paper Rate Notes
"Commercial Paper Rate" means the Money Market Yield (calculated as described below) of the rate on any Interest Determination Date for commercial paper having the Index Maturity, as published in H.15(519) under the heading "Commercial Paper-Nonfinancial".
If the above rate is not published in H.15(519) by 3:00 p.m. on the Calculation Date, then the Commercial Paper Rate will be the Money Market Yield of the rate on such Interest Determination Date for commercial paper of the Index Maturity as published in H.15 Daily Update under the heading "Commercial Paper-Nonfinancial".
 
If by 3:00 p.m. on such Calculation Date such rate is not published in either H.15(519) or H.15 Daily Update, then the Calculation Agent will determine the Commercial Paper Rate to be the Money Market Yield of the arithmetic mean of the offered rates as of 11:00 a.m. on such Interest Determination Date of three leading dealers of U.S. dollar commercial paper in New York City selected by the Calculation Agent for commercial paper of the Index Maturity placed for an industrial issuer whose bond rating is "AA," or the equivalent, from a nationally recognized statistical rating organization.
If the dealers selected by the Calculation Agent are not quoting as mentioned above, the Commercial Paper Rate with respect to such Interest Determination Date will remain the Commercial Paper Rate then in effect on such Interest Determination Date.
"Money Market Yield" will be a yield calculated in accordance with the following formula:
D x 360
Money Market Yield = x 100
360 - (D x M)
where "D" refers to the applicable per annum rate for commercial paper quoted on a bank discount basis and expressed as a decimal and "M" refers to the actual number of days in the interest period for which interest is being calculated.
Federal Funds Rate Notes
"Federal Funds Rate" means the rate on any Interest Determination Date for federal funds as published in H.15(519) under the heading "Federal Funds (Effective)" and displayed on Moneyline Telerate (or any successor service) on page 120 (or any other page as may replace the specified page on that service) ("Telerate Page 120").
If the above rate does not appear on Telerate Page 120 or is not so published by 3:00 p.m. on the Calculation Date, the Federal Funds Rate will be the rate on such Interest Determination Date as published in H.15 Daily Update under the heading "Federal Funds/(Effective)".
If such rate is not published as described above by 3:00 p.m. on the Calculation Date, the Calculation Agent will determine the Federal Funds Rate to be the arithmetic mean of the rates for the last transaction in overnight U.S. dollar federal funds arranged by each of three leading brokers of Federal Funds transactions in New York City selected by the Calculation Agent prior to 9:00 a.m. on such Interest Determination Date.
If the brokers selected by the Calculation Agent are not quoting as mentioned above, the Federal Funds Rate will remain the Federal Funds Rate then in effect on such Interest Determination Date.
LIBOR Notes
The London Interbank offered rate ("LIBOR") means, with respect to any Interest Determination Date, the rate for deposits in U.S. dollars having the Index Maturity that appears on the Designated LIBOR Page as of 11:00 a.m. London time, on such Interest Determination Date.
If no rate appears, LIBOR will be determined on the basis of the rates at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on such Interest Determination Date at which deposits in U.S. dollars are offered to prime banks in the London interbank market by four major banks in such market selected by the Calculation Agent for a term equal to the Index Maturity and in principal amount equal to an amount that in the Calculation Agent's judgment is representative for a single transaction in U.S. dollars in such market at such time (a "Representative Amount"). The Calculation Agent will request the principal London office of each of such banks to provide a quotation of its rate. If at least two such quotations are provided, LIBOR will be the arithmetic mean of such quotations. If fewer than two quotations are provided, LIBOR for such interest period will be the arithmetic mean of the rates quoted at approximately 11:00 a.m., in New York City, on such Interest Determination Date by three major banks in New York City, selected by the Calculation Agent, for loans in U.S. dollars to leading European banks, for a term equal to the Index Maturity and in a Representative Amount; provided, however, that if fewer than three banks so selected by the Calculation Agent are providing such quotations, the then existing LIBOR rate will remain in effect for such Interest Payment Period.
"Designated LIBOR Page" means the display designated as page "3750" on Moneyline Telerate (or such other page as may replace the 3750 page on that service or such other service or services as may be nominated by the British Bankers' Association for the purposes of displaying London interbank offered rates for U.S. dollar deposits).
Prime Rate Notes
"Prime Rate" means the rate on any Interest Determination Date as published in H.15(519) under the heading "Bank Prime Loan".
If the above rate is not published in H.15(519) prior to 3:00 p.m. on the Calculation Date, then the Prime Rate will be the rate on such Interest Determination Date as published in H.15 Daily Update opposite the caption "Bank Prime Loan".
If the rate is not published prior to 3:00 p.m. on the Calculation Date in either H.15(519) or H.15 Daily Update, then the Calculation Agent will determine the Prime Rate to be the arithmetic mean of the rates of interest publicly announced by each bank that appears on the Reuters Screen US PRIME1 Page (as defined below) as such bank's prime rate or base lending rate as of 11:00 a.m. on that Interest Determination Date.
If fewer than four such rates referred to above are so published by 3:00 p.m. on the Calculation Date, the Calculation Agent will determine the Prime Rate to be the arithmetic mean of the prime rates or base lending rates quoted on the basis of the actual number of days in the year divided by 360 as of the close of business on such Interest Determination Date by three major banks in New York City selected by the Calculation Agent.
If the banks selected are not quoting as mentioned above, the Prime Rate will remain the Prime Rate in effect on such Interest Determination Date.
"Reuters Screen US PRIME1 Page" means the display designated as page "US PRIME1" on the Reuters Monitor Money Rates Service (or such other page as may replace the US PRIME1 page on that service for the purpose of displaying prime rates or base lending rates of major United States banks).
Treasury Rate Notes
"Treasury Rate" means:
(1) the rate from the auction held on the Interest Determination Date (the "Auction") of direct obligations of the United States ("Treasury Bills") having the Index Maturity specified in the Supplement under the caption "INVESTMENT RATE" on the display on Moneyline Telerate (or any successor service) on page 56 (or any other page as may replace that page on that service) ("Telerate Page 56") or page 57 (or any other page as may replace that page on that service) ("Telerate Page 57"), or
(2) if the rate referred to in clause (1) is not so published by 3:00 p.m. on the related Calculation Date, the Bond Equivalent Yield (as defined below) of the rate for the applicable Treasury Bills as published in H.15 Daily Update, under the caption "U.S. Government Securities/Treasury Bills/Auction High", or
(3) if the rate referred to in clause (2) is not so published by 3:00 p.m. on the related Calculation Date, the Bond Equivalent Yield of the auction rate of the applicable Treasury Bills as announced by the United States Department of the Treasury, or
(4) if the rate referred to in clause (3) is not so announced by the United States Department of the Treasury, or if the Auction is not held, the Bond Equivalent Yield of the rate on the particular Interest Determination Date of the applicable Treasury Bills as published in H.15(519) under the caption "U.S. Government Securities/Treasury Bills/Secondary Market", or
(5) if the rate referred to in clause (4) not so published by 3:00 p.m. on the related Calculation Date, the rate on the particular Interest Determination Date of the applicable Treasury Bills as published in
H.15 Daily Update, under the caption "U.S. Government Securities/Treasury Bills/Secondary Market", or
(6) if the rate referred to in clause (5) is not so published by 3:00 p.m. on the related Calculation Date, the rate on the particular Interest Determination Date calculated by the Calculation Agent as the Bond Equivalent Yield of the arithmetic mean of the secondary market bid rates, as of approximately 3:30
p.m. on that Interest Determination Date, of three primary United States government securities dealers selected by the Calculation Agent for the issue of Treasury Bills with a remaining maturity closest to the Index Maturity specified in the Supplement, or
(7) if the dealers so selected by the Calculation Agent are not quoting as mentioned in clause (6), the Treasury Rate in effect on the particular Interest Determination Date.
"Bond Equivalent Yield" means a yield (expressed as a percentage) calculated in accordance with the following formula:
    D x N
Bond Equivalent Yield = x 100
360 - (D x M)
where "D" refers to the applicable per annum rate for Treasury Bills quoted on a bank discount basis and expressed as a decimal, "N" refers to 365 or 366, as the case may be, and "M" refers to the actual number of days in the applicable Interest Reset Period.
1 The Stated Maturity Date for any Note will be the date so specified in the Supplement, which shall be no later than 397 days from the date of issuance. On its Stated Maturity Date, or any date prior to the Stated Maturity Date on which the particular Note becomes due and payable by the declaration of acceleration, each such date being referred to as a Maturity Date, the principal amount of each Note, together with accrued and unpaid interest thereon, will be immediately due and payable
Final Maturity.
.
2 . The occurrence of any of the following shall constitute an "Event of Default" with respect to a Note: (i) default in any payment of principal of or interest on such Note (including on a redemption thereof); (ii) the Issuer or any Guarantor makes any compromise arrangement with its creditors generally including the entering into any form of moratorium with its creditors generally; (iii) a court having jurisdiction shall enter a decree or order for relief in respect of the Issuer or any Guarantor in an involuntary case under any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law now or hereafter in effect, or there shall be appointed a receiver, administrator, liquidator, custodian, trustee or sequestrator (or similar officer) with respect to the whole or substantially the whole of the assets of the Issuer or any Guarantor and any such decree, order or appointment is not removed, discharged or withdrawn within 60 days thereafter; or (iv) the Issuer or any Guarantor shall commence a voluntary case under any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law now or hereafter in effect, or consent to the entry of an order for relief in an involuntary case under any such law, or consent to the appointment of or taking possession by a receiver, administrator, liquidator, assignee, custodian, trustee or sequestrator (or similar official), with respect to the whole or substantially the whole of the assets of the Issuer or any Guarantor or make any general assignment for the benefit of creditors. Upon the occurrence of an Event of Default, the principal of each obligation evidenced by such Note (together with interest accrued and unpaid thereon) shall become, without any notice or demand, immediately due and payable.
Events of Default
2
1 . No provision of the Issuing and Paying Agency Agreement under which the Notes are issued shall alter or impair the obligation of the Issuer, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and interest on each Note at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
Obligation Absolute
 
 
Exhibit D Form of Guarantee
GUARANTEE, dated as of                 , 2012, of Noble Drilling Corporation, a corporation organized under the laws of Delaware ("NDC"), and Noble Holding International Limited, a Cayman Islands exempted company limited by shares ("NHIL" and, together with NDC, collectively, the "Guarantors" and individually, a "Guarantor").
The Guarantors, for value received, hereby jointly and severally agree as follows for the benefit of the holders from time to time of the Notes hereinafter described:
1. The Guarantors jointly and severally irrevocably guarantee payment in full, as and when the same becomes due and payable, of the principal of and interest, if any, on the promissory notes (the "Notes") issued by Noble Corporation, a Cayman Islands exempted company limited by shares which directly or indirectly owns all of the outstanding equity interests of each Guarantor (the "Issuer"), from time to time pursuant to the Issuing and Paying Agency Agreement, dated as of                 , 2012, as the same may be amended, supplemented or modified from time to time, between the Issuer and the Issuing and Paying Agent (the "Agreement").
2. Each Guarantor's obligations under this Guarantee shall be unconditional, irrespective of the validity or enforceability of any provision of the Agreement or the Notes.
3. This Guarantee is a guaranty of the due and punctual payment (and not merely of collection) of the principal of and interest, if any, on the Notes by the Issuer and shall remain in full force and effect until all such amounts have been validly, finally and irrevocably paid in full, and shall not be affected in any way by any circumstance or condition whatsoever (other than complete irrevocable payment), including without limitation
(a) the absence of any action to obtain such amounts from the Issuer, (b) any variation, extension, waiver, compromise or release of any or all of the obligations of the Issuer under the Agreement or the Notes or of any collateral security therefore or (c) any change in the existence or structure of, or the bankruptcy or insolvency of, the Issuer or by any other circumstance (other than by complete, irrevocable payment) that might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of a guarantor or surety. Each Guarantor waives all requirements as to diligence, presentment, demand for payment, protest and notice of any kind with respect to the Agreement and the Notes.
4. In the event of a default in payment of principal of or interest on any Notes, the holders of such Notes may institute legal proceedings directly against any Guarantor or both of the Guarantors to enforce this Guarantee without first proceeding against the Issuer.
5. This Guarantee shall remain in full force and effect or shall be reinstated (as the case may be) if at any time any payment by the Issuer of the principal of or interest, if any, on the Notes, in whole or in part, is rescinded or must otherwise be returned by the holder upon the insolvency, bankruptcy or reorganization of the Issuer or otherwise, all as though such payment had not been made.
6. This Guarantee shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
7. (a) Each Guarantor hereby irrevocably accepts and submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the United States federal courts located in the Borough of Manhattan and the courts of the State of New York located in the Borough of Manhattan.
(b) Each Guarantor hereby irrevocably designates, appoints and empowers CT Corporation System, with offices at 111 8th Avenue, New York, New York 10011, as their designee, appointee and agent to receive, accept and acknowledge for and on its behalf, and its properties, assets and revenues, service for any and all legal process, summons, notices and documents which may be served in any such action, suit or proceeding brought in the courts listed in Section 7(a) which may be made on such designee, appointee and agent in accordance with legal procedures prescribed for such courts, with respect to any suit, action or proceeding in connection with or arising out of this Guarantee. If for any reason such designee, appointee and agent hereunder shall cease to be available to act as such, each Guarantor agrees to designate a new designee, appointee and agent in the City of New York on the terms and for the purposes of this Section 7 satisfactory to the Dealer. Each Guarantor further hereby irrevocably consents and agrees to the service of any and all legal process, summons, notices and documents out of any of the aforesaid courts in any such action, suit or proceeding by serving a copy thereof upon the agent for service of process referred to in this Section 7 (whether or not the appointment of such agent shall for any reason prove to be ineffective or such agent shall accept or acknowledge such service) or by mailing copies thereof by registered or certified airmail, postage prepaid, to it at its address specified in or designated pursuant to this Guarantee. Each Guarantor agrees that the failure of any such designee, appointee and agent to give any notice of such service to it shall not impair or affect in any way the validity of such service or any judgment rendered in any action or proceeding based thereon. Nothing herein shall in any way be deemed to limit the ability of the holders of any Notes to serve any such legal process, summons, notices and documents in any other manner permitted by applicable law or to obtain jurisdiction over the undersigned or bring actions, suits or proceedings against the undersigned in such other jurisdictions, and in such other manner, as may be permitted by applicable law. Each Guarantor hereby irrevocably and unconditionally waives any objection which it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any of the aforesaid actions, suits or proceedings arising out of or in connection with this Guarantee brought in the courts listed in Section 7(a) and hereby further irrevocably and unconditionally waives and agrees not to plead or claim in any such court that any such action, suit or proceeding brought in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum.
8 To the extent that any Guarantor or any of its properties, assets or revenues may have or may hereafter become entitled to, or have attributed to it, any right of immunity, on the grounds of sovereignty or otherwise, from any legal action, suit or proceeding in connection with or arising out of this Guarantee, from the giving of any relief in any thereof, from setoff or counterclaim, from the jurisdiction of any court, from service of process, from attachment upon or prior to judgment, from attachment in aid of execution of judgment, or from execution of judgment, or other legal process or proceeding for the giving of any relief or for the enforcement of any judgment, in any jurisdiction in which proceeding may at any time be commenced, with respect to its obligations, liabilities or any other matter under or arising out of or in connection with this Guarantee, such Guarantor hereby irrevocably and unconditionally waives, and agrees for the benefit of the holders from time to time of the Notes not to plead or claim, any such immunity, and consents to such relief and enforcement.
9 Any payments under this Guarantee shall be in United States dollars and shall be free of all withholding, stamp and other similar taxes and of all other governmental charges of any nature whatsoever imposed by any jurisdiction in which any Guarantor is located or from which any such payment is made. In the event any withholding is required by law, the Guarantors jointly and severally agree to (i) pay the same and (ii) pay such additional amounts which, after deduction of any such withholding, stamp or other taxes or governmental charges of any nature, whatsoever imposed with respect to the payment of such additional amount, shall equal the amount withheld pursuant to clause (i).
10. The Guarantors jointly and severally agree to indemnify each holder from time to time of Notes against any loss incurred by such holder as a result of any judgment or order being given or made for any amount due hereunder or thereunder and such judgment or order being expressed and paid in a currency (the "Judgment Currency") other than United States dollars and as a result of any variation as between (i) the rate of exchange at which the United States dollar amount is converted into the Judgment Currency for the purpose of such judgment or order, and (ii) the rate of exchange at which such holder is able to purchase United States dollars with the amount of Judgment Currency actually received by such holder. The foregoing indemnity shall constitute a separate and independent obligation of the Guarantors and shall continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any such judgment or order as aforesaid. The term "rate of exchange" shall include any premiums and costs of exchange payable in connection with the purchase of, or conversion into, the relevant currency.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each Guarantor has caused this Guarantee to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written.
 
Annex 1 Form of Note
(see attached)

Exhibit 10.2
Agreement, dated as of                 , 2012 (this "Agreement"), between                 ("Issuing and Paying Agent") and Noble Corporation, a Cayman Islands exempted company limited by shares, having an office at Suite 3D, Landmark Square, 64 Earth Close, P.O. Box 31327, Georgetown, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands, BWI (the "Company").
the Company wishes to appoint Issuing and Paying Agent as its agent in connection with the issuance and payment of its short-term promissory notes described below and Issuing and Paying Agent wishes to accept such appointment, each on the terms and conditions set forth herein;
THAT WHEREAS,
in consideration of the premises and of the agreements hereinafter set forth, the parties hereby agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE,
Section 1.
Appointment and Acceptance
The Company hereby appoints Issuing and Paying Agent as its agent for the Company in connection with the issuance and payment of Notes (as defined below), and Issuing and Paying Agent agrees to act as such upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement.
Section 2.
Form of Notes
The Company's short-term promissory notes to be issued by the Company hereunder shall mean promissory notes of the Company, offered for sale in a transaction which is exempt from registration under either (i) Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "1933 Act"), and having maturities of 397 days or less, or (ii) Section 3(a)(3), or 3(a)(2) of the 1933 Act and having maturities of 270 days or less, and will be book-entry notes only represented by a master note issued by the Company in connection with the book-entry commercial paper program of The Depository Trust Company ("DTC") or other depository (book-entry notes herein called the "Notes" and individually a "Note").
Section 3.
Issuance of Notes; Authorized Agents
 
If an Authorized Agent specifies that a Note shall be issued in book-entry form represented by a Master Note, the Authorized Agent shall transmit its instructions through CIPANA in accordance with the standard prevailing book-entry Note program procedures of the DTC. The release by an Authorized Agent of the issuance instructions to the DTC shall constitute the issuance of a book-entry Note.
 
 
Section 4.
Delivery of Notes and Payment for Note
 
 
Section 5.
Payment of Notes at Maturity
Issuing and Paying Agent agrees to effect payment on the Company's behalf by debiting the Company's Account in the amount of the face value amount of such Note, plus interest, if applicable, and to enter appropriate notations of payment. The Company agrees to maintain a sufficient credit balance in said account to pay each Note at maturity.
The Company acknowledges that nothing in this Agreement shall obligate Issuing and Paying Agent to extend credit, grant financial accommodation, or otherwise advance funds to the Company for the purpose of making any such payments or part thereof or otherwise effecting such transactions.
 
Section 6.
Instructions
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 7.
Representations and Warranties of the Company
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 8.
Governing Law and Jurisdiction
This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the internal laws of the State of New York without regard to the conflict of laws provisions thereof. Any claims made under this Agreement shall be heard and determined in the Federal or state courts located in the State of New York. The Company and Issuing and Paying Agent hereby agree to submit to the jurisdiction of the Federal and state courts located in the State of New York for the resolution of any proceedings brought therein relating to claims arising from or in connection with this Agreement.
 
Section 9.
Fees
The Company agrees to pay the fees and expenses for the services rendered under this Agreement, as set forth in writing from time to time, between the Company and Issuing and Paying Agent. The Company will be provided thirty (30) days advance notice of any prospective increase in fees.
Section 10.
Indemnification
The Company agrees to indemnify Issuing and Paying Agent and its affiliates, their respective directors, officers, employees, and agents, and any successor thereto (each such person being an "Indemnified Person") from and against any and all losses, claims, damages and liabilities, joint or several, to which such Indemnified Person may become subject under any applicable federal or state law, or otherwise, related to or arising out of any matter or transaction contemplated by this Agreement and the User Agreement, and to the performance by Issuing and Paying Agent of the services contemplated by this Agreement and shall promptly reimburse any Indemnified Person for all reasonable out of pocket expenses (including, but not limited to, reasonable fees and disbursements of external counsel), as they are incurred , in connection with the investigation of, preparation for or defense of any pending or threatened claim or any action or proceeding arising therefrom, whether or not such Indemnified Person is a party, , , that the Company shall not be liable in any such case to the extent such loss, claim, damage or liability is finally judicially determined to have resulted from an Indemnified Person's gross negligence or willful misconduct. The Company shall not be liable hereunder to any Indemnified Person regarding any settlement, compromise or entry of judgment with respect to any claim, loss, damage or liability unless such settlement, compromise or entry of judgment is consented to by the Company, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.
provided
however
Section 11.
Assignment
This Agreement shall not be assignable by either party without the written consent of the other and any purported assignment made in contravention of this Section 11, shall be null and void and of no effect whatsoever. However, Issuing and Paying Agent shall have the right to assign, transfer, or subcontract either in whole or in part, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement to any affiliate of Issuing and Paying Agent, upon at least 30 days prior written notice to the Company.
Section 12.
Force Majeure
Either party is excused from performance and shall not be liable for any delay in delivery or for nondelivery, in whole or in part, caused by the occurrence of any contingency beyond the control of the party including, but not limited to, fires, civil disobedience, riots, rebellions, accident, explosion, flood, storm, Acts of God and similar occurrences.
 
Section 13.
Termination
This Agreement may be terminated by either party upon 30 days prior written notice to the other. Termination of this Agreement shall not affect the Company's liabilities to Issuing and Paying Agent hereunder in connection with any Notes issued prior to such termination. Issuing and Paying Agent shall have a continuing obligation to act on behalf of the Company in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement with respect to Notes outstanding, as of the termination date, until such Notes have matured and been paid by the Company, but shall have no obligation with respect to the issuance of Notes after such termination date.
Section 14.
Complete Agreement; Counterparts.
This Agreement, together with the Schedules attached hereto, constitutes the entire Agreement between the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes in all respects all prior proposals, negotiations, conversations, discussions and agreements between the parties concerning the subject matter hereof. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which shall constitute one and the same instrument.
 
, the parties hereto, through their duly authorized officers, have executed this Agreement as of the day and year set forth above.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 


