Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of the Companys Financial Condition and Results of Operations BUSINESS CONDITIONS Northrop Grumman provides technologically advanced, innovative products, services, and solutions in defense and commercial electronics, information technology, systems integration, space technology, mission systems, and nuclear and non nuclear shipbuilding and systems. As a prime contractor, principal subcontractor, partner, or preferred supplier, Northrop Grumman participates in many high priority defense and commercial technology programs in the United States and abroad. While Northrop Grumman is subject to the usual vagaries of the marketplace, it is also affected by the unique characteristics of the defense industry and by certain elements peculiar to its own business mix. Lockheed Martin Corporation, The Boeing Company and Raytheon Company are among the largest companies in the defense industry at this time. Northrop Grumman, the second largest defense contractor, competes against these and other companies for a number of programs, both large and small. Intense competition and long operating cycles are both key characteristics of Northrop Grummans business and the defense industry. It is common in this industry for work on major programs to be shared among a number of companies. A company competing to be a prime contractor may, upon ultimate award of the contract, turn out to be a subcontractor. It is not uncommon to compete with customers and, simultaneously on other contracts, to be either a supplier to or a customer of such competitor. The nature of major defense programs, conducted under binding contracts, allows companies that perform well to benefit from a level of program continuity unknown in many industries. Northrop Grumman conducts most of its business with the U.S. Government, principally the Department of Defense (DOD). The company also conducts business with foreign governments and makes domestic and international commercial sales. The defense requirements of the United States and NATO countries have shifted to being able to respond to one or more regional conflicts, terrorist acts, homeland security, and proactive threat identification. Such engagements may require unilateral or cooperative initiatives, ranging from passive surveillance to active engagement, deterrence, policing or peacekeeping. In addition, the DODs strategy continues to be affected by the general publics concern for placing military or civilian personnel at risk. As a result of these trends, both the United States and NATO countries are increasingly relying on sophisticated weapon systems that provide long range surveillance and intelligence, battle management and precision strike capabilities combined with the ability to rapidly deploy complete defensive platforms around the world. Accordingly, defense procurement spending is expected to be weighted towards the development and procurement of advanced electronics and software that enhance the capabilities of individual weapons systems and provide for the real time integration of individual surveillance, information management, strike and battle management platforms. United States defense contractors have benefited from the upward trend in overall defense spending over recent years. Defense spending in NATO countries has stabilized, while they continue to increase their focus upon the development and procurement of advanced electronics and information systems capabilities. Although the ultimate size of future defense budgets remains uncertain, current indications are that the defense budget will increase over the next five years. U.S. Government programs in which Northrop Grumman either participates, or strives to participate, must compete with other programs for consideration during our nations budget formulation and appropriation processes. Budget decisions made in this environment will have long term consequences for the size and structure of Northrop Grumman and the entire defense industry. While the ultimate distribution of the budget remains uncertain, the company believes that its technologies and programs will be viewed favorably in the upcoming strategic review and budget process. Northrop Grumman has historically concentrated its efforts in high technology areas such as stealth, airborne surveillance, battle management, precision weapons, systems integration, defense electronics and information technology. Through its acquisitions of Litton Industries, Inc. (Litton), Newport News Shipbuilding Inc. (Newport News) and TRW Inc. (TRW) the company now has a significant presence in space technology; command, control & intelligence; federal and civil information systems; missile systems; and the manufacture of a broad range of ships including aircraft carriers and submarines. The company believes that its programs are a high priority for national defense, but there remains the possibility that one or more of them may be reduced, extended or terminated. 15 NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION In the event of termination for the governments convenience, contractors are normally protected by provisions covering reimbursement for costs incurred subsequent to termination. The company received a termination for convenience notice on the Tri Service Standoff Attack Missile (TSSAM) program in February 1995. In December 1996 the company filed a lawsuit against the U.S. Government in the U.S. Court of Federal Claims seeking the recovery of approximately $750 million for uncompensated performance costs, investments and a reasonable profit on the program. In prior years the company had charged to operations in excess of $600 million related to this program. Northrop Grumman is unable to predict whether it will realize some or all of its claims, none of which are recorded on its balance sheet, from the U.S. Government on the TSSAM contract. Prime contracts with various agencies of the U.S. Government and subcontracts with other prime contractors are subject to numerous procurement regulations, including the False Claims Act and The International Traffic in Arms Regulation promulgated under the Arms Export Control Act, with noncompliance found by any one agency possibly resulting in fines, penalties, debarment or suspension from receiving additional contracts with all U. S. Government agencies. Given the companys dependence on U.S. Government business, suspension or debarment could have a material adverse effect on the companys future. The company does not make use of business arrangements or other business activities that involve so called off balance sheet, variable interest or special purpose entities. An individual companys success in the competitive defense industry depends upon its ability to develop and market its products, as well as its ability to provide the people, facilities, equipment and financial capacity needed to deliver those products with maximum efficiency. It is necessary to maintain, as the company has, sources for raw materials, fabricated parts, electronic components and major subassemblies. In this manufacturing and systems integration environment, effective oversight of subcontractors and suppliers is as vital to success as managing internal operations. Northrop Grummans operating policies are designed to achieve these objectives. The company also believes that it maintains good relations with its employees, approximately 19 percent of whom are covered by 37 collective bargaining agreements. The company currently expects to complete negotiation of 11 collective bargaining agreements in 2003. Two of these agreements covering over 6,000 employees in the Ships segment are in current negotiations which are expected to be completed during the first quarter of 2003. It is not expected that these negotiations will either individually or collectively cause a material adverse effect on the operations of the company. The company provides certain product warranties that require repair or replacement of non conforming items for a specified period of time. Most of the companys product warranties are provided under government contracts and are generally recoverable from the customer. Critical Accounting Policies The companys established policies are outlined in the footnotes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (contained in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10 K) entitled Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. As part of its oversight responsibilities, management evaluates the propriety of its accounting methods as new events occur. Management believes that its policies are applied in a manner which provides the reader of the companys financial statements a current, accurate and complete presentation of information in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. Principal accounting practices that require the use of assumptions and judgments are outlined below: Revenue Recognition As a defense contractor engaging in long term contracts, the company extensively utilizes the cost to cost type and the units of delivery type of percentage of completion method of accounting. Application of this accounting method requires the use of estimates of costs to be incurred for the design, manufacture and delivery of aircraft carriers, submarines, aircraft and subassemblies, radars, intricate components and systems for space communications as well as the engineering, development and integration of software systems and other highly technical products. Such costs are typically incurred over a period of several years and estimation of these costs requires the use of judgment. The cost estimation process is based upon the professional knowledge and experience of the companys engineers, program managers and financial professionals. Factors that are considered in estimating the work to be 16 NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION completed and ultimate contract recovery include the availability and productivity of labor, the nature and complexity of the work to be performed, the effect of change orders, the availability of materials, the effect of any delays in performance, availability and timing of funding from the customer, and the recoverability of any claims included in the estimates to complete. A significant change in an estimate on one or more programs could have a material effect on the companys results of operations. Contract cost estimates are updated at least annually and more frequently in certain circumstances. Sales under cost reimbursement contracts are recorded as costs are incurred. Certain contracts contain profit incentives based upon performance relative to predetermined targets that may occur during or subsequent to delivery of the product. Incentives which can be reasonably estimated are recorded over the performance period of the contract. Incentives which cannot be reasonably estimated are recorded when awarded. Certain contracts contain provisions for the redetermination of price based upon future economic conditions. Contract change orders and claims are included in sales when they can be reasonably estimated and realization is probable. Purchase Accounting and Goodwill The company applies the purchase method of accounting to its acquisitions. Under this method, the purchase price is allocated to the underlying tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based upon their respective fair market values, with the excess recorded as goodwill. Such fair market value assessments require judgments and estimates which can be affected by contract performance and other factors over time that may cause final amounts to differ from original estimates. The company evaluates the recovery of recorded goodwill amounts annually, or when evidence of potential impairment exists. The evaluation requires judgment associated with factors used to test recoverability. Litigation, Commitments and Contingencies The company is subject to a range of claims, lawsuits, environmental matters and administrative proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business. Estimating liabilities and costs associated with these matters requires judgment and assessment based upon professional knowledge and experience of management and its legal counsel. In accordance with SFAS No. 5 Accounting for Contingencies, amounts are recorded as charges to earnings when management has determined that it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. The ultimate resolution of any such exposure to the company may vary from earlier estimates as further facts and circumstances become known. Retirement Benefits Assumptions used in determining projected benefit obligations and the fair values of plan assets for the companys pension plans and other post retirement benefits plans are regularly evaluated by management in consultation with outside actuaries who are relied upon as experts. In the event that the company determines that changes are warranted in the assumptions used, such as the discount rate, expected long term rate of return, or health care cost, future pension and post retirement benefit expenses could increase or decrease. With respect to the previously described critical accounting policies, management believes that the application of judgments and assessments has been consistently applied and has produced financial information which fairly depicts the results of operations for the years presented. Acquisitions and Divestures The current composition of Northrop Grumman Corporation is the result of a series of strategic acquisitions, mergers and divestures. In 1998 and 1999, the company acquired several businesses that strategically fit within its operating sectors. Inter National Research Institute Inc. (INRI) was acquired in 1998 and was integrated into the Information Technology sector. In 1999, Ryan Aeronautical, an operating unit of Alleghany Teledyne Incorporated, the Information Systems Division of California Microwave, Inc., and Data Procurement Corporation (DPC), were acquired and integrated into Integrated Systems, Electronic Systems and Information Technology, respectively. 17 NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION In 2000, the company acquired Navia Aviation AS, Comptek Research, Inc., Federal Data Corporation, and Sterling Software, Inc., (known as Sterlings Federal Systems Group). Navia was integrated into Electronic Systems. The Comptek units were integrated within the Integrated Systems, Electronic Systems and Information Technology sectors. Federal Data and Sterling were both integrated into Information Technology. On July 24, 2000, the company completed the sale of its commercial aerostructures (Aerostructures) business to The Carlyle Group. Aerostructures was principally a major producer of commercial aircraft subassemblies, the majority of which were sold to The Boeing Company. In 2001, the company purchased Litton Industries, Inc. (Litton), Electronics and Information Systems Group of Aerojet General Corporation (EIS) and 80.7 percent of Newport News. On January 18, 2002, the company completed the acquisition of the remaining shares of Newport News and now owns 100 percent of Newport News. Newport News is the nations sole designer, builder and refueler of nuclear powered aircraft carriers and one of only two domestic companies capable of designing and building nuclear powered submarines. To complete the acquisition, the company issued an additional 3.2 million shares of its common stock and paid cash for the balance of the Newport News shares. In total, the company issued 16.6 million shares of its common stock for the acquisition of Newport News. These shares were valued at $95.22 per share for purchase accounting purposes. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, this value was determined based on the average closing stock price of the companys common stock from December 3, 2001, through December 7, 2001. Following the completion of the acquisition, the company eliminated the 19.3 percent minority interest from its financial statements. The Litton, Newport News and EIS acquisitions were accounted for using the purchase method of accounting. Under the purchase method of accounting, the purchase price is allocated to the underlying tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their respective fair market values, with the excess recorded as goodwill. As of December 31, 2002, the company has completed the fair market value and accounting conformance evaluation process for these acquisitions and all related adjustments have been reflected in these financial statements. The Litton business units operating results are included from the acquisition date in the companys segment data as follows: Littons advanced electronics business is included in Electronic Systems; Littons information systems business is included in Information Technology; Littons ship business is included in Ships. Littons electronic components and materials business, Component Technologies, is classified as discontinued operations. EIS was integrated into Electronic Systems and Newport News is included in the Ships segment. In 2001, the company accrued $119 million in restructuring costs related to the acquisition of Litton. These costs included $29 million to exit a business, $31 million to close down redundant facilities and $59 million to terminate and relocate employees. Of the total amount accrued, $5 million was expensed directly to the income statement and $114 million was accounted for as purchase accounting adjustments to the opening balance sheet of Litton. For the period from April 2, 2001 to December 31, 2001 the company utilized $25 million of the balance sheet accrual. In 2002, the company accrued an additional $13 million of costs to close down redundant facilities in relation to this acquisition. During 2002, the company utilized $57 million of the balance sheet accrual. In addition, $1 million was reversed to the income statement as it is no longer required. At December 31, 2002, $49 million of accrued restructure costs remained, including $25 million in other current liabilities, $20 million in other long term liabilities and $4 million in liabilities of businesses held for sale. In December 2002, the company purchased 100 percent of the common stock of TRW Inc. (TRW). The company issued approximately 69.4 million shares of its common stock at an exchange ratio of .5357 for each TRW share, with cash paid in lieu of any fractional share of the companys stock which otherwise would be issued to the TRW shareholders. These shares were valued at $107.31 per share for purchase accounting purposes. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, this value was determined based on the average closing stock price of the companys common stock from October 15, 2002, through October 21, 2002. In connection with the acquisition of TRW, the company entered into a formal stipulation and consent decree (Final Judgment) with the United States Department of Justice that was filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia on December 11, 2002. Key provisions of the consent decree are intended to assure that the merger will not impede fair and open competition related to certain electronic satellite payloads. The consent decree does not 18 NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION require the divestiture of any businesses and will permit the company to operate its business and those of TRW as planned. TRWs defense business units will be operated as two separate sectors, Mission Systems and Space Technology. TRWs automotive business (Auto) was sold in February, 2003. The acquisition of TRW, which is valued at approximately $12.5 billion, including the assumption of TRWs debt of $4.8 billion, is accounted for using the purchase method of accounting. The company is in the early stages of determining the fair market value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. These financial statements reflect preliminary estimates of the fair market value for only purchased intangibles, retiree benefits assets and liabilities and debt as well as preliminary estimates of adjustments necessary to conform TRW to the companys accounting policies. Auto is included in the total TRW valuation and is valued and recorded at its estimated sale price, which represents its fair market value. The final determination of the fair market value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed and final allocation of the purchase price may differ significantly from the amounts included in these financial statements. Adjustments to the purchase price allocations are expected to be finalized by the fourth quarter of 2003, and will be reflected in future filings. There can be no assurance that such adjustments will not be material. Discontinued Operations The company completed the sale of Auto to The Blackstone Group on February 28, 2003. The company received approximately $4.7 billion, comprised of $3.9 billion in cash and debt retained by Auto, a $600 million payment in kind note and a 19.6 percent investment in the new enterprise. Cash proceeds from the sale will be used primarily to reduce debt. In October 2002, Northrop Grumman completed the sale of two Electronic Systems sector businesses, Electron Devices and Ruggedized Displays for $135 million. During the third quarter of 2002, the company concluded that the Component Technologies businesses did not fit with the companys long term plan and decided to sell the businesses. The company completed the sale of the Component Technologies VEAM business units in the first quarter of 2003 and expects to complete the sale of the remaining businesses by September 30, 2003. Therefore, in accordance with SFAS No. 144 Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets, the results of operations of these businesses are reported as discontinued operations, net of applicable income taxes, for all periods presented. In addition, the assets and liabilities of these businesses and of Auto have been classified as held for sale. BUSINESS SEGMENTS The company is aligned into seven business sectors: Electronic Systems, Newport News, Ship Systems, Information Technology, Integrated Systems, Mission Systems and Space Technology. For financial reporting purposes each business sector is a reportable segment with the exception of Newport News and Ship Systems which are aggregated and reported as the Ships segment in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 131 Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information. Segment reporting for Mission Systems and Space Technology, acquired from TRW on December 11, 2002, will commence in the first quarter of 2003 as 2002 results for these new segments were not material to the company. The preliminary valuations of TRW assets and liabilities are included in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as of December 31, 2002. Electronic Systems The Electronic Systems segment comprises five product lines: Aerospace Electronic Systems; Command, Control, Communications, Computers, Intelligence, Surveillance, Reconnaissance, and Naval (C4ISR&N) Systems; Defensive Electronic Systems; Navigation Systems; and Space Systems; plus three smaller lines referred to collectively as Other. The segments expertise is in the ability to conceive, design, produce, integrate, and support high performance sensors, intelligence and processing systems that operate in diverse and challenging environments, from undersea to outerspace. Aerospace Electronic Systems products include ground based and airborne Radio Frequency (RF) and Electro Optical/Infrared (EO/IR) sensors, and integrated sensor suites which meet military surveillance, precision strike and threat warning needs. These products are categorized into three types of systems: combat avionics 19 NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION systems, land combat systems, and airborne surveillance systems. Combat avionics systems include radar and electro optic avionics systems that meet the needs of targeting and strike missions for armed forces worldwide, such as: the AN/APG 66/68 airborne fire control radar series installed onboard F 16 fighters; the next generation air superiority radar for the U.S. Air Forces F 22 aircraft; and the fire control radar and other key avionics systems for the new F 35 Joint Strike Fighter. Land combat systems include the Longbow APG 78 fire control radar and the Longbow Hellfire missile for the U.S. Armys AH 64D Apache attack helicopter and the British WAH 64 Westland Apache. Land combat systems also include the Brilliant Anti Tank (BAT) anti armor submunition that uses passive acoustic, infrared and millimeter wave sensors to find, attack and destroy moving tanks and other armored vehicles. Airborne surveillance systems include: the Airborne Warning and Control System (AWACS) radar, which is integrated on Boeing 707 and 767 aircraft; the Multirole Electronically Scanned Array (MESA), and airborne surveillance systems being developed for installation on Boeing 737 aircraft for the Royal Australian Air Force; the Multi Platform Radar Technology Insertion Program (MP RTIP), which will significantly improve the performance of Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar System (Joint STARS), while creating new air to ground surveillance missions and opportunities; and the E 2C Radar Modernization Program. C4ISR&N Systems encompass products in the areas of: airspace management systems; command, control, communications, computers, intelligence, surveillance, reconnaissance and targeting (C4ISRT) networked systems; advanced naval platforms; oceanic and naval systems; and marine systems. Airspace management systems include air defense and air traffic control radar systems, and associated systems used by domestic and international customers. C4ISRT networked systems include ground based intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance processing systems used by the DOD such as the U.S. Armys Tactical Exploitation System, the U.S. Navys next generation Naval Fires Network, and the U.S. Air Forces Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance Manager. Advanced naval platforms include shipboard mission systems integration and management for domestic and international navies and mission systems for the U.S. Navy LHD 8. Oceanic and naval systems products include the Advanced Sea and Land (SEAL) Delivery System mini submarine, the SPQ 9B shipboard radar, advanced mine hunting sensors and processors, and submarine subsystems. Marine systems include: power generation machinery, advanced propulsion systems, and missile launchers used for naval applications; and integrated bridge systems, navigation systems, and radars for both commercial and naval ships. Communications products provide reliable solutions for commercial and defense applications including co site and spread spectrum systems communication, navigation and surveillance systems, specialized satellite communications ground terminals, an array of communications gateways and message processing systems, and fully integrated voice communications systems for air traffic control and command, control and communications applications. Defensive Electronic Systems provides electronic warfare and targeting products in several product lines: RF countermeasures, EO/IR countermeasures, targeting systems, automatic test equipment, simulation products, and laser systems. RF countermeasures products include radar warning receivers, electronic warfare suite controllers, self protection jammers, electronic support measures, special receivers, and integrated electronic warfare systems. These products protect fixed wing and rotary wing aircraft, as well as surface ships, submarines and satellites RF threats. EO/IR countermeasures products include the NEMESIS Directional Infrared Countermeasures (DIRCM) system, which protects fixed wing and rotary wing aircraft from shoulder launched, infrared guided threats. Targeting systems products include the Litening II targeting pod, which provides 24 hour adverse weather strike capabilities. Defensive Electronic Systems also provides: automatic test equipment to evaluate and assess the health of defense electronics and electro optic systems quickly and efficiently; simulation and evaluation equipment to assess the performance of defense electronic systems; and laser systems for military applications, including laser rangefinders, laser target locators and laser target designators. Navigation Systems products cover military aircraft electronic systems, military land and sea electronic systems, and commercial systems. Military aircraft electronic systems are sold globally to customers in fixed wing and rotary wing aircraft markets. Products and services include navigation systems, flight certified computers and cockpit displays, identification friend or foe systems, and complete systems integration. Three key programs in this category are U.S. Marine Corps attack and utility helicopter upgrades, Blackhawk helicopter modernization, and Euro Fighter aircraft upgrades. Military land and sea electronic systems are provided to customers in four categories: missiles, vehicles, ships, and sub surface (submarines and acoustical devices). Products include battlefield 20 NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION situational awareness systems, interrogators/transponders, secondary surveillance radars, and all optical fiber optic acoustics systems for surveillance. Commercial systems are sold in the commercial air transport and space products markets. Products include inertial navigation and reference systems, altitude and heading/reference systems, and global positioning systems. Space Systems products include visible, infrared, and RF payloads and the associated ground processing for spaceborne remote sensing applications, which cover environmental monitoring, missile warning, and surveillance. Space Systems provides payloads for the Defense Meteorological Satellite Program (DMSP), the National Polar Orbital Operational and Environmental Satellite Systems (NPOESS), the Defense Support Program (DSP), Space Based Infrared Surveillance (SBIRS) High, as well as other classified programs. For SBIRS High, mission level systems engineering and integration are also provided. In addition, Space Systems provides ground systems in support of national and tactical missile warning and defense systems, including DSP, SBIRS High, and the Space Tracking Surveillance System (STSS), formerly SBIRS Low. Other product lines include government systems, logistics services, and systems development and technology. Government systems provides products in two areas: homeland security and automation and information (such as material handling and sorting for postal services). Logistics services provides a wide range of logistics support for a variety of customers. Systems development and technology provides the technology base for current and future Electronic Systems products. Ships The Ships segment combines two operating sectors, Newport News and Ship Systems and includes the following products and services: Aircraft Carriers, Surface Combatants, Amphibious and Auxiliary, Submarines, Commercial and International, and Services and Other. Newport News is currently constructing the Ronald Reagan, the ninth Nimitz class aircraft carrier, with delivery scheduled for 2003, and the George H.W. Bush, the tenth Nimitz class carrier, which is scheduled for delivery in 2008. CVN (21), the next generation of nuclear aircraft carrier is currently in the design phase with a construction contract anticipated in 2007. CVN (21) will provide significant new technologies that will result in manning reductions, improved war fighting capability, and a new nuclear propulsion plant design. The sector also provides ongoing maintenance for the U.S. Navys vessels through overhaul, refueling and repair work. The company possesses unique expertise in servicing nuclear naval systems, and is the only private shipyard presently capable of refueling nuclear powered aircraft carriers. Such aircraft carrier maintenance work is generally assigned by the U.S. Navy based on the type of work, location and cost. The company is currently overhauling and refueling carrier Dwight D. Eisenhower which began in 2001. Each Nimitz class aircraft carrier will be refueled once in its 50 year life. The sector estimates that the remaining Nimitz class aircraft carriers could be refueled over the next 30 to 40 years, although no assurances can be given as to the number of Nimitz class carriers that will be refueled or that the sector will receive these awards. Ship Systems builds Surface Combatants, which includes the design and construction of the Arleigh Burke DDG 51 Class Aegis guided missile destroyers, design of DD(X), the Navys future transformational surface combatant class, and the Coast Guards Deepwater Modernization Program. The latter two programs were awarded in 2002. Ship Systems is one of two prime contractors designing and building DDG 51 Class destroyers, which provide primary anti aircraft and anti ship missile protection for the U.S. Navy fleet. Seven Arleigh Burke Class Destroyers are currently under construction with an additional four ships in backlog. The DD(X) program is a $2.9 billion development contract to develop and test eleven Engineering Development Models (EDMs) including an Integrated Electric Propulsion System (IPS), an all composite low signature deckhouse with embedded radar and communication apertures, a new stealthy hull form, and a new Peripheral Vertical missile Launching System (PVLS). The contract further provides for incorporating these advanced technologies into the design of the next generation destroyer, DD(X). These technologies are also to be incorporated into the next generation Cruiser, CG(X), the Littoral Combat Ship (LCS) and many ships already in the fleet as well as other future new ship classes. Construction of the first DD(X) is currently scheduled to begin in 2006. Ship Systems and Lockheed Martin are joint venture partners for the Coast Guards Deepwater Modernization Program. Ship 21 NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Systems has design and production responsibility for all surface ship assets including three new classes of cutters. The program is currently a 20 year program with the surface ship content representing $8.1 billion. Ship Systems is also responsible for Amphibious and Auxiliary programs, which include the design and construction of amphibious assault ships for the U.S. Navy, including the WASP LHD 1 Class, the San Antonio LPD 17 Class ships and the Bob Hope Fast Sealift Auxiliary. Ship Systems is the sole provider for the LHD class of large deck, 40,500 ton multipurpose amphibious assault ships, which serve as the centerpiece of an Amphibious Ready Group. Currently the LHD 8 is in the final stages of design and is a significant upgrade from the preceding seven sister ships. The design and production of the LHD 8 is a $1.4 billion program with delivery scheduled for 2007. Ship Systems is also the sole provider of the LPD17 class of ships, which function as amphibious transports. Four LPD Class ships are currently under contract with a value of $3 billion. Ship Systems also builds Sealift ships for the Military Sealift Command. These very large ships are used for prepositioning U.S. military vehicles and equipment overseas. One Sealift ship was delivered in 2002, bringing the total to date to six on this seven ship contract. The seventh ship will be delivered in 2003. Newport News is one of two builders of U.S. Navy nuclear powered submarines. In February 1997, the sector and Electric Boat Corporation (Electric Boat), a wholly owned subsidiary of General Dynamics Corporation, reached an agreement to cooperatively build the first four new nuclear attack submarines of the Virginia class. With Electric Boat serving as the prime contractor and lead designer, each company will construct certain portions of each submarine, with final assembly, testing, outfitting, and delivery alternating between the two yards. The contract for the first flight of Virginia class submarines was awarded to the Newport News/Electric Boat team in 1998. The period of performance on this contract spans 10 years as submarines in this class typically have a 6 to 7 year build cycle. The current schedule calls for the delivery of the Virginia by Electric Boat in 2004 followed over the balance of the contract by the Texas (Newport News), the Hawaii (Electric Boat), and the NorthCarolina (Newport News). Electric Boat and Newport News are currently in negotiation with the U.S. Navy for the second flight of 5 Virginia class submarines with options for an additional two. The second flight of Virginia class submarines will also be co produced with Electric Boat. Management estimates that the Virginia class program could total up to 30 submarines, although no assurances can be given as to the number of submarines that ultimately will be built by the sector. Ship Systems is under contract to produce five Polar Tankers, included in Commercial and International; two ships have been delivered. These tankers will transport one million barrels of crude oil from Alaska to west coast refineries and are fully compliant with the Oil Pollution Act of 1990. The remaining three ships are expected to be delivered in 2003, 2004, and 2005. In 2002, Ship Systems delivered two overhauled frigates to Venezuela with warranty the only remaining contractual obligation. Ship Systems is under contract with the Israeli Government to perform feasibility studies to increase the size and capabilities of the SAAR 5 Class corvettes. Ship Systems designed and built three ships of this class in the early 1990s. Included in Services and Other are short duration government and commercial ship repair contracts. The company has ship repair facilities in the U.S. Navys largest homeports of Norfolk, VA and San Diego, CA. Information Technology The Information Technology segment consists of four lines of business: Government Information Technology, Enterprise Information Technology, Technology Services, and Commercial Information Technology. Government Information Technology covers a wide range of large scale systems integration, solutions and services programs. This work is performed for government customers at the DOD, federal, state and local levels, and covers command, control, communications, computers, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (C4ISR); training and simulation; science and technology; and information systems markets. Government Information Technology has the lead for the companys Homeland Security efforts. Homeland Security solutions include information security systems, such as detection and vulnerability assessments; communications systems such as C4ISR, mobile/wireless networks, cyber warfare, local area networks, and air traffic control systems; intelligence and analysis systems, protecting our customers networks from cyber attacks; training systems, such as modeling and simulation; and response and recovery systems, such as computer aided dispatch/911 emergency response systems. In the C4ISR market, Information Technology supports the development, testing and fielding of 22 NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION command and control systems for its primary customers, principally the DOD. Specialty areas include systems integration, mission critical software and support, systems engineering, tactical data links, information security, independent validation and verification, geographic information systems, orbital analysis, and national intelligence systems and services. In the training and simulation market, the segment is a prime developer and operator of modeling, simulation and analysis systems, computer driven war gaming and training, flight simulations, knowledge management systems and mission readiness exercises. These services are provided to the U.S. Navy, Air Force, Army, Special Operations Command, NASA, and the Missile Defense Agency. In the science and technology market, work includes analysis of weapons of mass destruction effects, high energy laser technology development and neural network applications. This technical and scientific support is provided to the U.S. Air Force Research Labs and the Defense Threat Reduction Agency. The information systems market is large and diverse. As a full service provider, the sector offers a complete range of services such as large scale systems integrations, enterprise wide infrastructure solutions, high performance computing, electronic commerce, large scale database design, systems modernization and integration, disaster recovery and planning, enterprise resource planning, data center management, seat management, health solutions, air traffic controls, cyber warfare/information security systems, financial systems, logistics systems, and complete network centric warfare operations. Customers include state and local governments, federal agencies such as the General Services Administration, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Health and Human Services, the Department of Justice, the Department of State, and all branches of the DOD. The Software Engineering Institutes Capability Maturity Model Integration (CMMI) system engineering/software engineering level 5 rating, the highest engineering rating, has been achieved within this line of business. Enterprise Information Technology provides enterprise wide infrastructure and internet solutions and services to the defense and civil marketplace, including the delivery and integration of commercially available computers, networks, hardware, software and peripherals. Customers include the Veterans Administration, Department of State, Department of Justice, Department of Treasury, all branches of the DOD, NASA, and state and local government agencies. Technology Services include base and range support, training and simulation, information systems, and state and local information technology services. Contracts include support of systems, logistics support, facilities management services, flight systems and simulation services, mission integration and planning support, operation and support of simulation enhanced training programs, systems integration, information security, data center management, and systems engineering and networking. In 2002, the companys state and local group also entered the worldwide electronic election services market, to license and manufacture electronic voting systems. Primary customers of Technology Services include the U.S. Army, U.S. Air Force, NASA, and state and local government agencies. Commercial Information Technology provides complete IT outsourcing services directed to the commercial market. This work includes desktop and server management, hardware and software maintenance, help desk support, systems administration, network design, systems modernization and integration, and facility management services. Customers include information technology outsourcing providers, original equipment manufacturers, integrators and resellers. Integrated Systems Air Combat Systems (ACS), Airborne Early Warning and Electronics Warfare (AEW/EW) systems and Airborne Ground Surveillance and Battle Management (AGS/BM) systems are the three product lines within the Integrated Systems segment. Included in ACS are: F/A 18 and F 35 subcontract work, the Global Hawk and Fire Scout Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs), the Navy Unmanned Combat Aerial Vehicle (UCAV N), the Multi Platform Radar Technology Insertion Program (MP RTIP), B 2 bomber post production contracts, a family of aerial targets, support of out of production F 5/T 38 aircraft, and advanced systems and technology solutions. Integrated Systems is the principal subcontractor to The Boeing Company on the F/A 18 program. The F/A 18 is designed to execute a variety of air to air and air to surface missions. Principally deployed by the U.S. Navy on aircraft carriers, it also has been purchased by several other nations as a land based combat aircraft. Northrop Grumman is 23 NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION responsible for approximately 40 percent of the aircraft, including the full integration of the center and aft fuselage and vertical tail sections and associated subsystems. Current business includes production of the F/A 18E/F Super Hornet model and support of prior models of the aircraft still in service. On the F 35, Integrated Systems is teamed with Lockheed Martin Corporation and BAE Systems. The F 35 is a multi mission, multi service weapon system, which is being developed as an affordable fighter/attack platform with variants to be optimized for the U.S. Air Force, U.S. Marine Corps, U.S. Navy, U.K. Royal Navy and U.K. Royal Air Force, while maintaining a very high percentage of platform commonality. The F 35 is currently in the System Development and Demonstration (SDD) phase of the program. Plans call for more than 3,000 aircraft over the life of the program, with an initial 22 aircraft to be produced in the $19 billion SDD phase, although no assurances can be given regarding the ultimate number of aircraft to be produced. The Integrated Systems sector is responsible for the detailed design and integration of the center fuselage and weapon bay, a large part of systems engineering, mission system software, ground and flight test support, signature/low observables development, and support of modeling and simulation activities. The total program is valued at approximately $200 billion and is intended to be a cornerstone of future defense capability for the United States, the United Kingdom and their allied partners. The F 35 is designed to replace the A 10, the AV 8 Harrier, the F 16 and the F/A 18. The company is a leader in the unmanned systems market. Global Hawk is a high altitude endurance UAV being developed for the U.S. Air Force to perform various intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (ISR) missions from high altitudes for long periods of time. The program is completing a successful advanced concept technology demonstration phase and has now entered the SDD phase, which is being conducted concurrently with a Low Rate Initial Production (LRIP) program. Fire Scout is a UAV being developed for the U.S. Navy to perform tactical ISR missions in a naval environment, taking off and landing vertically. The program is currently in LRIP, with production plans still to be determined. UCAV N is being developed for the U.S. Navy to be a highly survivable UAV capable of both ISR and combat missions. This program is in the early stages of development. Integrated Systems is the prime systems integration contractor for the MP RTIP. The objective of the program is to upgrade current aircraft and unmanned vehicles with an advanced technology radar subsystem, which includes higher resolution and greater accuracy. The product of the MP RTIP development program is a Ground Moving Target Indicator (GMTI) capability, in the form of an Active Electronically Scanned Array (AESA) radar, that can be integrated onto multiple U.S. platforms and is suitable for use by NATO. ACS is the prime contractor for the B 2 bomber. While production deliveries of the B 2 bomber have been completed, the company continues to perform upgrades and support activity. Advanced systems include future strike aircraft concepts and performing systems engineering studies as part of NASAs Space Launch Initiative. AEW/EW products include the E 2C (Hawkeye) Airborne Early Warning and the EA 6B (Prowler) Electronic Warfare aircraft. The E 2C has been in active service with the U.S. Navy since 1973 and is employed by the air forces of five other nations. AEW/EW is currently performing a multi year contract to produce 22 E 2C aircraft for the U. S. Navy, one aircraft for France, and two aircraft for Taiwan. The E 2C is kept current through technological upgrades of its mission systems, the latest of which is the Hawkeye 2000 configuration. The company is developing the next generation capability which includes mission computer and sensor enhancements called the Advanced Hawkeye under a Pre System Development and Demonstration contract with the U.S. Navy. The EA 6B is the armed services only offensive tactical radar jamming aircraft. The company is currently developing the next generation mission system for this aircraft under the ICAP (Increased Capability) III contract. The major product included in AGS/BM is the E 8 Joint STARS. AGS/BM is the prime contractor on Joint STARS, which detects, locates, classifies, tracks and targets potentially hostile ground movement in all weather conditions. It is designed to operate around the clock in constant communication through secure data links with Air Force command posts, Army mobile ground stations, or centers for military analysis far from the point of conflict. Current business includes production, Total Systems Support Responsibility (TSSR), and upgrades to the weapons systems in service. Internationally, AGS/BM is actively involved in the development of a NATO Alliance Ground Surveillance system to provide a Joint STARS like capability to that organization. 24 NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Mission Systems The Mission Systems segment is a leading global system integrator of complex, mission enabling systems. The segment consists of four lines of business: Command, Control and Intelligence Systems; Federal and Civil Information Systems; Missile Systems; and Technical and Management Services. Command, Control and Intelligence Systems provides command, control, communications, computers, and intelligence support to the U.S. Department of Defense, principally the intelligence community and the U.S. Air Force, Army, Navy and Marine Corps. Offerings in the intelligence market include signals intelligence and exploitation systems; system engineering and integration; operations, maintenance and engineering; and enterprise engineering. The space control, information operations and Air Force command and control (C2) markets include enterprise and system engineering; ground segment C2; information analysis, planning and decision aids; Computer Network Operations (CNO); systems with embedded information assurance; data collection; modeling and product generation; system simulation and integration and test; spacecraft C2 systems; payload control and terminal software; and C2 infrastructure products. In the integrated command, control, communications and computers (C4) market, the focus is on legacy C4 systems, object force C4, air defense artillery C2, and network operations. In the logistics automation market, work includes Army and tactical global combat service support; legacy standard Army management information systems; Army knowledge on line; and linkage to fielded C4 systems. In the platform integration and UAV market, the segment supports the Hunter corps and division tactical UAV system; light and heavy joint service nuclear, biological and chemical reconnaissance systems; and tactical operation centers. Federal and Civil Information Systems provides information technology services to domestic and foreign government customers at the federal, state and or local levels. In the federal network integration market, the focus is on converged enterprise networks and network design, planning, engineering, integration and support. In the federal security market, segment offerings include an integrated product to link legacy, commercial off the shelf, and emerging technologies into a network centric standards based platform; a tactical physical security solution supporting deployed forces; comprehensive assessment of security threats, vulnerabilities, risks, and business impacts for physical and cyber assets; a technology oriented suite of integrated security solutions for physical and cyber security; and a complete set of business continuity and disaster recovery solutions. For the federal enterprise information technology market, the segment provides enterprise wide architecture; systems integration; storage area network consolidation; financial asset tracking; secure document technology; knowledge management; and collaborative systems including advanced video teleconferencing. In the state and local information technology market, the segment focuses on public health data systems; labor unemployment insurance systems; child welfare and support enforcement systems; and operations and maintenance. Work in the public safety market includes prime integration for civilian command centers for public safety, transportation and airport security; statewide wireless communications systems; automated and criminal identification systems; integrated justice information systems; and C2 and mobile data integration. Missile Systems supports the Integrated Missile Defense system and the Intercontinental Ballistic Missile (ICBM) Program. The Integrated Missile Defense system market includes shooters, sensors, battle management C2, communications, modeling and simulation, and test and evaluation. For this market, the segment provides wargames, modeling and simulation; system test and integration; targets and countermeasures, missile system engineering, and trainers to the Missile Defense Agency, Boeing and Lockheed Martin. As prime contractor for the ICBM Program Office, the segment offers ICBM domain knowledge; program management; systems engineering and integration; and sustainment and modernization services. Technical and Management Services primarily supports the U.S. Departments of Defense, Labor and Justice. In the information technology market, the segment offers full life cycle design and information systems integration and operations. In the systems engineering and analytic services market, the focus is on electromagnetic and infrared analysis; decision support with modeling tools; systems effectiveness evaluation; engineering prototypes and integration; and simulation modeling for training resource allocation. For the training and combat support market, the segment provides full scale exercise design, execution and analysis; multi media training design and delivery; and operational support of warfighting and peacekeeping (e.g., linguists and subject matter experts). In the operations and maintenance market, offerings include base operating services; equipment maintenance; logistics 25 NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION and administrative support and freight forwarding services; biometrics; and biological agent detection. Work in the military training market includes maneuver and logistics training; force on force exercise development and control; force modernization and integration; and new equipment training and fielding. In the job corps market, the segment provides educational and vocational training; residential living; placement and transition services; logistics services; and web based general education development training. Space Technology The Space Technology sector develops a broad range of systems at the leading edge of space, defense and electronics technology. The sector creates products primarily for the U.S. government that contribute significantly to the nations security and leadership in science and technology. This business primarily consists of the following major business areas: Civil Space; Missile Defense; Satellite Communications (SatCom); Intelligence, Surveillance & Reconnaissance (ISR); and Radio Systems. The Civil Space business area produces spacecraft, instruments and services for some of our nations most challenging space science missions, earth observation systems and weather satellite systems. A variety of products and services are provided, including mission and systems engineering services, spacecraft and instrument systems, mission operations and propulsion systems. Customers include NASA, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), and the DOD. Major programs include the recently awarded James Webb Space Telescope (JWST), National Polar orbiting Operational Environmental Satellite System (NPOESS), Earth Observation System (EOS) and the legacy space telescope program Chandra, currently in operation. Missile Defense produces space based systems that detect, track and destroy missiles and help to counter todays widely proliferating ballistic threats. Key capabilities and products include system integration, spacecraft, directed energy and kinetic energy weapons, and tactical lasers. The newly formed Missile Defense Agency (MDA) is the primary customer. Major programs include the Space Tracking Surveillance System (STSS formerly SBIRS Low), Airborne Laser (ABL), and Mobile Tactical High Energy Laser (MTHEL). The SatCom business area demonstrates the sectors leadership in complex satellite communication systems and broadband payloads. Key customers are satellite prime contractors in support of the DOD and other government agencies. Major programs include Advanced Extremely High Frequency (AEHF) payload, and communication payload for the legacy Milstar program, currently in operation. In the ISR business area the sectors capabilities give the nations monitoring systems a global reach and enhance national security. Addressing requirements in space based intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance systems, the sector provides mission and systems engineering, satellite systems and mission operations. Customers are predominantly restricted, as are the major programs. Also part of this business area, Defense Support Program (DSP) has been monitoring ballistic missile launches for the Air Force for decades. In the Radio Systems business area the sector has been pioneering software defined radio technology and applying the results to advanced integrated Communications, Navigation and Identification (CNI) systems, radios, and avionics integration software. The sectors avionics system represents the eyes and ears of the F 35 Joint Strike Fighter, F/A 22 Raptor jet fighter and Comanche attack/reconnaissance helicopter. Customers for these programs include Air Force, Army, Navy and prime government contractors. In addition, the sector maintains a Technology business area that consists primarily of government funded Research and Development (R&D) contracts in support of the five business areas described above. Technology also includes several small technology based product areas that sell advanced electronics, mechanical devices, and laser products to both government and commercial customers. SEGMENT FINANCIAL DATA In the following table of segment and major customer data, revenue from the United States Government includes revenue from contracts on which Northrop Grumman is the prime contractor as well as those on which the company is a subcontractor and the ultimate customer is the U.S. Government. The companys discontinued operations are excluded from all of the data elements in this table, except for assets by segment. Northrop Grummans income statements do not include TRWs post acquisition results because they were not material. Only the TRW backlog acquired and assets at December 31, 2002, are included in the following table. 26 NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION The company, effective December 31, 2002, revised the way it measures the profitability of its operating segments to better reflect its operating results. Pension and other retiree benefit expenses are now included in the sectors cost of sales to the extent that these costs are currently recognized under government Cost Accounting Standards (CAS). In order to reconcile from segment operating margin to total company operating margin, these amounts are reported under the caption Reversal of CAS pension expense included above. Total GAAP pension income or expense continues to be reported separately as a reconciling item under the caption Pension income or expense. The reconciling item captioned Unallocated expenses includes unallocated corporate expenses, state tax provisions, and other retiree benefit expenses. Segment results for all periods presented have been conformed to the new method of measuring profitability. Foreign sales amounted to approximately $1.3 billion, $1.3 billion and $600 million for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. All of the companys segments engage in international business, for which the company maintains a large number of sales representatives and consultants who are not employees of the company. Foreign sales by their very nature are subject to greater variability in risk than the companys domestic sales, particularly to the U.S. government. International sales and services subject the company to numerous stringent U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including, without limitation, regulations relating to import export control, repatriation of earnings, exchange controls, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the anti boycott provisions of the U.S. Export Administration Act. Failure by the company or its sales representatives or consultants to comply with these laws and regulations could result in administrative, civil or criminal liabilities and could in the extreme case result in suspension of the companys export privileges, which could have material adverse consequences. 27 NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION RESULTS OF OPERATIONS BY SEGMENT AND MAJOR CUSTOMER Years ended December 31, $ in millions 2002 2001 2000 Net Sales Electronic Systems United States Government $ 2,966 $ 2,830 $ 2,102 Other customers 2,120 1,591 692 Intersegment sales 253 166 121 5,339 4,587 2,915 Ships United States Government 4,445 1,487 Other customers 251 392 Intersegment sales 16 1 4,712 1,880 Information Technology United States Government 3,700 3,231 1,457 Other customers 467 491 228 Intersegment sales 70 61 32 4,237 3,783 1,717 Integrated Systems United States Government 3,096 2,869 3,103 Other customers 161 121 36 Intersegment sales 16 11 11 3,273 3,001 3,150 Intersegment eliminations (355 ) (239 ) (164 ) Total net sales $ 17,206 $ 13,012 $ 7,618 Operating Margin Electronic Systems $ 435 $ 350 $ 157 Ships 306 19 Information Technology 249 173 103 Integrated Systems 331 265 306 1,321 807 566 Adjustments to reconcile to total operating margin: Unallocated expenses (105 ) (134 ) (42 ) Pension income 90 335 538 Reversal of CAS pension expense included above 100 43 42 Reversal of royalty income included above (15 ) (18 ) (6 ) Total operating margin $ 1,391 $ 1,033 $ 1,098 28 NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Years ended December 31, $ in millions 2002 2001 2000 Contract Acquisitions Electronic Systems $ 5,676 $ 5,261 $ 4,228 Ships 5,334 11,608 Information Technology 4,320 4,216 2,018 Integrated Systems 3,472 2,222 2,979 Mission Systems 2,748 Space Technology 1,308 Total acquisitions $ 22,858 $ 23,307 $ 9,225 Funded Order Backlog Electronic Systems $ 6,303 $ 5,713 $ 4,873 Ships 10,367 9,729 Information Technology 1,589 1,436 942 Integrated Systems 3,738 3,523 4,291 Mission Systems 2,748 Space Technology 1,308 Total backlog $ 26,053 $ 20,401 $ 10,106 Assets Electronic Systems $ 5,446 $ 5,764 $ 4,069 Ships 6,532 6,040 Information Technology 2,178 2,099 1,247 Integrated Systems 2,173 2,088 2,238 Mission Systems 4,759 Space Technology 4,829 Segment assets 25,917 15,991 7,554 General corporate 6,728 3,620 2,068 Assets of businesses held for sale 9,621 1,207 Total assets $ 42,266 $ 20,818 $ 9,622 Capital Expenditures Electronic Systems $ 263 $ 195 $ 118 Ships 76 44 Information Technology 45 46 22 Integrated Systems 134 79 124 General corporate 3 3 1 Total expenditures $ 521 $ 367 $ 265 Depreciation and Amortization Electronic Systems $ 226 $ 301 $ 236 Ships 147 82 Information Technology 44 90 32 Integrated Systems 78 102 112 General corporate 1 1 1 Total depreciation and amortization $ 496 $ 576 $ 381 29 NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION MEASURES OF VOLUME Certain prior year amounts in the tables titled Contract Acquisitions, Net Sales and Backlog have been reclassified to conform to current year reporting. Contract Acquisitions Contract acquisitions tend to fluctuate from year to year and are determined by the size and timing of new and add on orders. The existing funded order backlog as of the purchase date of businesses acquired is reported as contract acquisitions. The variability resulting from multiyear orders and funding, as well as acquiring businesses, are reflected in the following table. Contract Acquisitions $ in millions 2002 2001 2000 Electronic Systems Aerospace Electronic Systems $ 1,137 $ 1,325 $ 2,204 C4ISR&N 2,002 1,222 981 Defensive Electronic Systems 830 793 605 Navigation Systems 741 1,352 Space Systems 615 231 158 Other 613 602 422 5,938 5,525 4,370 Ships Aircraft Carriers 1,622 4,577 Surface Combatants 1,638 3,194 Amphibious and Auxiliary 1,184 2,301 Submarines 828 609 Commercial and International (16 ) 837 Services and Other 109 216 Intrasegment eliminations (64 ) (82 ) 5,301 11,652 Information Technology Government Information Technology 2,834 2,584 1,067 Enterprise Information Technology 766 848 285 Technology Services 673 687 518 Commercial Information Technology 200 241 181 Intrasegment eliminations (83 ) (84 ) 4,390 4,276 2,051 Integrated Systems Air Combat Systems 2,131 1,001 1,725 Airborne Early Warning/Electronic Warfare 832 789 715 Airborne Ground Surveillance/Battle Management 526 445 576 Intrasegment eliminations (1 ) (2 ) (26 ) 3,488 2,233 2,990 Mission Systems 2,748 Space Technology 1,308 Intersegment eliminations (315 ) (379 ) (186 ) Total acquisitions $ 22,858 $ 23,307 $ 9,225 30 NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Electronic Systems acquisitions in 2002 were 7 percent higher than in 2001. Aerospace Electronic Systems (AES) includes funding in 2002 of $116 million for the F 35, $83 million for the Longbow missile multi year contract, and $82 million for the BAT program. C4ISR&N reflects increased awards for international air defense systems and $150 million of funding for the Trident program. Defensive Electronic Systems includes a $165 million award for ALQ 135 electronic countermeasures for the Korea F 15. Space Systems includes $335 million of additional funding on the SBIRS High program. Electronic Systems acquisitions in 2001 were 26 percent higher than in 2000. Results reported in 2001 include opening backlog acquired in the purchases of Litton and EIS of $1.3 billion and $43 million, respectively. AES includes funding in 2001 of $255 million for the Wedgetail program, $148 million for the BAT program and $124 million for the Longbow missile multi year contract. In C4ISR&N higher awards for air defense systems contributed to higher acquisitions in 2001 than in 2000. Navigation Systems in 2001 reflects $820 million in Litton opening backlog acquired. In 2000, AES reflected a $1.1 billion award for the radar, electronic warfare systems, integrated Forward Looking Infra Red (FLIR) targeting systems and common testers for United Arab Emirates (UAE) F 16 Aircraft. AES includes funding for the Longbow missile multi year contract of $245 million in 2000. Ships segment acquisitions in 2002 include $875 million of funding for the DD(X) program, included in the Surface Combatants business area, and $590 million for LHD, included in the Amphibious and Auxiliary area. Newport News 2002 acquisitions included $1.6 billion of aircraft carrier funding and $828 million of funding for the submarine program. Negative acquisitions in the Commercial and International area incorporate a $39 million dollar de acquisition on the Polar Tanker program. In June 2002 Ships signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the U.S. Navy and General Dynamics Bath Iron Works to reallocate construction responsibilities for the San Antonio (LPD 17) class amphibious assault ships and certain USS Arleigh Burke (DDG 51) class Aegis guided missile destroyers. As a result of this agreement, Ship Systems sector will assume responsibility for the construction of all 12 San Antonio class LPDs, and will also assume responsibility for the programs life cycle support. In exchange, Bath Iron Works will construct DDG 102, a contract that was won by Ship Systems in December 2001. Bath Iron Works will also be awarded future DDG work as determined by the Department of the Navy. Ships segment acquisitions in 2001 include backlog acquired in the Litton and Newport News transactions of $10.5 billion. In 2001, Surface Combatants included a $370 million contract award for an Aegis class large destroyer. Amphibious and Auxiliary for 2001 included a contract for $113 million for the advanced procurement of material for Landing Platform Dock (LPD) 21, the fifth ship of the class. Commercial and International reported the 2001 de acquisition of the Project America cruise ship program. Information Technology acquisitions increased by 3 percent in 2002 over 2001. Government Information Technology (GIT) secured a major contract win with the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) to provide Information Technology infrastructure and support services, key elements in assisting the border enforcement and immigration benefits missions of the agency. The $228 million INS contract positions the company to assist the new Department of Homeland Security with its Information Technology needs. In 2002, Technology Services funding for the Joint Base Operations Support Contract (J BOSC) contract of $268 million was received. Under this contract, which was won in 1998 and has a five year basic performance period with a five year option, the segment provides base operations support for NASAs Kennedy Space Center and the U.S. Air Forces 45th Space Wing, which includes Cape Canaveral Air Station and Patrick Air Force Base. Technology Services also received a $100 million contract win to provide electronic benefits transfer services to the state of Illinois which positions the company as a key provider to state government. Information Technology acquisitions were 108 percent higher in 2001 over 2000 which reflected Litton opening backlog acquired of $585 million. Government Information Technology acquisitions in 2001 include the effect of acquired backlog of $513 million and contract awards for the three businesses acquired in 2000. Technology services includes acquisitions of $322 million in 2001 for J BOSC. Integrated Systems acquisitions in 2002 were 56 percent higher than 2001. Funding in 2002 reflects $784 million of funding for the F/A 18 contracts and $271 million for the F 35 SDD contract. ACS continues to record incremental B 2 bomber funding which increased to $388 million in 2002 from $346 million 31 NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION in 2001 for ongoing development work, spares and other customer support for the operational aircraft program. ACS still expects to receive future post production business, such as airframe depot maintenance, repair of components, operational software changes, and product improvement modifications. Integrated Systems acquisitions in 2001 were 25 percent lower compared with the 2000 fiscal year principally due to the timing of contract awards on major programs. Acquisitions in 2000 included funding of $1.1 billion for the multi year buy for 72 F/A 18E/F shipsets. AEW/EW includes funding for the multi year buy for twenty five E 2C aircraft of $133 million in 2002, $231 million in 2001 and $247 million in 2000. AGS/BM includes orders for two, one, and one Joint STARS aircraft in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Backlog acquired and included in acquisitions for 2002 as a result of completion of the TRW transaction was $2.7 billion for the Mission Systems segment and $1.3 billion for the Space Technology segment. 32 NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Sales Year to year sales vary less than contract acquisitions and reflect performance under new and ongoing contracts. Net Sales $ in millions 2002 2001 2000 Electronic Systems Aerospace Electronic Systems $ 1,536 $ 1,353 $ 956 C4ISR&N 1,405 1,166 968 Defensive Electronic Systems 780 693 511 Navigation Systems 668 591 Space Systems 437 245 157 Other 513 539 323 5,339 4,587 2,915 Ships Aircraft Carriers 2,076 208 Surface Combatants 872 674 Amphibious and Auxiliary 845 522 Submarines 581 54 Commercial and International 212 396 Services and Other 209 89 Intrasegment eliminations (83 ) (63 ) 4,712 1,880 Information Technology Government Information Technology 2,697 2,237 815 Enterprise Information Technology 750 829 229 Technology Services 657 571 522 Commercial Information Technology 216 230 151 Intrasegment eliminations (83 ) (84 ) 4,237 3,783 1,717 Integrated Systems Air Combat Systems 1,915 1,600 1,722 Airborne Early Warning/Electronic Warfare 759 740 780 Airborne Ground Surveillance/Battle Management 600 663 674 Intrasegment eliminations (1 ) (2 ) (26 ) 3,273 3,001 3,150 Intersegment eliminations (355 ) (239 ) (164 ) Total sales $ 17,206 $ 13,012 $ 7,618 Electronics Systems segment sales increased by $752 million or 16 percent in 2002 as compared with 2001. Growth in 2002 principally reflects a $184 million increase at AES due to increased volume on the F 22, F 35, BAT, Firefinder and Longbow missile programs. C4ISR&N sales increased by $239 million in 2002 principally due to higher volume on international programs. The Space Systems business area contributed an additional $192 million as a result of increased volume on SBIRS High. 33 NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Electronics Systems segment sales in 2001 reflect the addition of the Litton and EIS businesses which accounted for approximately $1.2 billion of increased sales as compared with 2000, contributing $101 million to AES, $194 million to C4ISR&N, $641 million to Navigation Systems, $159 million to Defensive Electronic Systems and $66 million to Space Systems. AES increased sales in 2001 also reflect higher F 16 block 60 combat avionics systems, Longbow and BAT sales. Defensive Electronic Systems reflects higher EO/IR and targeting systems sales. Higher sales in Other are due to increased automation and information systems sales. For 2003, the company expects Electronic Systems segment sales to be between $5.9 billion and $6.1 billion. Ships segment sales increased substantially in 2002 as compared with 2001, principally due to inclusion of the two ship businesses acquired in 2001 for a full year. In 2003 the company expects Ships sales to be just over $5 billion. Information Technology sales increased by 12 percent in 2002 as compared with 2001. This increase principally results from inclusion of a full year of Litton operations in 2002. Information Technology sales increased by $2.1 billion in 2001 over 2000. The Litton business acquired in 2001 and the three businesses acquired in 2000 accounted for approximately $2 billion of the increase, contributing $1.3 billion to Government Information Technology and $457 million to Enterprise Information Technology. For 2003, the company expects Information Technology sales to be between $4.7 billion and $4.9 billion. Integrated Systems segment sales increased 9 percent in 2002 over 2001 principally from a $143 million increase in F 35 sales and a $145 million increase in Global Hawk sales. Integrated Systems sales in 2001 declined 5 percent as compared to 2000, primarily as a result of lower B 2 revenue which decreased by $273 million. The production phase of the B 2 program was substantially completed in 2000. Ongoing development work, spares and other customer support for the operational aircraft program continues. Integrated Systems revenue for 2003 is expected to be approximately $3.6 billion to $3.8 billion. For 2003, Mission Systems sales are expected to be approximately $3.9 billion and Space Technology sales are expected to be approximately $2.5 billion. Funded Order Backlog The year end funded order backlog is the sum of the previous year end funded order backlog plus the years contract acquisitions minus the years sales. Backlog is converted into the following years sales as costs are incurred or deliveries are made. It is expected that approximately 68 percent of the 2002 year end backlog will be converted into sales in 2003. 34 NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Backlog $ in millions 2002 2001 2000 Electronic Systems Aerospace Electronic Systems $ 2,480 $ 2,879 $ 2,907 C4ISR&N 1,423 826 770 Defensive Electronic Systems 1,009 959 859 Navigation Systems 834 761 Space Systems 288 110 124 Other 461 361 298 6,495 5,896 4,958 Ships Aircraft Carriers 3,915 4,369 Surface Combatants 3,286 2,520 Amphibious and Auxiliary 2,118 1,779 Submarines 802 555 Commercial and International 213 441 Services and Other 27 127 Intrasegment eliminations (19 ) 10,361 9,772 Information Technology Government Information Technology 1,036 899 552 Enterprise Information Technology 131 115 96 Technology Services 349 333 217 Commercial Information Technology 73 89 78 1,589 1,436 943 Integrated Systems Air Combat Systems 1,980 1,764 2,363 Airborne Early Warning/Electronic Warfare 1,266 1,193 1,144 Airborne Ground Surveillance/Battle Management 492 566 784 3,738 3,523 4,291 Mission Systems 2,748 Space Technology 1,308 Intersegment eliminations (186 ) (226 ) (86 ) Total backlog $ 26,053 $ 20,401 $ 10,106 Total U.S. Government orders, including those made on behalf of foreign governments (FMS), comprised 84 percent of the backlog at the end of 2002 compared with 82 percent at the end of 2001 and 75 percent at the end of 2000. Total foreign customer orders, including FMS, accounted for 13 percent of the backlog in 2002 compared with 13 percent of the backlog at the end of 2001 and 22 percent at the end of 2000. Domestic commercial business in backlog was 5 percent at the end of 2002 compared with 7 percent at the end of 2001 and 5 percent at the end of 2000. 35 NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION MEASURES OF PERFORMANCE Effective January 1, 2002, the company adopted SFAS No. 142 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, which changes the accounting for goodwill from an amortization method to an impairment only approach and eliminates amortization of goodwill. In order to report on a comparable basis, operating results discussed herein have been adjusted to exclude goodwill amortization and are presented below. Further details are contained in the Goodwill and Other Purchased Intangible Assets footnote contained in the notes to the financial statements under Item 8 of this Form 10 K. $ in millions 2002 2001 2000 Adjusted segment operating margin Electronic Systems $ 435 $ 430 $ 220 Ships 306 50 Information Technology 249 231 123 Integrated Systems 331 297 337 Adjusted segment operating margin 1,321 1,008 680 Adjustments to reconcile to adjusted total operating margin: Unallocated expenses (105 ) (134 ) (42 ) Pension income 90 335 538 Reversal of CAS pension expense included above 100 43 42 Reversal of royalty income included above (15 ) (18 ) (6 ) Adjusted total operating margin 1,391 1,234 1,212 Goodwill amortization (201 ) (114 ) Segment operating margin as reported $ 1,391 $ 1,033 $ 1,098 The companys operating margin for 2002 was $1,391 million compared with adjusted operating margin of $1,234 in 2001 and adjusted operating margin of $1,212 million in 2000. During 2001, the companys operations substantially changed as a result of the Litton, EIS and Newport News acquisitions. The 2002 results reflect the first full year with these acquired businesses. These acquisitions have significantly increased the size of the company in the two year period and produced one of the largest defense contractors in the nation. The TRW acquisition was completed on December 11, 2002. The companys 2002 income statement does not include TRWs post acquisition results because they were not material. The company is continuing the integration of the various businesses acquired to optimize operating performance. Electronic Systems segment operating margin in 2002 was $435 million compared with adjusted operating margin of $430 million in 2001 and $220 million in 2000. Operating margin for 2002 includes a pre tax charge of $65 million for the F 16 Block 60 fixed price combat avionics program, offsetting margin improvements across the sector. The charge resulted from increased costs associated with the complexity of the final design for the integrated electronic warfare system portion of the sensor suite being delivered for the Block 60 aircraft. The complexity of the design, finalized during the third quarter, and the associated material costs, exceeded that of the originally proposed configuration. The contract, which is currently in the EMD and transition to production phases, is expected to be completed in 2007. Development work inherently has more uncertainty as to future events than production work and therefore more variability in estimates of costs to complete the work. As work on these contracts progresses through the development stage into production, the risks associated with estimating the costs of development are reduced. While management has used its best judgment to estimate costs, future events could result in either upward or downward adjustments to those estimates. Approximately half of the increase in 2001 operating margin over 2000 is due to the addition of the Litton and EIS businesses. The remainder of the increase is primarily due to improved performance in land combat systems and automation and information. For 2003 management expects operating margin of nearly 10 percent of sales. Ships segment operating margin was $306 million in 2002 compared with adjusted operating margin of $50 million in 2001. The increase is principally due to the Newport News and Litton acquisitions. Results in 2002 36 NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION include a third quarter pretax charge of $87 million recorded upon completion of a comprehensive review of the estimated costs to complete the three remaining Polar Tanker ships. The increased estimate to complete reflects a reduced learning curve experience ship to ship as well as one time schedule penalties. The remaining three ships are scheduled for delivery in 2003, 2004 and 2005. The 2002 results also reflect an $11 million increase in operating margin in the LPD program as a result of improved performance and completion of the assessment of the LPD/DDG swap agreement with Bath Iron Works. Also during the year the company reached an agreement to sell the partially complete structures and material associated with its cancelled commercial cruise ship program to Norwegian Cruise Line and successfully concluded negotiations on the majority of the programs vendor terminations resulting in a positive pretax third quarter adjustment of $69 million recorded to reverse previously established reserves. Following American Classic Voyages Co.s (AMCV) bankruptcy filing on October 19, 2001, Ships stopped work on Project America, an AMCV cruise ship program to build two 1,900 passenger cruise ships. This decision followed negotiations with the U.S. Maritime Administration, which had decided not to continue the guaranteed funding necessary to complete the construction of the ships. As a result, Ships recorded a pretax charge to operating margin totaling $60 million in 2001. Ships also reported a downward operating margin adjustment of $13 million on the Polar Tanker program in 2001. For 2003 management expects operating margin as a percent of sales in the mid 6 percent range. Information Technology segment operating margin in 2002 was $249 million compared with adjusted operating margin of $231 million in 2001 and $123 million in 2000. Operating margin for 2002 includes a $20 million favorable pretax adjustment resulting from the restructuring of a Technology Services contract and a $16 million charge recorded on the contract with Oracle relating to Oracles Enterprise License Agreement with the State of California. In an effort to maintain solid customer relations, in July 2002 Northrop Grumman and Oracle rescinded the contract with the state. The increase in operating margin in 2001 over 2000 reflects the addition of the Litton business and the three businesses acquired in late 2000 as well as higher Enterprise Information Technology operating margin. For 2003, management expects operating margin as a percent of sales to be nearly 6 percent. Integrated Systems segment operating margin in 2002 was $331 million compared with adjusted operating margin of $297 million in 2001 and $337 million in 2000. The 2002 results reflect improved performance on the B 2 and E 2C programs as well as higher F 35 sales. In 2001, Integrated Systems reported a $20 million positive adjustment for Joint STARS contract closeouts, improved Joint STARS operating margin, and downward cumulative margin rate adjustments on unmanned vehicle contracts totaling $10 million. Results for 2001 also reflect lower B 2 volume. In 2000, the last three B 2s were delivered under the production contract. Following the award of the last increment of production funding for the B 2, the company began recording future operating margin increases on all production aircraft as these units were delivered and accepted by the customer. At the time each unit was delivered, an assessment was made of the status of the production contract to estimate the amount of any probable additional margin available beyond that previously recognized. That units proportionate share of any such unrecognized remaining balance was then recorded. The company believes that this method allowed margin improvements to be recognized on a more demonstrable basis. All 15 production units have been delivered. Integrated Systems 2000 results reflect upward cumulative margin rate adjustments totaling $16 million on the F/A 18E/F program and the effect of nonrecurring relocation and realignment costs associated with the sale of the commercial aerostructures business and the relocation of the sectors headquarters. For 2003 operating margin as a percent of sales is expected to be between 8 percent and 8.5 percent. For 2003, management estimates operating margin as a percent of sales to be approximately 6 percent for Mission Systems and between 6.5 percent and 7 percent for Space Technology. These estimates were developed using preliminary estimates for fair value and conformance adjustments, including an estimate for annual purchased intangibles amortization expense of $52 million for each sector. Management is still in the preliminary stages of determining fair value and conformance adjustments and the actual results could differ significantly from the estimates used. Operating margin in 2002 includes pension income of $90 million compared with $335 million in 2001 and $538 million in 2000. The lower pension income in 2002 and 2001 is principally the result of negative asset 37 NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION returns in 2001 and 2000. While in both years the companys pension fund returns exceeded benchmark indices, they posted a negative return of 4.9 percent in 2001 and a negative return at slightly less than breakeven in 2000. In 2002 the funds posted a negative return of 10 percent. For 2003, the company has lowered its assumption for expected long term rate of return on plan assets from 9.5 percent to 9 percent to better reflect current long term expectations for the plans portfolios. The company has also lowered its assumption for the discount rate for obligations from 7 percent to 6.5 percent to reflect current rates as of December 31, 2002 for high quality corporate long term bonds. As a result of the negative return on assets in 2002, the change in assumptions, and the inclusion of the TRW pension plans, the company expects to record pension expense, in accordance with SFAS No. 87 Employers Accounting for Pensions, in 2003 of approximately $600 million. Pension expense recognized under government Cost Accounting Standards (CAS), and which is therefore generally recoverable under government contracts, is estimated to be $260 million for 2003. The company estimates pension plan contributions in 2003 to be approximately $350 million. Starting in July 2003 the pension benefit for most employees, principally those participating in Northrop and Litton heritage plans, will be based upon new criteria, whereby employees earn age and service points over the employment period. Subsequent to the 2003 initial phase in, other exempt and non exempt plans will be conformed to the new model. No settlement or curtailments will arise as a result of these changes. Union plans will not be affected by these plan modifications. Pension estimates for 2003 contemplate the plan changes. Interest income in 2002 declined to $11 million compared with $33 million in 2001 and $29 million in 2000. Interest income in 2001 and 2000 included interest earned on the note received in partial payment for the sale of Aerostructures. The note was collected in 2001. Interest income in all years includes interest earned on the temporary investment of excess cash. Interest expense for 2002 was $422 million as compared with $373 million in 2001 and $175 million in 2000. The 2002 increase as compared with 2001 reflects higher average debt levels resulting from the acquisitions completed in 2001. The increase in 2001 as compared with 2000 resulted from the companys initial financing activities related to the acquisitions of Litton, EIS and Newport News. Total debt was $9.6 billion at the end of 2002 compared to $5.5 billion at the end of 2001 and $1.6 billion at the end of 2000. The 2002 year end balance includes $4.8 billion of debt acquired upon completion of the TRW transaction on December 11, 2002. Following the sale of Auto in the first quarter of 2003, the company has commenced the first phase of its debt reduction plan. Interest expense net of interest income for 2003 is estimated to be approximately $470 million. The companys effective federal income tax rate on income from continuing operations was 31 percent in 2002, 37 percent in 2001, and 36 percent in 2000. The lower rate in 2002 reflects the elimination of goodwill amortization, most of which is non deductible, upon adoption of SFAS No. 142 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. In 2003, the companys effective federal income tax rate is expected to decrease to 28 percent, due to increased research and development credits. Income (loss) from discontinued operations in 2002 and 2001 includes the results of operations of the Electron Devices and Ruggedized Displays businesses, which were sold in 2002, and the Component Technologies sector. Loss from discontinued operations in 2002 includes a goodwill impairment loss of $186 million. The amount reported for 2000 includes the commercial aerostructures business, which was sold in that year. The loss on disposal of discontinued operations includes any gain or loss from completed dispositions as well as the estimated loss from those businesses expected to be sold at a loss, where the sale has not yet been completed. Gains realized on the sale of any discontinued businesses are reported in the period in which their divestiture is complete. Effective January 1, 2002, the company adopted SFAS No. 142 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, implemented required disclosure provisions and eliminated the amortization of goodwill. During the second quarter of 2002, the company completed the first step of the required initial test for potential impairment of goodwill on the balance sheet at January 1, 2002. The company used a discounted cash flow approach, corroborated by comparative market multiples, where appropriate, to determine the fair value of reporting units. The results indicated potential impairment only in the reporting units of the Component Technologies sector due 38 NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION to unfavorable market conditions. During the third quarter of 2002, the company completed the measurement of the Component Technologies goodwill impairment as of January 1, 2002, and recorded a noncash charge of $432 million, or $3.67 per diluted share, which is reported in the caption Cumulative effect of accounting change. For additional information see the Goodwill and Other Purchased Intangible Assets footnote to the consolidated condensed financial statements contained in this report on Form 10 K. MEASURES OF LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES The following table is a condensed summary of the detailed cash flow information contained in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Amounts listed below are reported in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows as follows: cash from customers and cash to employees and suppliers of services and materials are included in cash from operating activities; cash from buyers of assets and cash to sellers of assets and suppliers of facilities are included in cash from investing activities; and cash from and to lenders and cash to shareholders are included in cash from financing activities. Years ended December 31, 2002 2001 2000 Cash came from Customers 94 % 75 % 92 % Lenders 3 18 Shareholders 4 Buyers of assets/other 3 3 8 100 % 100 % 100 % Cash went to Employees and suppliers of services and materials 89 % 70 % 80 % Sellers of assets 2 18 9 Lenders 7 10 9 Suppliers of facilities/other 1 1 1 Shareholders 1 1 1 100 % 100 % 100 % In 2002 cash provided from operating activities was $1,689 million as compared with the $817 million generated in 2001 and the $1,010 million generated in 2000. The increased level of cash provided in 2002 principally results from inclusion of the Litton and Newport News acquisitions for a full year, increased operating margin over 2001 and accelerated cash collections. The lower level of cash provided by operating activities in 2001 primarily reflected nonrecurring cash payments of approximately $700 million related to the Litton, Newport News and EIS acquisitions, including change in control payments to employees and funding of pension plans. Also in 2001, the company reached a settlement agreement for antitrust and patent infringement lawsuits filed by Litton against Honeywell, Inc. Under the agreement, Honeywell agreed to pay the company $440 million in cash, $220 million of which was paid equally in 2001 and 2002. The entire $440 million balance due was recorded as a fair value purchase accounting adjustment to accounts receivable on the Litton opening balance sheet. Interest expense payments increased by $168 million in 2001 over 2000 as a result of the increase in debt to fund the business acquisitions. In 2000 cash from operations benefited from lower interest payments, reflecting the lower level of debt, and higher cash advances from customers. Net working capital (current assets less current liabilities) at December 31, 2002, includes amounts reported as assets and liabilities of businesses held for sale which encompasses the assets and liabilities of discontinued businesses, Component Technologies sector and Auto. Applicable amounts for the prior year have been revised to conform to the 2002 presentation. Excluding these items, net adjusted working capital at December 31, 2002, was a negative $566 million, primarily due to increased current taxes payable and customer advances. 39 NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Adjusted net working capital at December 31, 2001 was a negative $604 million mainly due to valuation reserves established in purchase accounting and an increase in the current portion of long term debt arising from the companys financing activities. One of the largest components of the change in tax liabilities is the tax expense related to long term contracts. With the completion of the B 2 EMD contract, federal and state income taxes that have been deferred during the performance of this contract will become payable. The contract was completed in the fourth quarter of 2002 with associated federal taxes of approximately $1 billion paid in March 2003. In accordance with SFAS No. 87 Employers Accounting for Pension the companys balance sheet at December 31, 2002, includes the recognition of an additional minimum pension liability. This adjustment was a non cash $994 million after tax reduction of equity, which did not effect earnings and is potentially reversible should the performance of the capital markets improve or interest rates increase. In 2002, cash generated from operating activities was sufficient to finance capital expenditures, pay dividends to shareholders, and reduce debt prior to completion of the TRW acquisition which included the assumption of $4.8 billion of short term and long term obligations. In 2001, cash generated from operating activities, combined with cash from financing activities, was sufficient to finance capital expenditures, pay dividends to shareholders, and acquire new businesses. In 2000, cash generated by operating activities and the sale of Aerostructures provided sufficient cash flows to finance capital expenditures, pay dividends to shareholders, reduce debt and acquire new businesses. For 2003, the company expects cash from operating activities to be approximately $1.1 billion to $1.3 billion, before the $1 billion B 2 tax payment. Cash used in investing activities was $118 million in 2002 compared to $3.2 billion in 2001 and $78 million in 2000. In 2002, the company sold two businesses for cash of $135 million, incurred $55 million for transaction costs pertaining to the acquisition of TRW, and spent approximately $166 million in cash to complete the Newport News acquisition. In 2002 the company acquired TRW in an all stock transaction. In 2001, three businesses were acquired, two for cash and stock and one for cash, for a total cash expenditure of $3,061 million. Four businesses were acquired in 2000, three for cash and one for stock, for a total cash expenditure of $510 million. In 2002, capital expenditures were $538 million, including $30 million for capitalized software costs. In 2001, capital expenditures were $393 million, including $47 million for capitalized software costs, up from $274 million in 2000, including $32 million for capitalized software costs. Increasing levels of capital expenditures are primarily due to the acquired companies and to provide the productive capacity to perform existing contracts, prepare for future contracts, and conduct R&D in the pursuit of developing opportunities. Capital expenditure commitments at December 31, 2002, were approximately $250 million, including $6 million for environmental control and compliance purposes. For 2003 capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $720 million, including approximately $60 million for capitalized software costs. In 2001, the company received $148 million, collecting in full the note received in the sale of Aerostructures. The sale of this operation generated $668 million in cash in 2000. The company completed the sale of Auto to The Blackstone Group on February 28, 2003. The company received approximately $4.7 billion, comprised of $3.9 billion in cash and debt retained by Auto, a $600 million payment in kind note and a 19.6 percent investment in the new enterprise. In March, 2003 the company commenced the first phase of its debt reduction plan by offering to purchase a range of debt securities, due 2004 to 2021, with interest rates ranging from 6.05 percent to 9.375 percent and a outstanding value of approximately $2.85 billion. The offers were extended with a fixed spread over market of 35 to 95 basis points. The company will use a portion of the cash proceeds from the recent sale of Auto to finance the purchase of securities tendered pursuant to the offers. As of March 18, 2003 the company had repurchased 85.7 percent of the face value of the debt securities offered. The company has retained certain liabilities associated with the Auto business as well as the Aeronautical Systems business that TRW divested in 2002. The settlement of these liabilities is not expected to have a material effect on the companys financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Cash of $623 million was used in financing activities in 2002 as compared to $2,532 million provided in 2001 and $755 million used in 2000. The use of cash in 2002 results from principal payments of long term debt of $500 million and dividends paid to shareholders of $205 million. In December 2002, the company issued approximately 69.4 million shares of common stock in exchange for all of the outstanding shares of TRW in a transaction valued at approximately $12.5 billion dollars, including the assumption of long term debt of $4.8 billion. For further discussion see the Acquisitions and Divestures section contained elsewhere in the Management Discussion and Analysis. 40 NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION In February 2001, Northrop Systems issued $1.5 billion of indebtedness pursuant to its senior debt indenture consisting of $750 million of 7.125 percent notes due 2011 and $750 million of 7.75 percent debentures due 2031. In connection with the closing of the Litton acquisition, the company entered into unsecured senior credit facilities with lenders which initially provided for borrowings of up to $5 billion (the Credit Facilities) and which replaced the companys previous credit agreement. The Credit Facilities consisted of a $2.5 billion 364 day revolving credit facility and a $2.5 billion five year revolving credit facility. The 364 day facility was terminated in December 2001. At December 31, 2002 and 2001, $2.5 billion was available under the five year revolving credit facility. Borrowings under the Credit Facilities, together with the proceeds of the February 2001 issuance of notes and debentures, were used to finance the Litton acquisition and to pay related expenses, to retire and refinance a portion of the Litton debt, and to finance continuing operations. Borrowings under the Credit Facilities bear interest at various rates, including adjusted LIBOR, or an alternate base rate plus, in each case, an incremental margin based on the companys credit rating. The Credit Facilities also provide for a facility fee on the daily aggregate amount of commitments under the revolving facilities (whether or not utilized). The facility fee is also based on the companys credit rating level. In connection with the Litton acquisition the company issued 3.5 million shares of mandatorily redeemable Series B Convertible Preferred Stock in April 2001. Each share of Series B preferred stock has a liquidation value of $100 per share. The liquidation value, plus accrued but unpaid dividends, is payable on April 4, 2021, the mandatory redemption date. The company has the option to redeem all, but not less than all, of the shares of Series B preferred stock at any time after seven years from the date of issuance for a number of shares of the companys common stock equal to the liquidation value plus accrued and unpaid dividends divided by the current market price of common stock determined in relation to the date of redemption. Each share of preferred stock is convertible, at any time, at the option of the holder into the right to receive shares of the companys common stock. Initially, each share is convertible into .911 shares of common stock, subject to adjustment. Holders of preferred stock are entitled to cumulative annual cash dividends of $7 per share, payable quarterly. In any liquidation of the company, each share of preferred stock will be entitled to a liquidation preference before any distribution may be made on the companys common stock or any series of capital stock that is junior to the Series B preferred stock. In the event of a fundamental change in control of the company, holders of Series B preferred stock also have specified exchange rights into common stock of the company or into specified securities or property of another entity participating in the change in control transaction. Upon the acquisition of TRW on December 11, 2002, TRW Automotive Inc. (TAI) became a subsidiary of Northrop Grumman Corporation. As of December 31, 2002, TAI has outstanding 100,000 shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock (TAI Series A) and 30,000 shares of Series B Preferred Stock (TAI Series B) (of which 14,000 shares are owned by Northrop Grumman) with a per share liquidation preference of $1,000 plus accrued and unpaid dividends. The dividend rate of TAI Series A and B is 12 percent per year, payable quarterly, subject to increase if certain financial covenants are not maintained. TAI Series A and B shares are redeemable at the holders option upon the sale of substantially all of the assets of TAI. The redemption, at the liquidation preference price, would be on May 29, 2003 or the holders may elect to defer such redemption until December 10, 2004. TAI Series B shares are redeemable at the holders option on each of the 6th through 19th anniversaries and at any time after the 20th anniversary of the original issuance date. TAI may redeem the Series B shares on the 5th, 10th, 15th, and 20th anniversary dates. Holders of TAI Series B stock also may require Northrop Grumman Space & Mission Systems Corp. (formerly TRW Inc.) to repurchase the shares at the second anniversary of issuance and Northrop Grumman Space & Mission Systems Corp. may redeem these shares on the third anniversary of issuance. On February 28, 2003, the company sold all the assets of TAI to the Blackstone Group and TAI Series A and Series B became redeemable at the holders option. The company received notification that the holder of all TAI Series A shares and 2,000 TAI Series B shares has elected to have these shares redeemed on May 29, 2003. The company has also received notification that the holder of 14,000 TAI Series B shares intends to exercise its sale redemption election on December 10, 2004. These instruments are reported as Minority interest in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as of December 31, 2002. In November 2001, the company issued 9.2 million shares of common stock and 6.9 million equity security units, generating cash proceeds of $1.45 billion. The proceeds were used to reduce existing debt and for general corporate purposes. Each equity security unit, issued at $100 per unit, initially consists of a contract to purchase 41 NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION shares of Northrop Grumman common stock on November 16, 2004, and a $100 senior note due 2006. The senior notes due 2006 are reported as long term debt. The senior notes initially bear interest at 5.25 percent per annum, and each equity security unit also pays a contract adjustment payment of 2.0 percent per annum, for a combined yield on the equity security unit of 7.25 percent per annum. Each purchase contract which is part of the equity security units will obligate the holder thereof to purchase, for $100, the following number of shares of the companys common stock based on the average closing price of the companys common stock over the 20 day trading period ending on the third trading day immediately preceding November 16, 2004: (i) 0.9262 shares if the average closing price equals or exceeds $107.97, (ii) a number of shares having a value equal to $100.00 if the average closing price is less than $107.97 but greater than $88.50 and (iii) 1.1299 shares if the average closing price is less than or equal to $88.50. Prior to November 16, 2004, holders of equity security units have the opportunity to participate in a remarketing of the senior note component. During 1996, the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) advised TRW that it had been named as a defendant in lawsuits brought by a former employee originally filed under seal in 1994 and 1995 in the United States District Court for the Central District of California under the quitam provisions of the civil False Claims Act. The DOJ subsequently advised that it would intervene in the litigation. In a consolidated complaint filed jointly by the former employee and the DOJ, it alleged that TRW misclassified various costs and improperly charged those costs to certain of its federal contracts, that the United States has incurred substantial damages, and that TRW is liable for approximately $56 million in single damages, subject to trebling, plus penalties, post judgment interest, costs (including attorneys fees) and all other proper relief. All substantive allegations against TRW have been denied in its answer to the consolidated complaint. The company intends to vigorously defend this matter. Trial is scheduled for November 2003. On February 3, 2003, the Department of Justice filed a civil False Claims Act case against Newport News Shipbuilding, Inc. in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia. The government seeks single damages in an amount in excess of $72 million, plus penalties, costs and interest. Damages may be trebled under the False Claims Act. The complaint alleges that the company improperly charged certain independent research and development cost to its government contracts with respect to the years 1994 through 1999. The company denies the allegations and intends to vigorously defend the matter. The IRS is presently completing its audits of the B 2 program through the tax years ending December 31, 2000. Upon completion of these audits, the IRS may adopt a position that the B 2 program was completed in a year prior to 2002, which would create the potential for additional interest expense. Although it is not possible to predict the outcome of the tax audits at this time, management believes that its tax accounting for the B 2 program reflects the appropriate timing of contract completion. In the ordinary course of business, the company utilizes standby letters of credit and other arrangements with financial institutions, principally to guarantee the future performance on certain company contracts. Such financial arrangements supporting contract performance totaled $841 million at December 31, 2002 and $684 million at December 31, 2001. Increases in the 2002 period over 2001 reflect the effect of the TRW acquisition described elsewhere in this Form 10 K. The company also maintains self insured workers compensation plans, which are secured by surety bonds and a general agreement of indemnity with the surety. At December 31, 2002 and 2001, there were $439 million and $287 million of such instruments outstanding, respectively. For all years presented the company had no material related party transactions. To provide for long term liquidity the company believes it can obtain additional capital from such sources as: the public or private capital markets, the further sale of assets, sale and leaseback of operating assets, and leasing rather than purchasing new assets. Cash on hand at the beginning of the year plus cash generated from operations and cash available under credit lines are expected to be sufficient in 2003 to service debt, finance capital expansion projects, pay federal income taxes and continue paying dividends to the shareholders. The company will continue to provide the productive capacity to perform its existing contracts, prepare for future contracts, and conduct R&D in the pursuit of developing opportunities. While these expenditures tend to limit short term liquidity, they are made with the intention of improving the long term growth and profitability of the company. 42 NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION OTHER MATTERS Environmental Issues Federal, state and local laws relating to the protection of the environment affect the companys manufacturing operations. The company has provided for the estimated cost to complete remediation where the company has determined that it is probable that the company will incur such costs in the future, including those for which it has been named a Potentially Responsible Party (PRP) by the Environmental Protection Agency or similarly designated by other environmental agencies. The company has been designated a PRP under federal and state Superfund laws. It is difficult to estimate the timing and ultimate amount of environmental cleanup costs to be incurred in the future due to the uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup and the status of the law, regulations and their interpretations. Nonetheless, to assess the potential impact on the companys financial statements, management estimates the total reasonably possible remediation costs that could be incurred by the company. Such estimates take into consideration the professional judgment of the companys environmental engineers and, when necessary, consultation with outside environmental specialists. In most instances, only a range of reasonably possible costs can be estimated. However, in the determination of accruals, the most probable amount is used when determinable and the minimum is used when no single amount is more probable. The company records accruals for environmental cleanup costs in the accounting period in which the companys responsibility is established and the costs can be reasonably estimated. The company does not anticipate and record insurance recoveries before collection is probable. Management estimates that at December 31, 2002, the range of reasonably possible future costs for environmental remediation, including Superfund sites, is $146 million to $202 million, of which $156 million has been accrued. Should other PRPs not pay their allocable share of remediation costs, the company may have to incur costs in addition to those already estimated and accrued. The company makes the investments it believes will be necessary in order to comply with environmental laws; the amounts, while not insignificant, are not considered material to the companys financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. The Nuclear Regulatory Commission, the Department of Energy and the Department of Defense regulate and control various matters relating to nuclear materials handled by the company. Subject to certain requirements and limitations, the companys government contracts generally provide for indemnity by the U.S. Government for any loss arising out of or resulting from certain nuclear risks. New Accounting Pronouncements In December 2002, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No. 148 Accounting for Stock Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure, an amendment of SFAS No. 123 which is effective for financial statements for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2002. This statement, which revises the disclosure only provisions of SFAS No. 123, will have no effect on the companys financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The provisions of this statement were adopted for the year ended December 31, 2002. In November 2002, Financial Accounting Standards Board issued FIN 45 Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others. This Interpretation elaborates on the disclosures to be made by a guarantor in its interim and annual financial statements about its obligations under certain guarantees that it has issued. It also clarifies that a guarantor is required to recognize, at the inception of a guarantee, a liability for the fair value of the obligation undertaken by issuing the guarantee. Adoption of this statement is not expected to have a significant effect on the companys financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In June 2002, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No. 146 Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities, which requires a liability for a cost associated with an exit or disposal activity to be recognized and measured at its fair value in the period in which the liability is incurred. This statement will be adopted January 1, 2003, and is not expected to have a significant effect on the companys financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In April 2002, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No. 145 Rescission of FASB Statements No. 4, 44 and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13, and Technical Corrections. This statement clarifies 43 NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION guidance related to the reporting of gains and losses from extinguishment of debt and resolves inconsistencies related to the required accounting treatment of certain lease modifications. The provisions of this statement relating to extinguishment of debt become effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after May 15, 2002. The provisions of this statement relating to lease modification are effective for transactions occurring after May 15, 2002. Adoption of this standard did not have a material effect on the companys financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In October 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No. 144 Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets, which replaces SFAS No. 121 Accounting for the Impairment of Long Lived Assets and for Long Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of. SFAS No. 144 resolves implementation issues previously experienced under SFAS No. 121 and broadens the reporting of discontinued operations. This statement became effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001. Adoption of this standard did not have a material effect on the companys financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In August 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No. 143 Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations. SFAS No. 143 addresses financial accounting and reporting for obligations associated with the retirement of tangible long lived assets and the associated asset retirement costs. This statement becomes effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2002. Management is currently evaluating the effect that adoption of this standard will have on the companys results of operations and financial position. In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No. 141 Business Combinations, and SFAS No. 142 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. SFAS No. 141 requires the purchase method of accounting for business combinations initiated after June 30, 2001 and eliminates the pooling of interests method. Adoption of SFAS No. 141 did not have a significant effect on the companys financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. SFAS No. 142 changes the accounting for goodwill from an amortization method to an impairment only approach. Upon adoption of this statement, amortization of goodwill, including goodwill recorded in past business combinations, ceased and an initial impairment assessment of goodwill was performed. Annual impairment tests are required thereafter. The company adopted SFAS No. 142 on January 1, 2002 and recorded an initial goodwill impairment charge of $432 million, which is reported under the income statement caption Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change. 44 NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS AND IMPORTANT FACTORS Certain statements and assumptions in this report contain or are based on forward looking information (that Northrop Grumman believes to be within the definition in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) and involve risks and uncertainties, and include, among others, statements in the future tense, and all statements accompanied by terms such as project, expect, estimate, assume, intend, anticipate, and variations thereof and similar terms. This information reflects the companys best estimates when made, but the company expressly disclaims any duty to update this information if new data becomes available or estimates change after the date of this report. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the companys forward looking statements include: The company depends on a limited number of customers. The company is heavily dependent on government contracts many of which are only partially funded; the termination or failure to fund one or more significant contracts could have a negative impact on our operations. The company is a supplier, either directly or as a subcontractor or team member, to the U.S. Government and its agencies as well as foreign governments and agencies. These contracts are subject to each customers political and budgetary constraints, changes in short range and long range plans, the timing of contract awards, the congressional budget authorization and appropriation processes, the governments ability to terminate contracts for convenience or for default, as well as other risks such as contractor suspension or debarment in the event of certain violations of legal and regulatory requirements. Many of the companys contracts are fixed price contracts. While firm, fixed price contracts allow the company to benefit from cost savings, they also expose the company to the risk of cost overruns. If the companys initial estimates used for calculating contract prices are incorrect, the company can incur losses on those contracts. In addition, some of the companys contracts have provisions relating to cost controls and audit rights and if the company fails to meet the terms specified in those contracts then the company may not realize their full benefits. The companys ability to manage costs on these contracts may affect its financial condition. Lower earnings caused by cost overruns would have an adverse effect on the companys financial results. The company is subject to significant competition. The companys markets include defense and commercial areas where it competes with companies of substantial size and resources. The companys success or failure in winning new contracts or follow on orders for its existing or future products may cause material fluctuations in the companys future revenues and operating results. The companys operations may be subject to events that cause adverse effects on its ability to meet contract obligations within anticipated cost and time constraints. The company may encounter internal problems and delays in delivery as a result of issues with respect to design, technology, licensing and patent rights, labor or materials and components that prevent the company from achieving contract requirements. The company may be affected by delivery or performance issues with key suppliers and subcontractors, as well as other factors inherent in the companys businesses that may cause operating results to be adversely affected. Changes in inventory requirements or other production cost increases may also have a negative impact on the companys operating results. The company must integrate its acquisitions successfully. Acquiring businesses is a significant challenge. If the company does not execute its acquisition and integration plans for these businesses in accordance with the companys strategic timetable, the companys operating results may be adversely affected. The company acquired TRW in 2002 and several businesses in 2001 including Litton and Newport News. The company believes its integration processes are well suited to achieve the anticipated strategic and operating benefits of these acquisitions, but if the company does not perform its plans as intended, or if the company encounters unforeseen problems in the acquired businesses, or problems in those businesses subsequently develop, the companys operating results may be adversely affected. Among the factors that may be involved would be unforeseen costs and expenses, overvalued assets, inflated contract values, previously undisclosed or undervalued liabilities, diversion of management focus, and any effects of complying with government imposed organizational conflicts of interest rules as a result of the acquisitions. 45 NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION The company relies on continuous innovation. The company is dependent upon its ability to anticipate changing needs for defense products, military and civilian electronic systems and support, naval vessels, space technologies, and information technology. The companys success is dependent on designing new products that will respond to such requirements within customers price limitations. The company faces significant challenges in the international marketplace. The companys international business is subject to changes in import and export policies, technology transfer restrictions, limitations imposed by United States law that are not applicable to foreign competitors, and other legal, financial and governmental risks. The company assumes that any divestiture of non core businesses and assets will be completed successfully. The companys performance may be affected by its inability to successfully dispose of assets and businesses that do not fit with, or are no longer appropriate to, the companys strategic plan. If any sales of such businesses or assets can be made only at a loss, the companys earnings will be reduced. The company is subject to environmental litigation and other litigation, which, if not resolved within the companys expectation, could reduce future operating results. The companys pension income (expense) may fluctuate significantly. Pension income (expense) is based on assumptions of future market performance and actual performance may differ. If an event requires the company to reestimate its pension income (expense) during the year, its reported earnings could vary significantly. The indebtedness of the company has increased as a result of the acquisitions of Litton, EIS, Newport News, and TRW. The increase in debt has increased demands on the cash resources of the company. The companys tax filings are regularly examined by federal and state taxing authorities. Results of these examinations can result in tax deficiencies, cumulative interest payments, fines and penalties. Such assessments could negatively affect the companys results of operations, financial condition and or cash flow. The company intends that all forward looking statements it makes will be subject to safe harbor protection of the federal securities laws as found in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Accordingly, you should not rely on the accuracy of predictions contained in forward looking statements. These statements speak only as of the date when they are made. The company cannot undertake any obligation to update its forward looking statements to reflect events, circumstances, and changes in expectations or the occurrence of unanticipated events occurring after the date of those statements. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk The company is exposed to market risk, primarily related to interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. Financial instruments subject to interest rate risk include fixed rate long term debt obligations, variable rate short term debt outstanding under the credit agreement, short term investments, and long term notes receivable. At December 31, 2002, the company had an immaterial amount of variable rate debt outstanding. Substantially all borrowings were fixed rate long term debt obligations of which a significant portion are not callable until maturity. The companys sensitivity to a 1 percent charge in interest rates is tied to its $2.5 billion credit agreement, which has no balance outstanding at December 31, 2002. The estimated expense would be 1 percent of any outstanding balance. The company may enter into interest rate swap agreements to manage its exposure to interest rate fluctuations. At December 31, 2002, no interest rate swap agreements were in effect. The company enters into foreign currency forward contracts to manage foreign currency exchange rate risk related to receipts from customers and payments to suppliers denominated in foreign currencies. Foreign currencies are traditionally 46 NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION converted to U.S. dollars upon receipt to limit currency fluctuation exposures. At December 31, 2002, the amount of foreign currency forward contracts outstanding was not material. The company does not consider the market risk exposure relating to foreign currency exchange to be material. The company does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. Standby letters of credit are sometimes used by the company to guarantee future performance on its contracts. All letters of credit are short term and denominated in U.S. dollars to avoid market risk exposures. In connection with the TRW acquisition, the company has acquired investments in RF Micro Devices, Inc. (RFMD) and Applera Corporation Celera Genomics Group (Celera), two publicly traded companies. The company has also acquired certain hedges that are designed to protect the forecasted cash flows resulting from the future sale of shares in these investments. These hedges also mitigate any downside risk of loss and provide for additional gain depending on market conditions at maturity. In 2000, TRW monetized a portion of its holdings in RFMD through the execution of three forward share sale agreements. The company is now obligated under these agreements to deliver up to 4 million shares of RFMD common stock, in the aggregate, upon maturity of the contracts. Also in 2000, TRW similarly monetized its holdings of 229,354 shares in Celera through an agreement maturing in December 2003. The company is obligated under this agreement to deliver up to 229,354 shares of Celera common stock, in the aggregate, upon maturity of the contract. The actual number of shares to be delivered will be determined on the basis of a formula in the agreements. Through the setting of a floor and ceiling price, these agreements eliminate the companys exposure to downside market risk, while enabling the company to retain potential market appreciation up to the respective ceiling price. Certain terms of the agreements are summarized below: RFMD Celera Maturity dates February 2003 August 2003 February 2004 December 2003 Number of shares 1,333,334 1,333,334 1,333,332 229,354 Floor price per share $54 $54 $54 $102 Ceiling price per share 79 86 93 176 Up front proceeds as a percent of floor price 80 % 78 % 75 % 80 % The investments in RFMD and Celera and the related hedge portion of the forward share sale agreements are carried at fair market value. Changes in fair market value of the companys shares of RFMD and Celera, including the shares monetized, are recorded in the other comprehensive income (loss) component of shareholders equity. Any gains or losses reported in other comprehensive income (loss) will be reclassified to net income at the maturity of these agreements. The fair value of the RFMD shares at December 31, 2002, excluding the effect of the forward share sale agreements, was approximately $30 million. The fair value of the Celera shares at December 31, 2002, excluding the effect of the forward share sale agreement, was approximately $2 million. 47 NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION 
 
