Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations OVERVIEW Northrop Grumman provides technologically advanced, innovative products, services, and solutions in defense and commercial electronics, nuclear and non nuclear shipbuilding, information technology, mission systems, systems integration, and space technology. As a prime contractor, principal subcontractor, partner, or preferred supplier, Northrop Grumman participates in many high priority defense and commercial technology programs in the United States and abroad. Northrop Grumman conducts most of its business with the U.S. Government, principally the Department of Defense (DOD). The company also conducts business with foreign governments and makes domestic and international commercial sales. 2003 Results The 2003 financial statements include TRW Inc. (TRW), which was acquired on December 11, 2002. This acquisition had a significant effect on the companys operations and is an important factor to be considered in comparing 2003 results with 2002 results. Selected financial highlights are presented in the table below. $ in millions, except per share 2003 2002 Sales and service revenue $ 26,206 $ 17,206 Operating margin 1,538 1,391 Income from continuing operations beforecumulative effect of accounting change 808 697 Net income 866 64 Diluted earnings per share from continuing operationsbefore cumulative effect of accounting change 4.32 5.72 Diluted earnings per share 4.64 .34 Cash provided by operating activities 798 1,689 Cash and cash equivalents 342 1,412 Notes payable to banks and long term debt 5,881 9,623 Sales increased in 2003 over 2002 by $9 billion, or 52 percent, due to the $6.7 billion of sales contributed by the newly acquired TRW business segments (Space Technology and Mission Systems) and the $2.3 billion, or 13 percent, growth in the companys heritage segments (Electronic Systems, Ships, Information Technology, and Integrated Systems). Operating margin for 2003 increased by $147 million, or 11 percent, over 2002, reflecting $451 million from the new segments and an increase of $225 million, or 17 percent, from the heritage segments, offset by increased pension cost. Total operating margin in 2003 includes pension expense of $568 million compared with pension income of $90 million in 2002. Cost Accounting Standards (CAS) pension expense increased to $265 million in 2003 from $100 million for 2002. Net income for 2002 included a $432 million charge for the cumulative effect of an accounting change on January 1, 2002, to recognize the impairment of goodwill in the companys Component Technologies reporting units, and an additional goodwill impairment loss of $186 million reported in loss from discontinued operations. Earnings per share are based on weighted average diluted shares outstanding of 184.2 million for 2003 and 117.4 million for 2002. The significant increase in shares outstanding is primarily the result of the acquisition of TRW in exchange for stock. Cash provided by operating activities was $891 million lower in 2003 compared with 2002. In 2003, cash provided by operating activities was reduced by approximately $1 billion for taxes paid related to the completion of the B 2 Engineering and Manufacturing Development (EMD) contract. 13 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION In February 2003, the company sold the automotive business (Auto), a component of TRW, for $3.3 billion in cash, a payment in kind note, and an interest in the new enterprise. The cash received was used primarily to reduce debt. In 2003, the company also implemented a share repurchase program of up to $700 million of its outstanding common stock, purchasing over 2.2 million shares for approximately $200 million as of December 31, 2003. Outlook Through sixteen acquisitions over the past decade the company has evolved from an aircraft manufacturer into a global enterprise focused on providing a broad range of products and services needed to meet the nations defense and homeland security challenges. The company believes that its portfolio of technologically advanced, innovative products, services, and solutions in systems integration, defense electronics, information technology, advanced aircraft, shipbuilding, and space technology will generate revenue growth in 2004 and beyond. In 2004, based on its current total backlog (funded and unfunded) of $58 billion and its opportunity to win future programs, the company expects revenue of approximately $28 billion and improvements in net income and cash provided by operations over 2003. The major industry and economic factors that will affect the companys future performance are described in the following paragraphs. Industry Factors While Northrop Grumman is subject to the usual vagaries of the marketplace, it is also affected by the unique characteristics of the defense industry and by certain elements peculiar to its own business mix. Lockheed Martin Corporation, The Boeing Company, Raytheon Company, and General Dynamics Corporation are among the largest companies in the defense industry at this time. Northrop Grumman competes against these and other companies for a number of programs, both large and small. Intense competition and long operating cycles are both key characteristics of Northrop Grummans business and the defense industry. It is common in this industry for work on major programs to be shared among a number of companies. A company competing to be a prime contractor may, upon ultimate award of the contract, turn out to be a subcontractor. It is not uncommon to compete with a peer company and, simultaneously on other contracts, to be either a supplier to or a customer of such competitor. The nature of major defense programs, conducted under binding contracts, allows companies that perform well to benefit from a level of program continuity unknown in many industries. An individual companys success in the competitive defense industry depends upon its ability to develop and market its products, as well as its ability to provide the people, facilities, equipment, and financial capacity needed to deliver those products with maximum efficiency. It is necessary to maintain, as the company has, sources for raw materials, fabricated parts, electronic components, and major subassemblies. In this manufacturing and systems integration environment, effective oversight of subcontractors and suppliers is as vital to success as managing internal operations. Northrop Grummans operating policies are designed to achieve these objectives. Economic Opportunities, Challenges, and Risks The defense of the United States and other North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) countries requires the ability to respond to one or more regional conflicts, terrorist acts, homeland security, and proactive threat identification. Such engagements may require unilateral or cooperative initiatives ranging from passive surveillance to active engagement, deterrence, policing, or peacekeeping. In addition, the DODs strategy continues to be affected by the general publics concern for placing military or civilian personnel at risk. As a result of these trends, both the United States and other NATO countries are increasingly relying on sophisticated weapon systems that provide long range surveillance and intelligence, battle management, and precision strike capabilities combined with the ability to rapidly deploy complete defensive platforms around the world. Accordingly, defense procurement spending is expected to be weighted towards the development and procurement of advanced electronics and software that enhance the capabilities of individual weapons systems and provide for the real time integration of individual surveillance, information management, strike, and battle management platforms. 14 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION United States defense contractors have benefited from the upward trend in overall defense spending over recent years. Defense spending in NATO countries has stabilized, while those countries continue to increase their focus upon the development and procurement of advanced electronics and information systems capabilities. Although the ultimate size of future defense budgets remains uncertain, current indications are that the defense budget will increase over the next five years. Looking forward, based on the 2004 budget submitted by the President of the United States, the company continues to plan for steady, sustainable growth in national security spending. The Future Year Defense Program (FYDP) shows an increase to the DOD investment accounts of about 3 percent for 2005, with double digit increases in areas like missile defense. The remainder of the FYDP shows approximately 6 percent annual growth through 2009. The company believes that spending on recapitalization and transformation of our homeland security and defense assets will continue to be a national priority, with particular emphasis on areas like national missile defense. Substantial new competitive opportunities for the company include space based radar, aerial common sensor, transformational communication system, the Joint Unmanned Combat Air System (J UCAS), and several international and homeland security programs. The company continues to focus on operational and financial performance for continued growth in 2004 and beyond. U.S. Government programs in which Northrop Grumman either participates, or strives to participate, must compete with other programs for consideration during our nations budget formulation and appropriation processes. Budget decisions made in this environment will have long term consequences for the size and structure of Northrop Grumman and the entire defense industry. Northrop Grumman has historically concentrated its efforts in high technology areas such as stealth, airborne surveillance, battle management, precision weapons, systems integration, defense electronics, and information technology. Through its acquisitions of Litton Industries, Inc. (Litton), Newport News Shipbuilding Inc. (Newport News), and TRW, the company now has a significant presence in space technology, Command, Control & Intelligence (C2I), federal and civil information systems, missile systems, and the manufacture of a broad range of ships including aircraft carriers and submarines. The company believes that its programs are a high priority for national defense, but there remains the possibility that one or more of them may be reduced, extended, or terminated. The company provides certain product warranties that require repair or replacement of non conforming items for a specified period of time. Most of the companys product warranties are provided under government contracts, the costs of which are generally recoverable from the customer. Prime contracts with various agencies of the U.S. Government and subcontracts with other prime contractors are subject to numerous procurement regulations, including the False Claims Act, and The International Traffic in Arms Regulation promulgated under the Arms Export Control Act with noncompliance found by any one agency possibly resulting in fines, penalties, debarment, or suspension from receiving additional contracts with all U.S. Government agencies. Given the companys dependence on U.S. Government business, suspension or debarment could have a material adverse effect on the companys future. ORGANIZATION, PRODUCTS, AND SERVICES The company is aligned into seven business sectors: Electronic Systems, Newport News, Ship Systems, Information Technology, Mission Systems, Integrated Systems, and Space Technology. For financial reporting purposes, each business sector is a reportable segment with the exception of Newport News and Ship Systems, which are aggregated and reported as the Ships segment in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 131 Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information. 15 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Segment reporting for Mission Systems and Space Technology, TRW businesses acquired on December 11, 2002, commenced in the first quarter of 2003, as 2002 results for these new segments were not material to the company. Effective January 1, 2004, the company realigned businesses among three of its operating segments. For additional information see Realignment discussion contained in the Summary Segment Financial Data section contained in Part I, Item 1. Electronic Systems The Electronic Systems segment, headquartered in Linthicum, Maryland, develops, produces, and supports high performance sensors, intelligence and processing, and navigation systems operating in all environments from undersea to outer space. It also develops, produces, and supports power, power control, and ship controls for naval combatants. The segment is comprised of five major business areas: Aerospace Systems; Command, Control, Communications, Computers, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (C4ISR) & Naval Systems; Defensive Systems; Navigation Systems; Space Systems; and three smaller business areas referred to collectively as Other. Aerospace Systems Aerospace Systems products include sensors and integrated sensor suites which meet military surveillance and precision strike needs. Such products include a wide variety of radar systems for fighter and surveillance aircraft as well as helicopters. Principal programs include: radar installed onboard F 16, F 16 Block 60, and F/A 22 aircraft as well as other key avionics systems for the B 1B and the F 35 Joint Strike Fighter; precision guided munitions for artillery and Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) delivery; night vision goggles and weapon sights; and airborne surveillance systems such as the Airborne Warning and Control System (AWACS) radar, the Multirole Electronically Scanned Array (MESA), the Multi Platform Radar Technology Insertion Program (MP RTIP), and the E 2C Radar Modernization Program (RMP). C4ISR & Naval Systems C4ISR & Naval Systems is a systems oriented business consisting of subsystems and major systems integration programs in C4ISR sensors and processing, ship power propulsion and control systems, and air defense/air traffic control systems. Principal programs include: various intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance processing systems; bridge management and controls for naval combatants and commercial marine customers; large air defense systems for foreign states; launch tubes for Trident submarines; the Advanced SEAL Delivery System mini submarine; power generation systems for aircraft carriers; and propulsion systems for the Virginia class submarine. Defensive Systems Defensive Systems provides electronic and infrared countermeasure systems, targeting systems, automatic test equipment, simulation products, and laser systems. Products include radar warning receivers, self protection jammers, special receivers, and integrated electronic warfare systems, which protect fixed wing and rotary wing aircraft. Countermeasure products also include the Directional Infrared Countermeasures (DIRCM) system, which protects military and commercial fixed wing and rotary wing aircraft from shoulder launched, infrared guided threats. Navigation Systems Navigation Systems supplies international and domestic defense and commercial markets with navigation and positioning systems as well as flight certified computers, multifunction displays, identification friend or foe interrogators/transponders, and integrates these components into complete systems. Its products are used in military air, land, space, and sea applications and in commercial aircraft and space applications. Key programs include: integrated avionics for the U.S. Marine Corps attack and utility helicopters; U.S. Navy surveillance aircraft and Eurofighter aircraft; navigation and positioning systems for the U.S. Air Force F 22, Joint U.S. Air Force U.S. Navy unmanned combat aerial systems, Airbus A380, and military/commercial space applications; and fiber optic acoustic systems for underwater surveillance such as for Virginia class submarines. 16 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Space Systems Space Systems products include visible, infrared, and radio frequency payloads and the associated ground processing for remote sensing applications, such as environmental monitoring, missile warning, and surveillance. Principal programs include the Space Based Infrared Surveillance (SBIRS) program, payloads for classified programs, the Defense Meteorological Satellite Program (DMSP), the National Polar Orbital Operational and Environmental Satellite Systems (NPOESS), and the Defense Support Program (DSP). Other Other product and service lines in the Electronic Systems segment include communications, homeland defense, postal automation, and logistics. It also includes Systems Development and Technology, which develops next generation technologies that support Electronic Systems market areas and position the segment in key developing markets, such as chemical and biological defense, cyberspace and signals intelligence, electro optics and infrared systems, coherent ladar (laser based radar) technologies, and C4ISR. Ships The Ships segment combines two operating sectors, Newport News, headquartered in Newport News, Virginia, and Ship Systems, headquartered in Pascagoula, Mississippi, and includes the following products and services: Aircraft Carriers, Surface Combatants, Amphibious and Auxiliary, Submarines, Commercial and International, and Services and Other. Aircraft Carriers Newport News is the nations sole designer, builder, and refueler of nuclear powered aircraft carriers. The U.S. Navys newest carrier, the USS Ronald Reagan, was christened on March 4, 2001, and commissioned into the U.S. Navys fleet on July 12, 2003. The keel of the last carrier in the Nimitz class, the USS George H. W. Bush, was laid in 2003 with the christening scheduled to occur in 2006 and delivery to the U.S. Navy in 2008. Advanced design work on the new generation carrier, CVN 21, is currently underway with a construction contract anticipated in 2007. CVN 21 will incorporate transformational technologies that will result in manning reductions, improved war fighting capability, and a new nuclear propulsion plant design. The company also provides ongoing maintenance for the U.S. Navy aircraft carrier fleet through overhaul, refueling, and repair work. Currently, Newport News is overhauling and refueling the USS Dwight D. Eisenhower with re delivery expected in 2004. Planning for the USS Carl Vinson refueling and overhaul is also underway. The USS Carl Vinson is expected to arrive at Newport News in 2005. Surface Combatants Ship Systems builds Surface Combatants, which includes: the design and construction of the Arleigh Burke DDG 51 Class Aegis guided missile destroyers; design of DD(X), the Navys future transformational surface combatant class; and the Coast Guards Deepwater Modernization Program. The latter two programs were awarded in 2002. Ship Systems is one of two prime contractors designing and building DDG 51 Class destroyers, which provide primary anti aircraft and anti ship missile protection for the U.S. Navy fleet. Seven Arleigh Burke Class Destroyers are currently under construction with an additional four ships in backlog. The DD(X) program is a $2.9 billion development contract to develop and test eleven Engineering Development Models (EDMs) including an Integrated Electric Propulsion System (IPS), an all composite low signature deckhouse with embedded radar and communication apertures, a new stealthy hull form, and a new Peripheral Vertical missile Launching System (PVLS). The contract further provides for incorporating these advanced technologies into the design of the next generation destroyer, DD(X). These technologies are also to be incorporated into the next generation cruiser, CG(X), and many ships already in the fleet, as well as other future new ship classes. Construction of the first DD(X) is scheduled to begin in 2006. Ship Systems and Lockheed Martin are joint venture partners for the Coast Guards Deepwater Modernization Program. Ship Systems has design and production responsibility for all surface ships, including three new classes of cutters. The program is a 20 year program with the surface ship content representing $8.1 billion. Amphibious and Auxiliary Ship Systems is also responsible for Amphibious and Auxiliary programs, which include the design and construction of amphibious assault ships for the U.S. Navy, including the WASP LHD 1 Class, the 17 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION San Antonio LPD 17 Class ships and the Bob Hope Fast Sealift Auxiliary. Ship Systems is the sole provider for the LHD class of large deck, 40,500 ton multipurpose amphibious assault ships, which serve as the centerpiece of an Amphibious Ready Group. Currently, the LHD 8 is in the final stages of design and is a significant upgrade from the preceding seven sister ships. The design and production of the LHD 8 is a $1.4 billion program with delivery scheduled for 2007. Ship Systems is also the sole provider of the LPD 17 class of ships, which function as amphibious transports. Ship Systems also builds Sealift ships for the Military Sealift Command. These very large ships are used for prepositioning U.S. military vehicles and equipment overseas. Submarines Newport News is one of only two companies capable of designing and building nuclear powered submarines. In February 1997, the sector and Electric Boat Corporation (Electric Boat), a wholly owned subsidiary of General Dynamics Corporation, reached an agreement to cooperatively build the first four new nuclear attack submarines of the Virginia class over the next 10 years. The current schedule calls for the delivery of the USS Virginia by Electric Boat in 2004 followed over the balance of the contract by the USS Texas, the USS Hawaii, and the USS North Carolina. Electric Boat and Newport News were awarded a construction contract in August 2003, which was subsequently modified in January 2004, for the second flight of six Virginia class submarines. Commercial and International Ship Systems is under contract to produce five Polar Tankers, three ships of which have been delivered. These tankers each transport one million barrels of crude oil from Alaska to west coast refineries and are fully compliant with the Oil Pollution Act of 1990. The remaining two ships are expected to be delivered in 2004 and 2005. Services and Other Newport News and Ship Systems also provide after market services, including on going maintenance and repair work, for a wide array of naval and commercial vessels. The company has ship repair facilities in the U.S. Navys largest homeports of Norfolk, Virginia, and San Diego, California. Information Technology The Information Technology segment, headquartered in Herndon, Virginia, consists of four lines of business: Government Information Technology, Enterprise Information Technology, Technology Services, and Commercial Information Technology. Government Information Technology This business area covers a wide range of large scale systems integration, solutions, and services programs for government customers across the Department of Defense, Federal civilian agencies, state and local, and national intelligence agencies. Such programs encompass C4ISR, public safety, infrastructure systems and services, applied sciences and technology, and training and simulation. Government Information Technology is also the lead business area for the companys Homeland Security (HLS) efforts. HLS solutions include emergency operations centers, identity management and identification/authentication, port and border security, training and exercises, cyber warfare modeling, HLS requirements and optimization of systems, and consequence management. C4ISR capabilities include mission planning and rehearsal, battle management command and control systems, tactical communications, satellite systems and applications, and wireless communications solutions. Public safety and citizen services information systems provides emergency response solutions, citizen security systems, transportation systems (traffic management), and a wide variety of business and government systems. Infrastructure systems and services provides enterprise communications and infrastructure systems, information technology (IT) outsourcing, network operations center IT services, logistics systems, mission support systems, commercial services, and information assurance to a broad range of customers, not only in the public and commercial sectors, but also internally to the company. In the applied sciences and technology market, products include laser and imaging systems, weapons of mass destruction threat reduction analysis and simulation, systems analysis and modeling, health and applied science systems, and high performance computing. In the training and simulation market, the 18 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION sector is a prime developer and operator of modeling, simulation and analysis systems, computer driven war gaming and training, flight simulations, knowledge management systems, and mission readiness exercises. Enterprise Information Technology Enterprise Information Technology provides advanced solutions and complex IT products and professional services to public sector and commercial customers alike, specifically in two core market segments: enterprise computing and multiservice networking and security. Technology Services Technology Services includes logistics and range support, training and simulation, and state and local information technology services. Contracts include support of systems, logistics support, facilities management services, flight systems and simulation services, mission integration and planning support, operation and support of simulation enhanced training programs, systems integration, information security, data center management, and systems engineering and networking. Commercial Information Technology Commercial Information Technology provides complete IT outsourcing services directed to the commercial market. This work includes desktop and server management, hardware and software maintenance, help desk support, systems administration, network design, systems modernization and integration, and facility management services. Mission Systems The Mission Systems segment, headquartered in Reston, Virginia, is a leading global system integrator of complex, mission enabling systems. The segment consists of four lines of business: Command, Control & Intelligence (C2I) Systems; Missile Systems; Federal & Civil Information Systems; and Technical and Management Services. Command, Control & Intelligence Systems C2I Systems provides a variety of command, control, communications, computers, and intelligence support to the various branches of the U.S. Department of Defense. Offerings include signals intelligence and exploitation systems, system engineering and integration, data collection and operations and maintenance, modeling and product generation, system simulation and integration and test, spacecraft C2 systems, payload control and terminal software, Army and tactical global combat service support, and legacy standard Army management information systems. In the platform integration and UAV market, the segment supports the division tactical UAV system, light and heavy joint service nuclear, biological and chemical reconnaissance systems, and tactical operation centers. Missile Systems Missile Systems supports the Integrated Missile Defense system and the Intercontinental Ballistic Missile (ICBM) Program. The Integrated Missile Defense system market includes shooters, sensors, battle management command and control communications, modeling and simulation, and test and evaluation. For this market, the segment provides war games, modeling and simulation, system test and integration, targets and countermeasures, missile system engineering, and trainers to the Missile Defense Agency, Boeing, and Lockheed Martin. As prime contractor for the recently awarded Kinetic Energy Interceptors (KEI) program, the segment is leading development and test activities focused on the boost phase element of the Missile Defense Agencys global layered missile defense system. As prime contractor for the ICBM Program Office, the segment offers ICBM domain knowledge, program management, systems engineering and integration, and sustainment and modernization services. Federal & Civil Information Systems Federal & Civil Information Systems provides information technology services to domestic and foreign government customers at the federal, state, and local levels. Products to these markets include network convergence solutions, enterprise wide architecture, financial asset tracking, secure document technology, knowledge management, collaborative systems including advanced video teleconferencing, public health data systems, labor unemployment insurance systems, child welfare and support enforcement systems, transportation and airport security, statewide wireless communications systems, automated and criminal identification systems, and integrated justice information systems. 19 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Technical and Management Services Technical and Management Services primarily supports the U.S. Departments of Defense, Labor, and Justice. Products and services offered include full life cycle design and information systems integration and operations, electromagnetic and infrared analysis, decision support with modeling tools, systems effectiveness evaluation, engineering prototypes and integration, simulation modeling for training resource allocation, multi media training design and delivery, operational support of war fighting and peacekeeping (e.g., linguists and subject matter experts), base operating services, equipment maintenance, logistics and administrative support and freight forwarding services, biometrics, biological agent detection, maneuver and logistics training, force on force exercise development and control, force modernization and integration, new equipment training and fielding, educational and vocational training, residential living, placement and transition services, and web based general education development training. Integrated Systems The Integrated Systems segment, headquartered in El Segundo, California, designs, develops, produces, and supports fully missionized integrated systems and subsystems in the areas of battlespace awareness, command and control systems, and integrated combat systems. The segment is organized into the following product lines: Air Combat Systems (ACS), which includes Unmanned Systems; Airborne Early Warning and Electronics Warfare (AEW/EW) Systems; and Airborne Ground Surveillance and Battle Management (AGS/BM) Systems. Air Combat Systems The principal programs in ACS are subcontractor work on the F/A 18 and F 35 programs, and the Multi Platform Radar Technology Insertion Program (MP RTIP). For the F/A 18, ACS is responsible for approximately 40 percent of the aircraft, including the full integration of the center and aft fuselage and vertical tail sections and associated subsystems. For the F 35, ACS is responsible for the detailed design and integration of the center fuselage and weapon bay, a large part of systems engineering, mission system software, ground and flight test support, signature/low observables development, and support of modeling and simulation activities. ACS is the prime systems integration contractor for the MP RTIP to upgrade current aircraft and unmanned vehicles with an advanced technology radar subsystem, which includes higher resolution and greater accuracy. The principal programs in the ACS Unmanned Systems product line consist of UAVs and the J UCAS. UAVs include the Global Hawk, a high altitude, long endurance unmanned aerial reconnaissance system, and the Fire Scout, a vertical takeoff and landing tactical UAV system in development and low rate initial production. The purpose of the J UCAS program is to demonstrate the technical feasibility, military utility, and operational value for a networked system of high performance and weaponized unmanned air vehicles to effectively and affordably prosecute 21st century combat missions. Airborne Early Warning and Electronic Warfare AEW/EW principal products include the E 2C (Hawkeye) and the EA 6B (Prowler) aircraft. The company is currently delivering E 2C aircraft under a multiyear contract with the U.S. Navy and has recently been awarded a follow on contract for eight additional aircraft. The company is also developing the next generation capability including radar, mission computer, vehicle, and other system enhancements called the Advanced Hawkeye under a system development and demonstration contract with the U.S. Navy. The EA 6B is the armed services only offensive tactical radar jamming aircraft. AEW/EW is currently developing the next generation mission system for this aircraft under the ICAP (Increased Capability) III contract currently in the test and evaluation phase. Low rate initial production for ICAP III Kits has been authorized. In addition, the company has received funding to incorporate the ICAP III mission system into a F/A 18 platform designated the EA 18G. Integrated Systems is the principal subcontractor to Boeing for this program currently in the system development and demonstration phase. Airborne Ground Surveillance and Battle Management AGS/BM Systems is the prime contractor on the Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar System (Joint STARS) program. Joint STARS detects, locates, classifies, tracks, and targets potentially hostile ground movement in all weather conditions. It is designed to operate around the 20 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION clock in constant communication through secure data links with Air Force command posts, Army mobile ground stations, or centers for military analysis far from the point of conflict. Two aircraft remain in the delivery contract, with one scheduled for the first quarter of 2004 and the last in early 2005. As Joint STARS nears the end of its production, a follow on system, the E 10A Multi Sensor Command & Control Aircraft (MC2A), is in development and will include the MP RTIP radar. AGS/BM Systems was selected as the prime contractor for the E 10A Weapon System Integration program by the U.S. Air Force in 2003. AGS/BM Systems is currently in competition for the major Battle Management Command & Control (BMC2) subsystem to be decided in the second half of 2004. Space Technology The Space Technology sector, headquartered in Redondo Beach, California, develops a broad range of systems at the leading edge of space, defense, and electronics technology. The sector creates products primarily for the U.S. government that contribute significantly to the nations security and leadership in science and technology. This business primarily consists of the following major business areas: Intelligence, Surveillance & Reconnaissance (ISR); Civil Space; Satellite Communications (SatCom); Missile & Space Defense; Software Defined Radios; and Technology. Intelligence, Surveillance & Reconnaissance In the ISR business area, the sectors capabilities give the nations monitoring systems a global reach and enhance national security. Addressing requirements in space based intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance systems, the sector provides mission and system engineering, satellite systems, and mission operations. Customers are predominantly restricted, as are the major programs. The Defense Support Program (DSP) is also part of this business area, and has been monitoring ballistic missile launches for the Air Force for decades. Civil Space The Civil Space business area produces spacecraft, instruments, and services for space science missions, earth observation systems, and environmental satellite systems. A variety of systems and services are provided, including mission and system engineering services, spacecraft and instrument systems, mission operations, and propulsion systems. Customers include the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), and the DOD. Major programs include National Polar orbiting Operational Environmental Satellite System (NPOESS), the James Webb Space Telescope (JWST), the Earth Observing System (EOS), and the legacy space telescope program Chandra. Satellite Communications The SatCom business area includes complex satellite communication systems and broadband payloads. Key customers are satellite prime contractors in support of the DOD and other government agencies. Major programs include Advanced Extremely High Frequency (AEHF) payload, and communication payload for the legacy Milstar program, currently in operation. Missile & Space Defense Missile & Space Defense produces space, air, and ground based systems that detect, track and destroy missiles and help to counter todays widely proliferating missile threats. Key capabilities and products include system integration, spacecraft, directed energy and kinetic energy weapons, and tactical lasers. The Missile Defense Agency (MDA) is the primary customer. Major programs include the Space Tracking and Surveillance System (STSS), Airborne Laser (ABL), and Mobile Tactical High Energy Laser (MTHEL). Software Defined Radios In the Software Defined Radios business area, the sector has been pioneering radio technology and applying the results to advanced integrated Communications, Navigation and Identification (CNI) systems, radios, and avionics integration software. The sectors avionics systems represent the eyes and ears of the F/A 22 Raptor jet fighter and F 35 Joint Strike Fighter. Technology The Technology business area consists primarily of government funded research and development (R&D) contracts in support of the five business areas described above. 21 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION BUSINESSES ACQUIRED The current composition of Northrop Grumman Corporation is the result of a series of strategic acquisitions, mergers, and divestitures. In 2001, the company purchased Litton, the Electronics and Information Systems Group of Aerojet General Corporation (EIS), and 80.7 percent of Newport News. On January 18, 2002, the company acquired the remaining shares of Newport News. The Litton business units operating results are included from the acquisition date in the companys segment data as follows: Littons advanced electronics business is included in Electronic Systems; Littons information systems business is included in Information Technology; Littons ship business is included in Ships. Littons electronic components and materials business, Component Technologies (CT), is classified as discontinued operations. EIS was integrated into Electronic Systems, and Newport News is included in the Ships segment. In December 2002, the company purchased 100 percent of the common stock of TRW valued at approximately $12.5 billion, including the assumption of TRWs debt of $4.8 billion. The company issued approximately 69.4 million shares of its common stock at an exchange ratio of .5357 for each TRW share, with cash paid in lieu of any fractional share of the companys stock, which otherwise would be issued to the TRW shareholders. These shares were valued at $107.31 per share for purchase accounting purposes. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, this value was determined based on the average closing stock price of the companys common stock from October 15, 2002, through October 21, 2002. In connection with the acquisition of TRW, the company entered into a formal stipulation and consent decree with the United States Department of Justice that was filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia on December 11, 2002. Key provisions of the consent decree are intended to assure that the merger will not impede fair and open competition related to certain electronic satellite payloads. The consent decree does not require the divestiture of any businesses and permits the company to operate its business and those of TRW as planned. TRWs defense business units are operated as two separate sectors, Mission Systems and Space Technology. The consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2002, reflect preliminary estimates of the fair market value for purchased intangibles, retiree benefits assets and liabilities, and debt as well as preliminary estimates of adjustments necessary to conform TRW to the companys accounting policies. Auto was included in the total TRW valuation and was valued and recorded at its sale price which represents its fair market value. As of December 31, 2003, the company completed the fair market value and accounting conformance evaluation process for TRW and recorded an aggregate increase to goodwill of $1.6 billion. BUSINESSES SOLD AND DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS On February 28, 2003, the company sold Auto to The Blackstone Group for $3.3 billion in cash, a $600 million face value payment in kind note, initially valued at $455 million, and a 19.6 percent interest in the new enterprise, initially valued at $170 million. The cash received from the sale of Auto was adjusted from the sale agreement amount by cash sold with the business, preliminary purchase price adjustments, and an asset retained. The acquirer also assumed debt of approximately $200 million. Cash proceeds from the sale were primarily used to reduce debt. The payment in kind note matures in 2018 and bears interest at an effective yield of 11.7 percent per annum. In January 2004, the restrictions on the investment in Auto were amended to provide the company more flexibility in monetization. In February 2004, the companys investment in Auto was diluted to 17.2 percent as a result of Autos initial public offering. The company has retained certain liabilities associated with the Auto business as well as the Aeronautical Systems business that TRW divested in 2002. Subsequent adjustment to or resolution of accruals recorded as of December 31, 2003, in connection with the divestitures of TRWs Auto and Aeronautical Systems businesses, will be charged to discontinued operations. There can be no assurance that such adjustments will not be material. 22 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION During the third quarter of 2002, the company concluded that the CT businesses, which were acquired as part of the 2001 Litton acquisition, did not fit with the companys long term plan and decided to sell the businesses. In October 2002, Northrop Grumman completed the sale of two Electronic Systems sector businesses, Electron Devices and Ruggedized Displays, for $135 million. During 2003, the company sold several of the CT businesses: the VEAM business in the first quarter, Life Support during the third quarter, and Poly Scientific during the fourth quarter. The company also sold its 51 percent interest in the operations of TRW Koyo Steering Systems Company in the fourth quarter of 2003. None of these sales, either individually or in the aggregate, had a material impact on the companys financial condition or results of operations. As of December 31, 2003, three CT businesses remain to be sold whose assets and liabilities have been classified as held for sale. One of these businesses, Kester, was sold in February 2004. The sale of the remaining businesses classified as discontinued operations is not expected to have, either individually or in the aggregate, a material impact on the companys financial condition or results of operations. In accordance with SFAS No. 144 Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets, the results of operations of these businesses are reported as discontinued operations, net of applicable income taxes, for all periods presented. As such, discontinued operations includes the operating results for all sold companies up to the date of sale. MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL MEASURES The company manages and assesses the performance of its business primarily through measures of acquisitions, sales, segment operating margin, and backlog. Acquisitions Contract acquisitions represent orders received during the period for which funding has been contractually obligated by the customer. Contract acquisitions tend to fluctuate from year to year and are determined by the size and timing of new and follow on orders. In the year that a business is purchased, its existing funded order backlog as of the purchase date is reported as contract acquisitions. Sales Year to year sales vary less than contract acquisitions and reflect performance under new and ongoing contracts. Segment Operating Margin Segment operating margin reflects the performance of the segments on their contracts and programs. Excluded from this measure are certain costs not directly associated with contract performance, including the portion of pension expense/income that is not currently recognized under CAS, as well as the portion of corporate, legal, environmental, state income tax, other retiree benefits, and other expenses not considered allowable costs under CAS and not allocated to the segments. Effective January 1, 2002, the company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, which changes the accounting for goodwill from an amortization method to an impairment only approach and eliminates amortization of goodwill. The segment operating results for 2001 have not been adjusted to exclude amortization of goodwill. A reconciliation of previously reported 2001 financial information adjusted to exclude goodwill amortization is presented in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8. Backlog Funded backlog represents unfilled orders for which funding has been contractually obligated by the customer. Unfunded backlog represents firm orders for which funding is not contractually obligated by the customer. 23 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION SEGMENT OPERATING RESULTS Certain prior year amounts in the tables within this section have been reclassified to conform to current year reporting. Electronic Systems $ in millions 2003 2002 2001 Contract Acquisitions Aerospace Systems $ 1,329 $ 1,129 $ 1,315 C4ISR & Naval Systems 1,252 1,808 1,100 Defensive Systems 1,062 830 793 Navigation Systems 824 741 1,352 Space Systems 414 615 231 Other 1,137 807 724 $ 6,018 $ 5,930 $ 5,515 Sales and Service Revenue Aerospace Systems $ 1,731 $ 1,523 $ 1,342 C4ISR & Naval Systems 1,297 1,214 1,040 Defensive Systems 919 780 693 Navigation Systems 756 668 591 Space Systems 514 437 245 Other 822 704 665 $ 6,039 $ 5,326 $ 4,576 Segment Operating Margin $ 590 $ 434 $ 349 As a percentage of segment sales 9.8 % 8.1 % 7.6 % Contract Acquisitions 2003 Electronic Systems segment acquisitions increased by $88 million or 2 percent in 2003 as compared with 2002. Principal acquisitions during 2003 include $224 million for the SBIRS High program by the Space Systems business area; $187 million for the MESA 737 Turkey acquisition by the Aerospace Systems business area; $181 million and $144 million for the Trident SSGN and Virginia class submarine programs, respectively, by the C4ISR & Naval Systems business area; and $145 million for the MP RTIP program included in the Other business area. 2002 Electronic Systems segment acquisitions in 2002 were 8 percent higher than in 2001. Aerospace Systems acquisitions include funding in 2002 of $116 million for the F 35, $83 million for the Longbow missile multiyear contract, and $82 million for the Brilliant Anti Armor Tank (BAT) program. C4ISR & Naval Systems acquisitions reflect increased awards for international air defense systems and $150 million of funding for the Trident program. Defensive Systems acquisitions include a $165 million award for ALQ 135 electronic countermeasures for the Korea F 15. Space Systems acquisitions include $335 million of additional funding on the SBIRS High program. Acquisitions reported in 2001 include opening backlog acquired in the Litton purchase of $1.3 billion, comprised of $820 million in Navigation Systems, $210 million in C4ISR & Naval System, $189 million in Defense Systems and $118 million in Aerospace Systems. Sales and Service Revenue 2003 Electronics Systems segment sales increased by $713 million or 13 percent in 2003 as compared with 2002. The increase is primarily attributable to the $208 million growth at Aerospace Systems due to increased volume on 24 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION the F 35, F 16 Block 60, F/A 22, and avionics classified programs. Defensive Systems sales increased $139 million in 2003 over 2002 primarily due to higher volume on the ALQ 135, Large Aircraft Infrared Countermeasures (LAIRCM), MH 53, and Lightning programs. The 2003 increase of $118 million in the Other business area primarily reflects higher volume on the MP RTIP program. In 2004, Electronic Systems sales are expected to increase at close to a double digit percentage pace over 2003 sales. 2002 Electronics Systems segment sales increased by $750 million or 16 percent in 2002 as compared with 2001. Growth in 2002 principally reflects a $181 million increase at Aerospace Systems due to increased volume on the F 22, F 35, BAT, Firefinder, and Longbow missile programs. C4ISR & Naval Systems sales increased by $174 million in 2002 principally due to higher volume on international programs. The Space Systems business area contributed an additional $192 million of sales as a result of increased volume from SBIRS High. Segment Operating Margin 2003 Electronic Systems segment operating margin increased by $156 million or 36 percent in 2003 as compared with 2002. The increase in operating margin in 2003 reflects increased sales volume in Aerospace Systems F/A 22, F 35, and several classified programs as well as increased volume in the C4ISR & Naval Systems marine systems business. The Defensive Systems and Navigation Systems business areas also reported higher sales and improved operating performance. Operating margin for 2003 includes a $40 million pre tax charge for the F 16 Block 60 fixed price development combat avionics program due to cost growth associated with developing and acquiring the advanced microelectronics necessary to meet production specifications and delivery rates. The contract, which is currently in the EMD and transition to production phases, is expected to be completed in 2007. Development work inherently has more uncertainty as to future events than production work and therefore more variability in estimates of costs to complete the work. As work progresses through the development stage into production, the risks associated with estimating the costs of development are reduced. In addition, successful performance of fixed price development programs is subject to the companys ability to control cost growth in meeting production specifications and delivery rates. While management has used its best judgment to estimate costs, future events could result in either upward or downward adjustments to those estimates. For 2004, management expects operating margin of approximately 10 percent of segment revenue. 2002 Electronic Systems segment operating margin in 2002 was $434 million compared with $349 million in 2001. Operating margin for 2002 includes a $65 million pre tax charge for the F 16 Block 60 fixed price development combat avionics program, offsetting margin improvements across the sector. The charge reflects increased projected costs, primarily for the programs electronic warfare suite. Operating margin for 2001 included goodwill amortization of $80 million. 25 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Ships $ in millions 2003 2002 2001 Contract Acquisitions Aircraft Carriers $ 941 $ 1,622 $ 4,577 Surface Combatants 1,569 1,641 3,194 Amphibious and Auxiliary 1,301 1,184 2,301 Submarines 895 828 609 Commercial and International 31 (4 ) 837 Services and Other 193 94 216 Intrasegment Eliminations (91 ) (79 ) (82 ) $ 4,839 $ 5,286 $ 11,652 Sales and Service Revenue Aircraft Carriers $ 1,922 $ 2,076 $ 208 Surface Combatants 1,594 875 674 Amphibious and Auxiliary 1,069 845 522 Submarines 627 581 54 Commercial and International 123 224 396 Services and Other 163 194 89 Intrasegment Eliminations (47 ) (98 ) (63 ) $ 5,451 $ 4,697 $ 1,880 Segment Operating Margin $ 295 $ 306 $ 19 As a percentage of segment sales 5.4 % 6.5 % 1.0 % Contract Acquisitions 2003 Ships segment acquisitions decreased by $447 million or 8 percent in 2003 as compared with 2002, primarily due to lower incremental funding received in 2003 for aircraft carrier refueling work. The principal acquisitions in 2003 are $1.2 billion for the LPD program in the Amphibious and Auxiliary business area, and $877 million and $531 million related to the DD(X) and DDG programs, respectively, in the Surface Combatants business area. 2002 Ships segment acquisitions in 2002 include $875 million of funding for the DD(X) program, included in the Surface Combatants business area, and $590 million for LHD, included in the Amphibious and Auxiliary business area. Newport News acquisitions included $1.6 billion of aircraft carrier funding and $828 million of funding for the submarine program. The Commercial and International business area reflects a reduction in previous funding levels for the Polar Tanker program. Ships segment acquisitions in 2001 include backlog acquired in the Litton and Newport News transactions of $10.5 billion. Sales and Service Revenue 2003 Ships segment sales increased by $754 million or 16 percent in 2003 as compared with 2002. This growth reflects a $719 million increase for the Surface Combatants business area, which is primarily related to the DD(X) and Deepwater programs. Amphibious and Auxiliary experienced an increase in sales during 2003 of $224 million due to production ramp up on LPD 18, LPD 19, and LHD. The $154 million decrease in 2003 for Aircraft Carriers as compared to 2002 is largely due to the completion and delivery of the USS Ronald Reagan. In 2004, the Ships segment expects low single digit sales percentage growth over 2003 sales, reflecting the deferral of the USS Carl Vinson refueling and overhaul from 2004 to 2005. 2002 Ships segment sales increased substantially in 2002 as compared with 2001, principally due to inclusion for the full year 2002 of the Newport News and Ship Systems businesses acquired in 2001. 26 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Segment Operating Margin 2003 Ships segment operating margin decreased by $11 million or 4 percent in 2003 as compared with 2002. The decrease reflects both a changing mix from production to development programs as well as a $68 million pre tax charge for the Polar Tanker program due to unusual weather delays and rework on the third tanker delivered in July 2003. The charge also includes increased estimates to complete the final two ships to reflect more modest improvements in labor productivity and higher overhead costs than previously expected. The fourth ship is approximately 91 percent complete as of December 31, 2003, and is scheduled for delivery in the second half of 2004. The fifth and last ship is approximately 46 percent complete as of December 31, 2003, and is scheduled for delivery in late 2005. For 2004, management expects operating margin as a percent of sales of between 6 and 6.5 percent. 2002 Ships segment operating margin was $306 million in 2002 compared with $19 million in 2001. The increase is principally due to the Newport News and Litton acquisitions. Results in 2002 include a third quarter pre tax charge of $87 million recorded upon completion of a comprehensive review of the estimated costs to complete the three remaining Polar Tanker ships. The increased estimate to complete reflects a reduced learning curve experience ship to ship as well as one time schedule penalties. Also during the year, the company reached an agreement to sell the partially complete structures and material associated with its cancelled commercial cruise ship program to Norwegian Cruise Line and successfully concluded negotiations on the majority of the programs vendor terminations resulting in a favorable pre tax adjustment of $69 million recorded to reverse previously established reserves. Following American Classic Voyages Co.s (AMCV) bankruptcy filing on October 19, 2001, Ships stopped work on Project America, an AMCV cruise ship program to build two 1,900 passenger cruise ships. This decision followed negotiations with the U.S. Maritime Administration, which had decided not to continue the guaranteed funding necessary to complete the construction of the ships. As a result, Ships recorded a pre tax charge to operating margin totaling $60 million in 2001. Ships also reported a downward operating margin adjustment of $13 million for the Polar Tanker program in 2001. Operating margin for 2001 included goodwill amortization of $31 million. Information Technology $ in millions 2003 2002 2001 Contract Acquisitions Government Information Technology $ 3,514 $ 2,842 $ 2,594 Enterprise Information Technology 872 766 848 Technology Services 703 673 687 Commercial Information Technology 347 200 241 Intrasegment Eliminations (114 ) (83 ) (84 ) $ 5,322 $ 4,398 $ 4,286 Sales and Service Revenue Government Information Technology $ 3,048 $ 2,710 $ 2,248 Enterprise Information Technology 857 750 829 Technology Services 693 657 571 Commercial Information Technology 270 216 230 Intrasegment Eliminations (114 ) (83 ) (84 ) $ 4,754 $ 4,250 $ 3,794 Segment Operating Margin $ 281 $ 250 $ 174 As a percentage of segment sales 5.9 % 5.9 % 4.6 % 27 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Contract Acquisitions 2003 Information Technology segment acquisitions increased by $924 million or 21 percent in 2003 as compared with 2002, largely due to strong growth in the Government Information Technology business area. Principal acquisitions in 2003 in the Government Information Technology business area are $104 million for Information Technology Support Services (ITSS), $98 million for Voyager, and $92 million for the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) Technology Enterprise Automation Management Support (TEAMS) program. The Technology Services business area received funding of $255 million for the Joint Base Operations Support Contract (J BOSC). The Commercial Information Technology business area recorded funding of $120 million in connection with Vought. 2002 Information Technology acquisitions increased by 3 percent in 2002 over 2001. Government Information Technology secured a major contract with the INS to provide information technology infrastructure and support services, key elements in assisting the border enforcement and immigration benefits missions of the agency. The $228 million INS contract positions the company to assist the new Department of Homeland Security (DHS) with its information technology needs. In 2002, Technology Services funding for the J BOSC contract of $268 million was received. Technology Services also received a $100 million contract to provide electronic benefits transfer services to the state of Illinois, which positions the company as a key provider to state government. Information Technology acquisitions in 2001 include Litton opening backlog acquired of $585 million. Sales and Service Revenue 2003 Information Technology segment sales increased by $504 million or 12 percent in 2003 as compared with 2002. The higher sales are primarily attributable to a $338 million increase at the Government Information Technology business area due to increased volume on the INS TEAMS, Global Transportation Network for the 21st Century (GTN 21), and Land Information Warfare Activity (LIWA) programs. Enterprise Information Technology sales were $107 million higher than 2002 due, in part, to increased DHS purchases. For 2004, the company expects high single digit percentage growth on comparative realigned 2003 sales. (See Realignment discussion contained in the Summary Segment Financial Data section contained in Part I, Item 1.) 2002 Information Technology sales increased by 12 percent in 2002 as compared with 2001. This increase principally results from inclusion of a full year of Litton operations in 2002. Segment Operating Margin 2003 Information Technology segment operating margin increased by $31 million or 12 percent in 2003 as compared with 2002. The increase is primarily attributable to higher sales volume in the Government Information Technology business area. For 2004, management expects segment operating margin as a percent of segment sales, on a comparative realigned basis, to be nearly 6 percent. 2002 Information Technology segment operating margin in 2002 was $250 million compared with $174 million in 2001. Operating margin for 2002 includes a $20 million favorable pre tax adjustment resulting from the restructuring of a Technology Services contract and a $16 million charge recorded for a contract with Oracle. Operating margin for 2001 included goodwill amortization of $58 million. 28 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Mission Systems $ in millions 2003 2002 Contract Acquisitions Command, Control & Intelligence Systems $ 1,967 $ 669 Missile Systems 1,255 973 Federal & Civil Information Systems 646 758 Technical and Management Services 678 382 Intrasegment Eliminations (37 ) (34 ) $ 4,509 $ 2,748 Sales and Service Revenue Command, Control & Intelligence Systems $ 1,561 Missile Systems 1,082 Federal & Civil Information Systems 798 Technical and Management Services 700 Intrasegment Eliminations (26 ) $ 4,115 Segment Operating Margin $ 258 As a percentage of segment sales 6.3 % Contract Acquisitions 2003 Mission Systems acquisitions during 2003 reflect several new business awards for restricted programs in the Command, Control & Intelligence Systems business area and the Kinetic Energy Interceptor contract awarded to the Missile Systems business area. Acquisitions for these two business areas accounted for over $3.2 billion or 71 percent of total 2003 acquisitions. 2002 Acquisitions for 2002 represent backlog acquired as of the acquisition date of TRW. Sales and Service Revenue 2003 Approximately $2.6 billion or 64 percent of 2003 sales were derived from the Command, Control & Intelligence Systems and Missile Systems business areas. The principal programs in these business areas during 2003 were restricted. Missile Systems sales for 2003 are principally due to such programs as Ground based Midcourse and Joint National Integration Center. For 2004, management expects high single digit percentage growth on comparative realigned 2003 sales. (See Realignment discussion contained in the Summary Segment Financial Data section contained in Part I, Item 1.) Segment Operating Margin 2003 Approximately $175 million or 68 percent of 2003 operating margin was derived from the Command, Control & Intelligence Systems and Missile Systems business areas. For 2004, management expects operating margin as a percent of sales, on a comparative realigned basis, to be in the mid 6 percent range. 29 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Integrated Systems $ in millions 2003 2002 2001 Contract Acquisitions Air Combat Systems $ 2,666 $ 2,131 $ 1,001 Airborne Early Warning/Electronic Warfare 1,051 832 789 Airborne Ground Surveillance/Battle Management 565 526 445 Intrasegment Eliminations (3 ) (1 ) (2 ) $ 4,279 $ 3,488 $ 2,233 Sales and Service Revenue Air Combat Systems $ 2,421 $ 1,915 $ 1,600 Airborne Early Warning/Electronic Warfare 841 759 740 Airborne Ground Surveillance/Battle Management 541 600 663 Intrasegment Eliminations (3 ) (1 ) (2 ) $ 3,800 $ 3,273 $ 3,001 Segment Operating Margin $ 380 $ 331 $ 265 As a percentage of segment sales 10.0 % 10.1 % 8.8 % Contract Acquisitions 2003 Integrated Systems segment acquisitions increased by $791 million or 23 percent in 2003 as compared with 2002. The increase is mainly due to higher acquisitions for the F 35 and Global Hawk programs, both included in the Air Combat Systems business area. The principal acquisitions for Air Combat Systems during 2003 are $777 million, $697 million, and $613 million for the F/A 18, Unmanned Systems, and F 35 programs, respectively. The principal acquisitions in the AEW/EW and AGS/BM business areas during 2003 are $576 million and $406 million for the E 2C and Joint STARS programs, respectively. 2002 Integrated Systems acquisitions in 2002 were 56 percent higher than 2001. Funding in 2002 reflects $784 million of funding for the F/A 18 contracts and $271 million for the F 35 SDD contract. Air Combat Systems continued to record incremental B 2 bomber funding, which increased to $388 million in 2002 from $346 million in 2001, and included ongoing development work, spares, and other customer support for the operational aircraft program. Sales and Service Revenue 2003 Integrated Systems segment sales increased by $527 million or 16 percent in 2003 as compared with 2002. Growth in 2003 principally reflects a $506 million increase at Air Combat Systems due to increased volume on the F 35, Global Hawk and MP RTIP programs, and $82 million at AEW/EW related to the Advanced Hawkeye program. The sales decrease in 2003 of $59 million at the AGS/BM business area is mainly due to fewer Joint STARS aircraft in production. For 2004, the company expects 15 to 20 percent growth on comparative realigned 2003 sales. (See Realignment discussion contained in the Summary Segment Financial Data section contained in Part I, Item 1.) 2002 Integrated Systems segment sales increased 9 percent in 2002 over 2001 principally from a $143 million and $145 million increase in F 35 and Global Hawk sales, respectively. Segment Operating Margin 2003 Integrated Systems segment operating margin increased by $49 million or 15 percent in 2003 as compared with 2002. The increase in operating margin in 2003 reflects increased sales volume on the F 35 and Global Hawk 30 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION programs and improved operating margin rate on the E 2C program, partially offset by lower sales volume on the Joint STARS program. For 2004, operating margin as a percent of sales is expected to be in the mid 8 percent range reflecting a trend of continued ramp up on lower margin development programs including F 35, Unmanned Vehicles, Advanced Hawkeye, and E 10. 2002 Integrated Systems segment operating margin in 2002 was $331 million compared with $265 million in 2001. The 2002 results reflect improved performance on the B 2 and E 2C programs, as well as higher F 35 sales. Operating margin for 2001 included goodwill amortization of $32 million. Space Technology $ in millions 2003 2002 Contract Acquisitions Intelligence, Surveillance, & Reconnaissance $ 812 $ 511 Civil Space 581 134 Satellite Communications 515 235 Missile & Space Defense 301 203 Software Defined Radios 587 162 Technology 277 63 $ 3,073 $ 1,308 Sales and Service Revenue Intelligence, Surveillance, & Reconnaissance $ 838 Civil Space 520 Satellite Communications 467 Missile & Space Defense 393 Software Defined Radios 367 Technology 238 $ 2,823 Segment Operating Margin $ 193 As a percentage of segment sales 6.8 % Contract Acquisitions 2003 Space Technology segment acquisitions during 2003 primarily reflect $724 million in restricted programs in the Intelligence, Surveillance & Reconnaissance business area, $502 million related to additional funding for the AEHF satellite in the Satellite Communications area, $475 million related to NPOESS in the Civil Space business area, and $195 million related to the F 22 program in the Software Defined Radios business area. 2002 Acquisitions for 2002 represent backlog acquired as of the acquisition date of TRW. Sales and Service Revenue 2003 Restricted program sales totaled $711 million or 85 percent of 2003 Intelligence, Surveillance & Reconnaissance sales. Approximately $412 million or 79 percent of the 2003 Civil Space sales were due to the NPOESS program. Approximately $440 million or 94 percent of the 2003 Satellite Communications sales was due to the AEHF program. Missile & Space Defense sales for 2003 include $234 million and $122 million related to the STSS Cycle I and ABL programs, respectively. The 2003 sales for the Software Defined Radios business area include $135 million and $127 million related to the F 35 and F 22 programs, respectively. For 2004, management expects mid single digit percentage sales growth over 2003 sales. 31 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Segment Operating Margin 2003 Operating margin for the business areas within the Space Technology segment in 2003 ranged from 6.6 percent for Civil Space to 9.7 percent for Software Defined Radios. For 2004, management expects operating margin as a percent of sales to be in the high 6 percent range. NON SEGMENT FACTORS AFFECTING OPERATING MARGIN The companys operations substantially changed as a result of the TRW acquisition on December 11, 2002. The companys 2002 income statement does not include TRWs post acquisition results because they were not material. The 2002 results reflect the first full year of operations of Litton, EIS, and Newport News, which were acquired in 2001. These acquisitions have significantly increased the size of the company and produced one of the largest defense contractors in the nation. The components of operating margin are as follows: $ in millions 2003 2002 2001 Operating Margin Electronic Systems $ 590 $ 434 $ 349 Ships 295 306 19 Information Technology 281 250 174 Mission Systems 258 Integrated Systems 380 331 265 Space Technology 193 Adjustments to Reconcile to Total Operating Margin Unallocated expenses (141 ) (105 ) (134 ) Pension (expense) income (568 ) 90 335 Reversal of CAS pension expense included above 265 100 43 Reversal of royalty income included above (15 ) (15 ) (18 ) Total operating margin $ 1,538 $ 1,391 $ 1,033 Operating margin as a percentage of total revenue was 5.9 percent, 8.1 percent, and 7.9 percent for 2003, 2002, and 2001, respectively. The primary factors affecting operating margin during these periods were the business acquisitions and changes in pension amounts. Unallocated Expenses 2003 Unallocated expenses increased $36 million in 2003, net of a $17 million gain on the settlement of legal matters. The increase is due primarily to higher legal costs and increased estimates of unrecoverable costs. In 2003, the company settled two previously reserved civil False Claims Act cases, U.S. v. Newport News Shipbuilding, Inc. and U.S. Ex rel. Jordan, and recorded loss provisions for settlement offers on other legal matters, resulting in a net gain of $17 million. The two settled cases required payments by the company of approximately $80 million. The $60 million settlement amount allocated by the plaintiff to the Newport News Shipbuilding case was charged to an existing accrual established for the governments claim that Newport News had improperly charged certain independent research and development costs to its government contracts with respect to the years 1994 through 1999. The government filed a civil False Claims Act case against the company in February 2003 seeking single damages in excess of $72 million, plus penalties, costs, and interest. The company accrued an amount for this matter determined in accordance with SFAS No. 5 Accounting for Contingencies, after considering the facts and circumstances known to management at the time, including the potential for treble damages and penalties as 32 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION provided in the False Claims Act. The accrual, when established, had no effect on the companys net income, as it was recorded as a liability on the balance sheet as part of the purchase accounting for Newport News, which was acquired in December 2001. The unused portion of the accrual of approximately $120 million was reversed and, together with the loss provisions recorded for other legal matters, is included in the $17 million net gain reported in Unallocated expenses. Pension (Expense) Income 2003 Operating margin in 2003 includes pension expense of $568 million as compared with pension income in 2002 of $90 million. The decrease reflects a higher number of plan participants from the acquisition of TRW as well as negative returns on plan assets of 10 percent and 4.9 percent in 2002 and 2001, respectively. Based on expected long term returns available in the capital markets and lower long term interest rates, the 2004 pension plan assumptions have been changed from the 2003 assumptions. The 2004 assumptions include an expected long term rate of return on plan assets of 8.75 percent and a discount rate of 6.25 percent compared with the 2003 assumptions of 9 percent and 6.5 percent, respectively. In accordance with SFAS No. 87 Employers Accounting for Pensions, the balance sheet was adjusted at December 31, 2003, to reverse a significant portion of the additional minimum pension liability due to actual returns on pension plan assets in 2003 of over 20 percent. This nearly $1 billion non cash, after tax increase in shareholders equity did not impact earnings. Beginning in July 2003, the pension benefits for most employees, principally those participating in Northrop Grumman and Litton heritage plans, were based upon new criteria, whereby employees earn age and service points over the employment period. Subsequent to the 2003 initial phase in, other exempt and non exempt plans will be conformed to the new model. No settlement or curtailments arose as a result of these changes. Union plans were not affected by these plan modifications. Pension expense is included in the sectors cost of sales to the extent that these costs are currently recognized under CAS. In order to reconcile from segment operating margin to total company operating margin, these amounts are reported under the caption Reversal of CAS pension expense included above. For 2004, subject to refinements for participant census data and pay as you go plans, management expects pension expense determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles of approximately $330 million. Pension expense recognized under CAS, which is generally recoverable under government contracts, is estimated to be $305 million for 2004. 2002 Operating margin in 2002 includes pension income of $90 million compared with $335 million in 2001. The lower pension income in 2002 is principally the result of negative asset returns in 2001 and 2000. OTHER INCOME STATEMENT COMPONENTS Interest Income 2003 Interest income increased $49 million in 2003 as compared to 2002. The increase principally reflects earnings from the note received in connection with the sale of Auto, interest earned on a tax refund, and interest earned on the temporary investment of excess cash. 2002 Interest income in 2002 declined to $11 million compared with $33 million in 2001. Interest income in 2001 included interest earned on the note received in partial payment for the sale of Aerostructures. The note was collected in 2001. Interest income in 2002 and 2001 includes interest earned on the temporary investment of excess cash. 33 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Interest Expense 2003 Interest expense increased by $75 million or 18 percent in 2003 as compared with 2002. The increase is principally the result of higher debt levels arising from the acquisition of TRW, net of the effect of the companys debt reduction plan, which was substantially completed in the second quarter of 2003. Dividends payable on mandatorily redeemable preferred stock are also treated as interest expense resulting from adoption of SFAS No. 150 Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of both Liabilities and Equity, which became effective for periods ending after June 15, 2003. 2002 Interest expense for 2002 was $422 million as compared with $373 million in 2001. The 2002 increase as compared with 2001 reflects higher average debt levels resulting from the acquisitions completed in 2001. Income Taxes 2003 The companys effective tax rate on income from continuing operations for 2003 was 29 percent compared to 31 percent during 2002. The lower rate in 2003 is primarily due to higher research tax credits. The effective tax rate for 2004 is expected to be between 34 and 35 percent. 2002 The companys effective federal income tax rate on income from continuing operations was 31 percent in 2002 and 37 percent in 2001. The lower rate in 2002 reflects the elimination of goodwill amortization, most of which is non deductible, upon adoption of SFAS No. 142 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. Discontinued Operations 2003 The company reported after tax income from discontinued operations of $35 million, net of a goodwill impairment charge of $47 million, during 2003. The $23 million after tax gain from disposal of discontinued operations is primarily attributable to the sale of Life Support and Poly Scientific. The gain (loss) on disposal of discontinued operations includes any gain or loss from completed dispositions, as well as the estimated loss from those businesses expected to be sold at a loss, where the sale has not yet been completed. Gains realized on the sale of any discontinued businesses are reported in the period in which the divestiture is complete. 2002 Income (loss) from discontinued operations in 2002 and 2001 includes the results of operations of the Electron Devices and Ruggedized Displays businesses, which were sold in 2002, and the Component Technologies businesses. Loss from discontinued operations in 2002 includes a goodwill impairment loss of $186 million after tax. Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change Effective January 1, 2002, the company adopted SFAS No. 142 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, which implemented required disclosure provisions and eliminated the amortization of goodwill. During the second quarter of 2002, the company completed the first step of the required initial test for potential impairment of goodwill as of January 1, 2002. The company used a discounted cash flow approach, corroborated by comparative market multiples, where appropriate, to determine the fair value of its reporting units. The results indicated potential impairment only in the reporting units of the Component Technologies sector due to unfavorable market conditions. During the third quarter of 2002, the company completed the measurement of the Component Technologies goodwill impairment as of January 1, 2002, and recorded a noncash, after tax charge of $432 million, or $3.67 per diluted share, which is reported as Cumulative effect of accounting change. For additional information see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Part II, Item 8. BACKLOG Total backlog at December 31, 2003, was approximately $58.2 billion. Total backlog includes both funded backlog (unfilled orders for which funding is contractually obligated by the customer) and unfunded backlog (firm orders for which funding is not currently contractually obligated by the customer). Unfunded backlog excludes 34 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION unexercised contract options and unfunded Indefinite Delivery/Indefinite Quantity (IDIQ) orders. Major awards in unfunded backlog include the Virginia class submarines 2nd flight and DD(X) programs in the Ships segment, the Kinetic Energy Interceptor program in the Mission Systems segment, the F 35 and E 2 Advanced Hawkeye programs in the Integrated Systems segment, and the NPOESS program in the Space Technology segment. The following table presents funded and unfunded backlog by segment at December 31, 2003. $ in millions Funded Unfunded Total Backlog Electronic Systems $ 6,468 $ 2,314 $ 8,782 Ships 9,749 5,622 15,371 Information Technology 2,163 3,126 5,289 Mission Systems 3,142 6,884 10,026 Integrated Systems 4,217 5,408 9,625 Space Technology 1,558 7,934 9,492 Intersegment Eliminations (431 ) (431 ) Total Segments $ 26,866 $ 31,288 $ 58,154 Backlog is converted into the following years sales as costs are incurred or deliveries are made. Approximately 65 percent of the 2003 year end funded backlog is expected to be converted into sales in 2004. Total U.S. Government orders, including those made on behalf of foreign governments (FMS), comprised 87 percent, 84 percent, and 82 percent of the funded backlog at the end of 2003, 2002, and 2001, respectively. Total foreign customer orders, including FMS, accounted for 9 percent, 13 percent, and 13 percent of the funded backlog at the end of 2003, 2002, and 2001, respectively. Domestic commercial backlog represented 6 percent, 5 percent, and 7 percent of funded backlog at the end of 2003, 2002, and 2001, respectively. 35 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Funded backlog by business area with each segment is provided in the following table. Funded Backlog December 31 $ in millions 2003 2002 2001 Electronic Systems Aerospace Systems $ 2,072 $ 2,474 $ 2,868 C4ISR & Naval Systems 1,313 1,358 764 Defensive Systems 1,152 1,009 959 Navigation Systems 902 834 761 Space Systems 188 288 110 Other 841 526 423 6,468 6,489 5,885 Ships Aircraft Carriers 2,934 3,915 4,369 Surface Combatants 3,261 3,286 2,520 Amphibious and Auxiliary 2,350 2,118 1,779 Submarines 1,070 802 555 Commercial and International 121 213 441 Services and Other 57 27 127 Intrasegment eliminations (44 ) (19 ) 9,749 10,361 9,772 Information Technology Government Information Technology 1,508 1,042 910 Enterprise Information Technology 146 131 115 Technology Services 359 349 333 Commercial Information Technology 150 73 89 2,163 1,595 1,447 Mission Systems Command, Control & Intelligence Systems 1,075 669 Missile Systems 1,146 973 Federal and Civil Information Systems 606 758 Technical and Management Services 360 382 Intrasegment eliminations (45 ) (34 ) 3,142 2,748 Integrated Systems Air Combat Systems 2,225 1,980 1,764 Airborne Early Warning/Electronic Warfare 1,476 1,266 1,193 Airborne Ground Surveillance/Battle Management 516 492 566 4,217 3,738 3,523 Space Technology Intelligence, Surveillance, & Reconnaissance 485 511 Civil Space 195 134 Satellite Communications 283 235 Missile & Space Defense 111 203 Software Defined Radios 382 162 Technology 102 63 1,558 1,308 Intersegment eliminations (431 ) (186 ) (226 ) Total funded backlog $ 26,866 $ 26,053 $ 20,401 36 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Contractual Obligations The following table presents the companys contractual obligations as of December 31, 2003, and the estimated timing of future cash payments: $ in millions Total 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 andbeyond Long term debt $ 5,771 $ 461 $ 1,244 $ 181 $ 3,885 Operating leases 1,761 347 529 355 530 Purchase obligations(1) 8,714 5,899 2,145 205 465 Other long term liabilities(2) 770 78 409 97 186 Total contractual obligations $ 17,016 $ 6,785 $ 4,327 $ 838 $ 5,066 (1) A purchase obligation is defined as an agreement to purchase goods or services that is enforceable and legally binding on the company and that specifies all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. These amounts are primarily comprised of open purchase order commitments to vendors and subcontractors pertaining to funded contracts. (2) Other long term liabilities primarily consist of accrued workers compensation, deferred compensation, and other miscellaneous liabilities. The table above excludes estimated minimum funding requirements for retiree benefit plans as set forth by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA), totaling approximately $3.3 billion over the next five years: $500 million in 2004, $1.5 billion in 2005 and 2006, and $1.3 billion in 2007 and 2008. The company also has payments due under plans that are not required to be funded in advance, but are pay as you go. See further discussion contained in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8. Contractual obligations of discontinued operations have also been excluded from the table above. A discussion of discontinued operations can be found in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8. Further details regarding long term debt and operating leases can be found in Notes 12 and 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8. 37 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Sources and Uses of Cash The following table provides an overview of the companys sources and uses of cash. The amounts from which the percentages are derived are reported in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows as follows: cash from customers and cash to employees and suppliers of services and materials are reported in Operating Activities; cash from buyers of assets, cash to sellers of assets, and cash to suppliers of facilities are reported in Investing Activities; and cash from and cash to lenders and shareholders are reported in Financing Activities. Year ended December 31 2003 2002 2001 Cash came from Customers 85 % 94 % 75 % Buyers of assets/other 13 3 3 Lenders 2 3 18 Shareholders 4 100 % 100 % 100 % Cash went to Employees and suppliers of services and materials 74 % 89 % 70 % Lenders 15 7 10 Suppliers of facilities/other 7 1 1 Sellers of assets 2 2 18 Shareholders 2 1 1 100 % 100 % 100 % Operating Activities 2003 In 2003, cash provided by operating activities was $798 million as compared with $1.7 billion generated in 2002. In 2003, cash used in operations reflects $1 billion of taxes paid upon completion of the B 2 EMD contract. The IRS is presently completing its audits of the B 2 program for the tax years ended December 31, 1997, through December 31, 2000. Upon completion of these audits, the IRS may adopt a position that the B 2 program was completed for tax purposes in a year prior to 2002, which would create the potential for additional interest expense. Although it is not possible to predict the outcome of the tax audits at this time, management believes that its tax accounting for the B 2 program reflects the appropriate timing of contract completion. Presently, the IRS has not commenced its audits for the three tax years ended December 31, 2003. During 2003, the company also received $178 million of federal and state tax refunds and made litigation settlement payments totaling $206 million. At December 31, 2003, net working capital deficit (current assets less current liabilities) was $616 million reflecting a lower cash balance, an increased current portion of long term debt, and increased customer advances. Cash provided by operations for 2004 is expected to total approximately $1.5 billion. For 2004, cash generated from operations supplemented by borrowings under credit facilities are expected to be sufficient to service debt and contract obligations, finance capital expenditures, and continue paying dividends to the companys shareholders. 2002 In 2002, cash provided by operating activities was $1.7 billion as compared with $817 million generated in 2001. The increased level of cash provided in 2002 principally results from inclusion of the Litton and Newport News acquisitions for a full year, increased operating margin over 2001, and accelerated cash collections. Net working capital at December 31, 2002, includes amounts reported as assets and liabilities of businesses held for sale 38 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION which encompasses the assets and liabilities of the Component Technologies sector and Auto. Excluding these items, net adjusted working capital deficit at December 31, 2002, was $566 million, primarily due to increased current taxes payable and customer advances. 2001 The lower level of cash provided by operating activities in 2001 primarily reflected nonrecurring cash payments of approximately $700 million related to the Litton, Newport News, and EIS acquisitions, including change in control payments to employees and funding of pension plans. In addition, the company reached a settlement agreement for antitrust and patent infringement lawsuits filed by Litton against Honeywell, Inc. Under the agreement, Honeywell agreed to pay the company equal cash payments of $220 million in each of 2001 and 2002. The entire $440 million balance due was recorded as a fair value purchase accounting adjustment to accounts receivable in connection with the accounting for the acquisition of Litton. Investing Activities 2003 Cash provided by investing activities was $2.9 billion in 2003. On February 28, 2003, the company sold Auto to The Blackstone Group for $3.3 billion in cash, a $600 million face value payment in kind note, initially valued at $455 million, and a 19.6 percent interest in the new enterprise, valued at $170 million. The cash received from the sale of Auto was adjusted from the sale agreement amount by cash sold with the business, preliminary purchase price adjustments, and an asset retained. Cash proceeds from the sale of Auto were primarily used to reduce debt. In January 2004, restrictions on the investment in Auto were amended to provide the company more flexibility in monetization. The company has retained certain liabilities associated with the Auto business as well as the Aeronautical Systems business that TRW divested in 2002. The settlement of these liabilities is not expected to have a material effect on the companys financial position or results of operations. Capital expenditures in 2003 were $635 million, including $47 million for capitalized software costs. Capital expenditure commitments at December 31, 2003, were approximately $580 million, including $2 million for environmental control and compliance purposes. Capital expenditures for 2004 are expected to be approximately $800 million. 2002 Cash used in investing activities was $118 million in 2002. In 2002, the company sold two businesses for cash of $135 million, incurred $55 million for transaction costs pertaining to the acquisition of TRW, and spent approximately $166 million in cash to complete the Newport News acquisition. In 2002, the company acquired TRW in an all stock transaction. Capital expenditures in 2002 were $521 million, including $30 million for capitalized software costs. 2001 Cash used in investing activities was $3.2 billion in 2001. In 2001, three businesses were acquired, two for cash and stock and one for cash, for a total cash expenditure of $3.1 billion. Capital expenditures in 2001 were $367 million, including $47 million for capitalized software costs. In 2001, the company received $148 million upon collection in full of the note received from the sale of Aerostructures. Financing Activities 2003 Cash used in financing activities was $4.7 billion in 2003. In March 2003, the companys wholly owned subsidiary, Northrop Grumman Space & Mission Systems Corp. (formerly TRW Inc.), commenced offers to purchase any or all of certain designated outstanding Northrop Grumman Space & Mission Systems Corp. debt securities in a debt reduction plan substantially completed in the second quarter of 2003. In the first phase, approximately $2.4 billion in aggregate principal amount of outstanding debt securities was tendered and accepted for purchase, for a total purchase price of approximately $2.9 billion (including accrued and unpaid interest on the securities). In the second phase, the company purchased on the open market $658 million in aggregate principal 39 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION amount for a total purchase price of $795 million (including accrued and unpaid interest on the securities) of Northrop Grumman Space & Mission Systems Corp. debt securities. Cash proceeds from the sale of Auto were used to complete these transactions, which contributed to the reduction of long term debt to $5.9 billion at December 31, 2003, from the $9.6 billion reported at December 31, 2002. In the third quarter of 2003, the company approved a share repurchase program of up to $700 million of its outstanding common stock. Share purchases will take place at managements discretion from time to time, depending on market conditions, in the open market and in privately negotiated transactions through the end of 2004. As of December 31, 2003, the company had repurchased over 2.2 million shares for approximately $200 million. The company expects a portion of its 2004 cash flow will be focused on completing the repurchase program. The company redeemed all outstanding shares of TRW Automotive Inc. Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock for $117 million in 2003. 2002 Cash of $623 million was used in financing activities in 2002. The use of cash in 2002 results from principal payments of long term debt of $500 million and dividends paid to shareholders of $205 million. 2001 Cash provided by financing activities was $2.5 billion in 2001. In February 2001, Northrop Systems issued $1.5 billion of indebtedness pursuant to its senior debt indenture consisting of $750 million of 7.125 percent notes due 2011 and $750 million of 7.75 percent debentures due 2031. In 2001, the company also issued 9.2 million shares of common stock and 6.9 million equity security units, generating cash proceeds of $1.45 billion. The cash proceeds were used primarily to reduce existing debt. Credit Facilities In connection with the closing of the Litton acquisition, the company entered into unsecured senior credit facilities with lenders which initially provided for borrowings of up to $5 billion (the Credit Facilities) and replaced the companys previous credit agreement. The Credit Facilities consisted of a $2.5 billion 364 day revolving credit facility and a $2.5 billion five year revolving credit facility. The 364 day facility was terminated by the company in December 2001. At December 31, 2003, $2.5 billion was available under the five year revolving credit facility. Borrowings under the Credit Facilities, together with the proceeds of the February 2001 issuance of notes and debentures, were used to finance the Litton acquisition and to pay related expenses, to retire and refinance a portion of the Litton debt, and to finance continuing operations. Borrowings under the Credit Facilities bear interest at various rates, including adjusted London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), or an alternate base rate plus, in each case, an incremental margin based on the companys credit rating. The Credit Facilities also provide for a facility fee on the daily aggregate amount of commitments under the revolving facilities (whether or not utilized). The facility fee is also based on the companys credit rating level. Mandatorily Redeemable Series B Convertible Preferred Stock In connection with the Litton acquisition, the company issued 3.5 million shares of mandatorily redeemable Series B Convertible Preferred Stock in April 2001. Each share of Series B preferred stock has a liquidation value of $100 per share. The liquidation value, plus accrued but unpaid dividends, is payable on April 4, 2021, the mandatory redemption date. The company has the option to redeem all, but not less than all, of the shares of Series B preferred stock at any time after seven years from the date of issuance for a number of shares of the companys common stock equal to the liquidation value plus accrued and unpaid dividends divided by the current market price of common stock determined in relation to the date of redemption. Each share of preferred stock is convertible, at any time, at the option of the holder into the right to receive shares of the companys common stock. Initially, each share is convertible into .911 shares of common stock, subject to adjustment. Holders of preferred stock are entitled to cumulative annual cash dividends of $7 per share, payable quarterly. In any liquidation of the company, each share of preferred stock is entitled to a liquidation preference before any distribution may be made on the companys common stock or any series of 40 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION capital stock that is junior to the Series B preferred stock. In the event of a fundamental change in control of the company, holders of Series B preferred stock also have specified exchange rights into common stock of the company or into specified securities or property of another entity participating in the change in control transaction. Equity Security Units In November 2001, the company issued 6.9 million equity security units. Each equity security unit, issued at $100 per unit, initially consists of a contract to purchase shares of Northrop Grumman common stock on November 16, 2004, and a $100 senior note due 2006. The senior notes due 2006 are reported as long term debt. The senior notes initially bear interest at 5.25 percent per annum, and each equity security unit also pays a contract adjustment payment of 2.0 percent per annum, for a combined yield on the equity security unit of 7.25 percent per annum. Each purchase contract, which is part of the equity security units, will obligate the holder thereof to purchase on November 16, 2004, for $100, the following number of shares of the companys common stock based on the average closing price of the companys common stock over the 20 day trading period ending on the third trading day immediately preceding November 16, 2004: (i) 0.9262 shares if the average closing price equals or exceeds $107.97, (ii) a number of shares having a value equal to $100.00 if the average closing price is less than $107.97 but greater than $88.50 and (iii) 1.1299 shares if the average closing price is less than or equal to $88.50. Prior to November 16, 2004, holders of equity security units have the opportunity to participate in a remarketing of the senior note component. Other Sources and Uses of Capital Additional Capital To provide for long term liquidity, the company believes it can obtain additional capital from such sources as: the public or private capital markets, the further sale of assets, sale and leaseback of operating assets, and leasing rather than purchasing new assets. Cash on hand at the beginning of the year plus cash generated from operations and cash available under credit lines are expected to be sufficient in 2004 to service debt, finance capital expansion projects, pay federal income taxes, and continue paying dividends to shareholders. The company will continue to provide the productive capacity to perform its existing contracts, prepare for future contracts, and conduct R&D in the pursuit of developing opportunities. While these expenditures tend to limit short term liquidity, they are made with the intention of improving the long term growth and profitability of the company. Financial Arrangements In the ordinary course of business, the company uses standby letters of credit issued by commercial banks and surety bonds issued by insurance companies principally to guarantee performance on certain contracts and to support the companys self insured workers compensation plans. At December 31, 2003, there were $619 million of stand by letters of credit outstanding and $584 million of surety bonds outstanding. Other Agreements In July and August of 2003, Ship Systems executed agreements with the states of Mississippi and Louisiana, respectively, wherein Ship Systems will lease facility improvements and equipment from these states in exchange for certain commitments by Ship Systems. Under the Mississippi agreement, Ship Systems is required to match the states funding with expenditures in the amount of $121 million and create 667 new full time jobs in Mississippi by December 2007. Under the Louisiana agreement, Ship Systems is required to match the states funding with expenditures in the amount of $56 million by December 2007, and employ a minimum of 5,200 full time employees in 16 of the 32 fiscal quarters beginning January 1, 2003, and ending December 31, 2010. Failure by Ship Systems to meet these commitments would result in reimbursement by Ship Systems to Mississippi and Louisiana in accordance with the respective agreements. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES, ESTIMATES, AND JUDGMENTS The companys established policies are outlined in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements (contained in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10 K). The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses as well as the 41 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. As part of its oversight responsibilities, management evaluates the propriety of its estimates, judgments, and accounting methods as new events occur. Management believes that its policies, judgments, and assessments have been consistently applied in a manner that provides the reader of the companys financial statements a current, accurate, and complete presentation of information in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Management periodically reviews the companys critical accounting estimates with the audit committee of its board of directors. Principal accounting practices that involve a higher degree of judgment or complexity are outlined below: Revenue Recognition As a defense contractor engaging in long term contracts, the company extensively utilizes the cost to cost and the units of delivery measures of the percentage of completion method of accounting. Application of this accounting method requires the use of estimates of costs to be incurred for the design, manufacture, and delivery of aircraft carriers, submarines, aircraft and subassemblies, radars, intricate components and systems for space communications, as well as the engineering, development, and integration of software systems and other highly technical products. Such costs are typically incurred over a period of several years, and estimation of these costs requires the use of judgment. The cost estimation process is based upon the professional knowledge and experience of the companys engineers, program managers, and financial professionals. Factors that are considered in estimating the work to be completed and ultimate contract recovery include the availability and productivity of labor, the nature and complexity of the work to be performed, the effect of change orders, the availability of materials, the effect of any delays in performance, availability and timing of funding from the customer, and the recoverability of any claims included in the estimates to complete. A significant change in an estimate on one or more programs could have a material effect on the companys results of operations. Contract cost estimates are updated at least annually and more frequently in certain circumstances. Cost and revenue estimates for each significant contract are reviewed and reassessed quarterly. Sales under cost reimbursement contracts are recorded as costs are incurred. Certain contracts contain profit incentives based upon performance relative to predetermined targets that may occur during or subsequent to delivery of the product. Incentives that can be reasonably estimated are recorded over the performance period of the contract. Incentives that cannot be reasonably estimated are recorded when awarded. Certain contracts contain provisions for the redetermination of price based upon future economic conditions. Contract change orders and claims are included in sales when they can be reasonably estimated and realization is probable. Purchase Accounting and Goodwill The purchase price of an acquired business is allocated to the underlying tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based upon their respective fair market values, with the excess recorded as goodwill. Such fair market value assessments require judgments and estimates that can be affected by contract performance and other factors over time that may cause final amounts to differ from original estimates. The company evaluates the recovery of recorded goodwill amounts annually, or when evidence of potential impairment exists. In order to test for potential impairment, the company uses a discounted cash flow analysis, corroborated by comparative market multiples, where appropriate. The principal factors used in the discounted cash flow analysis requiring judgment are the weighted average cost of capital and the terminal value growth rate assumptions. Differences in these assumptions, within a range considered by management to be reasonable, applied to the 2003 annual impairment test, would not have had a significant impact to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The company has established certain accruals in connection with indemnities and other contingencies arising from its acquisitions and divestitures. These accruals and subsequent adjustments have been recorded during the 42 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION purchase price allocation period. The accruals were determined based upon the terms of the purchase agreements and, in most cases, involve a significant degree of judgment. Management has recorded these accruals in accordance with its interpretation of the terms of the purchase agreements, known facts, and an estimation of probable future events based on managements experience and consultation with outside experts. Changes in facts and interpretation or anticipated future events may have a significant impact on the companys financial condition or results of operations. Litigation, Commitments, and Contingencies The company is subject to a range of claims, lawsuits, environmental and income tax matters, and administrative proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business. Estimating liabilities and costs associated with these matters requires judgment and assessment based upon professional knowledge and experience of management and its legal counsel. In accordance with SFAS No. 5 Accounting for Contingencies, amounts are recorded as charges to earnings when management, after taking into consideration the facts and circumstances of each matter, including any settlement offers, has determined that it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. The ultimate resolution of any such exposure to the company may vary from earlier estimates as further facts and circumstances become known. The company is subject to the environmental laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which it conducts operations. The company records an accrual to provide for the costs of expected environmental obligations when management becomes aware that an expenditure will be required. Factors which could result in changes to the companys environmental accruals and reasonably possible range of loss include: modification of planned remedial actions, increase or decrease in the estimated time required to remediate, discovery of more extensive contamination than anticipated, changes in laws and regulations affecting remediation requirements, and improvements in remediation technology. The company believes it complies with environmental laws applicable to its operations. The company does not believe that continued compliance with these environmental laws will have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations. However, a significant change in laws, the discovery of previously unknown contamination, and other factors could result in expenditures that are materially greater than currently estimated. Retirement Benefits Assumptions used in determining projected benefit obligations and the fair values of plan assets for the companys pension plans and other post retirement benefits plans are regularly evaluated by management in consultation with outside actuaries who are relied upon as experts. In the event that the company determines that changes in the assumptions are warranted, future pension and post retirement benefit expenses could increase or decrease. The principal assumptions that have a significant impact on the financial condition and operating results of the company are the discount rate, the expected long term rate of return on plan assets, and the health care cost trend rates. The discount rate represents the interest rate that should be used to determine the present value of future cash flows currently expected to be required to settle the pension and post retirement benefit obligations. The discount rate is generally based on the yield on high quality corporate fixed income investments. At the end of each year, the appropriate discount rate is determined based on consultation with outside actuaries, consideration of survey results, the Moodys Aa corporate bond rate, and the results of a hypothetical long term bond portfolio matching the expected cash inflows with the expected benefit payments. Taking into consideration the factors noted above, the company lowered the discount rate to 6.25 percent at December 31, 2003, from 6.5 percent at December 31, 2002. The expected long term rate of return on plan assets represents the average rate of earnings expected on the funds invested to provide for anticipated benefit payments. For 2003, the company assumed an expected long term rate 43 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION of return on plan assets of 9 percent. On average, the actual return on plan assets over the long term has exceeded 9 percent; however, for 2004, the expected long term rate of return assumption was lowered from 9 percent to 8.75 percent, reflecting the generally expected moderation of long term rates of return in the financial markets. The health care cost trend rates represent the annual rate of change in the cost of health care benefits based on estimates of health care inflation, changes in health care utilization or delivery patterns, technological advances, and changes in the health status of the plan participants. Differences in the discount rate, expected long term rate of return on plan assets, and the health care cost trend rates within reasonably likely ranges would have had the following impact on 2003 results: $ in millions .25 Percentage Point Increase .25 Percentage Point Decrease Increase (decrease) to pension expense resulting from Change in discount rate $ (36 ) $ 37 Change in long term rate of return on plan assets (34 ) 34 $ in millions 1 Percentage Point Increase 1 Percentage Point Decrease Increase (decrease) from change in health care cost trend rates to Postretirement benefit expense $ 26 $ (22 ) Postretirement benefit liability 286 (242 ) OTHER MATTERS New Accounting Pronouncements Several new accounting pronouncements were issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), which became effective during the periods presented. In June 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 Business Combinations and SFAS No. 142 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. SFAS No. 141 requires the purchase method of accounting for business combinations initiated after June 30, 2001, and eliminates the pooling of interests method. Adoption of SFAS No. 141 did not have a significant effect on the companys financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. SFAS No. 142 changed the accounting for goodwill from an amortization method to an impairment only approach. Upon adoption of this statement, amortization of goodwill, including goodwill recorded in past business combinations, ceased and an initial impairment assessment of goodwill was performed. Annual impairment tests are required thereafter. The company adopted SFAS No. 142 on January 1, 2002, and recorded an initial goodwill impairment charge of $432 million, which is reported under the income statement caption Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change. No other new pronouncement effective during the periods presented had a significant effect on the companys financial position or results of operations. Other new pronouncements issued by the FASB and not effective until after December 31, 2003, are not expected to have a significant effect on the companys financial position or results of operations. Further details are contained in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements located in Part II, Item 8. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements As of December 31, 2003, the company had no significant off balance sheet arrangements. 44 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS AND IMPORTANT FACTORS Certain statements and assumptions throughout this report contain or are based on forward looking information (that Northrop Grumman believes to be within the definition in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) and involve risks and uncertainties, and include, among others, statements in the future tense, and all statements accompanied by terms such as believe, project, expect, estimate, assume, intend, anticipate, and variations thereof and similar terms. This information reflects the companys best estimates when made, but the company expressly disclaims any duty to update this information if new data becomes available or estimates change after the date of this report. These forward looking statements should, therefore, be considered in light of various important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from estimates or projections including, without limitation: The company depends on a limited number of customers. The company is heavily dependent on government contracts, many of which are only partially funded. The termination or failure to fund one or more significant contracts could have a negative impact on operations. The company is a supplier, either directly or as a subcontractor or team member, to the U.S. Government and its agencies as well as foreign governments and agencies. These contracts are subject to each customers political and budgetary constraints, changes in short range and long range plans, the timing of contract awards, the congressional budget authorization and appropriation processes, the governments ability to terminate contracts for convenience or for default, as well as other risks such as contractor suspension or debarment in the event of certain violations of legal and regulatory requirements. Many of the companys contracts are fixed price contracts. While firm, fixed price contracts allow the company to benefit from cost savings, they also expose the company to the risk of cost overruns. If the companys initial estimates used for calculating contract prices are incorrect, the company can incur losses on those contracts. In addition, some of the companys contracts have provisions relating to cost controls and audit rights, and if the company fails to meet the terms specified in those contracts, then the company may not realize their full benefits. The companys ability to manage costs on these contracts may affect its financial condition. Lower earnings caused by cost overruns would have an adverse effect on the companys financial results. In addition, in those instances where the company has entered into contracts for fixed price development programs, the companys successful performance of such programs is subject to its ability to control cost growth in meeting production specifications and delivery rates. The company is subject to significant competition. The companys markets include defense and commercial areas where it competes with companies of substantial size and resources. The companys success or failure in winning new contracts or follow on orders for its existing or future products may cause material fluctuations in the companys future revenues and operating results. The companys operations may be subject to events that cause adverse effects on its ability to meet contract obligations within anticipated cost and time constraints. The company may encounter internal problems and delays in delivery as a result of issues with respect to design, technology, licensing and patent rights, labor, or materials and components that prevent the company from achieving contract requirements. The company may be affected by delivery or performance issues with key suppliers and subcontractors, as well as other factors inherent in the companys businesses that may cause operating results to be adversely affected. Operating results are also dependent on successful negotiation of collective bargaining agreements. Changes in inventory requirements or other production cost increases may also have a negative impact on the companys operating results. If the company does not perform its plans as intended, or if the company encounters unforeseen problems, or problems subsequently develop, the companys operating results may be adversely affected. Among the factors that may be involved would be unforeseen costs and expenses, and diversion of management focus in responding to unforeseen liabilities. 45 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION The company relies on continuous innovation. The company is dependent upon its ability to anticipate changing needs for defense products, military and civilian electronic systems and support, naval vessels, space technologies, and information technology. The companys success is dependent on designing new products that will respond to such requirements within customers price limitations. The company faces significant challenges in the international marketplace. The companys international business is subject to changes in import and export policies, technology transfer restrictions, limitations imposed by United States law that are not applicable to foreign competitors, and other legal, financial, and governmental risks. The company assumes that any divestiture of non core businesses and assets will be completed successfully. The companys performance may be affected by its inability to successfully dispose of assets and businesses that do not fit with, or are no longer appropriate to, the companys strategic plan. If any sales of such businesses or assets can be made only at a loss, the companys earnings will be reduced. The company is subject to environmental litigation and other litigation, which, if not resolved within the companys expectation, could reduce future operating results. The companys pension (expense) income may fluctuate significantly. Pension (expense) income is based on assumptions of future market performance, and actual performance may differ. If an event requires the company to reestimate its pension (expense) income during the year, its reported earnings could vary significantly. The companys tax filings are regularly examined by federal and state taxing authorities. Results of these examinations can result in tax deficiencies, cumulative interest payments, fines, and penalties. Such assessments could negatively affect the companys results of operations, financial condition, and or cash flow. The company intends that all forward looking statements it makes will be subject to safe harbor protection of the federal securities laws as found in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Accordingly, you should not rely on the accuracy of predictions contained in forward looking statements. These statements speak only as of the date when they are made. The company cannot undertake any obligation to update its forward looking statements to reflect events, circumstances, changes in expectations, or the occurrence of unanticipated events after the date of those statements. Moreover, in the future, the company, through its senior management, may make forward looking statements about the matters described in this document or other matters concerning the company. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Interest Rates The company is exposed to market risk, primarily related to interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. Financial instruments subject to interest rate risk include fixed rate long term debt obligations, variable rate short term debt outstanding under the credit agreement, short term investments, and long term notes receivable. At December 31, 2003, substantially all borrowings were fixed rate long term debt obligations of which a significant portion are not callable until maturity. The companys sensitivity to a 1 percent change in interest rates is tied to its $2.5 billion credit agreement, which has no balance outstanding at December 31, 2003. The company may enter into interest rate swap agreements to manage its exposure to interest rate fluctuations. At December 31, 2003, no interest rate swap agreements were in effect. Foreign Currency The company enters into foreign currency forward contracts to manage foreign currency exchange rate risk related to receipts from customers and payments to suppliers denominated in foreign currencies. At December 31, 2003, the amount of foreign currency forward contracts outstanding was not material. The company does not consider the market risk exposure relating to foreign currency exchange to be material. 46 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Derivatives The company does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. Standby letters of credit are sometimes used by the company to guarantee future performance on its contracts. All letters of credit are short term and denominated in U.S. dollars to avoid market risk exposures. RFMD and Celera In connection with the TRW acquisition, the company acquired investments in RF Micro Devices, Inc. (RFMD) and Applera Corporation Celera Genomics Group (Celera), two publicly traded companies. These investments had been monetized through the execution of forward share sale agreements. The company also acquired certain hedges designed to protect the forecasted cash flows resulting from the future sale of shares in these investments. These hedges also mitigate any downside risk of loss and provide for additional gain depending on market conditions at maturity. The investments in RFMD and Celera and the related hedge portion of the forward share sale agreements are carried at their respective fair market values. As of December 31, 2003, all but 1.3 million RFMD shares have been delivered and all Celera shares have been delivered. As the value of the investments and the hedge were equivalent during the period that the shares were held by the company, no gain or loss was realized. The fair value of the remaining RFMD shares at December 31, 2003, excluding the effect of the forward share sale agreements, was approximately $13 million. In February 2004, the remaining RFMD shares were delivered and no gain or loss was realized. 47 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION 
 
