Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations OVERVIEW Northrop Grumman provides technologically advanced, innovative products, services, and solutions in defense and commercial electronics, nuclear and non nuclear shipbuilding, information technology, mission systems, systems integration, and space technology. As a prime contractor, principal subcontractor, partner, or preferred supplier, Northrop Grumman participates in many high priority defense and commercial technology programs in the United States and abroad. Northrop Grumman conducts most of its business with the United States (U.S.) Government, principally the Department of Defense (DoD). The company also conducts business with foreign governments and makes domestic and international commercial sales. 2004 Results Selected financial highlights are presented in the table below. $ in millions, except per share 2004 2003 Sales and service revenues $ 29,853 $ 26,396 Operating margin 2,006 1,468 Income from continuing operations 1,093 758 Net income 1,084 866 Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations 2.99 2.03 Diluted earnings per share 2.97 2.32 Net cash provided by operating activities 1,936 798 Sales and Service Revenues Sales in 2004 increased approximately $3.5 billion, or 13 percent, over 2003 due to higher revenue in each of the companys business segments, including sales growth of 23 percent at Integrated Systems, 19 percent at Mission Systems, 16 percent at Space Technology, and 15 percent at Ships. The revenue growth at Integrated Systems was due primarily to increases of 51 percent and 16 percent in the Airborne Early Warning/Electronic Warfare Systems and Air Combat Systems business areas, respectively. The Mission Systems increase was driven by a 24 percent increase in the Command, Control and Intelligence Systems business area and a 19 percent increase in the Missile Systems business area. The increase in Space Technology revenues was led by increases of 41 percent, 22 percent, and 18 percent in its Software Defined Radios, Civil Space, and Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance business areas, respectively. Revenue growth at Ships was due primarily to increases of 34 percent in the Amphibious and Auxiliary business area, 26 percent in the Surface Combatants business area, and 16 percent in the Submarines business area. Operating Margin Operating margin for 2004 increased $538 million, or 37 percent, as compared with 2003, reflecting a $389 million increase in operating performance from the segments and a decrease of $218 million in pension expense, which were partially offset by $145 million in higher unallocated expenses. The 2004 operating margin includes a pre tax charge of $60 million for increased projected costs for the F 16 Block 60 fixed price development program and a pre tax charge of $52 million for increased projected costs for the Multi role Electronically Scanned Array (MESA) radar system for the Australian Defence Forces Project Wedgetail fixed price development program, both reported in the Electronic Systems segment. Operating margin for 2003 included a pre tax charge of $69 million for the commercial Polar Tanker program reported in the Ships segment, a pre tax charge of $40 million for the F 16 Block 60 fixed price development program reported in the Electronic Systems segment, and a pre tax charge of $31 million for the adjustment to fair market value of the remaining Component Technologies (CT) businesses reclassified to continuing operations. 15 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Operating margin for 2004 includes pension expense recognized in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America totaling $350 million, a decrease of 38 percent from 2003 primarily due to improved 2003 asset returns partially offset by a lower discount rate and a lower than expected long term rate of return on plan assets. Pension expense allocated to contracts pursuant to U.S. Government Cost Accounting Standards (CAS) increased operating margin by $338 million in 2004 and $265 million in 2003. The increase in unallocated expenses is primarily due to higher legal costs, which include 2004 provisions related to the resolution of the Allison Gas Turbine and Robinson litigation (see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8), as well as higher mark to market stock compensation expense and deferred state income taxes. Income from Continuing Operations Income from continuing operations for 2004 increased $335 million, or 44 percent, as compared with 2003. This increase reflects improved operating margin performance and $66 million in lower interest expense due to a reduction in fixed rate debt as a result of the companys debt restructuring plan, which was substantially completed by the end of the second quarter of 2003. These increases were partially offset by several one time charges in 2004 recorded in Other, net, including a $15 million foreign currency exchange loss on the liquidation of a subsidiary loan, a $13 million expense related to the early retirement of $250 million 9.375 percent debentures due 2024, and a $9 million loss on the sale of the payment in kind note receivable from TRW Automotive Holdings Corp. The companys effective tax rate on income from continuing operations for 2004 was 32 percent compared to 28 percent for 2003. The higher rate in 2004 is primarily due to the reduced effect of research and development tax credits. The company recognized research and development tax credits of $20 million and $51 million for the years ended December 31, 2004, and 2003, respectively. Net Income Net income for 2004 increased $218 million, or 25 percent, as compared with 2003, which included a $117 million decrease from discontinued operations. The results of discontinued operations for 2003 included the January and February operating results of TRWs automotive business (Auto), which was sold in February 2003. The loss on disposal of discontinued operations in 2004 was primarily due to the resolution of indemnities and other contractual issues resulting from previously disposed entities. The gain on disposal of discontinued operations in 2003 resulted from sales of certain CT businesses during the year. Diluted Earnings per Share Diluted earnings per share for 2004 was $2.97 per share, an increase of 28 percent from $2.32 per share in 2003. Earnings per share are based on weighted average diluted shares outstanding of 365.0 million for 2004 and 368.4 million for 2003. Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities in 2004 increased $1.1 billion as compared with 2003. Net cash provided by operating activities in 2004 includes contributions to the companys pension plans totaling $623 million, of which $250 million was voluntarily pre funded in the fourth quarter, as compared to contributions of $329 million in 2003. Net cash provided by operating activities in 2003 includes a $1 billion tax payment related to the completion of the B 2 Engineering and Manufacturing Development (EMD) contract. Outlook United States defense contractors have benefited from the upward trend in overall defense spending over recent years. While the current defense budget forecast shows a slower rate of growth than in prior years, and certain 16 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION programs in which the company participates may be subject to potential reductions, the company believes that its portfolio of technologically advanced, innovative products, services, and solutions in systems integration, defense electronics, information technology, advanced aircraft, shipbuilding, and space technology will generate revenue growth in 2005 and beyond. In 2005, based on total backlog (funded and unfunded) of approximately $58 billion as of December 31, 2004, and its opportunity to win future programs, the company expects sales to range between $31 billion and $31.5 billion and continued improvements in net income and net cash provided by operating activities over 2004. The major industry and economic factors that will affect the companys future performance are described in the following paragraphs. Industry Factors While Northrop Grumman is subject to the usual vagaries of the marketplace, it is also affected by the unique characteristics of the defense industry and by certain elements peculiar to its own business mix. Northrop Grumman, along with Lockheed Martin Corporation (Lockheed Martin), The Boeing Company (Boeing), Raytheon Company (Raytheon), and General Dynamics Corporation (General Dynamics) are among the largest companies in the defense industry at this time. Northrop Grumman competes against these and other companies for a number of programs, both large and small. Intense competition and long operating cycles are both key characteristics of Northrop Grummans business and the defense industry. It is common in this industry for work on major programs to be shared among a number of companies. A company competing to be a prime contractor may, upon ultimate award of the contract, turn out to be a subcontractor. It is not uncommon to compete with a peer company and, simultaneously on other contracts, to be either a supplier to or a customer of such competitor. The nature of major defense programs, conducted under binding contracts, allows companies that perform well to benefit from a level of program continuity unknown in many industries. The companys success in the competitive defense industry depends upon its ability to develop and market its products, as well as its ability to provide the people, facilities, equipment, and financial capacity needed to deliver those products with maximum efficiency. It is necessary to maintain, as the company has, sources for raw materials, fabricated parts, electronic components, and major subassemblies. In this manufacturing and systems integration environment, effective oversight of subcontractors and suppliers is as vital to success as managing internal operations. Northrop Grummans operating policies are designed to achieve these objectives. Economic Opportunities, Challenges, and Risks The defense of the United States and other North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) countries requires the ability to respond to one or more regional conflicts, terrorist acts, or threats to homeland security, and is increasingly more dependent upon proactive threat identification. Such engagements may require unilateral or cooperative initiatives ranging from passive surveillance to active engagement, deterrence, policing, or peacekeeping. In addition, the DoDs strategy continues to be affected by the general publics concern for placing military or civilian personnel at risk. As a result of these trends, both the United States and other NATO countries are increasingly relying on sophisticated weapon systems that provide long range surveillance and intelligence, battle management, and precision strike capabilities combined with the ability to rapidly deploy complete defensive platforms around the world. Accordingly, defense procurement spending is expected to be weighted towards the development and procurement of advanced electronics and software that enhance the capabilities of individual weapons systems and provide for the real time integration of individual surveillance, information management, strike, and battle management platforms. United States defense contractors have benefited from the upward trend in overall defense spending over recent years. Defense spending in NATO countries has stabilized, while those countries continue to increase their focus upon the development and procurement of advanced electronics and information systems capabilities. Although the ultimate size of future defense budgets remains uncertain, the 2006 budget submitted by the President of the United States indicates that the defense budget will increase approximately $83 billion, or 20 percent, over the next five years. While this budget includes proposed reductions for certain programs in which the company 17 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION participates (for example, CVN21, DD(X), Kinetic Energy Interceptors, and Virginia class submarines), the company believes that spending on recapitalization and transformation of homeland security and defense assets will continue to be a national priority, with particular emphasis on areas involving intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance, and national missile defense. Substantial new competitive opportunities for the company include space based radar, transformational communication system, and several international and homeland security programs. The company continues to focus on operational and financial performance for continued growth in 2005 and beyond. U.S. Government programs in which Northrop Grumman either participates, or strives to participate, must compete with other programs for consideration during our nations budget formulation and appropriation processes. Budget decisions made in this environment will have long term consequences for the size and structure of Northrop Grumman and the entire defense industry. Northrop Grumman has historically concentrated its efforts in high technology areas such as stealth, airborne surveillance, battle management, precision weapons, systems integration, defense electronics, and information technology. Through its acquisitions of Litton Industries, Inc. (Litton), Newport News Shipbuilding Inc. (Newport News), and TRW, Inc. (TRW), the company now has a significant presence in federal and civil information systems; the manufacture of a broad range of ships including aircraft carriers and submarines; space technology; command, control & intelligence (C2I), and missile systems. The company believes that its programs are a high priority for national defense, but there remains the possibility that one or more of them may be reduced, extended, or terminated. The company provides certain product warranties that require repair or replacement of non conforming items for a specified period of time. Most of the companys product warranties are provided under government contracts, the costs of which are generally recoverable from the customer. Prime contracts with various agencies of the U.S. Government and subcontracts with other prime contractors are subject to numerous procurement regulations, including the False Claims Act and The International Traffic in Arms Regulation promulgated under the Arms Export Control Act, with noncompliance found by any one agency possibly resulting in fines, penalties, debarment, or suspension from receiving additional contracts with all U.S. Government agencies. Given the companys dependence on U.S. Government business, suspension or debarment could have a material adverse effect on the company. ORGANIZATION, PRODUCTS, AND SERVICES The company is aligned into seven business sectors: Electronic Systems, Newport News, Ship Systems, Information Technology, Mission Systems, Integrated Systems, and Space Technology. For financial reporting purposes, each business sector is a reportable segment with the exception of Newport News and Ship Systems, which are aggregated and reported as the Ships segment in accordance with the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 131 Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information. On October 17, 2002, the company announced its intention to sell the businesses comprising its CT segment. As a result, these businesses were classified as discontinued operations beginning in the third quarter of 2002. Since that announcement, the company has sold all but three of the CT businesses. The remaining operations consist of a manufacturer of complex printed circuit boards, a connector manufacturer, and a European based marketing group. During the third quarter of 2004, the company suspended its efforts to sell these businesses. Accordingly, the assets, liabilities, and results of operations of these businesses have been reclassified from discontinued to continuing operations for all periods presented. These businesses are reported under the segment entitled Other. For additional information, see Notes 5 and 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8. 18 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Segment reporting for Mission Systems and Space Technology, TRW businesses acquired on December 11, 2002, commenced in the first quarter of 2003, as the 2002 results of operations for these new segments were not significant. Effective January 1, 2004, the company realigned businesses among three of its operating segments. For additional information, see Realignment discussion located in the Summary Segment Financial Data section in Part I, Item 1. Effective January 1, 2005, the company transferred management responsibility for two of the three remaining CT businesses to the Electronic Systems segment. These businesses consist of a manufacturer of complex printed circuit boards and an electronic connector manufacturer. The effect of this realignment on the Electronic Systems segments sales and operating margin is not significant. Electronic Systems The Electronic Systems segment, headquartered in Linthicum, Maryland, develops, produces, and supports high performance sensors, intelligence and processing, and navigation systems operating in all environments from undersea to outer space. It also develops, produces, and supports power, power control, and ship controls for naval combatants. The segment is comprised of five major business areas: Aerospace Systems; Command, Control, Communications, Computers, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (C4ISR) & Naval Systems; Defensive Systems; Navigation Systems; Government Systems; Space Systems; and three smaller business areas referred to collectively as Defense Other. Aerospace Systems Aerospace Systems products include sensors and integrated sensor suites which meet military surveillance and precision strike needs. Products cover a wide variety of radar systems for fighter and surveillance aircraft as well as helicopters. Fire control and navigation radars include systems for the F 16, C 130, B 1B, Apache Longbow and F/A 22 aircraft as well as other key avionics systems for the F 16 Block 60 and the F 35 Joint Strike Fighter. Airborne surveillance radar systems include the Airborne Warning and Control System (AWACS) radar, the MESA, the Multi Platform Radar Technology Insertion Program (MP RTIP), and the E 2C Radar Modernization Program (RMP). Other product areas include precision guided munitions for artillery and Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) delivery, night vision goggles, and weapon sights. C4ISR & Naval Systems C4ISR & Naval Systems is a systems oriented business consisting of subsystems and major systems integration programs in C4ISR sensors and processing, ship power propulsion and control systems, and air defense/air traffic control systems. Principal programs include: intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance processing systems; bridge management and controls for naval combatants and commercial marine customers; large air defense systems for foreign states; launch tubes for Trident submarines; the Advanced SEAL Delivery System mini submarine; power generation systems for aircraft carriers; and propulsion systems for the Virginia class submarine. Defensive Systems Defensive Systems provides electronic and infrared countermeasure systems, targeting systems, automatic test equipment, simulation products, and laser systems. Specific products include radar warning receivers, self protection jammers, special receivers, and integrated electronic warfare systems for protecting fixed wing and rotary wing aircraft. Countermeasure products also include the Directional Infrared Countermeasures system, which protects military and commercial fixed wing and rotary wing aircraft from shoulder launched, infrared guided threats. Defensive Systems also provides test systems and training facilities that emulate radars of potential adversaries. Navigation Systems Navigation Systems supplies international and domestic defense and commercial markets with navigation and positioning systems, flight certified computers, multifunction displays, friend or foe identification interrogators/transponders, and integrated avionics packages. Its products are used in commercial space and aircraft 19 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION applications as well as in military air, land, sea, and space systems. Key programs include: integrated avionics for the U.S. Marine Corps attack and utility helicopters as well as U.S. Navy E 2; navigation and positioning systems for the U.S. Air Force F/A 22, Eurofighter, U.S. Navy MH 60, Joint U.S. Air Force U.S. Navy unmanned combat aerial systems, Airbus and Bombardier commercial aircraft, and military/scientific space applications; computers, displays, transponders and friend or foe identification for military applications such as the C 17, Eurofighter and MH 60; and fiber optic acoustic systems for underwater surveillance for Virginia class submarines. Government Systems Government Systems provides products and services for domestic and international defense and government agencies. Products include postal automation and material handling systems, air traffic control communications systems, satellite ground stations, information security, and a variety of security sensors and systems in support of Homeland Defense. Key programs include: Advanced Flat Sorting Machines, International Sorting Centers, Civil Communications, Air Traffic Control Satellite Communications Terminals, United States Postal Service Bio Detection, and Hazardous Duty Robots. Space Systems Space Systems products include visible, infrared, and radio frequency payloads and the associated ground processing for remote sensing applications, such as environmental monitoring, missile warning, and surveillance. Principal programs include the Space Based Infrared Surveillance (SBIRS) program, payloads for restricted programs, the Defense Meteorological Satellite Program (DMSP), the National Polar Orbiting Operational Environmental Satellite System (NPOESS), and the Defense Support Program (DSP). Defense Other Other product and service lines in the Electronic Systems segment include communications, homeland defense, and logistics. It also includes Systems Development and Technology, which develops next generation technologies that support Electronic Systems market areas and position the segment in key developing markets, such as defense against chemical and biological warfare, cyberspace and signals intelligence, electro optics and infrared systems, coherent ladar (laser based radar) technologies, and C4ISR. Ships The Ships segment combines two operating sectors, Newport News, headquartered in Newport News, Virginia, and Ship Systems, headquartered in Pascagoula, Mississippi, and includes the following products and services: Surface Combatants; Aircraft Carriers; Amphibious and Auxiliary; Submarines; Commercial and International; and Services and Other. Surface Combatants Ship Systems builds Surface Combatants, which includes the design and construction of the Arleigh Burke DDG 51 Class Aegis guided missile destroyers; design of DD(X), the Navys future transformational surface combatant class; and the Coast Guards Deepwater Modernization Program. The latter two programs were awarded in 2002. Ship Systems is one of two prime contractors designing and building DDG 51 Class destroyers, which provide primary anti aircraft and anti ship missile protection for the U.S. Navy fleet. Seven Arleigh Burke Class Destroyers are currently under construction with an additional four ships in backlog. The DD(X) program is a $2.9 billion contract to develop and test eleven Engineering Development Models (EDMs) including an Integrated Electric Propulsion System (IPS), an all composite low signature deckhouse with embedded radar and communication apertures, a new stealthy hull form, and a new Peripheral Vertical missile Launching System (PVLS). The contract further provides for incorporating these advanced technologies into the design of the next generation destroyer, DD(X). These technologies are also to be incorporated into the next generation cruiser, CG(X), and many ships already in the fleet, as well as other future new ship classes. Construction of the first DD(X) is scheduled to begin in late 2007 or early 2008. The current DD(X) acquisition plan calls for a dual source sharing of the production phase between the company and Bath Iron Works, a wholly owned subsidiary of General Dynamics. The Navy has indicated that a near term competition for a single source contract would be a more economical solution. The Navys determination is subject to approval by the DoD. In addition, Ship Systems and Lockheed Martin are joint venture partners for the Coast Guards Deepwater Modernization Program. Ship Systems has design and production responsibility for all surface ships, including three new classes of cutters. The program is a 20 year program with the surface ship content having an estimated revenue value of $8.1 billion. 20 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Aircraft Carriers Newport News is the nations sole designer, builder, and refueler of nuclear powered aircraft carriers. The U.S. Navys newest carrier, the USS Ronald Reagan, was redelivered to the fleet in May 2004. Construction on the last carrier in the Nimitz class, the USS George H. W. Bush, continues with the christening scheduled to occur in 2006 and delivery to the U.S. Navy in 2008. Advanced design and preparation continues for the new generation carrier, CVN 21, which will incorporate transformational technologies that will result in manning reductions, improved war fighting capability, and a new nuclear propulsion plant design. The company also provides ongoing maintenance for the U.S. Navy aircraft carrier fleet through overhaul, refueling, and repair work. Newport News is currently performing the overhauling and refueling of the USS Dwight D. Eisenhower with redelivery to the U.S. Navy anticipated in early 2005. Planning for the USS Carl Vinson refueling and overhaul is underway. The USS Carl Vinson is expected to arrive at Newport News in late 2005. Amphibious and Auxiliary Amphibious and Auxiliary programs include the design and construction of amphibious assault ships for the U.S. Navy, including the WASP LHD 1 Class and the San Antonio LPD 17 Class. Ship Systems is the sole provider for the LHD class of large deck, 40,500 ton multipurpose amphibious assault ships, which serve as the centerpiece of an Amphibious Ready Group. Currently, the LHD 8 is under construction and is a significant upgrade from the preceding seven ships. The design and production of the LHD 8 is a $1.6 billion program with delivery scheduled for 2007. Ship Systems is also the sole provider of the LPD 17 class of ships, which function as amphibious transports. There are five LPD 17 ships currently under construction. The initial ship is expected to be delivered in mid 2005. Submarines Newport News is one of only two companies capable of designing and building nuclear powered submarines. In February 1997, the sector and Electric Boat, a wholly owned subsidiary of General Dynamics, reached an agreement to cooperatively build the first four Virginia class nuclear attack submarines over the next 10 years. The lead ship, USS Virginia, was delivered to the U.S. Navy and commissioned into the fleet in October 2004. Newport News christened the USS Texas in July 2004, as progress continues on the remaining two boats of the first block, USS Hawaii and USS North Carolina. Electric Boat and Newport News were awarded a construction contract in August 2003, which was subsequently modified in January 2004, for the second block of six Virginia class submarines. Second block planning and long lead material procurement is underway on the first three boats of the second block. Component material procurement for boats six through ten is also underway. Construction has begun on the first two boats of the second block, USS New Hampshire and USS New Mexico. Commercial and International Ship Systems is under contract to produce five double hulled tankers, of which four ships have been delivered. These tankers each transport one million barrels of crude oil from Alaska to west coast refineries and are fully compliant with the Oil Pollution Act of 1990. The remaining ship is expected to be delivered in the fourth quarter of 2005. Services and Other Newport News and Ship Systems also provide after market services, including on going maintenance and repair work, for a wide array of naval and commercial vessels. The company has ship repair facilities in the U.S. Navys largest homeports of Norfolk, Virginia, and San Diego, California. Information Technology The Information Technology segment, headquartered in northern Virginia, consists of four lines of business: Government Information Technology; Enterprise Information Technology; Commercial Information Technology; and Technology Services. Government Information Technology This business area covers a wide range of large scale systems integration, solutions, and services programs for government customers across the DoD, federal civilian agencies, state and local, and national intelligence agencies. These programs encompass C4ISR, infrastructure systems and services, applied sciences and technology, and training and simulation. Government Information Technology is also the lead business area for the companys Homeland Security (HLS) efforts. HLS solutions include emergency 21 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION operations centers, identity management and identification/authentication, port and border security, training and exercises, cyber warfare modeling, HLS requirements and optimization of systems, and consequence management. C4ISR capabilities include mission planning and rehearsal, battle management command and control systems, tactical communications, satellite systems and applications, and wireless communications solutions. Infrastructure systems and services provides enterprise communications and infrastructure systems, information technology (IT) outsourcing, network operations center IT services, logistics systems, mission support systems, commercial services, and information assurance to a broad range of customers in both the government and commercial marketplaces. In the applied sciences and technology market, products include laser and imaging systems, weapons of mass destruction threat reduction analysis and simulation, systems analysis and modeling, health and applied science systems, and high performance computing. In the training and simulation market, the sector is a prime developer and operator of modeling, simulation and analysis systems, computer driven war gaming and training, flight simulations, knowledge management systems, and mission readiness exercises. Enterprise Information Technology Enterprise Information Technology provides advanced solutions and complex IT products and professional services to both public sector and commercial customers, specifically in two core market segments: enterprise computing and multiservice networking and security. Commercial Information Technology Commercial Information Technology provides IT managed services directed at the commercial market (desktop and server management, hardware and software maintenance, help desk support, system and network administration, and network design) and a wide variety of systems, solutions and services for the state and local marketplace, including emergency response solutions, citizen security systems, and traffic management systems. Technology Services Technology Services includes logistics and weapons range support, training and simulation, facilities management services, flight systems and simulation services, mission integration and planning support, operational support of simulation enhanced training programs, systems integration, information security, data center management, and systems engineering and networking. Mission Systems The Mission Systems segment, headquartered in Reston, Virginia, is a leading global system integrator of complex, mission enabling systems. The segment consists of three lines of business: C2I Systems; Missile Systems; and Technical and Management Services. Command, Control & Intelligence Systems C2I Systems provides a variety of command, control, communications, computers, and intelligence support to the various branches of the U.S. Department of Defense. Offerings include signals intelligence and exploitation systems, system engineering and integration, data collection and operations and maintenance, modeling and product generation, system simulation and integration and test, spacecraft C2 systems, payload control and terminal software, Army and tactical global combat service support, Army management information systems, joint service nuclear, biological and chemical reconnaissance systems, and tactical operation centers, interoperable C2 solutions, mission planning applications, tactical data link products, global command and control systems, interoperability engineering, intelligence gathering, and naval systems engineering support and integration. Missile Systems Missile Systems supports the U. S. integrated Missile Defense system and the Intercontinental Ballistic Missile (ICBM) Program. The integrated Missile Defense system market includes shooters, sensors, battle management command and control, communications, modeling and simulation, and test and evaluation. For this market, the segment provides war games, modeling and simulation, system test and integration, and missile system engineering to the Missile Defense Agency, Boeing, and Lockheed Martin. As prime contractor for the Kinetic Energy Interceptors (KEI) program, the segment is leading development and test activities focused on the boost 22 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION phase element of the Missile Defense Agencys global layered missile defense system. As prime contractor for the ICBM Program Office, the segment offers ICBM domain knowledge, program management, systems engineering and integration, and sustainment and modernization services. Technical and Management Services Technical and Management Services primarily supports the U.S. Department of Defense and the U. S. Department of Homeland Security. Products and services offered include full life cycle design and information systems integration and operations, electromagnetic and infrared analysis, decision support with modeling tools, systems effectiveness evaluation, engineering prototypes and integration, simulation modeling for training resource allocation, multi media training design and delivery, operational support of war fighting and peacekeeping (e.g., linguists and subject matter experts), base operating services, equipment maintenance, logistics and administrative support and freight forwarding services, biometrics, biological agent detection, maneuver and logistics training, force on force exercise development and control, force modernization and integration, and equipment training and fielding. Integrated Systems The Integrated Systems segment, headquartered in El Segundo, California, designs, develops, produces, and supports fully missionized integrated systems and subsystems in the areas of battlespace awareness, command and control systems, and integrated combat systems. The segment is organized into the following product lines: Air Combat Systems (ACS), which includes Unmanned Systems; Airborne Early Warning and Electronic Warfare (AEW/EW) Systems; and Airborne Ground Surveillance and Battle Management (AGS/BM) Systems. Air Combat Systems The principal programs in ACS are subcontractor work on the F/A 18 and F 35 programs, and the Multi Platform Radar Technology Insertion Program (MP RTIP) and prime contract work on the B 2 Program. For the F/A 18, ACS is responsible for approximately 40 percent of the aircraft, including the full integration of the center and aft fuselage and vertical tail sections and associated subsystems. For the F 35, ACS is responsible for the detailed design and integration of the center fuselage and weapon bay, a large part of systems engineering, mission system software, ground and flight test support, signature/low observables development, and support of modeling and simulation activities. ACS is the prime systems integration contractor for the MP RTIP, which will provide advanced radar capabilities for both the Global Hawk Unmanned Aerial Vehicle and the latest Air Force Multi Sensor Command and Control Aircraft (E 10A). ACS is embarking on a robust radar and avionics upgrade program for the B 2 bomber and is a prime integrator for all Logistics support activities including Program Depot Maintenance. The principal programs at ACSs Unmanned Systems (UMS) consist of the Global Hawk, J UCAS, and the Vertical Takeoff Unmanned Air Vehicle (VTUAV). UMS is the prime contractor for these product lines with the exception of the VTUAV Future Combat Systems (FCS). The Global Hawk is a high altitude, long endurance unmanned aerial reconnaissance system. The purpose of the J UCAS program is to demonstrate the technical feasibility, military utility, and operational value for a networked system of high performance and weaponized unmanned air vehicles to effectively and affordably prosecute 21st century combat missions. VTUAV is a vertical takeoff and landing tactical UAV system in development and low rate initial production and consists of two versions the Fire Scout for the U.S. Navy and the FCS for the U.S. Army. Airborne Early Warning and Electronic Warfare Systems AEW Systems principal products include the E 2C (Hawkeye) and Advanced Hawkeye aircraft. The Hawkeye is the U.S. Navys airborne battle management command and control mission system providing airborne early warning detection, identification, tracking, targeting and communication capabilities. The company is currently delivering E 2C aircraft to the U.S. Navy and international customers under a multiyear contract, and has also been awarded a follow on multi year contract for eight additional aircraft to be delivered to the U.S. Navy through 2009. The company is developing the next generation capability including radar, mission computer, vehicle, and other system enhancements called the Advanced Hawkeye under a system development and demonstration contract with the U.S. Navy. 23 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION EW Systems principal products include the EA 6B (Prowler) and EA 18G electronic attack aircraft. The EA 6B is currently the armed services only offensive tactical radar jamming aircraft. EW Systems has developed the next generation mission system for this aircraft under the ICAP (Increased Capability) III contract currently in the final test and evaluation phase. Low rate initial production for ICAP III Kits has been authorized. In addition, the company has received a contract to incorporate the ICAP III mission system into a F/A 18 platform designated the EA 18G. Integrated Systems is the principal subcontractor to Boeing for this program currently in the system development and demonstration phase. Airborne Ground Surveillance and Battle Management Systems AGS/BM Systems is the prime contractor on the Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar System (Joint STARS) program. Joint STARS detects, locates, classifies, tracks, and targets potentially hostile ground movement in all weather conditions. It is designed to operate around the clock in constant communication through secure data links with Air Force command posts, Army mobile ground stations, or centers for military analysis far from the point of conflict. One aircraft remains in the delivery contract, scheduled for delivery in early 2005. As Joint STARS nears the end of its production, a follow on system, the E 10A Multi Sensor Command & Control Aircraft (MC2A), is in development and will include the MP RTIP radar. AGS/BM Systems was selected as the prime contractor for the E 10A Weapon System Integration program by the U.S. Air Force in 2003. In September 2004, AGS/BM Systems was awarded a major Battle Management Command & Control (BMC2) subsystem contract. Space Technology The Space Technology sector, headquartered in Redondo Beach, California, develops a broad range of systems at the leading edge of space, defense, and electronics technology. The sector provides products primarily for the U.S. government that contribute significantly to the nations security and leadership in science and technology. The Space Technology business primarily consists of the following major business areas: Intelligence, Surveillance & Reconnaissance (ISR); Civil Space; Software Defined Radios; Satellite Communications (SatCom); Missile & Space Defense; and Technology. Intelligence, Surveillance & Reconnaissance In the ISR business area, the sectors capabilities give the nations monitoring systems a global reach and enhance national security. Addressing requirements in space based intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance systems, the sector provides mission and system engineering, satellite systems, and mission operations. Customers are predominantly restricted, as are the major programs. The Defense Support Program (DSP) is also part of this business area, and has been monitoring ballistic missile launches for the U.S. Air Force for decades. Civil Space The Civil Space business area produces and integrates space based systems, instruments, and services primarily for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), and other governmental agencies. These systems are primarily used for space science, earth observation and environmental monitoring, and exploration missions. A variety of systems and services are provided, including mission and system engineering services, spacecraft and instrument systems, mission operations, and propulsion systems. Major programs include the National Polar orbiting Operational Environmental Satellite System (NPOESS), the James Webb Space Telescope (JWST), Prometheus I (formally the Jupiter Icy Moons Orbiter), the Earth Observing System (EOS), and the legacy Chandra space telescope program. Software Defined Radios Space Technologys Software Defined Radios business area is at the forefront of radio technology, and designs, develops, and produces advanced integrated Communications, Navigation and Identification (CNI) systems, radios, and avionics integration software. The sectors avionics systems represent the eyes and ears of the F/A 22 Raptor jet fighter and F 35 Joint Strike Fighter. Satellite Communications The SatCom business area includes complex satellite communication payloads. Key customers are satellite prime contractors in support of the DoD and other government agencies. Major programs 24 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION include the Advanced Extremely High Frequency (AEHF) payload, and the communication payload for the legacy Milstar program, currently in operation. Missile & Space Defense The Missile & Space Defense business area produces space, air, and ground based systems that detect, track, and destroy missiles. Key capabilities and products include system integration, spacecraft design and development, and high energy laser systems and subsystems. Primary customers include the Missile Defense Agency (MDA), the Air Force, the Army, and other prime contractors. Major programs include the Space Tracking and Surveillance System (STSS), Airborne Laser (ABL), and Mobile Tactical High Energy Laser (MTHEL). Technology The Technology business area consists primarily of government funded research and development (R&D) contracts in support of the five business areas described above. BUSINESSES ACQUIRED The current composition of Northrop Grumman Corporation is the result of a series of strategic acquisitions, mergers, and divestitures. Litton and Newport News In 2001, the company purchased Litton, the Electronics and Information Systems Group of Aerojet General Corporation (EIS), and 80.7 percent of Newport News. On January 18, 2002, the company acquired the remaining shares of Newport News. TRW In December 2002, the company purchased 100 percent of the common stock of TRW valued at approximately $12.5 billion, including the assumption of TRWs debt of $4.8 billion. The company issued approximately 139 million shares of its common stock, with cash paid in lieu of any fractional share of the companys stock, which otherwise would be issued to the TRW shareholders. The consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2002, reflect preliminary estimates of the fair market value for purchased intangibles, retiree benefits assets and liabilities, and debt as well as preliminary estimates of adjustments necessary to conform TRW to the companys accounting policies. Auto was included in the total TRW valuation and was valued and recorded at its sale price, which represents its fair market value. As of December 31, 2003, the company completed the fair market value and accounting conformance evaluation process for TRW and recorded an aggregate increase to goodwill of $1.6 billion. BUSINESSES SOLD AND DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS TRW Auto On February 28, 2003, the company sold Auto to The Blackstone Group for $3.3 billion in cash, a $600 million face value payment in kind note, initially valued at $455 million, and a 19.6 percent interest in the new enterprise, initially valued at $170 million. The acquirer also assumed debt of approximately $200 million. The cash received from the sale of Auto was adjusted from the sale agreement amount by cash sold with the business, purchase price adjustments, and an asset retained. Cash proceeds from the sale were primarily used to reduce debt. In January 2004, the restrictions on the investment in Auto were amended to provide the company more flexibility in monetization. In February 2004, the companys investment in Auto was diluted to 17.2 percent as a result of Autos initial public offering. On October 10, 2004, the company reached an agreement with TRW Automotive Holdings Corp. to sell the payment in kind note and settle certain other contractual issues arising from the Auto sale. At the date of the agreement, the note, including accrued interest, had a carrying value of $543 million. The company also resolved 25 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION an indemnification of other postretirement employee benefits pursuant to the Auto sale agreement, and agreed to pay The Blackstone Group $52.5 million. As a result of the agreement, the company recorded a $9 million after tax charge to continuing operations relating to the sale of the note, and a $6 million after tax charge to discontinued operations related to the settlement of the indemnification and other contractual issues. In November 2004, the company received $493.5 million for the sale of the note, which was net of $40.5 million for settlement of the contractual issues, and paid $52.5 million for settlement of the indemnification. Goodrich The company assumed through its acquisition of TRW certain post closing liabilities retained by TRW in connection with TRWs October 2002 sale of its Aeronautical Systems business to Goodrich Corporation (Goodrich). The company and Goodrich agreed to a settlement to resolve certain post closing liabilities related to warranty, customer claims, and certain other matters in exchange for a payment to Goodrich of $99 million. This settlement resulted in a fourth quarter 2004 after tax charge to discontinued operations of $15 million. The settlement excludes amounts associated with claims that Goodrich may assert against the company relating to the Airbus A380 actuation systems development program and certain other liabilities retained by TRW under the original acquisition agreement. Discontinued Operations During the third quarter of 2002, the company concluded that the CT businesses, which were acquired as part of the Litton acquisition, did not fit with the companys long term plans and decided to sell these businesses. Accordingly, the businesses comprising the CT segment were classified as discontinued operations beginning in the third quarter of 2002. The company sold three of the CT businesses in 2003 and a fourth CT business in 2004. None of these sales, either individually or in the aggregate, had a material effect on the companys financial position or results of operations. The three remaining CT businesses consist of a manufacturer of complex printed circuit boards, an electronic connector manufacturer, and a European based marketing group. During the third quarter of 2004, the company suspended its efforts to sell these businesses. Accordingly, the assets, liabilities, and results of operations of these businesses have been reclassified from discontinued to continuing operations for all periods presented. These businesses are reported under the segment entitled Other. Northrop Grumman Canada On December 30, 2004, the company completed the sale of its Canadian navigation systems and space sensors systems businesses for $65 million in cash, and recorded a $9 million after tax gain in discontinued operations. The assets and liabilities as well as the results of operations of the Canadian navigation systems and space sensors systems businesses were not material to any of the periods presented and have therefore not been reclassified as discontinued operations. CONTRACTS The majority of the companys business is generated from long term government contracts for development, production, and service activities. Government contracts typically include the following negotiated cost: direct material, labor and subcontracting costs, and certain indirect costs including allowable general and administrative costs. Unless otherwise specified in a contract, costs billed to contracts with the U.S. Government are determined under the Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR) and government CAS as allowable and allocable costs. Examples of costs incurred by the company and not billed to the U.S. Government based on the FAR and CAS unallowable clauses include, but are not limited to: certain legal costs, mark to market stock compensation expense, lobbying costs, charitable donations, and advertising costs. The companys long term contracts typically fall into one of two broad categories: Cost Reimbursement or Cost Type Contracts Cost type contracts provide for reimbursement of allowable costs incurred plus a fee that represents profit. Cost type contracts generally require that the contractor use best efforts to accomplish the scope of the work within some specified time and some stated dollar limitation. Fixed Price Contracts A fixed price contract is a contract in which the price is a pre determined negotiated amount and not generally subject to adjustment because of costs incurred by the contractor. 26 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION The following table summarizes 2004 revenue recognized by contract type and customer: Contract Type ($ in millions) U.S. Government Other Customers Total Percentof Total Cost Type $ 17,813 $ 525 $ 18,338 61 % Fixed Price 8,153 3,362 11,515 39 Total $ 25,966 $ 3,887 $ 29,853 100 % Contract Fees Negotiated contract fee structures, for both cost type and fixed price contracts may include, but are not limited to: fixed fee amounts, cost sharing arrangements to reward or penalize for either under or over cost target performance, positive award fee, and negative penalty arrangements. Profit margins may vary materially depending on the negotiated contract fee arrangements, percentage of completion of the contract, the achievement of performance objectives, and the stage of performance at which the right to receive fees, particularly under incentive and award fee contracts, is finally determined. Contract Risk Due to their nature, fixed price contracts inherently have more risk than cost type contracts and therefore generally carry higher profit margins. Cost type contracts may carry risk to the extent of their specific contract terms and conditions relating to performance award fees and negative performance incentives. The more significant risk factors relating to the companys contracts are fixed price development contracts and negative performance incentive provisions included in certain cost type and fixed price contracts. Fixed Price Development Contracts Fixed price development work inherently has more uncertainty as to future events than production and therefore more variability in estimates of costs to complete the development stage. As work progresses through the development stage into production, the risks associated with estimating the costs of development are reduced. In addition, successful performance of fixed price development contracts, which include production units, is subject to the companys ability to control cost growth in meeting production specifications and delivery rates. While management uses its best judgment to estimate costs associated with fixed price development programs, future events could result in either upward or downward adjustments to those estimates. Examples of the companys significant fixed price development contracts include the F 16 Block 60 combat avionics program and the MESA radar system for the Australian Defence Forces Project Wedgetail program, both of which are performed by the Electronic Systems segment. It is also not unusual in the Ships segment for the company to negotiate fixed price production follow on contracts before the development effort has been completed and learning curves fully realized on existing contracts. Examples of negotiated fixed price follow on production options or contracts are the Polar Tanker program and the Virginia class submarine program. Positive Award Fees Certain contracts contain provisions consisting of award fee amounts based on performance criteria such as: cost, schedule, quality, and technical ingenuity. Award fees are determined and earned based on the subjective evaluation by the customer of the companys performance against such negotiated criteria. Award fee contracts are widely used throughout the companys operating segments; examples of significant long term contracts with substantial negotiated award fee amounts are the KEI, NPOESS, F 35, LPD, and DD(X) programs. Negative Performance Incentive Provisions Certain contracts, primarily involving space satellite systems, contain provisions that entitle the customer to recover fees in the event of partial or complete failure of the system upon launch or subsequent deployment for a specified period of time. Under such terms, the company could be required to forfeit fees previously recognized and or collected. The company has not experienced any significant losses in the last decade in connection with contract performance incentive provisions. However, if the company were to experience launch failures or complete satellite system failures in the future, such events could have a material impact on the companys financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. 27 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Compliance and Monitoring On a regular basis, the company monitors its policies and procedures with respect to its contracts to ensure consistent application under similar terms and conditions as well as compliance with all applicable government regulations. In addition, costs incurred and allocated to contracts with the U.S. Government are routinely audited by the Defense Contract Audit Agency. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES, ESTIMATES, AND JUDGMENTS The companys significant accounting policies are outlined in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements (see Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10 K). The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses, as well as the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Management is responsible for evaluating the propriety of its estimates, judgments, and accounting methods as new events occur. Management believes that its policies, estimates, and judgments have been consistently applied in a manner that provides the reader of the companys financial statements with a fair presentation of information, in all material respects, in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Management periodically reviews the companys critical accounting policies, estimates, and judgments with the audit committee of its board of directors. Principal accounting practices that involve a higher degree of judgment or complexity are outlined below. Revenue Recognition Overview The company generally recognizes revenue from its long term contracts under the cost to cost and the units of delivery measures of the percentage of completion method of accounting. The percentage of completion method recognizes income as work on a contract progresses. For most contracts, sales are calculated based on the percentage of total costs incurred in relation to total estimated costs at completion of the contract. For certain contracts with large up front purchases of material, primarily in the Ships segment, sales are generally calculated based on the percentage that direct labor costs incurred bear to total estimated direct labor costs. The units of delivery measure is a modification of the percentage of completion method, which recognizes as revenue the contract price of units of a basic production product delivered during a period, and as the cost of product sales the costs allocable to the delivered units; costs allocated to undelivered units are reported in the balance sheet as inventoried costs. The use of the percentage of completion method depends on the ability of the company to make reasonably dependable cost estimates for the design, manufacture, and delivery of its products and services. Such costs are typically incurred over a period of several years, and estimation of these costs requires the use of judgment. Sales under cost type contracts are recorded as costs are incurred. Revenue relating to service contracts is recognized as the services are performed. Application of Accounting Principles The majority of the companys contracts are accounted for under the provisions of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 45 Accounting for Long Term Construction Type Contracts, American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) Statement of Position (SOP) No. 81 1 Accounting for Performance of Construction Type and Certain Production Type Contract, the AICPA Audit and Accounting Guide, Audits of Federal Government Contractors, and AICPA SOP No. 97 2 Software Revenue Recognition, as amended by SOP 98 9. These pronouncements apply to contracts for the construction of facilities, production of goods and services provided to the federal government, and arrangements to deliver software or software systems requiring significant production, modification, or customization. 28 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Cost Estimation The cost estimation process requires significant judgment and is based upon the professional knowledge and experience of the companys engineers, program managers, and financial professionals. Factors that are considered in estimating the work to be completed and ultimate contract recovery include the availability and productivity of labor, the nature and complexity of the work to be performed, the effect of change orders, the availability of materials, the effect of any delays in performance, availability and timing of funding from the customer, and the recoverability of any claims included in the estimates to complete. A significant change in an estimate on one or more programs could have a material effect on the companys financial position or results of operations. Contract cost estimates are updated at least annually and more frequently as determined by events or circumstances. Cost and revenue estimates for each significant contract are generally reviewed and reassessed quarterly. Performance Incentives and Award Fees Many contracts contain positive and negative profit incentives based upon performance relative to predetermined targets that may occur during or subsequent to delivery of the product. These incentives take the form of potential additional fees to be earned or penalties to be incurred. Incentives and award fees that can be reasonably estimated are recorded over the performance period of the contract. Incentives and award fees that cannot be reasonably estimated are recorded when awarded or at such time as a reasonable estimate can be made. Loss Provisions When estimates of total costs to be incurred on a contract exceed total estimates of revenue to be earned, a provision for the entire loss on the contract is recorded to cost of sales in the period the loss is determined. Loss provisions are first offset against costs that are included in inventoried assets, with any remaining amount reflected in liabilities. Other Changes in Estimates Other changes in estimates of contract sales, costs, and profits are recognized using the cumulative catch up method of accounting. This method recognizes in the current period the cumulative effect of the changes on current and prior periods. Hence, the effect of the changes on future periods of contract performance is recognized as if the revised estimates had been the original estimates. A significant change in an estimate on one or more programs could have a material effect on the companys financial position or results of operations. Additional details concerning the companys revenue recognition policy are in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8. Purchase Accounting and Goodwill Overview The purchase price of an acquired business is allocated to the underlying tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based upon their respective fair market values, with the excess recorded as goodwill. Such fair market value assessments require judgments and estimates that can be affected by contract performance and other factors over time that may cause final amounts to differ materially from original estimates. Adjustments to fair value assessments are recorded to goodwill over the purchase price allocation period with the exception of certain adjustments related to income tax uncertainties or restructuring activities, which may extend beyond the purchase price allocation period. Acquisition Accruals The company has established certain accruals in connection with indemnities and other contingencies from its acquisitions and divestitures. These accruals and subsequent adjustments have been recorded during the purchase 29 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION price allocation period for acquisitions and as events occur for divestitures. The accruals were determined based upon the terms of the purchase or sales agreements and, in most cases, involve a significant degree of judgment. Management has recorded these accruals in accordance with its interpretation of the terms of the purchase or sale agreements, known facts, and an estimation of probable future events based on managements experience and consultation with outside experts. Goodwill The company evaluates the recoverability of recorded goodwill amounts annually, or when evidence of potential impairment exists, in accordance with SFAS No. 142 Goodwill and Other Intangibles Assets. In order to test for potential impairment, the company uses a discounted cash flow analysis, corroborated by comparative market multiples where appropriate. The principal factors used in the discounted cash flow analysis requiring judgment are the weighted average cost of capital (WACC) and the terminal value growth rate assumptions. The WACC takes into account the relative weights of each component of the companys consolidated capital structure (equity and debt) and represents the expected cost of new capital adjusted as appropriate to consider lower risk profiles associated with longer term contracts and barriers to market entry. The terminal value growth rates are applied to the final year of the discounted cash flow model. The terminal value growth rate used for testing purposes in 2004 approximates the estimated long term inflation rate. Due to the many variables inherent in the estimation of a reporting units fair value, differences in assumptions may have a material effect on the results of the companys impairment analysis. Differences in assumptions within a range considered by management to be reasonable, applied to the 2004 annual goodwill impairment tests, would not have resulted in a significant adjustment to recorded goodwill. Litigation and Contingencies Overview In accordance with SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies, amounts are recorded as charges to earnings when management, after taking into consideration the facts and circumstances of each matter, including any settlement offers, has determined that it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. The ultimate resolution of any such exposure to the company may vary from earlier estimates as further facts and circumstances become known. The company is subject to a range of claims, lawsuits, environmental and income tax matters, and administrative proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business. Estimating liabilities and costs associated with these matters requires judgment and assessment based upon professional knowledge and experience of management and its legal counsel. See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8. Environmental Accruals The company is subject to the environmental laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which it conducts or conducted operations. The company records an accrual to provide for the costs of expected environmental obligations when management becomes aware that an expenditure will be incurred and the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated. Factors which could result in changes to the companys environmental accruals and reasonably possible range of loss include: modification of planned remedial actions, increase or decrease in the estimated time required to remediate, discovery of more extensive contamination than anticipated, changes in laws and regulations affecting remediation requirements, and improvements in remediation technology. 30 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Tax Contingency Accruals The company records accruals for tax contingencies when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the contingency can be reasonably estimated based on specific events such as an audit or inquiry by a taxing authority. Changes in accruals associated with uncertainties arising from pre acquisition years for acquired businesses are charged or credited to goodwill. Other adjustments to tax accruals are generally recorded in earnings in the period they are determined. Retirement Benefits Overview Assumptions used in determining projected benefit obligations and the fair values of plan assets for the companys pension plans and other postretirement benefits plans are regularly evaluated by management in consultation with outside actuaries. In the event that the company determines that changes in the assumptions are warranted, future pension and postretirement benefit expenses could increase or decrease. Assumptions The principal assumptions that have a significant effect on the companys financial position and results of operations are the discount rate, the expected long term rate of return on plan assets, and the health care cost trend rates. Discount Rate The discount rate represents the interest rate that should be used to determine the present value of future cash flows currently expected to be required to settle the pension and postretirement benefit obligations. The discount rate is generally based on the yield on high quality corporate fixed income investments. At the end of each year, the discount rate is primarily determined based on the results of a hypothetical long term bond portfolio matching the expected cash inflows with the expected benefit payments. Taking into consideration the factors noted above, the company lowered the discount rate to 5.75 percent at December 31, 2004, from 6.25 percent at December 31, 2003. Expected Long Term Rate of Return The expected long term rate of return on plan assets represents the average rate of earnings expected on the funds invested to provide for anticipated benefit payments. For 2004, the company assumed an expected long term rate of return on plan assets of 8.75 percent. On average, the actual return on plan assets over the long term has exceeded 8.75 percent; however, for 2005, the expected long term rate of return assumption was lowered from 8.75 percent to 8.5 percent, reflecting the generally expected moderation of long term rates of return in the financial markets. Differences in the discount rate and expected long term rate of return on plan assets within the indicated range would have had the following impact on 2004 pension and postretirement benefit results: $ in millions .25 Percentage Point Increase .25 PercentagePoint Decrease Increase (decrease) to pension expense resulting from Change in discount rate $ (33 ) $ 41 Change in long term rate of return on plan assets (42 ) 42 Health Care Cost Trend Rates The health care cost trend rates represent the annual rate of change in the cost of health care benefits based on estimates of health care inflation, changes in health care utilization or delivery patterns, technological advances, and changes in the health status of the plan participants. The company increased its expected health care cost trend rate to 10 percent for 2004 from 9 percent for 2003. 31 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Differences in the health care cost trend rates within the indicated range would have had the following impact on 2004 postretirement benefit results: $ in millions 1 PercentagePoint Increase 1 PercentagePoint Decrease Increase (decrease) from change in health care cost trend rates to Postretirement benefit expense $ 29 $ (24 ) Postretirement benefit liability 352 (293 ) MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL MEASURES The company manages and assesses the performance of its business primarily through the following measures: Contract Acquisitions Contract acquisitions represent orders received during the period for which funding has been contractually obligated by the customer. Contract acquisitions tend to fluctuate from year to year and are determined by the size and timing of new and follow on orders. In the year that a business is purchased, its existing funded order backlog as of the purchase date is reported as contract acquisitions. Sales Year to year sales vary less than contract acquisitions and reflect performance under new and ongoing contracts. For further information related to revenue recognition, refer to the Revenue Recognition discussion included in the Critical Accounting Policies, Estimates, and Judgments section of this Part II, Item 7. Segment Operating Margin Segment operating margin reflects the performance of segment contracts and programs. Excluded from this measure are certain costs not directly associated with contract performance, including the portion of pension expense/income that is not currently recognized under CAS, as well as the portion of corporate, legal, environmental, state income tax, other retiree benefits, and other expenses not considered allowable costs under CAS and therefore not allocated to the segments. Backlog Funded backlog represents unfilled orders for which funding has been contractually obligated by the customer. Unfunded backlog represents firm orders for which funding is not contractually obligated by the customer. Unfunded backlog excludes unexercised contract options and unfunded Indefinite Delivery Indefinite Quantity (IDIQ) orders. SEGMENT OPERATING RESULTS Realignment Effective January 1, 2004, the company realigned businesses among three of its operating segments that possess similar customers, expertise, and capabilities. The realignment more fully leverages existing capabilities and enhances development and delivery of highly integrated information systems and services. Mission Systems Global Information Technology, Civil Systems, and Mission Systems Europe businesses were transferred to the Information Technology segment. Prior to January 1, 2004, the three business areas comprised Mission Systems Federal & Civil Information Systems business. The Defense Mission Systems (DMS) business within the Information Technology segment was transferred to the Mission Systems segment. Prior to January 1, 2004, DMS was a part of Information Technologys Government Information Technology business. The Command, Control & Intelligence (C2I) Systems business area of the Missions Systems segment transferred its Unmanned Air Vehicle business to the Air Combat Systems (ACS) business area within the Integrated Systems segment. This realignment resulted in a decrease in 2003 sales of $104 million for the Information Technology sector, an increase of $57 million for the Mission Systems sector, and an increase of $47 million for the Integrated Systems sector. For 2002, this realignment resulted in a decrease in sales of $764 million for the Information Technology sector and an increase of $764 million for the Mission Systems sector. 32 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Certain prior year amounts in the tables within this section have been reclassified to conform to current year reporting. Electronic Systems Year ended December 31 $ in millions 2004 2003 2002 Contract Acquisitions Aerospace Systems $ 1,393 $ 1,202 $ 1,018 C4ISR & Naval Systems 1,377 1,299 1,843 Defensive Systems 1,153 1,018 830 Navigation Systems 886 852 741 Government Systems 856 652 516 Space Systems 486 440 615 Defense Other 555 555 367 $ 6,706 $ 6,018 $ 5,930 Sales and Service Revenues Aerospace Systems $ 1,577 $ 1,621 $ 1,437 C4ISR & Naval Systems 1,351 1,318 1,225 Defensive Systems 1,060 919 783 Navigation Systems 775 756 668 Government Systems 672 448 476 Space Systems 453 514 437 Defense Other 529 463 300 $ 6,417 $ 6,039 $ 5,326 Segment Operating Margin $ 670 $ 590 $ 434 As a percentage of segment sales 10.4 % 9.8 % 8.1 % Contract Acquisitions 2004 Electronic Systems segment acquisitions increased $688 million, or 11 percent, in 2004 as compared with 2003. Principal acquisitions during 2004 included $185 million for a restricted program in the Aerospace Systems business area, $150 million for the Big Tree program in the C4ISR & Naval Systems business area, and additional funding of $139 million for domestic and international postal automation programs in the Government Systems business area. 2003 Electronic Systems segment acquisitions increased $88 million, or 1 percent, in 2003 as compared with 2002. Principal acquisitions during 2003 included $224 million for the SBIRS High program in the Space Systems business area, $187 million for the MESA 737 Turkey acquisition in the Aerospace Systems business area, $181 million and $144 million for the Trident SSGN and Virginia class submarine programs, respectively, in the C4ISR & Naval Systems business area, and $145 million for the MP RTIP program included in the Other business area. Sales and Service Revenues 2004 Electronic Systems segment sales increased $378 million, or 6 percent, in 2004 as compared with 2003. Government Systems revenue increased $224 million, or 50 percent, due to higher sales of bio detection systems and postal automation equipment, and Defensive Systems revenue rose $141 million, or 15 percent, due to higher sales from the Litening program. Defense Other revenue increased $66 million, or 14 percent, due to growth in restricted programs. 33 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION For 2005, management expects high single digit percentage sales growth over 2004. 2003 Electronic Systems segment sales increased $713 million, or 13 percent, in 2003 as compared with 2002. Aerospace Systems revenue increased $184 million, or 13 percent, due to increased volume on the F 35, F 16 Block 60, F/A 22, and avionics restricted programs. Defensive Systems sales increased $136 million, or 17 percent, in 2003 over 2002 primarily due to higher volume on the ALQ 135, Large Aircraft Infrared Countermeasures, MH 53, and Litening programs. The 2003 increase of $163 million in the Defense Other business area was primarily due to higher volume on the MP RTIP program. Segment Operating Margin 2004 Electronic Systems segment operating margin increased $80 million, or 14 percent, in 2004 as compared with 2003. Operating margin in 2004 increased primarily due to increased sales volume and performance improvements in the postal automation business and bio detection systems in the Government Systems business area, as well as higher sales volume, improved performance, and contract close outs in the Defensive Systems and Defense Other business areas. These increases were partially offset by a $60 million pre tax charge in the Aerospace Systems business area for the F 16 Block 60 fixed price development combat avionics program, reflecting a higher estimate of costs to complete the Falcon Edge electronic warfare suite, including the results of qualification testing and the impact of delays in supplies of integrated microelectronic assemblies, and a $52 million pre tax charge reflecting increased projected costs due to analysis of technical issues following systems engineering modeling and qualification testing for the MESA radar system for the Australian Defence Forces Project Wedgetail fixed price development program. Fixed price development work inherently has more uncertainty as to future events than production and therefore more variability in estimates of costs to complete the work. As work progresses through the development stage into production, the risks associated with estimating the costs of development are reduced. While management has used its best judgment to estimate costs, future events could result in either upward or downward adjustments to those estimates. The F 16 Block 60 program is expected to be completed in 2007 and the Wedgetail program is expected to be completed in 2008. For 2005, management expects moderate improvement in segment operating margin as a percentage of segment sales over 2004. 2003 Electronic Systems segment operating margin increased $156 million, or 36 percent, in 2003 as compared with 2002. The increase in operating margin in 2003 was primarily due to increased sales volume in Aerospace Systems F/A 22, F 35, and several restricted programs, as well as increased volume in the C4ISR & Naval Systems marine systems business. The Defensive Systems and Navigation Systems business areas also reported higher sales and improved operating performance. Operating margin for 2003 included a $40 million pre tax charge for the F 16 Block 60 fixed price development combat avionics program due to cost growth associated with developing and acquiring the advanced microelectronics necessary to meet production specifications and delivery rates. 34 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Ships Year ended December 31 $ in millions 2004 2003 2002 Contract Acquisitions Surface Combatants $ 1,807 $ 1,569 $ 1,641 Aircraft Carriers 1,538 941 1,622 Amphibious and Auxiliary 983 1,301 1,184 Submarines 1,228 895 828 Commercial and International 41 31 (4 ) Services and Other 135 193 94 Intrasegment eliminations (64 ) (91 ) (79 ) $ 5,668 $ 4,839 $ 5,286 Sales and Service Revenues Surface Combatants $ 2,010 $ 1,594 $ 875 Aircraft Carriers 1,901 1,922 2,076 Amphibious and Auxiliary 1,436 1,069 845 Submarines 730 627 581 Commercial and International 123 123 224 Services and Other 143 163 194 Intrasegment eliminations (91 ) (47 ) (98 ) $ 6,252 $ 5,451 $ 4,697 Segment Operating Margin $ 389 $ 295 $ 306 As a percentage of segment sales 6.2 % 5.4 % 6.5 % Contract Acquisitions 2004 Ships segment acquisitions increased $829 million, or 17 percent, in 2004 as compared with 2003, primarily due to increased funding in the Aircraft Carriers and Submarines business areas. The principal acquisitions in 2004 were $1.1 billion for the Virginia class submarines program in the Submarines business area, and $1 billion and $524 million for the DD(X) and DDG programs, respectively, in the Surface Combatants business area. Acquisitions in 2004 also included $583 million and $397 million, respectively, for the LPD and LHD programs in the Amphibious and Auxiliary business area. 2003 Ships segment acquisitions decreased $447 million, or 8 percent, in 2003 as compared with 2002, primarily due to lower incremental funding received in 2003 for aircraft carrier refueling work. The principal acquisitions in 2003 were $1.2 billion for the LPD program in the Amphibious and Auxiliary business area, and $877 million and $531 million related to the DD(X) and DDG programs, respectively, in the Surface Combatants business area. Sales and Service Revenues 2004 Ships segment sales increased $801 million, or 15 percent, in 2004 as compared with 2003 due to higher revenue in the Surface Combatants, Amphibious and Auxiliary, and Submarines business areas. Surface Combatants revenue increased $416 million, or 26 percent, due to higher revenue from the DD(X) and Deepwater programs partially offset by lower revenue from the DDG program. Amphibious and Auxiliary revenue increased $367 million, or 34 percent, due to higher revenue from the LHD and LPD programs, and Submarines revenue increased $103 million, or 16 percent, due to higher sales from the Virginia class program. For 2005, management expects a mid to high single digit percentage sales decline as compared to 2004. 35 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION 2003 Ships segment sales increased $754 million, or 16 percent, in 2003 as compared with 2002. This growth included a $719 million increase for the Surface Combatants business area, which was primarily due to increased sales for the DD(X) and Deepwater programs. Amphibious and Auxiliary experienced an increase in sales during 2003 of $224 million due to production ramp up on the LPD 18, LPD 19, and LHD 8 programs. The $154 million decrease in 2003 for Aircraft Carriers as compared to 2002 was largely due to the completion and delivery of the USS Ronald Reagan. Segment Operating Margin 2004 Ships segment operating margin increased $94 million, or 32 percent, in 2004 as compared with 2003, due principally to a 2003 pre tax charge of $69 million for increased costs for the commercial Polar Tanker program, as well as increased sales volume and performance improvements in 2004 for the DD(X) and LHD programs in the Surface Combatants and Amphibious and Auxiliary business areas, respectively. The Polar Tanker charge included cost growth on the third tanker due to unusual weather delays and rework, and increased costs for changes in labor productivity estimates to complete the final two ships. The third tanker was delivered in the third quarter of 2003, the fourth tanker was delivered in the third quarter of 2004, and the fifth and final tanker is approximately 80 percent complete as of December 31, 2004, and is scheduled for delivery in the fourth quarter of 2005. For 2005, management expects segment operating margin as a percentage of segment sales to be in the low 7 percent range. 2003 Ships segment operating margin decreased $11 million, or 4 percent, in 2003 as compared with 2002. The decrease included both a changing mix from production to development programs as well as the $69 million pre tax charge for the Polar Tanker program discussed above. Information Technology Year ended December 31 $ in millions 2004 2003 2002 Contract Acquisitions Government Information Technology $ 3,087 $ 2,786 $ 2,269 Enterprise Information Technology 881 872 766 Commercial Information Technology 770 698 588 Technology Services 688 611 621 Intrasegment eliminations (126 ) (113 ) (104 ) $ 5,300 $ 4,854 $ 4,140 Sales and Service Revenues Government Information Technology $ 3,004 $ 2,625 $ 1,948 Enterprise Information Technology 867 857 750 Commercial Information Technology 656 665 288 Technology Services 650 617 590 Intrasegment eliminations (126 ) (113 ) (100 ) $ 5,051 $ 4,651 $ 3,476 Segment Operating Margin $ 301 $ 269 $ 191 As a percentage of segment sales 6.0 % 5.8 % 5.5 % Contract Acquisitions 2004 Information Technology segment acquisitions increased $446 million, or 9 percent, in 2004 as compared with 2003, largely due to increased funding in the Government Information Technology and Commercial Information Technology business areas. Principal acquisitions in 2004 in the Government Information Technology business area were $138 million for the National Geospatial Intelligence Agency Electrical 36 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Engineering program, $104 million for the Immigration and Naturalization Service Technology Enterprise Automation Management Support program, and $104 million for the Information Technology Support Services program. The Commercial Information Technology business area received funding of $231 million for the Identification 1 program. The Technology Services business area received funding of $283 million for the Joint Base Operations Support Contract (J BOSC). 2003 Information Technology segment acquisitions increased $714 million, or 17 percent, in 2003 as compared with 2002, largely due to strong growth in the Government Information Technology business area. Principal acquisitions in 2003 in the Government Information Technology business area were $104 million for the Information Technology Support Services program, $98 million for Voyager, and $92 million for the Immigration and Naturalization Service Technology Enterprise Automation Management Support program. The Commercial Information Technology business area received funding of $120 million in connection with Vought. The Technology Services business area received funding of $255 million for J BOSC. Sales and Service Revenues 2004 Information Technology segment sales increased $400 million, or 9 percent, in 2004 as compared with 2003 primarily due to higher revenue in the Government Information Technology and Technology Services business areas. Government Information Technology revenue increased $379 million, or 14 percent, due to new business awards, including $93 million for the National Geospatial Intelligence Agency Electrical Engineering program and $45 million for the Defense Integrated Military Human Resources System program. Technology Services revenue increased $33 million, or 5 percent, due to higher sales volume from the B 2 program. For 2005, management expects nearly double digit percentage sales growth over 2004. 2003 Information Technology segment sales increased $1.2 billion, or 34 percent, in 2003 as compared with 2002. The higher sales were primarily attributable to a $677 million increase in the Government Information Technology business area due to increased volume on the Immigration and Naturalization Service Technology Enterprise Automation Management Support, Information Technology Support Services, and Land Information Warfare Activity programs. Enterprise Information Technology sales were $107 million higher than 2002 due, in part, to increased purchases by the Department of Homeland Security. Segment Operating Margin 2004 Information Technology segment operating margin increased $32 million, or 12 percent, in 2004 as compared with 2003 due to higher sales volume and improved performance in the Government Information Technology and Enterprise Information Technology business areas. For 2005, segment operating margin as a percentage of segment sales is expected to be in the mid 6 percent range. 2003 Information Technology segment operating margin increased $78 million, or 41 percent, in 2003 as compared with 2002. The increase was primarily attributable to higher sales volume in the Government Information Technology business area. 37 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Mission Systems Year ended December 31 $ in millions 2004 2003 2002 Contract Acquisitions Command, Control & Intelligence Systems $ 3,008 $ 2,987 $ 1,644 Missile Systems 1,532 1,255 973 Technical and Management Services 680 678 382 Intrasegment eliminations (11 ) (42 ) (34 ) $ 5,209 $ 4,878 $ 2,965 Sales and Service Revenues Command, Control & Intelligence Systems $ 3,014 $ 2,423 $ 764 Missile Systems 1,288 1,082 Technical and Management Services 699 700 Intrasegment eliminations (54 ) (33 ) $ 4,947 $ 4,172 $ 764 Segment Operating Margin $ 321 $ 266 $ 59 As a percentage of segment sales 6.5 % 6.4 % 7.7 % Contract Acquisitions 2004 Mission Systems segment acquisitions increased $331 million, or 7 percent, in 2004 as compared with 2003, primarily due to increased funding in the Missile Systems business area. The principal acquisitions in 2004 included $1 billion for the ICBM Prime Integration contract in the Missile Systems business area and $133 million for restricted programs in the Command, Control & Intelligence Systems business area. 2003 Mission Systems segment acquisitions during 2003 included several new business awards for restricted programs in the Command, Control & Intelligence Systems business area and the Kinetic Energy Interceptors contract awarded to the Missile Systems business area. Acquisitions for these two business areas accounted for over $4.2 billion, or 87 percent, of total 2003 acquisitions. Acquisitions for 2002 represented backlog acquired as of the acquisition date of TRW. Sales and Service Revenues 2004 Mission Systems segment sales increased $775 million, or 19 percent, in 2004 as compared with 2003 due to higher revenue in the Command, Control & Intelligence Systems and Missile Systems business areas. Command, Control & Intelligence Systems revenue increased $591 million, or 24 percent, due to higher revenue from the Tactical Automated Security Systems II program and from various restricted programs. Missile Systems revenue increased $206 million, or 19 percent, due to revenue from the Kinetic Energy Interceptors program and the XonTech acquisition. For 2005, management expects mid single digit percentage sales growth over 2004. 2003 Approximately $3.5 billion, or 84 percent, of 2003 sales were from the Command, Control & Intelligence Systems and Missile Systems business areas. The principal programs in the Command, Control & Intelligence Systems business area during 2003 were restricted. Missile Systems sales for 2003 were principally due to such programs as the ICBM Prime Integration contract, Ground based Midcourse Defense, and the Joint National Integration Center . Segment Operating Margin 2004 Mission Systems segment operating margin increased $55 million, or 21 percent, in 2004 as compared with 2003 due to higher sales volume in the Command, Control & Intelligence Systems and Missile Systems business areas. 38 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION For 2005, management expects moderate improvement in segment operating margin as a percentage of segment sales over 2004. 2003 Approximately $247 million, or 93 percent, of 2003 operating margin was derived from the Command, Control & Intelligence Systems and Missile Systems business areas. Integrated Systems Year ended December 31 $ in millions 2004 2003 2002 Contract Acquisitions Air Combat Systems $ 3,165 $ 2,768 $ 2,158 Airborne Early Warning and Electronic Warfare Systems 1,363 1,051 832 Airborne Ground Surveillance and Battle Management Systems 612 565 526 Intrasegment eliminations (5 ) (4 ) (1 ) $ 5,135 $ 4,380 $ 3,515 Sales and Service Revenues Air Combat Systems $ 2,874 $ 2,469 $ 1,915 Airborne Early Warning and Electronic Warfare Systems 1,273 841 759 Airborne Ground Surveillance and Battle Management Systems 600 541 600 Intrasegment eliminations (5 ) (4 ) (1 ) $ 4,742 $ 3,847 $ 3,273 Segment Operating Margin $ 412 $ 384 $ 331 As a percentage of segment sales 8.7 % 10.0 % 10.1 % Contract Acquisitions 2004 Integrated Systems segment acquisitions increased $755 million, or 17 percent, in 2004 as compared with 2003. The increase is mainly due to increased funding in the Air Combat Systems and Airborne Early Warning and Electronic Warfare Systems business areas. The principal acquisitions for Air Combat Systems during 2004 were $792 million, $709 million, and $606 million for the Unmanned Systems, F/A 18, and F 35 programs, respectively. The principal acquisitions in the Airborne Early Warning and Electronic Warfare Systems and Airborne Ground Surveillance and Battle Management Systems business areas during 2004 were $881 million and $248 million for the E 2C and E 10A programs, respectively. 2003 Integrated Systems segment acquisitions increased $865 million, or 25 percent, in 2003 as compared with 2002. The increase was mainly due to higher acquisitions for the F 35 and Global Hawk programs, both included in the Air Combat Systems business area. The principal acquisitions for Air Combat Systems during 2003 were $777 million, $799 million, and $613 million for the F/A 18, Unmanned Systems, and F 35 programs, respectively. The principal acquisitions in the Airborne Early Warning and Electronic Warfare Systems and the Airborne Ground Surveillance and Battle Management Systems business areas during 2003 were $576 million and $406 million for the E 2C and Joint STARS programs, respectively. Sales and Service Revenues 2004 Integrated Systems segment sales increased $895 million, or 23 percent, in 2004 as compared with 2003 due to higher revenue in all business areas. Airborne Early Warning and Electronic Warfare Systems revenue increased $432 million, or 51 percent, due to higher revenue from the E 2 Advanced Hawkeye and EA 18 programs; Air Combat Systems revenue increased $405 million, or 16 percent, due to higher revenue from the F 35 program and Unmanned Systems; and Airborne Ground Surveillance and Battle Management Systems revenue increased $59 million, or 11 percent, due to higher revenue from the E 10A program. 39 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION For 2005, management expects low to mid teens percentage growth in sales over 2004. 2003 Integrated Systems segment sales increased $574 million, or 18 percent, in 2003 as compared with 2002. Growth in 2003 principally included a $554 million increase in Air Combat Systems due to increased volume on the F 35, Global Hawk, and MP RTIP programs, and $82 million in Airborne Early Warning and Electronic Warfare Systems related to the Advanced Hawkeye program. The sales decrease in 2003 of $59 million in the Airborne Ground Surveillance and Battle Management Systems business area was mainly due to fewer Joint STARS aircraft in production. Segment Operating Margin 2004 Integrated Systems segment operating margin increased $28 million, or 7 percent, in 2004 as compared with 2003. The increase was due primarily to higher sales volume in the Unmanned Systems and E 2 Advanced Hawkeye programs. The decrease in the Integrated Systems segment operating margin rate was due to a greater proportion of lower margin development program revenue. For 2005, management expects segment operating margin as a percentage of segment sales in the low to mid 8 percent range. 2003 Integrated Systems segment operating margin increased $53 million, or 16 percent, in 2003 as compared with 2002. The increase in operating margin in 2003 included increased sales volume from the F 35 and Global Hawk programs and improved operating performance on the E 2C program, partially offset by lower sales volume from the Joint STARS program. Space Technology Year ended December 31 $ in millions 2004 2003 2002 Contract Acquisitions Intelligence, Surveillance, & Reconnaissance $ 1,357 $ 827 $ 540 Civil Space 659 584 133 Software Defined Radios 520 638 148 Satellite Communications 398 532 230 Missile & Space Defense 400 316 206 Technology 226 241 51 Intrasegment eliminations (100 ) (65 ) $ 3,460 $ 3,073 $ 1,308 Sales and Service Revenues Intelligence, Surveillance, & Reconnaissance $ 1,041 $ 881 Civil Space 638 521 Software Defined Radios 546 387 Satellite Communications 486 472 Missile & Space Defense 389 405 Technology 221 203 Intrasegment eliminations (52 ) (46 ) $ 3,269 $ 2,823 Segment Operating Margin $ 222 $ 193 As a percentage of segment sales 6.8 % 6.8 % 40 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Contract Acquisitions 2004 Space Technology segment acquisitions increased $387 million, or 13 percent, in 2004 as compared with 2003. This increase was primarily due to increased funding for restricted programs in the Intelligence, Surveillance & Reconnaissance business area. 2003 Space Technology segment acquisitions during 2003 primarily included $827 million in the Intelligence, Surveillance & Reconnaissance business area, $475 million related to NPOESS in the Civil Space business area, $287 million related to the F/A 22 program in the Software Defined Radios business area, and $502 million related to additional funding for the AEHF satellite in the Satellite Communications area. Acquisitions for 2002 included backlog acquired as of the acquisition date of TRW. Sales and Service Revenues 2004 Space Technology sales increased $446 million, or 16 percent, in 2004 as compared with 2003 due to higher revenue in the Intelligence, Surveillance & Reconnaissance, Software Defined Radios, and Civil Space business areas. Intelligence, Surveillance & Reconnaissance revenue increased $160 million, or 18 percent, due to increased volume from restricted programs. Software Defined Radios revenue increased $159 million, or 41 percent, due to higher revenue from the F 35 and F/A 22 programs. Civil Space revenue increased $117 million, or 22 percent, due to higher volume from the JWST and NPOESS programs. For 2005, management expects a low single digit percentage sales decline as compared to 2004. 2003 Intelligence, Surveillance & Reconnaissance sales for 2003 were primarily from restricted programs. Approximately $412 million, or 79 percent, of Civil Space sales were due to the NPOESS program. Sales for the Software Defined Radios business area included $135 million and $127 million related to the F 35 and F/A 22 programs, respectively. Approximately $440 million, or 93 percent, of Satellite Communications sales was due to the AEHF program. Missile & Space Defense sales for 2003 include $234 million and $122 million related to the STSS Cycle I and ABL programs, respectively. Segment Operating Margin 2004 Space Technology segment operating margin increased $29 million, or 15 percent, in 2004 as compared with 2003. This increase was driven primarily by increased volume and performance improvements on restricted programs in the Intelligence, Surveillance & Reconnaissance business area. Other significant increases in segment operating margin in 2004 were driven by increased sales volume from the F 35 and F/A 22 programs in the Software Defined Radios business area and the JWST and NPOESS programs in the Civil Space business area. For 2005, management expects segment operating margin as a percentage of segment sales to be in the low 7 percent range. 2003 Operating margin for the Space Technology segment in 2003 was $193 million, or 7 percent, driven by strong margin performance in the Software Defined Radios and Intelligence, Surveillance & Reconnaissance business areas, and increased sales volume in all business areas. NON SEGMENT FACTORS AFFECTING OPERATING MARGIN The companys operations substantially changed as a result of the TRW acquisition on December 11, 2002. The companys 2002 income statement does not include TRWs post acquisition results because they were not material. The 2002 results reflect the first full year of operations of Litton, EIS, and Newport News, which were acquired in 2001. These acquisitions have significantly increased the size of the company and produced one of the largest defense contractors in the nation. 41 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION The components of operating margin are as follows: Year ended December 31 $ in millions 2004 2003 2002 Operating Margin Electronic Systems $ 670 $ 590 $ 434 Ships 389 295 306 Information Technology 301 269 191 Mission Systems 321 266 59 Integrated Systems 412 384 331 Space Technology 222 193 Other (3 ) (74 ) (271 ) Non segment factors affecting operating margin Unallocated expenses (282 ) (137 ) (105 ) Pension (expense) income (350 ) (568 ) 90 Reversal of CAS pension expense included above 338 265 100 Reversal of royalty income included above (12 ) (15 ) (15 ) Total operating margin $ 2,006 $ 1,468 $ 1,120 Operating margin as a percentage of total revenue was 6.7 percent, 5.6 percent, and 6.4 percent for 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively. The primary factors affecting operating margin during these periods were the business acquisitions, operating segment performance, and changes in unallocated expenses and pension amounts. Unallocated Expenses 2004 Unallocated expenses increased $145 million in 2004 as compared with 2003. The increase was due primarily to increased legal costs, including provisions related to the resolution of the Allison Gas Turbine and Robinson litigation (see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8), as well as higher mark to market stock compensation expense and deferred state income taxes. 2003 Unallocated expenses increased $32 million in 2003, net of a $17 million gain on the settlement of legal matters, as compared with 2002. The increase was due primarily to higher legal costs and increased estimates of unrecoverable costs. In 2003, the company settled two previously reserved civil False Claims Act cases, U.S. v. Newport News Shipbuilding, Inc. and U.S. Ex rel. Jordan, and recorded loss provisions for settlement offers on other legal matters, resulting in a net gain of $17 million. The two settled cases required payments by the company of approximately $80 million. The $60 million settlement amount allocated by the plaintiff to the Newport News Shipbuilding case was charged to an existing accrual established for the governments claim that Newport News had improperly charged certain independent research and development costs to its government contracts with respect to the years 1994 through 1999. The government filed a civil False Claims Act case against the company in February 2003 seeking single damages in excess of $72 million, plus penalties, costs, and interest. The company accrued an amount for this matter determined in accordance with SFAS No. 5 Accounting for Contingencies, after considering the facts and circumstances known to management at the time, including the potential for treble damages and penalties as provided in the False Claims Act. The accrual, when established, had no effect on the companys net income, as it was recorded as a liability on the balance sheet as part of the purchase accounting for Newport News, which was acquired in December 2001. The unused portion of the accrual of approximately $120 million was reversed and, together with the loss provisions recorded for other legal matters, is included in the $17 million net gain reported in Unallocated expenses. 42 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Pension (Expense) Income 2004 Pension expense decreased $218 million in 2004 as compared with 2003. The decrease is primarily due to a higher return of more than 20 percent on plan assets in 2003, which improved the funded status of the companys pension plans, partially offset by lower 2004 assumptions for the expected long term rate of return on plan assets and the discount rate. Pension expense is included in the sectors cost of sales to the extent that these costs are currently recognized under CAS. In order to reconcile from segment operating margin to total operating margin, these amounts are reported under the caption Reversal of CAS pension expense included above. For 2005, subject to refinements for participant census data and pay as you go plans, management expects pension expense determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America to total approximately $415 million. Pension expense recognized under CAS, which is generally recoverable under government contracts, is estimated to be $365 million for 2005. Based on expected long term returns available in the capital markets and lower long term interest rates, the 2005 pension plan assumptions have been changed from the 2004 assumptions. The 2005 assumptions include an expected long term rate of return on plan assets of 8.5 percent and a discount rate of 5.75 percent compared with the 2004 assumptions of 8.75 percent and 6.25 percent, respectively. 2003 Operating margin in 2003 included pension expense of $568 million as compared with pension income in 2002 of $90 million. The increased pension expense was primarily due to a higher number of plan participants resulting from the acquisition of TRW as well as a negative return on plan assets of 10 percent in 2002. Beginning in July 2003, the pension benefits for most employees, principally those participating in Northrop Grumman and Litton heritage plans, were based upon new criteria, whereby employees earn age and service points over the employment period. Subsequent to the 2003 initial phase in, other exempt and non exempt plans have been and continue to be conformed to the new model. No settlement or curtailments arose as a result of these changes. Union plans were not affected by these plan modifications. OTHER INCOME STATEMENT COMPONENTS Interest Income 2004 Interest income in 2004 is comparable to 2003. Interest income for both years primarily included non cash interest earned on the payment in kind note received in connection with the sale of Auto. On October 10, 2004, the company reached an agreement with TRW Automotive Holdings Corp. regarding the repurchase of the payment in kind note, at which time accrual of interest income from the note ceased. 2003 Interest income increased $49 million in 2003 as compared to 2002. The increase is primarily due to non cash interest earned on the payment in kind note received in connection with the sale of Auto, interest earned on a tax refund, and interest earned on the temporary investment of excess cash. Interest Expense 2004 Interest expense decreased by $66 million in 2004 as compared with 2003. The decrease is principally due to the effect of the companys debt reduction plan that was substantially completed in the second quarter of 2003. Also, on October 15, 2004, $350 million of 8.625 percent notes matured and the company redeemed all of its outstanding $250 million 9.375 percent debentures due in 2024. The decrease in interest expense related to the reduction of fixed rate debt was partially offset by dividends payable on mandatorily redeemable preferred stock classified as interest expense beginning in the third quarter of 2003. This classification was required, on a prospective basis, upon the adoption of SFAS No. 150 Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of both Liabilities and Equity. 43 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION 2003 Interest expense increased by $75 million in 2003 as compared with 2002. The increase was principally the result of higher debt levels arising from the acquisition of TRW, net of the effect of the companys debt reduction plan, which was substantially completed in the second quarter of 2003. Income Taxes 2004 The companys effective tax rate on income from continuing operations for 2004 was 32 percent compared to 28 percent for 2003. The higher rate in 2004 is primarily due to the reduced effect of research and development tax credits. The company recognized research and development tax credits of $20 million and $51 million for the years ended December 31, 2004, and 2003, respectively. The effective tax rate for 2005 is expected to be between 33 and 34 percent. 2003 The companys effective tax rate on income from continuing operations for 2003 was 28 percent compared to 38 percent during 2002. The lower rate in 2003 was primarily due to higher research tax credits. Discontinued Operations 2004 The company reported after tax income from discontinued operations of $3 million for 2004, compared to after tax income of $64 million for the same period of 2003. The income for the 2003 period was primarily attributable to Auto operating results, which were included in discontinued operations until Auto was sold in February 2003. The businesses comprising the CT reporting segment were classified as discontinued operations beginning in the third quarter of 2002, and subsequently the company has sold all but three of these businesses. The remaining unsold businesses are a manufacturer of complex printed circuit boards and assemblies, an electronic connector manufacturer, and a European based marketing group. During the third quarter of 2004, the company suspended its efforts to sell these remaining businesses and they were reclassified from discontinued to continuing operations. The operating results of these businesses are reported under the segment entitled Other. As a result of the reclassification, sales for 2003 increased $191 million and income from continuing operations before cumulative effect of accounting change for 2003 decreased $50 million. Income from continuing operations before cumulative effect of accounting change for 2003 includes a charge of $31 million for the adjustment to fair market value of the remaining CT businesses reclassified from discontinued to continuing operations. The reclassification decreased 2003 diluted earnings per share from continuing operations to $2.03 from $2.16. Effective January 1, 2005, two of these operations were integrated into, and reported under, the Electronic Systems segment. The European based marketing group will continue to be reported under Other. The effect of this realignment on the Electronic Systems segments sales and operating margin is not significant. 2003 The company reported after tax income from discontinued operations of $64 million, net of a goodwill impairment charge of $47 million, during 2003. The $44 million after tax gain from disposal of discontinued operations is primarily attributable to the sale of two CT businesses. The gain (loss) on disposal of discontinued operations includes any gain or loss from completed dispositions, as well as the estimated loss from those businesses expected to be sold at a loss, where the sale had not yet been completed. Gains realized on the sale of any discontinued businesses are reported in the period in which the divestiture is complete. Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change Effective January 1, 2002, the company adopted SFAS No. 142 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, which implemented required disclosure provisions and eliminated the amortization of goodwill. During the second quarter of 2002, the company completed the first step of the required initial test for potential impairment of 44 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION goodwill as of January 1, 2002. The company used a discounted cash flow approach, corroborated by comparative market multiples, where appropriate, to determine the fair value of its reporting units. The results indicated potential impairment only in the reporting units of the CT segment due to unfavorable market conditions. During the third quarter of 2002, the company completed the measurement of the CT goodwill impairment as of January 1, 2002, and recorded a noncash, after tax charge of $432 million, or $1.87 per diluted share, which is reported as Cumulative effect of accounting change. BACKLOG Total backlog at December 31, 2004, was approximately $58 billion. Total backlog includes both funded backlog (unfilled orders for which funding is contractually obligated by the customer) and unfunded backlog (firm orders for which funding is not currently contractually obligated by the customer). Unfunded backlog excludes unexercised contract options and unfunded Indefinite Delivery/Indefinite Quantity (IDIQ) orders. Major awards in unfunded backlog include the Kinetic Energy Interceptors program in the Mission Systems segment, the Virginia class submarines program second block in the Ships segment, the NPOESS program in the Space Technology segment, the F 35 and E 2 Advanced Hawkeye programs in the Integrated Systems segment, and the J BOSC program in the Information Technology segment. The following table presents funded and unfunded backlog by segment at December 31, 2004: $ in millions Funded Unfunded Total Backlog Electronic Systems $ 6,757 $ 2,290 $ 9,047 Ships 9,165 3,841 13,006 Information Technology 2,568 3,358 5,926 Mission Systems 3,167 7,450 10,617 Integrated Systems 4,691 5,984 10,675 Space Technology 1,749 7,595 9,344 Other 49 49 Intersegment eliminations (584 ) (584 ) Total Segments $ 27,562 $ 30,518 $ 58,080 Backlog is converted into the following years sales as costs are incurred or deliveries are made. Approximately 64 percent of the 2004 year end funded backlog is expected to be converted into sales in 2005. Total U.S. Government orders, including those made on behalf of foreign governments (FMS), comprised 86 percent, 87 percent, and 84 percent of the funded backlog at the end of 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively. Total foreign customer orders, including FMS, accounted for 8 percent, 9 percent, and 13 percent of the funded backlog at the end of 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively. Domestic commercial backlog represented 5 percent, 6 percent, and 5 percent of funded backlog at the end of 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively. 45 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Funded backlog by business area with each segment is provided in the following table: December 31, $ in millions 2004 2003 Electronic Systems Aerospace Systems $ 1,790 $ 1,974 C4ISR & Naval Systems 1,388 1,362 Defensive Systems 1,250 1,157 Navigation Systems 1,013 902 Government Systems 796 612 Space Systems 223 190 Defense Other 297 271 6,757 6,468 Ships Surface Combatants 3,058 3,261 Aircraft Carriers 2,571 2,934 Amphibious and Auxiliary 1,897 2,350 Submarines 1,568 1,070 Commercial and International 39 121 Services and Other 49 57 Intrasegment eliminations (17 ) (44 ) 9,165 9,749 Information Technology Government Information Technology 1,434 1,351 Enterprise Information Technology 160 146 Commercial Information Technology 690 576 Technology Services 284 246 2,568 2,319 Mission Systems Command, Control & Intelligence Systems 1,438 1,444 Missile Systems 1,390 1,146 Technical and Management Services 341 360 Intrasegment eliminations (2 ) (45 ) 3,167 2,905 Integrated Systems Air Combat Systems 2,597 2,306 Airborne Early Warning and Electronic Warfare Systems 1,566 1,476 Airborne Ground Surveillance and Battle Management Systems 528 516 4,691 4,298 Space Technology Intelligence, Surveillance, & Reconnaissance 802 486 Civil Space 217 196 Software Defined Radios 373 399 Satellite Communications 202 290 Missile & Space Defense 128 117 Technology 94 89 Intrasegment eliminations (67 ) (19 ) 1,749 1,558 Other 49 63 Intersegment eliminations (584 ) (432 ) Total funded backlog $ 27,562 $ 26,928 46 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Contractual Obligations The following table presents the companys contractual obligations as of December 31, 2004, and the estimated timing of future cash payments: $ in millions Total 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 and beyond Long term debt (fixed rate) $ 5,068 $ 33 $ 1,284 $ 580 $ 3,171 Interest payments on long term debt 4,181 343 594 557 2,687 Operating leases 1,819 386 532 383 518 Purchase obligations(1) 8,437 5,714 1,922 340 461 Other long term liabilities(2) 714 185 282 53 194 Total contractual obligations $ 20,219 $ 6,661 $ 4,614 $ 1,913 $ 7,031 (1) A purchase obligation is defined as an agreement to purchase goods or services that is enforceable and legally binding on the company and that specifies all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum, or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. These amounts are primarily comprised of open purchase order commitments to vendors and subcontractors pertaining to funded contracts. (2) Other long term liabilities primarily consist of accrued workers compensation, deferred compensation, and other miscellaneous liabilities. The table above excludes mandatorily redeemable preferred stock of $350 million as well as cumulative annual cash dividends of $7 per share, payable quarterly. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8. The table above also excludes estimated minimum funding requirements for retiree benefit plans as set forth by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA), totaling approximately $2.9 billion over the next five years: $389 million in 2005, $1.3 billion in 2006 and 2007, and $1.2 billion in 2008 and 2009. The company also has payments due under plans that are not required to be funded in advance, but are pay as you go. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8. Further details regarding long term debt and operating leases can be found in Notes 13 and 16, respectively, to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8. 47 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Sources and Uses of Cash The following table provides an overview of the companys sources and uses of cash. The amounts from which the percentages are derived are reported in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows as follows: cash from customers and cash to employees and suppliers of services and materials are reported in Operating Activities; cash from buyers of assets, cash to sellers of assets, and cash to suppliers of facilities are reported in Investing Activities; and cash from and cash to lenders and shareholders are reported in Financing Activities. Year ended December 31 2004 2003 2002 Cash came from Customers 94 % 85 % 93 % Buyers of assets/other 3 13 4 Shareholders 3 Lenders 2 3 100 % 100 % 100 % Cash went to Employees and suppliers of services and materials 88 % 74 % 88 % Lenders 4 16 7 Suppliers of facilities/other 2 6 1 Shareholders 4 2 1 Sellers of assets 2 2 3 100 % 100 % 100 % Operating Activities 2004 In 2004, cash provided by operating activities was $1.9 billion as compared with $798 million generated in 2003. In 2003, cash used in operations included $1 billion of taxes paid upon completion of the B 2 EMD contract. The Internal Revenue Service has completed its audits of the B 2 program for the years ended December 31, 1997 through December 31, 2000, and has proposed an adjustment that does not affect the companys income tax liability but could result in an obligation to pay an amount of interest to the Internal Revenue Service that could be significant. The company believes the proposed adjustment will be eliminated or significantly reduced. Accordingly, the company does not believe that any adjustment by the Internal Revenue Service in this matter will have a material adverse effect on the companys financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. In 2004, the companys appeal to the Supreme Court of Indiana in connection with the Allison Gas Turbine case was denied and the company paid $81 million in settlement of the judgment and interest. In 2004, the company and Goodrich agreed to a settlement to resolve certain post closing liabilities that related to warranty, customer claims, and certain other matters in exchange for a payment to Goodrich of $99 million. The company also resolved an indemnification of other post employment benefits, pursuant to the Auto sale agreement, and paid The Blackstone Group $52.5 million. For further information refer to Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8. Employer contributions to the companys pension plans increased $295 million from $329 million in 2003 to $624 million in 2004. The increase reflects a voluntary pre funding of $250 million in the fourth quarter of 2004. Interest payments decreased $150 million in 2004 as compared with 2003, primarily due to a reduction in fixed rate debt. 48 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION At December 31, 2004, net working capital (current assets less current liabilities) was $684 million reflecting a higher cash balance and a decreased current portion of long term debt. 2003 In 2003, cash provided by operating activities was $798 million as compared with $1.7 billion generated in 2002. In 2003, cash used in operations reflects $1 billion of taxes paid upon completion of the B 2 EMD contract. During 2003, the company also received $178 million of federal and state tax refunds and made litigation settlement payments totaling $206 million. At December 31, 2003, net working capital deficit (current assets less current liabilities) was $623 million reflecting a lower cash balance, an increased current portion of long term debt, and increased customer advances. 2002 In 2002, cash provided by operating activities was $1.7 billion as compared with $817 million generated in 2001. The increased level of cash provided in 2002 principally resulted from inclusion of the Litton and Newport News acquisitions for a full year, increased operating margin over 2001, and accelerated cash collections. Investing Activities 2004 Cash provided by investing activities was $9 million in 2004. On October 10, 2004, the company reached an agreement with TRW Automotive Holdings Corp. regarding the repurchase of a payment in kind note. On November 12, 2004, the company received $493.5 million, which was net of $40.5 million for settlement of certain contractual issues arising from the sale of Auto. During 2004, the company received $125 million from the sale of businesses. This includes the sale of Kester, one of the former Components Technologies businesses, in February 2004 for approximately $60 million, and the sale of Northrop Grumman Canada in December 2004 for approximately $65 million. Capital expenditures in 2004 were $672 million, including $53 million for capitalized software costs. Capital expenditure commitments at December 31, 2004, were approximately $577 million. 2003 Cash provided by investing activities was $2.9 billion in 2003. On February 28, 2003, the company sold TRW Auto to The Blackstone Group for $3.3 billion in cash, a $600 million face value payment in kind note, initially valued at $455 million, and a 19.6 percent interest in the new enterprise, valued at $170 million. The cash received from the sale of Auto was adjusted from the sale agreement amount by cash sold with the business, preliminary purchase price adjustments, and an asset retained. Cash proceeds from the sale of Auto were primarily used to reduce debt. Capital expenditures in 2003 were $637 million, including $47 million for capitalized software costs. 2002 Cash used in investing activities was $155 million in 2002. In 2002, the company sold two businesses for $135 million in cash, incurred $55 million for transaction costs pertaining to the acquisition of TRW, and spent approximately $166 million in cash to complete the Newport News acquisition. In 2002, the company acquired TRW in an all stock transaction. Capital expenditures in 2002 were $528 million, including $30 million for capitalized software costs. Financing Activities 2004 Cash of $1 billion was used in financing activities in 2004. The company made $725 million in principal payments of long term debt and paid dividends to shareholders of $321 million. Debt Redemption On October 15, 2004, the company redeemed all of its outstanding $250 million 9.375 percent debentures due 2024. The redemption price was 104.363 percent of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest through the redemption date. As a result of the redemption, the company recorded a $13 million pre tax charge in 2004. 49 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Equity Security Units In November 2001, the company issued 6.9 million equity security units. Each equity security unit, issued at $100 per unit, initially consisted of a contract to purchase shares of Northrop Grumman common stock on November 16, 2004, and a $100 senior note due 2006. The senior notes due 2006 are reported as long term debt. The senior notes initially bore interest at 5.25 percent per annum, and each equity security unit paid a contract adjustment payment of 2.0 percent per annum through November 16, 2004, for a combined yield on the equity security unit of 7.25 percent per annum through November 16, 2004. On August 11, 2004, the company remarketed the senior notes as required by the original terms of the equity security units. As a result of this remarketing, the interest rate on the senior notes was reset to 4.079 percent per annum effective August 16, 2004. Proceeds from the remarketed notes were used to purchase U.S. Treasury securities that were pledged to secure the stock purchase obligations of the unit holders. On November 16, 2004, the company received $690 million and issued 13.2 million shares of common stock in settlement of the stock purchase contracts. The number of shares issued was calculated using a conversion ratio of 1.9171 shares per each equity security unit, which was determined in accordance with the original terms of the stock purchase contracts. Share Repurchases On August 20, 2003, the companys Board of Directors authorized share repurchase program of $700 million of its outstanding common stock. This share repurchase program was completed on October 5, 2004 and resulted in the retirement of 14.4 million shares of common stock, with $500 million of the repurchases occurring in 2004. On October 26, 2004, the companys Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program of up to $1 billion of its outstanding common stock, which commenced in November 2004 and is expected to be completed over a twelve to eighteen month period. As of December 31, 2004, the company had repurchased 5.5 million shares for approximately $309 million, including commissions, under this share repurchase program. Share repurchases will take place at managements discretion and under pre established non discretionary programs from time to time, depending on market conditions, in the open market, and in privately negotiated transactions. The company retires its common stock upon repurchase. 2003 Cash used in financing activities was $4.7 billion in 2003. In March 2003, the companys wholly owned subsidiary, Northrop Grumman Space & Mission Systems Corp. (formerly TRW Inc.), commenced offers to purchase any or all of certain designated outstanding Northrop Grumman Space & Mission Systems Corp. debt securities in a debt reduction plan substantially completed in the second quarter of 2003. In the first phase, approximately $2.4 billion in aggregate principal amount of outstanding debt securities was tendered and accepted for purchase, for a total purchase price of approximately $2.9 billion (including accrued and unpaid interest on the securities). In the second phase, the company purchased on the open market $658 million in aggregate principal amount for a total purchase price of $795 million (including accrued and unpaid interest on the securities) of Northrop Grumman Space & Mission Systems Corp. debt securities. Cash proceeds from the sale of Auto were used to complete these transactions, which contributed to the reduction of long term debt to $5.9 billion at December 31, 2003, from the $9.6 billion reported at December 31, 2002. As of December 31, 2003, as part of the share repurchase program commenced in the third quarter of 2003, the company had repurchased over 4.4 million shares for approximately $200 million. The company redeemed all outstanding shares of TRW Automotive Inc. Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock for $117 million in 2003. 2002 Cash of $623 million was used in financing activities in 2002. The use of cash in 2002 results from principal payments of long term debt of $500 million and dividends paid to shareholders of $205 million. 50 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Credit Facility At December 31, 2004, $2.5 billion was available under a five year revolving credit facility. Borrowings under the credit facility bear interest at various rates, including adjusted London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), or an alternate base rate plus an incremental margin based on the companys credit rating. The credit facility also provides for a facility fee on the daily aggregate amount of commitments (whether or not utilized). The facility fee is also based on the companys credit rating level. Mandatorily Redeemable Series B Convertible Preferred Stock In connection with the Litton acquisition, the company issued 3.5 million shares of mandatorily redeemable Series B Convertible Preferred Stock in April 2001. Each share of Series B preferred stock has a liquidation value of $100 per share. The liquidation value, plus accrued but unpaid dividends, is payable on April 4, 2021, the mandatory redemption date. The company has the option to redeem all, but not less than all, of the shares of Series B preferred stock at any time after seven years from the date of issuance for a number of shares of the companys common stock equal to the liquidation value plus accrued and unpaid dividends divided by the current market price of common stock determined in relation to the date of redemption. Each share of preferred stock is convertible, at any time, at the option of the holder into the right to receive shares of the companys common stock. Initially, each share is convertible into 1.82 shares of common stock, subject to adjustment. Holders of preferred stock are entitled to cumulative annual cash dividends of $7 per share, payable quarterly. In any liquidation of the company, each share of preferred stock is entitled to a liquidation preference before any distribution may be made on the companys common stock or any series of capital stock that is junior to the Series B preferred stock. In the event of a fundamental change in control of the company, holders of Series B preferred stock also have specified exchange rights into common stock of the company or into specified securities or property of another entity participating in the change in control transaction. Other Sources and Uses of Capital Additional Capital To provide for long term liquidity, the company believes it can obtain additional capital from such sources as the public or private capital markets, the sale of assets, sale and leaseback of operating assets, and leasing rather than purchasing new assets. Cash on hand at the beginning of the year plus cash generated from operations and cash available under credit lines are expected to be sufficient in 2005 to service debt, finance capital expansion projects, pay federal income taxes, and continue paying dividends to shareholders. The company will continue to provide the productive capacity to perform its existing contracts, prepare for future contracts, and conduct research and development in the pursuit of developing opportunities. While these expenditures tend to limit short term liquidity, they are made with the intention of improving the long term growth and profitability of the company. Financial Arrangements In the ordinary course of business, the company uses standby letters of credit and guarantees issued by commercial banks and surety bonds issued by insurance companies principally to guarantee the performance on certain contracts and to support the companys self insured workers compensation plans. At December 31, 2004, there were $492 million of unused stand by letters of credit, $150 million of bank guarantees, and $532 million of surety bonds outstanding. Other Agreements In July and August of 2003, Ship Systems executed agreements with the states of Mississippi and Louisiana, respectively, wherein Ship Systems will lease facility improvements and equipment from these states in exchange for certain commitments by Ship Systems. Under the Mississippi agreement, Ship Systems is required to match the states funding with expenditures in the amount of $121 million and create 667 new full time jobs in Mississippi by December 2007. Under the Louisiana agreement, Ship Systems is required to match the states funding with expenditures in the amount of $56 million by December 2007, and employ a minimum of 5,200 full time employees in 16 of the 32 fiscal quarters beginning January 1, 2003, and ending December 31, 2010. Failure by Ship Systems to meet these commitments would result in reimbursement by Ship Systems to Mississippi and Louisiana in accordance with the respective agreements. 51 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION OTHER MATTERS New Accounting Pronouncements Several new accounting pronouncements were issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), which became effective during the periods presented. None of the new pronouncements effective during 2004 had a significant effect on the companys financial position or results of operations. Other new pronouncements issued by the FASB and not effective until after December 31, 2004, are not expected to have a significant effect on the companys financial position or results of operations, with the exception of the following: In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 123(R) Share Based Payment, which replaces SFAS No. 123 Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, and supersedes APB Opinion No. 25 Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees. SFAS No. 123(R) requires compensation costs related to share based payment transactions to be recognized in the financial statements. With limited exceptions, the amount of compensation cost is measured based on the grant date fair value of the equity or liability instruments issued. SFAS No. 123(R) requires liability awards to be remeasured each reporting period and compensation costs to be recognized over the period that an employee provides service in exchange for the award. SFAS No. 123(R) is effective as of the beginning of the first interim or annual reporting period that begins after June 15, 2005. The company plans to adopt the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R) prospectively during the third quarter of 2005. Managements preliminary estimate of the effect of adoption of this statement is an expense of approximately $40 million for 2005. Management is currently evaluating the effect, if any, that adoption of this statement may have on the design of the companys performance based stock compensation arrangements. For further discussion of new accounting standards, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8. Independence of Registered Public Accounting Firm The companys independent registered public accounting firm, Deloitte & Touche LLP (Deloitte), recently advised the Audit Committee of the companys Board of Directors that a Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu member firm in Germany had disbursement authority, through December 7, 2004, over an account related to payroll tax payments and payroll tax refund deposits for a small number of company employees located in Germany. While the services to which this account related were terminated by the company in September 2002, the account remained open through December 7, 2004, with minimal account balance and activity. Upon closure, the balance in the account was remitted to the company. Deloitte informed the company and the Audit Committee that Deloitte believes its independence and objectivity with respect to performance of its audit services for the company are not, and were not, impaired by the existence of this account or the administrative actions related to it. The Audit Committee and Deloitte discussed Deloittes independence with respect to the company in consideration of this matter, and the Audit Committee has concluded, taking into consideration, among other factors, the insignificant amounts involved in the account, the de minimis fees paid to the Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu member firm in Germany for its services, and the ministerial nature of the account, that this matter did not and does not impair Deloittes independence with respect to the audit services provided to the company. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements As of December 31, 2004, the company had no significant off balance sheet arrangements with the exception of operating leases as discussed in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8. 52 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS AND IMPORTANT RISK FACTORS Certain statements and assumptions throughout this report contain or are based on forward looking information (that Northrop Grumman believes to be within the definition in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) and involve risks and uncertainties, and include, among others, statements in the future tense, and all statements accompanied by terms such as believe, project, expect, estimate, assume, intend, anticipate, and variations thereof and similar terms. This information reflects the companys best estimates when made, but the company expressly disclaims any duty to update this information if new data becomes available or estimates change after the date of this report. These forward looking statements should, therefore, be considered in light of various important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from estimates or projections including, without limitation: The company depends on a limited number of customers. The company is heavily dependent on government contracts, many of which are only partially funded. The termination or failure to fund one or more significant contracts could have a material adverse effect on the companys results of operations. The company is a supplier, either directly or as a subcontractor or team member, to the U.S. Government and its agencies as well as foreign governments and agencies. These contracts are subject to each customers political and budgetary constraints and processes, changes in short range and long range plans, the timing of contract awards, the congressional budget authorization and appropriation processes, the governments ability to terminate contracts for convenience or for default, as well as other risks such as contractor suspension or debarment in the event of certain violations of legal and regulatory requirements. Many of the companys contracts are fixed price contracts. While firm, fixed price contracts allow the company to benefit from cost savings, they also expose the company to the risk of cost overruns. If the companys initial estimates used for calculating contract prices are incorrect, the company can incur losses on those contracts. In addition, some of the companys contracts have provisions relating to cost controls and audit rights, and if the company fails to meet the terms specified in those contracts, then the company may not realize their full benefits. The companys ability to manage costs on these contracts may have a material effect on its financial position and results of operations. In addition, in those instances where the company has entered into contracts for fixed price development programs, the companys successful performance of such programs is subject to its ability to control cost growth in meeting production specifications and delivery rates. The company is subject to significant competition. The companys markets include defense and commercial areas where it competes with companies of substantial size and resources. The companys success or failure in winning new contracts or follow on orders for its existing or future products may cause material fluctuations in the companys future revenues and results of operations. The companys operations may be subject to events that cause adverse effects on its ability to meet contract obligations within anticipated cost and time constraints. The company may encounter internal problems and delays in delivery as a result of issues with respect to design, technology, licensing and patent rights, labor, learning curve assumptions, or materials and components that prevent the company from achieving contract requirements. The company may be affected by delivery or performance issues with key suppliers and subcontractors, as well as other factors inherent in the companys businesses that may cause operating results to be adversely affected. Operating results are also dependent on successful negotiation of collective bargaining agreements. Changes in inventory requirements or other production cost increases may also have a material adverse effect on the companys results of operations. If the company does not perform its plans as intended, or if the company encounters unforeseen problems, or problems subsequently develop, including loss on launch, premature failure, or unplanned degradation of performance in orbit of its satellite systems, the companys results of operations could be adversely affected. Among the factors that may be involved would be unforeseen costs and expenses, and diversion of management focus in responding to unforeseen liabilities and in the case of certain contracts, repayment to the government 53 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION customer of progress payments and award fees upon loss at launch or premature failure or unplanned degradation of performance in orbit of its satellite systems. The company relies on continuous innovation. The company is dependent upon its ability to anticipate changing needs for defense products, military and civilian electronic systems and support, naval vessels, space technologies, and information technology. The companys success is dependent on designing new products that will respond to such requirements within customers price limitations. The company faces significant challenges in the international marketplace. The companys international business is subject to changes in import and export policies, technology transfer restrictions, limitations imposed by United States law that are not applicable to foreign competitors, and other legal, financial, and governmental risks. The company assumes that any divestiture of non core businesses and assets will be completed successfully. The companys performance may be affected by its inability to successfully dispose of assets and businesses that do not fit with, or are no longer appropriate to, the companys strategic plan. The company is subject to environmental matters and other litigation, which, if not resolved within the companys expectations, could have a material adverse effect on the companys financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. The companys pension (expense) income may fluctuate significantly based on changes in actuarial assumptions and future market performance, which could have a material effect on the its results of operations. The companys tax filings are regularly examined by federal and state taxing authorities. Results of these examinations can result in tax deficiencies, cumulative interest payments, fines, and penalties. Such assessments could negatively affect the companys financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. A decrease in expected reporting unit cash flows or changes in market conditions may indicate potential impairment of recorded goodwill. The company intends that all forward looking statements it makes will be subject to safe harbor protection of the federal securities laws as found in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. You should consider the limitations and risks associated in forward looking statements and not rely on the accuracy of predictions contained in such forward looking statements. These statements speak only as of the date when they are made. The company cannot undertake any obligation to update its forward looking statements to reflect events, circumstances, changes in expectations, or the occurrence of unanticipated events after the date of those statements. Moreover, in the future, the company, through its senior management, may make forward looking statements that involve the risks and other matters described in this document or other matters concerning the company. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Interest Rates The company is exposed to market risk, primarily related to interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. Financial instruments subject to interest rate risk include fixed rate long term debt obligations, variable rate short term debt outstanding under the credit agreement, short term investments, and long term notes receivable. At December 31, 2004, substantially all borrowings were fixed rate long term debt obligations of which a significant portion are not callable until maturity. The companys sensitivity to a 1 percent change in interest rates is tied to its $2.5 billion credit agreement, which had no balance outstanding at December 31, 2004, or 2003. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8. 54 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Derivatives The company does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. The company may enter into interest rate swap agreements to manage its exposure to interest rate fluctuations. At December 31, 2004, two interest rate swap agreements were in effect. At December 31, 2003, there were no interest rate swap agreements in effect. See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8. Foreign Currency The company enters into foreign currency forward contracts to manage foreign currency exchange rate risk related to receipts from customers and payments to suppliers denominated in foreign currencies. At December 31, 2004, and 2003, the amount of foreign currency forward contracts outstanding was not material. The company does not consider the market risk exposure relating to foreign currency exchange to be material. 55 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION 
 
