Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations OVERVIEW Business Northrop Grumman provides technologically advanced, innovative products, services, and solutions in information and services, aerospace, electronics, and shipbuilding. As a prime contractor, principal subcontractor, partner, or preferred supplier, Northrop Grumman participates in many high priority defense and commercial technology programs in the United States and abroad. Northrop Grumman conducts most of its business with the United States (U.S.) Government, principally the Department of Defense (DoD). The company also conducts business with foreign governments and makes domestic and international commercial sales. Outlook U.S. defense contractors have benefited from the upward trend in overall defense spending over recent years. While the current U.S. defense budget forecast shows a slower rate of growth than in prior years, and certain programs in which the company participates may be subject to potential reductions, the company believes that its portfolio of technologically advanced, innovative products, services, and solutions in systems integration, defense electronics, information technology, advanced aircraft, shipbuilding, and space technology will generate revenue growth in 2006 and beyond. In 2006, based on total backlog (funded and unfunded) of approximately $56 billion as of December 31, 2005, and its opportunity to win future programs, the company expects sales of approximately $31 billion and continued improvements in net income over 2005. Expected 2006 sales reflect the impact of the companys strategic decision to exit the value added reseller business reported under Information Technology as the Enterprise Information Technology business area as well as several small businesses. The major industry and economic factors that will affect the companys future performance are described in the following paragraphs. Industry Factors While Northrop Grumman is subject to the usual vagaries of the marketplace, it is also affected by the unique characteristics of the defense industry and by certain elements peculiar to its own business mix. Northrop Grumman, along with Lockheed Martin Corporation, The Boeing Company, Raytheon Company, and General Dynamics Corporation are among the largest companies in the defense industry at this time. Northrop Grumman competes against these and other companies for a number of programs, both large and small. Intense competition and long operating cycles are both key characteristics of Northrop Grummans business and the defense industry. It is common in this industry for work on major programs to be shared among a number of companies. A company competing to be a prime contractor may, upon ultimate award of the contract to another party, turn out to be a subcontractor for the ultimate prime contracting party. It is not uncommon to compete for a contract award with a peer company and, simultaneously perform as a supplier to or a customer of such competitor on other contracts. The nature of major defense programs, conducted under binding contracts, allows companies that perform well to benefit from a level of program continuity not common in many industries. The companys success in the competitive defense industry depends upon its ability to develop and market its products and services, as well as its ability to provide the people, technologies, facilities, equipment, and financial capacity needed to deliver those products and services with maximum efficiency. It is necessary to maintain, as the company has, sources for raw materials, fabricated parts, electronic components, and major subassemblies. In this manufacturing and systems integration environment, effective oversight of subcontractors and suppliers is as vital to success as managing internal operations. Economic Opportunities, Challenges, and Risks The defense of the United States and other North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) countries requires the ability to respond to one or more regional conflicts, terrorist acts, or threats to homeland security, and is 24 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION increasingly more dependent upon proactive threat identification. Such engagements may require unilateral or cooperative initiatives ranging from passive surveillance to active engagement, deterrence, policing, or peacekeeping. In addition, the DoDs strategy continues to be affected by the general publics concern for placing military or civilian personnel at risk. As a result of these trends, both the United States and other NATO countries are increasingly relying on sophisticated systems that provide long range surveillance and intelligence, battle management, and precision strike capabilities combined with the ability to rapidly deploy complete defensive platforms around the world. Accordingly, defense procurement spending is expected to be weighted toward the development and procurement of advanced electronics and software that enhance the capabilities of individual systems and provide for the real time integration of individual surveillance, information management, strike, and battle management platforms. While the upward trend in overall defense spending is beginning to slow, budgets are expected to continue to exhibit real growth in the coming years. Defense spending in NATO countries, however, is flat or trending downward; those countries are focusing their development and procurement efforts on advanced electronics and information systems capabilities. Although the Quadrennial Defense Review eliminated a few major procurement programs in the fiscal 2007 budget, it did increase the DoD focus on intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (ISR), joint command and control, and other areas for future budget submissions. The ultimate size of future defense budgets remains uncertain, but the 2007 budget submitted by the President of the United States indicates that the defense budget will increase approximately $28.5 billion, or 7 percent, over the amount enacted for fiscal 2006. While this budget includes proposed reductions in certain programs in which the company participates or for which the company expected to compete, the company believes that spending on recapitalization and transformation of homeland security and defense assets will continue to be a national priority, with particular emphasis on areas involving ISR and irregular warfare capabilities. U.S. Government programs in which Northrop Grumman either participates, or strives to participate, must compete with other programs for consideration during our nations budget formulation and appropriation processes. Budget decisions made in this environment will have long term consequences for the size and structure of Northrop Grumman and the entire defense industry. Substantial new competitive opportunities for the company include aerial refueling tanker, crew exploratory vehicle, long range bomber, space radar, transformational communication system, restricted programs and several international and homeland security programs. The company continues to focus on operational and financial performance for continued growth in 2006 and beyond. Northrop Grumman has historically concentrated its efforts in high technology areas such as stealth, airborne surveillance, battle management, precision weapons, systems integration, defense electronics, and information technology. The company has a significant presence in federal and civil information systems; the manufacture of a broad range of ships including aircraft carriers and submarines; space technology; command, control, communications, computers, intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (C4ISR) and missile systems. The company believes that its programs are a high priority for national defense, but there remains the possibility that one or more of them may be reduced, extended, or terminated. The company provides certain product warranties that require repair or replacement of non conforming items for a specified period of time. Most of the companys product warranties are provided under government contracts, the costs of which are generally recoverable from the customer. Prime contracts with various agencies of the U.S. Government and subcontracts with other prime contractors are subject to numerous procurement regulations, including the False Claims Act and The International Traffic in Arms Regulations promulgated under the Arms Export Control Act, with noncompliance found by any one 25 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION agency possibly resulting in fines, penalties, debarment, or suspension from receiving additional contracts with all U.S. Government agencies. Given the companys dependence on U.S. Government business, suspension or debarment could have a material effect on the company. BUSINESSES ACQUIRED Confluent On September 30, 2005, the company acquired privately held Confluent RF Systems Corporation (Confluent) for $42 million, which includes estimated transaction costs of $2 million. In addition, the company paid $10 million into an escrow account related to a contingent services agreement that will be amortized as expense over the twelve month service period. The acquisition of Confluent provides the company with access to a unique set of proprietary technologies for use on various programs. The operating results of this business are included as part of the Airborne Early Warning & Electronic Warfare Systems business area of the Integrated Systems segment from the date of acquisition. The assets, liabilities, and results of operations of the acquired business were not material and thus pro forma information is not presented. The company has recorded the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net assets acquired as goodwill. As of December 31, 2005, the company had completed its purchase accounting activities for Confluent and recorded an aggregate increase to goodwill of $37 million. Integic On March 21, 2005, the company acquired privately held Integic Corporation (Integic) for $319 million, which includes estimated transaction costs of $6 million. Integic specializes in enterprise health and business process management solutions. The operating results of Integic have been included as part of the Government Information Technology business area of the Information Technology segment from April 1, 2005, as the operating results from March 21, 2005, through March 31, 2005, were not significant. The assets, liabilities, and results of operations of Integic were not material and thus pro forma information is not presented. As of December 31, 2005, the company had completed its purchase accounting activities for Integic and recorded an aggregate increase to goodwill of $254 million. TRW In December 2002, the company purchased 100 percent of the common stock of TRW Inc. (TRW) valued at approximately $12.5 billion, including the assumption of TRWs debt of $4.8 billion. The company issued approximately 139 million shares of its common stock, with cash paid in lieu of any fractional shares of the companys stock, which otherwise would have been issuable to TRW shareholders. In accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, this value was determined based on the average closing stock price of the companys common stock from October 15, 2002, through October 21, 2002. The operating results of TRW have been included in the consolidated financial statements since January 1, 2003. BUSINESSES SOLD Teldix On March 31, 2005 the company sold Teldix GmbH (Teldix) for $57 million in cash and recognized a pre tax gain of $16 million in discontinued operations. Subsequent purchase price adjustments pursuant to the sale agreement have increased the pre tax gain to $19 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. The results of operations of Teldix, reported in the Electronic Systems segment, were not material to any of the periods presented and have therefore not been reclassified as discontinued operations. Northrop Grumman Canada On December 30, 2004, the company completed the sale of its Canadian navigation systems and space sensors systems businesses for $65 million in cash, and recognized a pre tax gain of $13 million in discontinued operations. Subsequent purchase price adjustments pursuant to the sale agreement have increased the pre tax gain by $5 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. The assets and liabilities as well as the results of operations of the Canadian navigation systems and space sensors systems businesses were not material to any of the periods presented and have therefore not been reclassified as discontinued operations. 26 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Goodrich The company assumed through its acquisition of TRW certain post closing liabilities retained by TRW in connection with TRWs October 2002 sale of its Aeronautical Systems business to Goodrich Corporation (Goodrich). In 2004, the company and Goodrich agreed to a settlement to resolve certain post closing liabilities related to warranty, customer claims, and certain other matters in exchange for a payment to Goodrich of $99 million. This settlement resulted in a 2004 after tax charge to discontinued operations of $15 million. The settlement excludes amounts associated with claims that Goodrich may assert against the company relating to the Airbus A380 actuation systems development program and certain other remaining obligations under the original acquisition agreement. Auto On February 28, 2003, the company sold TRWs automotive business (Auto) to The Blackstone Group for $3.3 billion in cash, a $600 million face value payment in kind note, initially valued at $455 million, and a 19.6 percent interest in the new enterprise, TRW Automotive Holdings Corp. (TRW Auto), initially valued at $170 million. The acquirer also assumed debt of approximately $200 million. Net cash proceeds from the sale were primarily used to reduce debt. In October 2004, the company reached an agreement with TRW Auto to sell the payment in kind note and settle certain other contractual issues arising from the Auto sale. At the date of the agreement, the note, including accrued interest, had a carrying value of $543 million. The company also resolved an indemnification of other postretirement employee benefits pursuant to the Auto sale agreement, and agreed to pay an affiliate of The Blackstone Group $52.5 million. As a result of the agreement, the company recorded a $9 million after tax charge to continuing operations relating to the sale of the note, and a $6 million after tax charge to discontinued operations related to the settlement of the indemnification and other contractual issues. In November 2004, the company received $493.5 million for the sale of the note, which was net of $40.5 million for settlement of the contractual issues, and paid $52.5 million for settlement of the indemnification. Kester In February 2004, the company sold Kester for $60 million in cash and recognized a pre tax gain of $3 million in discontinued operations. The accompanying consolidated statements of income include the January and February 2004 operating results of Kester, which were not material. CONTRACTS The majority of the companys business is generated from long term government contracts for development, production, and service activities. Government contracts typically include the following negotiated cost elements: direct material, labor and subcontracting costs, and certain indirect costs including allowable general and administrative costs. Unless otherwise specified in a contract, costs billed to contracts with the U.S. Government are determined under the requirements of the Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR) and Cost Accounting Standards (CAS) regulations as allowable and allocable costs. Examples of costs incurred by the company and not billed to the U.S. Government in accordance with the requirements of FAR and CAS include, but are not limited to: certain legal costs, mark to market stock compensation expense, lobbying costs, charitable donations, and advertising costs. The companys long term contracts typically fall into one of two broad categories: Cost Reimbursement or Cost Type Contracts Cost type contracts provide for reimbursement of the contractors allowable costs incurred plus a fee that represents profit. Cost type contracts generally require that the contractor use its best efforts to accomplish the scope of the work within some specified time and some stated dollar limitation. Fixed Price Contracts A fixed price contract is a contract in which the specified scope of work is agreed to for a price that is a pre determined, negotiated amount and not generally subject to adjustment because of costs incurred by the contractor. 27 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION The following table summarizes 2005 revenue recognized by contract type and customer: ($ in millions) U.S.Government OtherCustomers Total Percentof Total Cost type $ 19,694 $ 250 $ 19,944 65 % Fixed price 7,898 2,879 10,777 35 Total $ 27,592 $ 3,129 $ 30,721 100 % Contract Fees Negotiated contract fee structures, for both cost type and fixed price contracts may include, but are not limited to: fixed fee amounts, cost sharing arrangements to reward or penalize for either under or over cost target performance, positive award fee, and negative penalty arrangements. Profit margins may vary materially depending on the negotiated contract fee arrangements, percentage of completion of the contract, the achievement of performance objectives, and the stage of performance at which the right to receive fees, particularly under incentive and award fee contracts, is finally determined. Positive Award Fees Certain contracts contain provisions consisting of award fees based on performance criteria such as: cost, schedule, quality, and technical ingenuity. Award fees are determined and earned based on the subjective evaluation by the customer of the companys performance against such negotiated criteria. Award fee contracts are widely used throughout the companys operating segments; examples of significant long term contracts with substantial negotiated award fee amounts are the Kinetic Energy Interceptors (KEI), National Polar Orbiting Operational Environmental Satellite System (NPOESS), F 35, LPD, and DD(X) programs. Compliance and Monitoring On a regular basis, the company monitors its policies and procedures with respect to its contracts to ensure consistent application under similar terms and conditions as well as compliance with all applicable government regulations. In addition, costs incurred and allocated to contracts with the U.S. Government are routinely audited by the Defense Contract Audit Agency. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES, ESTIMATES, AND JUDGMENTS The companys significant accounting policies are outlined in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements (see in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10 K). The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses, as well as the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. As part of its oversight responsibilities, management evaluates the propriety of its estimates, judgments, and accounting methods as new events occur. Management believes that its policies, judgments, and assessments have been consistently applied in a manner that provides the reader of the companys financial statements with a fair presentation of information, in all material respects, in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Management periodically reviews the companys critical accounting policies and estimates with the audit committee of its board of directors. Principal accounting practices that involve a higher degree of judgment or complexity are outlined below. Revenue Recognition Overview The company generally recognizes revenue from its long term contracts under the cost to cost and the units of delivery measures of the percentage of completion method of accounting. The percentage of completion 28 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION method recognizes income as work on a contract progresses. For most contracts, sales are calculated based on the percentage of total costs incurred in relation to total estimated costs at completion of the contract. For certain contracts with large up front purchases of material, primarily in the Ships segment, sales are generally calculated based on the percentage that direct labor costs incurred bear to total estimated direct labor costs. The units of delivery measure is a modification of the percentage of completion method, which recognizes as revenue the contract price of units of a basic production product delivered during a period, and as the cost of product sales the costs allocable to the delivered units; costs allocated to undelivered units are reported in the balance sheet as inventoried costs. The use of the percentage of completion method depends on the ability of the company to make reasonably dependable cost estimates for the design, manufacture, and delivery of its products and services. Such costs are typically incurred over a period of several years, and estimation of these costs requires the use of judgment. Sales under percentage of completion contracts are recorded as costs are incurred or units are delivered. Revenue relating to service contracts is recognized as the services are performed. Cost Estimation The cost estimation process requires significant judgment and is based upon the professional knowledge and experience of the companys engineers, program managers, and financial professionals. Factors that are considered in estimating the work to be completed and ultimate contract recovery include the availability and productivity of labor, the nature and complexity of the work to be performed, the availability of materials, the effect of change orders, the effect of any delays in performance, the availability and timing of funding from the customer, and the recoverability of any claims or requests for equitable adjustment included in the estimates to complete. A significant change in an estimate on one or more programs could have a material effect on the companys consolidated financial position or results of operations. Contract cost estimates are updated at least annually and more frequently as determined by events or circumstances. Cost and revenue estimates for each significant contract are generally reviewed and reassessed quarterly. Performance Incentives and Award Fees Many contracts contain positive and negative profit incentives based upon performance relative to predetermined targets that may occur during or subsequent to delivery of the product. These incentives take the form of potential additional fees to be earned or penalties to be incurred. Incentives and award fees that can be reasonably estimated are recorded over the performance period of the contract. Incentives and award fees that cannot be reasonably estimated are recorded when awarded. Loss Provisions When estimates of total costs to be incurred on a contract exceed total estimates of revenue to be earned, a provision for the entire loss on the contract is recorded as cost of sales in the period the loss is determined. Loss provisions are first offset against contract costs that are included in inventories, with any remaining amount reflected in liabilities. Other Changes in Estimates Other changes in estimates of contract sales, costs, and profits are recognized using the cumulative catch up method of accounting. This method recognizes in the current period the cumulative effect of the changes on current and prior periods. Hence, the effect of the changes on future periods of contract performance is recognized as if the revised estimate had been the original estimate. A significant change in an estimate on one or more programs could have a material effect on the companys financial position or results of operations. See also the discussion on companys revenue recognition policy in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. 29 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Purchase Accounting and Goodwill Overview The purchase price of an acquired business is allocated to the underlying tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based upon their respective fair market values, with the excess recorded as goodwill. Such fair market value assessments require judgments and estimates that can be affected by contract performance and other factors over time that may cause final amounts to differ materially from original estimates. Adjustments to fair value assessments are recorded to goodwill over the purchase price allocation period with the exception of certain adjustments related to income tax uncertainties or restructuring activities, the resolution of which may extend beyond the purchase price allocation period. Acquisition Accruals The company has established certain accruals in connection with indemnities and other contingencies from its acquisitions and divestitures. These accruals and subsequent adjustments have been recorded during the purchase price allocation period for acquisitions and as events occur for divestitures. The accruals were determined based upon the terms of the purchase or sales agreements and, in most cases, involve a significant degree of judgment. Management has recorded these accruals in accordance with its interpretation of the terms of the purchase or sale agreements, known facts, and an estimation of probable future events based on managements experience and consultation with outside valuation specialists. Goodwill The company evaluates the recoverability of recorded goodwill amounts annually in November, or when evidence of potential impairment exists, in accordance with SFAS No. 142 Goodwill and Other Intangibles Assets. In order to test for potential impairment, the company uses a discounted cash flow analysis, corroborated by comparative market multiples where appropriate. The principal factors used in the discounted cash flow analysis requiring judgment are the weighted average cost of capital (WACC) and the terminal value growth rate assumptions. The WACC takes into account the relative weights of each component of the companys consolidated capital structure (equity and debt) and represents the expected cost of new capital adjusted as appropriate to consider lower risk profiles associated with longer term contracts and barriers to market entry. The terminal value growth rates are applied to the final year of the discounted cash flow model. The terminal value growth rate used for testing purposes in 2005 approximates the estimated long term inflation rate. Due to the many variables inherent in the estimation of a reporting units fair value, differences in assumptions may have a material effect on the results of the companys impairment analysis. Litigation, Commitments, and Contingencies Overview In accordance with SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies, amounts are recorded as charges to earnings when management, after taking into consideration the facts and circumstances of each matter, including any settlement offers, has determined that it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. The ultimate resolution of any such exposure to the company may vary from earlier estimates as further facts and circumstances become known. The company is subject to a range of claims, lawsuits, environmental and income tax matters, and administrative proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business. Estimating liabilities and costs associated with these matters requires judgment and assessment based upon professional knowledge and experience of management and 30 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION its internal and external legal counsel. While the company cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these matters, resolution of one or more of these matters, either individually or in the aggregate, could have a material effect on the companys financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Environmental Accruals The company is subject to the environmental laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which it conducts operations. The company records an accrual to provide for the costs of expected environmental obligations when management becomes aware that an expenditure will be incurred and the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated. Factors which could result in changes to the companys environmental accruals and reasonably possible range of loss include: modification of planned remedial actions, increase or decrease in the estimated time required to remediate, discovery of more extensive contamination than anticipated, changes in laws and regulations affecting remediation requirements, and improvements in remediation technology. Litigation Accruals Litigation accruals are recorded as charges to earnings when management, after taking into consideration the facts and circumstances of each matter, including any settlement offers, has determined that it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. The ultimate resolution of any exposure to the company may vary from earlier estimates as further facts and circumstances become known. Tax Contingency Accruals The company records accruals for tax contingencies and related interest when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the contingency can be reasonably estimated based on specific events such as an audit or inquiry by a taxing authority. Changes in accruals associated with uncertainties arising from pre acquisition years for acquired businesses are charged or credited to goodwill. Adjustments to other tax accruals are generally recorded in earnings in the period they are determined. Retirement Benefits Overview Assumptions used in determining projected benefit obligations and the fair values of plan assets for the companys pension plans and other postretirement benefits plans are evaluated annually by management in consultation with its outside actuaries. In the event that the company determines that changes in the assumptions are warranted, future pension and postretirement benefit expenses could increase or decrease. Assumptions The principal assumptions that have a significant effect on the companys financial position and results of operations are the discount rate, the expected long term rate of return on plan assets, and the health care cost trend rates. Discount Rate The discount rate represents the interest rate that should be used to determine the present value of future cash flows currently expected to be required to settle the pension and postretirement benefit obligations. The discount rate is generally based on the yield on high quality corporate fixed income investments. At the end of each year, the discount rate is primarily determined based on the results of a hypothetical long term bond portfolio matching the expected cash inflows with the expected benefit payments for each benefit plan. Taking into consideration the factors noted above, the companys composite discount rate was unchanged at 5.75 percent for December 31, 2005, and December 31, 2004, respectively. 31 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Expected Long Term Rate of Return The expected long term rate of return on plan assets represents the average rate of earnings expected on the funds invested to provide for anticipated future benefit payment obligations. For 2005, the company assumed an expected long term rate of return on plan assets of 8.5 percent. For 2006, the expected long term rate of return assumption is also 8.5 percent. Differences in the discount rate and expected long term rate of return on plan assets within the range indicated below would have had the following impact on 2005 pension results: $ in millions .25 PercentagePoint Increase .25 PercentagePoint Decrease (Decrease) increase to pension expense resulting from Change in discount rate $ (35 ) $ 62 Change in long term rate of return on plan assets (43 ) 43 Health Care Cost Trend Rates The health care cost trend rates represent the annual rate of change in the cost of health care benefits based on estimates of health care inflation, changes in health care utilization or delivery patterns, technological advances, and changes in the health status of the plan participants. For 2005 and 2004, the company assumed an expected initial health care cost trend rate of 10 percent and an ultimate health care cost trend rate of 5 percent. Differences in the initial through the ultimate health care cost trend rates within the range indicated below would have had the following impact on 2005 postretirement benefit results: $ in millions 1 PercentagePoint Increase 1 PercentagePoint Decrease Increase (decrease) from change in health care cost trend rates Postretirement benefit expense $ 34 $ (27 ) Postretirement benefit liability 342 (286 ) MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL MEASURES The company manages and assesses the performance of its business primarily through the following measures: Contract Acquisitions Contract acquisitions represent orders received during the period for which funding has been contractually obligated by the customer. Contract acquisitions tend to fluctuate from year to year and are determined by the size and timing of new and follow on orders. In the year that a business is purchased, its existing funded order backlog as of the purchase date is reported as contract acquisitions. In the year that a business is sold, its existing funded order backlog as of the divestiture date is deducted from contract acquisitions. Sales Year to year sales vary less than contract acquisitions and reflect performance under new and ongoing contracts. For further information see discussion concerning revenue recognition included in the Critical Accounting Policies, Estimates, and Judgments section of this Part II, Item 7. Segment Operating Margin Segment operating margin reflects the performance of segment contracts and programs. Excluded from this measure are certain costs not directly associated with contract performance, including the portion of corporate expenses such as management and administration, legal, environmental, certain compensation and retiree benefits, and other expenses not considered allowable or allocable under applicable CAS regulations and the Federal Acquisition Regulation, and therefore not allocated to the segments. 32 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Backlog Funded backlog represents unfilled orders for which funding has been contractually obligated by the customer. Unfunded backlog represents firm orders for which funding is not contractually obligated by the customer. Unfunded backlog excludes unexercised contract options and unfunded Indefinite Delivery Indefinite Quantity (IDIQ) orders. CONSOLIDATED OPERATING RESULTS Selected financial highlights are presented in the table below. Year ended December 31 $ in millions, except per share 2005 2004 2003 Sales and service revenues $ 30,721 $ 29,853 $ 26,396 Operating margin 2,178 2,006 1,468 Interest income 54 58 60 Interest expense 388 431 497 Other income (expense), net 200 (18 ) 24 Federal and foreign income taxes 661 522 297 Discontinued operations 17 (9 ) 108 Diluted earnings per share 3.85 2.97 2.32 Net cash provided by operating activities 2,627 1,936 798 Sales and Service Revenues 2005 Sales in 2005 increased $868 million, or 3 percent, over 2004 due to higher revenue in each of the companys operating segments except Ships, including double digit sales growth of 18 percent at Integrated Systems. The revenue growth at Integrated Systems was due primarily to increases of 33 percent and 15 percent in the Airborne Early Warning & Electronic Warfare Systems and Integrated Systems Western Region business areas, respectively. Ships segment sales decreased 7 percent in 2005 due primarily to a 30 percent sales decline in the Surface Combatants business area from changes in the customers DD(X) acquisition strategy and the impact of Hurricane Katrina (see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8). 2004 Sales in 2004 increased approximately $3.5 billion, or 13 percent, over 2003 due to higher revenue in each of the companys business segments, including sales growth of 23 percent at Integrated Systems, 19 percent at Mission Systems, 16 percent at Space Technology, and 15 percent at Ships. The revenue growth at Integrated Systems was due primarily to increases of 51 percent and 16 percent in the Airborne Early Warning/Electronic Warfare Systems and Integrated Systems Western Region business areas, respectively. The Mission Systems increase was driven by a 24 percent increase in the Command, Control and Intelligence Systems business area and a 19 percent increase in the Missile Systems business area. The increase in Space Technology revenues was led by increases of 41 percent, 22 percent, and 18 percent in its Software Defined Radios, Civil Space, and Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance business areas, respectively. Revenue growth at Ships was due primarily to increases of 34 percent in the Amphibious and Auxiliary business area, 26 percent in the Surface Combatants business area, and 16 percent in the Submarines business area. 33 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Operating Margin Operating Margin represents segment operating margin (discussed elsewhere below in the section entitled Segment Operating Results) adjusted for a number of factors that do not affect the segments as follows: Year ended December 31 $ in millions 2005 2004 2003 Segment operating margin $ 2,399 $ 2,312 $ 1,923 Unallocated expenses (190 ) (282 ) (137 ) Net pension expense adjustment (21 ) (12 ) (303 ) Reversal of royalty income (10 ) (12 ) (15 ) Total operating margin $ 2,178 $ 2,006 $ 1,468 Unallocated Expenses Unallocated expenses decreased $92 million, or 33 percent, in 2005 as compared with 2004. The decrease in unallocated expenses is primarily due to lower legal costs in the 2005 period. Unallocated expenses increased $145 million in 2004 as compared with 2003. The increase was due primarily to increased legal costs, including provisions related to the resolution of the Allison Gas Turbine and Robinson litigations as well as higher mark to market stock compensation expense and deferred state income taxes. Net Pension Expense Adjustment The net pension expense adjustment reflects the excess pension expense determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America over the pension expense included in the segments cost of sales to the extent that these costs are currently recognized under CAS. The net pension expense adjustment increased to $21 million in 2005, as compared with $12 million in 2004. The increase reflects changes in actuarial assumptions partially offset by actual 2004 asset returns of greater than 13 percent, which improved the funded status of the companys pension plans. In 2004, the net pension expense adjustment decreased $291 million as compared with 2003. The decrease is primarily due to a higher return of more than 20 percent on plan assets in 2003, partially offset by lower 2004 assumptions for the expected long term rate of return on plan assets and the discount rate. For 2006, subject to refinements for participant census data and pay as you go plans, management expects the net pension expense adjustment to total approximately $25 million. The 2006 pension plan assumptions have remained unchanged from the 2005 assumptions and include an expected long term rate of return on plan assets of 8.50 percent and a composite discount rate of 5.75 percent. Reversal of Royalty Income Royalty income is included in segment operating margin for internal reporting purposes. This amount is reversed in the table above to arrive at operating margin as determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Royalty income is included in the Other, net line item discussed below. Interest Income 2005 Interest income in 2005 is comparable to 2004. While 2005 did not have the non cash interest income from the Auto payment in kind note, the higher average cash balance on hand during the year and higher interest rates as compared to 2004 generated a comparable amount of interest income. 2004 Interest income in 2004 is comparable to 2003. Interest income for both years primarily included non cash interest earned on the payment in kind note received in connection with the sale of Auto. On October 10, 2004, the company reached an agreement with TRW Automotive Holdings Corp regarding the repurchase of the payment in kind note, at which time accrual of interest income from the note ceased. 34 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Interest Expense 2005 Interest expense decreased by $43 million, or 10 percent, in 2005 as compared with 2004. The decrease was due to a lower average debt balance in 2005 resulting from a $600 million reduction in debt in the fourth quarter of 2004. 2004 Interest expense decreased by $66 million in 2004 as compared with 2003. The decrease is principally due to the effect of the companys debt reduction plan that was substantially completed in the second quarter of 2003. Also, on October 15, 2004, $350 million of 8.625% notes matured and the company redeemed all of its outstanding $250 million 9.375% debentures due in 2024. The decrease in interest expense related to the reduction of fixed rate debt was partially offset by dividends payable on mandatorily redeemable preferred stock classified as interest expense beginning in the third quarter of 2003. Other, net 2005 Other, net increased $218 million compared with 2004. During 2005, the company sold 7.25 million TRW Automotive shares and approximately 3.5 million Endwave shares, which generated pre tax gains of $70 million and $95 million, respectively. 2004 Other, net decreased $42 million compared with 2003. During 2004, the company recorded a $15 million foreign currency exchange loss on the liquidation of a subsidiary loan and a $13 million expense related to the early retirement of the $250 million 9.375% debentures due 2024. Federal and Foreign Income Taxes 2005 The companys effective tax rate on income from continuing operations for 2005 and 2004 was 32 percent. During 2005, the company recognized a $20 million net tax benefit primarily related to the settlement of Internal Revenue Service (IRS) appeals cases related to Alternative Minimum Tax credits for tax years 1981 through 1996. The effective tax rate for 2006 is expected to be approximately 33 percent. 2004 The companys effective tax rate on income from continuing operations for 2004 was 32 percent compared to 28 percent for 2003. The higher rate in 2004 is primarily due to the reduced effect of research and development credits as well as increased foreign earnings that have a higher effective rate. During 2004, the company completed studies and recognized additional tax credits of approximately $31 million related to research and development and extraterritorial income exclusion for the years 1997 through 2003. During 2003, the company recognized $51 million in research and development tax credits for the years 1981 through 1990. Discontinued Operations 2005 There was no income from discontinued operations in 2005, compared to after tax income of $3 million in 2004. The gain on disposal of discontinued operations of $17 million in 2005 is primarily due to the divestiture of Teldix. 2004 The company reported after tax income from discontinued operations of $3 million for 2004, compared to after tax income of $64 million for the same period of 2003. The income for the 2003 period was primarily attributable to Auto operating results, which were included in discontinued operations until Auto was sold in February 2003. The loss from the disposal of discontinued operations of $12 million in 2004 was primarily due to the resolution of indemnities and other contractual issues from previously disposed entities. Diluted Earnings per Share 2005 Diluted earnings per share for 2005 was $3.85 per share, an increase of 30 percent from $2.97 per share in 2004. Earnings per share are based on weighted average diluted shares outstanding of 363.2 million for 2005 and 365.0 million for 2004. 35 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION 2004 Diluted earnings per share for 2004 was $2.97 per share, an increase of 28 percent from $2.32 per share in 2003. Earnings per share are based on weighted average diluted shares outstanding of 365.0 million for 2004 and 368.4 million for 2003. Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities in 2005 increased $691 million as compared with 2004, primarily due to the timing of cash receipts and payments. Cash collected from customers increased by $1.4 billion, and cash paid to suppliers and employers increased by $1 billion. Net cash from operating activities for 2005 included the receipt of $89 million of insurance proceeds related to Hurricane Katrina, $88 million of federal and state income tax refunds, and $78 million of interest, including interest on a state tax refund for research and development credits for the years 1988 through 1990. These cash inflows were offset by a payment of $99 million for a litigation settlement. Net cash provided by operating activities in 2004 included the receipt of $121 million of federal and state income tax refunds, partially offset by payments of $86 million for litigation settlements. Net cash provided by operating activities in 2005 includes contributions to the companys pension plans totaling $415 million, of which $203 million was voluntarily pre funded in the fourth quarter, as compared to contributions of $624 million in 2004, of which $250 million was voluntarily pre funded in the fourth quarter. SEGMENT OPERATING RESULTS Year ended December 31 $ in millions 2005 2004 2003 Sales and Service Revenues Electronic Systems $ 6,642 $ 6,417 $ 6,039 Ships 5,786 6,252 5,451 Integrated Systems 5,612 4,742 3,847 Mission Systems 5,362 4,947 4,172 Information Technology 5,254 5,051 4,651 Space Technology 3,395 3,269 2,823 Other 42 230 191 Intersegment eliminations (1,372 ) (1,055 ) (778 ) Sales and service revenues $ 30,721 $ 29,853 $ 26,396 Operating Margin Electronic Systems $ 710 $ 670 $ 590 Ships 241 389 295 Integrated Systems 474 412 384 Mission Systems 381 321 266 Information Technology 355 301 269 Space Technology 255 222 193 Other (17 ) (3 ) (74 ) Segment operating margin $ 2,399 $ 2,312 $ 1,923 Realignment Effective January 1, 2004, the company realigned businesses among three of its operating segments that possess similar customers, expertise, and capabilities. The realignment more fully leverages existing capabilities and enhances development and delivery of highly integrated information systems and services. Mission Systems Global Information Technology, Civil Systems, and Mission Systems Europe businesses were transferred to the Information Technology segment. Prior to January 1, 2004, the three business areas comprised Mission Systems 36 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Federal & Civil Information Systems business area. The Defense Mission Systems (DMS) business within the Information Technology segment was transferred to the Mission Systems segment. Prior to January 1, 2004, DMS was located within Information Technologys Government Information Technology business area. The Command, Control & Intelligence Systems business area of the Missions Systems segment transferred its Unmanned Air Vehicle business to the Integrated Systems Western Region business area within the Integrated Systems segment. This realignment resulted in a decrease in 2003 sales of $104 million for the Information Technology segment, an increase of $57 million for the Mission Systems segment, and an increase of $47 million for the Integrated Systems segment. Effective January 1, 2006, the company established a new sector, Northrop Grumman Technical Services (NGTS), to leverage existing business strengths and synergies in the rapidly expanding logistics support, sustainment and technical services markets. NGTS consolidates multiple programs and approximately 10,000 employees in logistics operations from the Electronic Systems, Integrated Systems, Mission Systems and Information Technology sectors. The financial results of this new sector will be included in future filings. ELECTRONIC SYSTEMS Electronic Systems is a leading designer, developer, manufacturer and integrator of a variety of advanced electronic and maritime systems for national security and select non defense applications. Electronic Systems provides systems to U.S. and international customers for such applications as airborne surveillance, aircraft fire control, precision targeting, electronic warfare, automatic test equipment, inertial navigation, integrated avionics, space sensing, intelligence processing, air traffic control, air and missile defense, communications, mail processing, biochemical detection, ship bridge control, and shipboard components. Year ended December 31 $ in millions 2005 2004 2003 Contract Acquisitions $ 6,238 $ 6,706 $ 6,018 Sales and Service Revenues 6,642 6,417 6,039 Segment Operating Margin 710 670 590 As a percentage of segment sales 10.7 % 10.4 % 9.8 % Contract Acquisitions 2005 Electronic Systems segment contract acquisitions decreased $468 million, or 7 percent, in 2005 as compared with 2004. This decrease is primarily due to a $205 million backlog adjustment resulting from the sale of Teldix, fiscal year funding delays in the Aerospace Systems and C4ISR & Space Sensors business areas and international program delays in the Defense Other business area. Significant acquisitions in 2005 included $202 million for the F 22A program in the Aerospace Systems business area and $186 million for the SBIRS program in the C4ISR & Space Sensors business area. 2004 Electronic Systems segment contract acquisitions increased $688 million, or 11 percent, in 2004 as compared with 2003. Principal acquisitions during 2004 included $185 million for a restricted program in the Aerospace Systems business area, $150 million for the Runitel program in the Defense Other business area, and additional funding of $139 million for domestic and international postal automation programs in the Government Systems business area. Sales and Service Revenues 2005 Electronic Systems segment sales increased $225 million, or 4 percent, in 2005 as compared with 2004. The increase was primarily due to revenue growth in the Defensive & Navigation Systems and Government Systems business areas, partially offset by lower sales in the Defense Other and Aerospace Systems business areas. 37 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Defensive & Navigation Systems revenue increased $218 million, or 12 percent, due to higher sales for the Large Aircraft Infrared Countermeasures, and EA 18 programs. Government Systems revenue increased $134 million, or 19 percent, due to higher sales of bio detection and communication systems. The decrease in Defense Other reflects a transfer of an airborne surveillance program to Aerospace Systems for full development and production and lower sales on international programs. The decrease in Aerospace Systems is primarily due to lower volume on the Longbow Missile and Fire Control Radar programs and to lower volume and a sales adjustment on the F 16 block 60 program, which was partially offset by the airborne surveillance program transfer. 2004 Electronic Systems segment sales increased $378 million, or 6 percent, in 2004 as compared with 2003. Government Systems revenue increased $220 million, or 47 percent, due to higher sales of bio detection systems and postal automation equipment, and Defensive & Navigation Systems revenue rose $160 million, or 10 percent, due to higher sales from the Litening program. Defense Other revenue increased $64 million, or 9 percent, due to growth in restricted programs. Segment Operating Margin 2005 Electronic Systems segment operating margin increased $40 million, or 6 percent, in 2005 as compared with 2004. This increase is primarily due to higher sales volume in the Defensive & Navigation Systems business area and improved performance in the Government Systems business area, partially offset by various performance adjustments on land combat programs in the Aerospace Systems business area. Operating margin for 2005 includes a $65 million pre tax charge for the F 16 Block 60 fixed price development combat avionics program. The charge reflects a higher estimate of costs to complete the Falcon Edge electronic warfare suite, including rework of the mission software. Operating margin for 2004 included a $60 million pre tax charge for F 16 Block 60 and a $52 million pre tax charge for Wedgetail, as discussed in the following paragraph. Fixed price development work inherently has more uncertainty as to future events than production and therefore more variability in estimates of costs to complete the work. As work progresses through the development stage into production, the risks associated with estimating the costs of development are reduced. While management has used its best judgment to estimate costs, future events could result in either upward or downward adjustments to those estimates. 2004 Electronic Systems segment operating margin increased $80 million, or 14 percent, in 2004 as compared with 2003. Operating margin in 2004 increased primarily due to increased sales volume and performance improvements in the postal automation business and bio detection systems in the Government Systems business area, as well as higher sales volume, improved performance, and contract close outs in the Defensive & Navigation Systems and Defense Other business areas. These increases were partially offset by a $60 million pre tax charge in the Aerospace Systems business area for the F 16 Block 60 fixed price development program, reflecting a higher estimate of costs to complete the Falcon Edge electronic warfare suite, including the results of qualification testing and the impact of delays in supplies of integrated microelectronic assemblies, and a $52 million pre tax charge reflecting increased projected costs due to analysis of technical issues following systems engineering modeling and qualification testing for the MESA program. 38 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION SHIPS Newport News primary business is the design, construction, repair, maintenance, overhaul, life cycle support, and refueling of nuclear powered aircraft carriers and the design, life cycle support, and repair and construction of nuclear powered submarines for the U.S. Navy. Newport News is the nations sole industrial designer, builder, and refueler of nuclear powered aircraft carriers and one of only two companies capable of designing and building nuclear powered submarines. Ship Systems is one of the nations leading full service systems providers for the design, engineering, construction, and life cycle support of major surface ships for the U.S. Navy, U.S. Coast Guard, international navies, and for commercial vessels. Ship Systems also produces double hulled crude oil tankers. Year ended December 31 $ in millions 2005 2004 2003 Contract Acquisitions $ 2,750 $ 5,668 $ 4,839 Sales and Service Revenues 5,786 6,252 5,451 Segment Operating Margin 241 389 295 As a percentage of segment sales 4.2 % 6.2 % 5.4 % Contract Acquisitions 2005 Ships segment contract acquisitions decreased $2.9 billion, or 51 percent, in 2005, compared with 2004. The decrease was primarily due to fiscal year funding delays impacting USS Carl Vinson and CVN 21 in the Aircraft Carriers business area, as well as decreased funding for the Virginia class Block II program in the Submarines business area and the DD(X) program in the Surface Combatants business area, as compared with 2004. The principal acquisitions in 2005 included $535 million for the LPD program in the Expeditionary Warfare business area, $469 million for the Virginia class Block II program in the Submarines business area, $236 million for the DD(X) program in the Surface Combatants business area, $232 million for the USS George Washington Docking Planned Incremental Availability (DPIA) program in the Aircraft Carriers business area, and $160 million for the Deepwater program in the Coast Guard & Coastal Defense business area. 2004 Ships segment contract acquisitions increased $829 million, or 17 percent, in 2004 as compared with 2003, primarily due to increased funding in the Aircraft Carriers and Submarines business areas. The principal acquisitions in 2004 were $1 billion and $524 million for the DD(X) and DDG programs, respectively, in the Surface Combatants business area and $853 million for the Virginia class Block II program in the Submarines business area. Acquisitions in 2004 also included $583 million and $397 million, respectively, for the LPD and LHD programs in the Amphibious and Auxiliary business area. Sales and Service Revenues 2005 Ships segment sales decreased $466 million, or 7 percent, in 2005, as compared with 2004. Sales in the Surface Combatants and Commercial & Other business areas decreased $576 million&cedil; or 30 percent, and $104 million, or 73 percent, respectively, due in part to an $158 million reduction of sales from hurricane related work delays and an $82 million adjustment of prior sales to account for hurricane related cost growth across several Ship Systems programs, and a slower build rate, as a result of property damage following hurricane Katrina. The decrease in the Surface Combatants business area also includes lower volume in the DD(X) program. These decreases were partially offset by increased sales volume in the Submarines, Aircraft Carriers, and Coast Guard & Coastal Defense business areas. Submarines sales increased $77 million, or 11 percent, primarily due to increased volume in the Virginia class Block II program. Aircraft Carriers sales increased $74 million, or 4 percent, primarily due to higher volume in the USS George Washington DPIA and CVN 21 programs. Coast Guard & Coastal Defense sales increased $40 million, or 35 percent, primarily due to increased volume in the Coast Guards Maritime Security Large National Security Cutter program. 2004 Ships segment sales increased $801 million, or 15 percent, in 2004 as compared with 2003 due to higher revenue in the Surface Combatants, Expeditionary Warfare, and Submarines business areas. Surface Combatants 39 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION revenue increased $416 million, or 26 percent, due to higher revenue from the DD(X) and Deepwater programs partially offset by lower revenue from the DDG program. Expeditionary Warfare revenue increased $367 million, or 34 percent, due to higher revenue from the LHD and LPD programs, and Submarines revenue increased $103 million, or 16 percent, due to higher sales from the Virginia class program. Segment Operating Margin 2005 Ships segment operating margin decreased $148 million, or 38 percent, in 2005, as compared with 2004. The decrease includes a $150 million charge to earnings to account for hurricane related cost growth at the Ship Systems sector, as well as a $15 million impact from hurricane related work delays at Ship Systems (see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8), partially offset by increased operating margins in the Aircraft Carriers and Submarines business areas. Operating margin in the Aircraft Carriers business area increased due to higher sales volume and improved performance in the USS George Washington DPIA program and improved performance in the USS Dwight D. Eisenhower refueling program. Submarines operating margin increased due to higher sales volume and contract close outs. 2004 Ships segment operating margin increased $94 million, or 32 percent, in 2004 as compared with 2003, due principally to a 2003 pre tax charge of $69 million for increased costs for the commercial Polar Tanker program, as well as increased sales volume and performance improvements in 2004 for the DD(X) and LHD programs in the Surface Combatants and Amphibious and Auxiliary business areas, respectively. The Polar Tanker charge included cost growth on the third tanker due to unusual weather delays and rework, and increased costs for changes in labor productivity estimates to complete the final two ships. The third tanker was delivered in the third quarter of 2003, the fourth tanker was delivered in the third quarter of 2004. INTEGRATED SYSTEMS Integrated Systems is a leader in the design, development, and production of airborne early warning, electronic warfare and surveillance, and battlefield management systems, as well as manned and unmanned tactical and strike systems. Year ended December 31 $ in millions 2005 2004 2003 Contract Acquisitions $ 4,669 $ 5,135 $ 4,380 Sales and Service Revenues 5,612 4,742 3,847 Segment Operating Margin 474 412 384 As a percentage of segment sales 8.4 % 8.7 % 10.0 % Contract Acquisitions 2005 Integrated Systems segment contract acquisitions decreased $466 million, or 9 percent, in 2005 as compared with 2004, primarily due to fiscal year funding delays. Significant acquisitions in the Integrated Systems Western Region business area in 2005 were $903 million, $794 million, and $543 million for the Unmanned Systems, F/A 18, and F 35 programs, respectively. The principal acquisitions in the Airborne Early Warning & Electronic Warfare Systems and Airborne Ground Surveillance & Battle Management Systems business areas during 2005 were $626 million and $253 million for the E 2C and Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar System (Joint STARS) programs, respectively. 2004 Integrated Systems segment contract acquisitions increased $755 million, or 17 percent, in 2004 as compared with 2003. The increase is mainly due to increased funding in the Integrated Systems Western Region and Airborne Early Warning & Electronic Warfare Systems business areas. The principal acquisitions for Integrated Systems Western Region during 2004 were $792 million, $709 million, and $606 million for the Unmanned 40 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Systems, F/A 18, and F 35 programs, respectively. The principal acquisitions in the Airborne Early Warning & Electronic Warfare Systems and Airborne Ground Surveillance & Battle Management Systems business areas during 2004 were $881 million and $248 million for the E 2C and E 10A programs, respectively. Sales and Service Revenues 2005 Integrated Systems segment sales increased $870 million, or 18 percent, in 2005 as compared with 2004 due to higher sales in all business areas. Integrated Systems Western Region sales increased $425 million, or 15 percent, due to higher volume from Unmanned Systems, the Multi Platform Radar Technology Insertion Program, and the B 2 program, partially offset by decreased volume in the F/A 18 program. Airborne Early Warning & Electronic Warfare Systems sales increased $416 million, or 33 percent, due to higher volume from the E 2 Advanced Hawkeye and EA 18G programs. Airborne Ground Surveillance & Battle Management Systems revenue increased $37 million, or 6 percent, due to a risk study performed for the North American Treaty Organization (NATO) and higher volume on the E 10A program, partially offset by lower volume on Joint STARS. 2004 Integrated Systems segment sales increased $895 million, or 23 percent, in 2004 as compared with 2003 due to higher revenue in all business areas. Airborne Early Warning & Electronic Warfare Systems revenue increased $432 million, or 51 percent, due to higher revenue from the E 2 Advanced Hawkeye and EA 18G programs; Integrated Systems Western Region revenue increased $405 million, or 16 percent, due to higher revenue from the F 35 program and Unmanned Systems; and Airborne Ground Surveillance & Battle Management Systems revenue increased $59 million, or 11 percent, due to higher revenue from the E 10A program. Segment Operating Margin 2005 Integrated Systems segment operating margin increased $62 million, or 15 percent, in 2005 as compared with 2004. The increase in operating margin was due primarily to higher sales volume in the E 2 Advanced Hawkeye program. The decrease in the Integrated Systems segment operating margin rate was due to a greater proportion of lower margin development program revenue. 2004 Integrated Systems segment operating margin increased $28 million, or 7 percent, in 2004 as compared with 2003. The increase was due primarily to higher sales volume in the Unmanned Systems and E 2 Advanced Hawkeye programs. The decrease in the Integrated Systems segment operating margin rate was due to a greater proportion of lower margin development program revenue. MISSION SYSTEMS Mission Systems is a leading global system integrator of complex, mission enabling systems for government, military, and business clients. Products and services are focused on the fields of Command, Control, Communications, Computers and Intelligence (C4I), strategic missiles, missile and air defense, airborne reconnaissance, intelligence management and processing, electro magnetic and infrared analysis, communications, and decision support systems. Year ended December 31 $ in millions 2005 2004 2003 Contract Acquisitions $ 4,744 $ 5,209 $ 4,878 Sales and Service Revenues 5,362 4,947 4,172 Segment Operating Margin 381 321 266 As a percentage of segment sales 7.1 % 6.5 % 6.4 % 41 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Contract Acquisitions 2005 Mission Systems segment contract acquisitions decreased $465 million, or 9 percent, in 2005 as compared with 2004 primarily due to fiscal year funding delays. The Intercontinental Ballistic Missile (ICBM) program, KEI and Saudi Arabia National Guard contracts accounted for over $500 million of such short term delays. Significant acquisitions in 2005 included $513 million for the ICBM program, $155 million for the Joint National Integration Center program, $145 million for the Ground Based Midcourse Defense Fire Control & Communication program and additional funding of $135 million for the KEI program, all in the Missile Systems business area. 2004 Mission Systems segment contract acquisitions increased $331 million, or 7 percent, in 2004 as compared with 2003, primarily due to increased funding in the Missile Systems business area. The principal acquisitions in 2004 included $1 billion for the ICBM program in the Missile Systems business area and $133 million for restricted programs in the Command, Control & Intelligence Systems business area. Sales and Service Revenues 2005 Mission Systems segment sales increased $415 million, or 8 percent, in 2005 as compared with 2004. The increase was primarily due to higher sales in the Missile Systems and Command Control & Intelligence Systems business areas. Missile Systems revenue increased $229 million, or 18 percent, due to higher sales in the ICBM and KEI programs. Command Control & Intelligence Systems sales increased $204 million, or 7 percent, due to increased volume in several programs. 2004 Mission Systems segment sales increased $775 million, or 19 percent, in 2004 as compared with 2003 due to higher revenue in the Command, Control & Intelligence Systems and Missile Systems business areas. Command, Control & Intelligence Systems revenue increased $591 million, or 24 percent, due to higher revenue from the Tactical Automated Security Systems II program and from various restricted programs. Missile Systems revenue increased $206 million, or 19 percent, due to revenue from the KEI program and the XonTech acquisition. Segment Operating Margin 2005 Mission Systems segment operating margin increased $60 million, or 19 percent, in 2005 as compared with 2004. The increase in operating margin primarily reflects higher sales volume and improved performance in the Command Control & Intelligence Systems and Missile Systems business areas. 2004 Mission Systems segment operating margin increased $55 million, or 21 percent, in 2004 as compared with 2003 due to higher sales volume in the Command, Control & Intelligence Systems and Missile Systems business areas. INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY Information Technology is a premier provider of advanced information technology (IT) solutions, engineering, and business services for government and commercial customers. Year ended December 31 $ in millions 2005 2004 2003 Contract Acquisitions $ 5,382 $ 5,300 $ 4,854 Sales and Service Revenues 5,254 5,051 4,651 Segment Operating Margin 355 301 269 As a percentage of segment sales 6.8 % 6.0 % 5.8 % 42 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Contract Acquisitions 2005 Information Technology segment contract acquisitions increased $82 million, or 2 percent, in 2005 as compared with 2004. Significant acquisitions in 2005 included $299 million for J BOSC in the Technology Services business area, $262 million for the United Kingdom Whole Life Support Programme in the Government Information Technology business area, and $113 million for an outsourcing services contract in the Commercial Information Technology business area. 2004 Information Technology segment contract acquisitions increased $446 million, or 9 percent, in 2004 as compared with 2003, largely due to increased funding in the Government Information Technology and Commercial Information Technology business areas. Principal acquisitions in 2004 in the Government Information Technology business area were $138 million for the National Geospatial Intelligence Agency Electrical Engineering program, $104 million for the Immigration and Naturalization Service Technology Enterprise Automation Management Support program, and $104 million for the Information Technology Support Services program. The Commercial Information Technology business area received funding of $231 million for the Identification 1 program. The Technology Services business area received funding of $283 million for J BOSC. Sales and Service Revenues 2005 Information Technology segment sales increased $203 million, or 4 percent, in 2005 as compared with 2004. The increase was primarily due to higher revenue in the Government Information Technology and Commercial Information Technology business areas, partially offset by lower Enterprise Information Technology sales. Government Information Technology revenue increased $261 million, or 9 percent, due to higher volume in existing programs, the acquisition of Integic, and new business awards. Commercial Information Technology revenue increased $55 million, or 8 percent, primarily due to new business awards. Enterprise Information Technology sales decreased $139 million, or 16 percent, due to overall market softness and increased competition in the value added reseller marketplace. 2004 Information Technology segment sales increased $400 million, or 9 percent, in 2004 as compared with 2003 primarily due to higher revenue in the Government Information Technology and Technology Services business areas. Government Information Technology revenue increased $379 million, or 14 percent, due to new business awards, including $93 million for the National Geospatial Intelligence Agency Electrical Engineering program and $45 million for the Defense Integrated Military Human Resources System program. Technology Services revenue increased $33 million, or 5 percent, due to higher sales volume from the B 2 program. Segment Operating Margin 2005 Information Technology segment operating margin increased $54 million, or 18 percent, in 2005 as compared with 2004. The increase in operating margin primarily reflects higher sales volume and improved performance in the Government Information Technology and Commercial Information Technology business areas, partially offset by lower performance in the Enterprise Information Technology business area. 2004 Information Technology segment operating margin increased $32 million, or 12 percent, in 2004 as compared with 2003 due to higher sales volume and improved performance in the Government Information Technology and Enterprise Information Technology business areas. 43 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION SPACE TECHNOLOGY Space Technology develops and integrates a broad range of systems at the leading edge of space, defense, and electronics technology. The sector supplies products primarily to the U.S. Government that are critical to maintaining the nations security and leadership in science and technology. Space Technologys business areas focus on the design, development, manufacture, and integration of spacecraft systems and subsystems, electronic and communications payloads, advanced avionics systems, and high energy laser systems and subsystems. Year ended December 31 $ in millions 2005 2004 2003 Contract Acquisitions $ 2,645 $ 3,460 $ 3,073 Sales and Service Revenues 3,395 3,269 2,823 Segment Operating Margin 255 222 193 As a percentage of segment sales 7.5 % 6.8 % 6.8 % Contract Acquisitions 2005 Space Technology segment contract acquisitions decreased $815 million, or 24 percent, in 2005 as compared with 2004, primarily due to fiscal year funding delays. Significant acquisitions in 2005 included $551 million for restricted programs in the Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance business area, $487 million for the NPOESS program in the Civil Space business area, $264 million for the AEHF program in the Satellite Communications business area and additional funding of $257 million for the F 35 program in the Software Defined Radios business area. 2004 Space Technology segment contract acquisitions increased $387 million, or 13 percent, in 2004 as compared with 2003. This increase was primarily due to increased funding for restricted programs in the Intelligence, Surveillance & Reconnaissance business area. Sales and Service Revenues 2005 Space Technology segment sales increased $126 million, or 4 percent, in 2005 as compared with 2004. The increase was primarily due to higher sales in the Civil Space and Intelligence, Surveillance & Reconnaissance business areas, partially offset by lower sales in the Satellite Communications and Missile & Space Defense business areas. Civil Space revenue increased $144 million, or 23 percent, due to higher sales in the NPOESS and James Webb Space Telescope (JWST) programs. Intelligence, Surveillance & Reconnaissance sales increased $101 million, or 10 percent, due to higher volume in restricted programs. Satellite Communications sales decreased $60 million, or 12 percent, and Missile & Space Defense sales decreased $52 million, or 11 percent. 2004 Space Technology sales increased $446 million, or 16 percent, in 2004 as compared with 2003 due to higher revenue in the Intelligence, Surveillance & Reconnaissance, Software Defined Radios, and Civil Space business areas. Intelligence, Surveillance & Reconnaissance revenue increased $160 million, or 18 percent, due to increased volume from restricted programs. Software Defined Radios revenue increased $159 million, or 41 percent, due to higher revenue from the F 35 and F 22A programs. Civil Space revenue increased $117 million, or 22 percent, due to higher volume from the JWST and NPOESS programs. Segment Operating Margin 2005 Space Technology segment operating margin increased $33 million, or 15 percent, in 2005 as compared with 2004. This increase is primarily due to higher sales volume and improved program performance in the Intelligence, Surveillance & Reconnaissance business area. 44 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION 2004 Space Technology segment operating margin increased $29 million, or 15 percent, in 2004 as compared with 2003. This increase was driven primarily by increased volume and performance improvements on restricted programs in the Intelligence, Surveillance & Reconnaissance business area. Other significant increases in segment operating margin in 2004 were driven by increased sales volume from the F 35 and F 22A programs in the Software Defined Radios business area and the JWST and NPOESS programs in the Civil Space business area. BACKLOG Total backlog at December 31, 2005, was approximately $56 billion. Total backlog includes both funded backlog (unfilled orders for which funding is contractually obligated by the customer) and unfunded backlog (firm orders for which funding is not currently contractually obligated by the customer). Unfunded backlog excludes unexercised contract options and unfunded IDIQ orders. Major components in unfunded backlog as of December 31, 2005, included various restricted programs, the Kinetic Energy Interceptors program in the Mission Systems segment; the F 35, F/A 18, and E 2 Advanced Hawkeye programs in the Integrated Systems segment; the NPOESS program in the Space Technology segment; and Block II of the Virginia class submarines program and the USS Carl Vinson refueling and overhaul execution contract in the Ships segment. The following table presents funded and unfunded backlog by segment at December 31, 2005: $ in millions Funded Unfunded TotalBacklog Electronic Systems $ 6,374 $ 1,971 $ 8,345 Ships 6,129 5,383 11,512 Integrated Systems 3,748 8,543 12,291 Mission Systems 2,549 7,881 10,430 Information Technology 2,696 3,684 6,380 Space Technology 999 6,807 7,806 Other 5 5 Intersegment Eliminations (473 ) (473 ) Total backlog $ 22,027 $ 34,269 $ 56,296 Backlog is converted into the following years sales as costs are incurred or deliveries are made. Approximately 75 percent of the 2005 year end funded backlog is expected to be converted into sales in 2006. Total U.S. Government orders, including those made on behalf of foreign governments, comprised 83 percent, 86 percent, and 87 percent of the funded backlog at the end of 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively. Total foreign customer orders accounted for 10 percent, 9 percent, and 7 percent of the funded backlog at the end of 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively. Domestic commercial backlog represented 7 percent, 5 percent, and 6 percent of funded backlog at the end of 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively. 45 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Contractual Obligations The following table presents the companys contractual obligations as of December 31, 2005, and the estimated timing of future cash payments: $ in millions Total 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 andbeyond Long term debt $ 5,030 $ 1,212 $ 182 $ 556 $ 3,080 Interest payments on long term debt 3,748 319 560 500 2,369 Operating leases 1,977 420 610 437 510 Purchase obligations(1) 7,550 5,025 1,835 677 13 Other long term liabilities(2) 885 190 281 65 349 Total contractual obligations $ 19,190 $ 7,166 $ 3,468 $ 2,235 $ 6,321 (1) A purchase obligation is defined as an agreement to purchase goods or services that is enforceable and legally binding on the company and that specifies all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum, or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. These amounts are primarily comprised of open purchase order commitments to vendors and subcontractors pertaining to funded contracts. (2) Other long term liabilities primarily consist of accrued workers compensation, deferred compensation, and other miscellaneous liabilities. The table above excludes mandatorily redeemable preferred stock of $350 million as well as cumulative annual cash dividends of $7 per share, payable quarterly. See Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. The table above also excludes obligations under the accelerated stock repurchase program. See Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. The table above also excludes estimated minimum funding requirements for retiree benefit plans as set forth by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA), totaling approximately $3.3 billion over the next five years: $633 million in 2006, $1.6 billion in 2007 and 2008, and $1.1 million in 2009 and 2010. The company also has payments due under plans that are not required to be funded in advance, but are funded on a pay as you go basis. See Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. Further details regarding long term debt and operating leases can be found in Notes 14 and 17, respectively, to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. 46 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Sources and Uses of Cash The following table provides an overview of the companys sources and uses of cash. The amounts from which the percentages are derived are reported in the consolidated statements of cash flows as follows: cash from customers and cash to employees and suppliers of services and materials are reported in Operating Activities; cash from buyers of assets, cash to sellers of assets, and cash to suppliers of facilities are reported in Investing Activities; and cash from and cash to lenders and shareholders are reported in Financing Activities. Year ended December 31 2005 2004 2003 Cash came from Customers 97 % 94 % 85 % Buyers of assets/other 2 3 13 Shareholders 1 3 Lenders 2 100 % 100 % 100 % Cash went to Suppliers and employees 88 % 88 % 74 % Shareholders 5 2 2 Sellers of assets 4 4 2 Suppliers of facilities/other 2 2 6 Lenders 1 4 16 100 % 100 % 100 % Operating Activities 2005 In 2005, cash provided by operating activities was $2.6 billion as compared with $1.9 billion in 2004. The increase was primarily due to the timing of cash receipts and payments. Cash collected from customers increased by $1.4 billion, and cash paid to suppliers and employees increased by $1 billion. Net cash from operating activities for 2005 included the receipt of $89 million of insurance proceeds related to Hurricane Katrina, $88 million of federal and state income tax refunds, and $78 million of interest, including interest on a state tax refund for research and development credits for the years 1988 through 1990. These cash inflows were offset by a payment of $99 million for a litigation settlement. Employer contributions to the companys pension plans were $415 million in 2005 as compared with $624 million in 2004. The contributions include voluntary pre funding payments of $203 million and $250 million in 2005 and 2004, respectively. Interest payments decreased $39 million in 2005 as compared with 2004, due to further reduction in fixed rate debt. At December 31, 2005, net working capital deficit (current assets less current liabilities) was ($425) million, primarily driven by an increased current portion of long term debt. 2004 In 2004, cash provided by operating activities was $1.9 billion as compared with $798 million in 2003. In 2003, cash used in operations included $1 billion of taxes paid upon completion of the B 2 EMD contract. In 2004, the companys appeal to the Supreme Court of Indiana in connection with the Allison Gas Turbine case was denied and the company paid $81 million in settlement of the judgment and interest. 47 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION In 2004, the company and Goodrich agreed to a settlement to resolve certain post closing liabilities that related to warranty, customer claims, and certain other matters in exchange for a payment to Goodrich of $99 million. The company also resolved an indemnification of other post employment benefits, pursuant to the Auto sale agreement, and paid an affiliate of The Blackstone Group $52.5 million. For further information refer to Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. Employer contributions to the companys pension plans increased $295 million from $329 million in 2003 to $624 million in 2004. The increase reflects a voluntary pre funding of $250 million in the fourth quarter of 2004. No such pre funding payment was made in 2003. Interest payments decreased $150 million in 2004 as compared with 2003, primarily due to a reduction in fixed rate debt. At December 31, 2004, net working capital (current assets less current liabilities) was $684 million reflecting a higher cash balance and a decreased current portion of long term debt. 2003 In 2003, cash provided by operating activities was $798 million as compared with $1.7 billion generated in 2002. In 2003, cash used in operations reflects $1 billion of taxes paid upon completion of the B 2 EMD contract. During 2003, the company also received $178 million of federal and state tax refunds and made litigation settlement payments totaling $206 million. Investing Activities 2005 Cash used in investing activities was $855 million in 2005. During 2005, the company paid $361 million to acquire two businesses. This includes the acquisition of Confluent in September 2005 and Integic in March 2005. The company received $238 million from the sale of investments, including $95 million for 3.4 million common shares of Endwave and $143 million for 7.3 million common shares of TRW Auto. During 2005, the company also received $57 million from the sale of Teldix. The company received insurance proceeds of $38 million in the fourth quarter of 2005 to replace damaged property at the Ships segment as a result of Hurricane Katrina. Capital expenditures in 2005 were $824 million, including $80 million to replace property damaged by Hurricane Katrina and $41 million of capitalized software costs. Capital expenditure commitments at December 31, 2005, were approximately $546 million. 2004 Cash provided by investing activities was $9 million in 2004. On October 10, 2004, the company reached an agreement with TRW Auto regarding the repurchase of a payment in kind note. On November 12, 2004, the company received $493.5 million, which was net of $40.5 million for settlement of certain contractual issues arising from the sale of Auto. During 2004, the company received $125 million from the sale of businesses. This includes the sale of Kester, one of the former Components Technologies businesses, in February 2004 for approximately $60 million, and the sale of Northrop Grumman Canada in December 2004 for approximately $65 million. Capital expenditures in 2004 were $672 million, including $53 million for capitalized software costs. 2003 Cash provided by investing activities was $2.9 billion in 2003. On February 28, 2003, the company sold Auto to The Blackstone Group for $3.3 billion in cash, a $600 million face value payment in kind note, initially valued at $455 million, and a 19.6 percent interest in the new enterprise, valued at $170 million. The cash received from the sale of Auto was adjusted from the sale agreement amount by cash sold with the business, 48 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION preliminary purchase price adjustments, and an asset retained. Cash proceeds from the sale of Auto were primarily used to reduce debt. Capital expenditures in 2003 were $637 million, including $47 million for capitalized software costs. Financing Activities 2005 Cash used in financing activities in 2005 was $1.4 billion comprised primarily of $1.2 billion in share repurchases and $359 million in dividends paid to shareholders, partially offset by $163 million in proceeds from exercises of stock options. Share Repurchases On October 26, 2004, the companys board of directors authorized a share repurchase program of up to $1 billion of its outstanding common stock. This share repurchase program was completed in the third quarter of 2005 and resulted in the retirement of 18.2 million shares of common stock, with approximately $700 million of the repurchases occurring in 2005. On October 24, 2005, the companys board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $1.5 billion of its outstanding common stock which is expected to be completed over a twelve to eighteen month period commencing in November 2005. Under this program, the company entered into an agreement with Credit Suisse, New York Branch (Credit Suisse) on November 4, 2005, to repurchase approximately 9.1 million shares of common stock at an initial price of $55.15 per share for a total of $500 million. Under the agreement, Credit Suisse immediately borrowed shares that were sold to and canceled by the company. Subsequently, Credit Suisse began purchasing shares in the open market to settle its share borrowings. The companys initial share repurchase is subject to adjustment based upon the actual cost of the shares subsequently purchased by Credit Suisse. The price adjustment can be settled, at the companys option, in cash or in shares of common stock. As of December 31, 2005, Credit Suisse had purchased 5.8 million shares, or 64 percent of the shares under the agreement, at an average price per share of $57.47 net of commissions, interest and other fees. Assuming Credit Suisse purchases the remaining shares at a price per share equal to the closing price of the companys common stock on December 31, 2005 ($60.11), the company would be required to pay approximately $30.2 million (including related settlement fees, interest and expenses) or issue approximately 500,000 shares of common stock to complete the transaction. The settlement amount may increase or decrease depending upon the average price paid for the shares under the program. Settlement is expected to occur in the first quarter of 2006, depending upon the timing and pace of the purchases. Share repurchases take place at managements discretion and under pre established non discretionary programs from time to time, depending on market conditions, in the open market, and in privately negotiated transactions. The company retires its common stock upon repurchase and has not made any purchases of common stock other than in connection with these publicly announced repurchase programs. 2004 Cash of $1 billion was used in financing activities in 2004, comprised primarily of $786 million in share repurchases, $725 million in principal payments of long term debt, and $322 million in dividends paid to shareholders, partially offset by $834 million in proceeds from exercises of stock options. Debt Reduction On October 15, 2004, the company redeemed all of its outstanding $250 million 9.375% debentures due 2024. The redemption price was 104.363 percent of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest through the redemption date. As a result of the redemption, the company recorded a $13 million pre tax charge in 2004. Also, on October 15, 2004, $350 million of 8.625% notes matured. Equity Security Units In November 2001, the company issued 6.9 million equity security units. Each equity security unit, issued at $100 per unit, initially consisted of a contract to purchase shares of Northrop Grumman 49 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION common stock on November 16, 2004, and a $100 senior note due 2006. The senior notes due 2006 are reported as long term debt and initially bore interest at 5.25% per annum. Each equity security unit holder also received a contract adjustment payment of 2.0% per annum through November 16, 2004, for a combined yield on the equity security unit of 7.25% per annum through November 16, 2004. On August 11, 2004, the company remarketed the senior notes as required by the original terms of the equity security units. As a result of this remarketing, the interest rate on the senior notes was reset to 4.08% per annum effective August 16, 2004. Proceeds from the remarketed notes were used to purchase U.S. Treasury securities that were pledged to secure the stock purchase obligations of the unit holders. On November 16, 2004, the company received $690 million and issued 13.2 million shares of common stock in settlement of the stock purchase contracts. The number of shares issued was calculated using a conversion ratio of 1.9171 shares per each equity security unit, which was determined in accordance with the original terms of the stock purchase contracts. Share Repurchases On August 20, 2003, the companys board of directors authorized a share repurchase program of $700 million of its outstanding common stock. This share repurchase program was completed on October 5, 2004 and resulted in the retirement of 14.4 million shares of common stock, with approximately $500 million of the repurchases occurring in 2004. Through December 31, 2004, as part of the share repurchase program commenced in 2004, the company had repurchased approximately 5.5 million shares of common stock for approximately $300 million. 2003 Cash used in financing activities was $4.7 billion in 2003, comprised primarily of $3.8 billion in principal payments of long term debt, $305 million in dividends paid to shareholders, $200 million in share repurchases, and $117 million for redemption of minority interest in preferred stock. Debt Reduction Plan In March 2003, the companys wholly owned subsidiary, Northrop Grumman Space & Mission Systems Corp. (formerly TRW Inc.), commenced offers to purchase any or all of certain designated outstanding Northrop Grumman Space & Mission Systems Corp. debt securities in a debt reduction plan substantially completed in the second quarter of 2003. In the first phase, approximately $2.4 billion in aggregate principal amount of outstanding debt securities was tendered and accepted for purchase, for a total purchase price of approximately $2.9 billion (including accrued and unpaid interest on the securities). In the second phase, the company purchased on the open market $658 million in aggregate principal amount for a total purchase price of $795 million (including accrued and unpaid interest on the securities) of Northrop Grumman Space & Mission Systems Corp. debt securities. Share Repurchases Through December 31, 2003, as part of the share repurchase program commenced in 2003, the company had repurchased over 4.4 million shares of common stock for approximately $200 million. Preferred Stock Redemption The company redeemed all outstanding shares of TRW Automotive Inc. Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock for $117 million in 2003. Credit Facility On August 5, 2005, the company entered into a new credit agreement which provides for a five year revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of $2 billion. The credit facility permits the company to request additional lending commitments from the lenders under the agreement or other eligible lenders under certain circumstances, and thereby increase the aggregate principal amount of the lending commitments under the agreement by up to an additional $500 million. The agreement provides for swingline loans and letters of credit as 50 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION sub facilities for the credit facility. Borrowings under the credit facility bear interest at various rates, including the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), adjusted based on the companys credit rating, or an alternate base rate plus an incremental margin. The credit facility also requires a facility fee based on the daily aggregate amount of commitments (whether or not utilized) and the companys credit rating level. The companys new credit agreement contains certain financial covenants that are less restrictive than those contained in the prior credit agreement. At December 31, 2005, there was no balance outstanding under this facility. Mandatorily Redeemable Series B Convertible Preferred Stock In connection with the Litton acquisition, the company issued 3.5 million shares of mandatorily redeemable Series B Convertible Preferred Stock in April 2001. Each share of Series B preferred stock has a liquidation value of $100 per share. The liquidation value, plus accrued but unpaid dividends, is payable on April 4, 2021, the mandatory redemption date. The company has the option to redeem all, but not less than all, of the shares of Series B preferred stock at any time after seven years from the date of issuance for a number of shares of the companys common stock equal to the liquidation value plus accrued and unpaid dividends divided by the current market price of common stock determined in relation to the date of redemption. Each share of preferred stock is convertible, at any time, at the option of the holder into the right to receive shares of the companys common stock. Initially, each share is convertible into 1.82 shares of common stock, subject to adjustment. Holders of preferred stock are entitled to cumulative annual cash dividends of $7 per share, payable quarterly, and recorded as interest expense. In any liquidation of the company, each share of preferred stock is entitled to a liquidation preference before any distribution may be made on the companys common stock or any series of capital stock that is junior to the Series B preferred stock. In the event of a fundamental change in control of the company, holders of Series B preferred stock also have specified exchange rights into common stock of the company or into specified securities or property of another entity participating in the change in control transaction. Other Sources and Uses of Capital Additional Capital To provide for long term liquidity, the company believes it can obtain additional capital from such sources as the public or private capital markets, the sale of assets, sale and leaseback of operating assets, and leasing rather than purchasing new assets. Cash on hand at the beginning of the year plus cash generated from operations and cash available under credit lines are expected to be sufficient in 2006 to service debt, finance capital expansion projects, pay federal income taxes, and continue paying dividends to shareholders. The company will continue to provide the productive capacity to perform its existing contracts, prepare for future contracts, and conduct research and development in the pursuit of developing opportunities. While these expenditures may tend to limit short term liquidity, they are made with the intention of improving the long term growth and profitability of the company. Financial Arrangements In the ordinary course of business, the company uses standby letters of credit and guarantees issued by commercial banks and surety bonds issued by insurance companies principally to guarantee the performance on certain contracts and to support the companys self insured workers compensation plans. At December 31, 2005, there were $499 million of unused stand by letters of credit, $99 million of bank guarantees, and $551 million of surety bonds outstanding. Co Operative Agreements In 2003, Ship Systems executed agreements with the states of Mississippi and Louisiana, respectively, whereby Ship Systems will lease facility improvements and equipment from Mississippi and from a non profit economic development corporation in Louisiana in exchange for certain commitments by Ship Systems to these states. Under the Mississippi agreement, Ship Systems is required to match the states funding with modernization and sustaining & maintenance expenditures of up to $313 million and create up to 2,000 new full time jobs in Mississippi by December 2008. As of December 31, 2005, $100 million has been appropriated by Mississippi requiring an increase of 1,334 jobs and Ship Systems has fully complied with its job creation 51 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION requirement. Under the Louisiana agreement, Ship Systems is required to match the states funding for expenditures up to $56 million through 2007, and employ a minimum of 5,200 full time employees in 16 of the 32 fiscal quarters beginning January 1, 2003, and ending December 31, 2010. As of December 31, 2005, $56 million has been appropriated by Louisiana and employment commitments for 12 of the 16 quarters have been fulfilled. Failure by Ship Systems to meet these commitments would result in reimbursement by Ship Systems to Mississippi and Louisiana in accordance with the respective agreements. As of December 31, 2005, management believes that Ship Systems is in compliance with its commitments to date under these agreements, and expects that all future commitments under these agreements will be met based on the most recent Ship Systems business plan. OTHER MATTERS New Accounting Pronouncements Several new accounting pronouncements were issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), which became effective during the periods presented. None of the new pronouncements effective during 2005 had a significant effect on the companys financial position or results of operations. Other new pronouncements issued by the FASB and not effective until after December 31, 2005, are not expected to have a significant effect on the companys financial position or results of operations. For further discussion of new accounting standards, see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements As of December 31, 2005, the company had no significant off balance sheet arrangements with the exception of the accelerated share repurchase agreement and operating leases as discussed in Notes 8 and 17, respectively, to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Interest Rates The company is exposed to market risk, primarily related to interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. Financial instruments subject to interest rate risk include fixed rate long term debt obligations, variable rate short term debt outstanding under the credit agreement, short term investments, and long term notes receivable. At December 31, 2005, substantially all borrowings were fixed rate long term debt obligations of which a significant portion are not callable until maturity. The companys sensitivity to a 1 percent change in interest rates is tied to its $2 billion credit agreement, which had no balance outstanding at December 31, 2005, or 2004. See Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. The company may enter into interest rate swap agreements to manage its exposure to interest rate fluctuations. At December 31, 2005, and 2004, two interest rate swap agreements were in effect. The company does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. See Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. Foreign Currency The company enters into foreign currency forward contracts to manage foreign currency exchange rate risk related to receipts from customers and payments to suppliers denominated in foreign currencies. At December 31, 2005, and 2004, the amount of foreign currency forward contracts outstanding was not material. Market risk exposure relating to foreign currency exchange is not material to the consolidated financial statements. 52 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Accelerated Stock Repurchase The company was subject to equity price risk due to the repurchase of common stock through its accelerated stock repurchase program (see Part II, Item 5). At the end of the program, the company is required to receive or pay a price adjustment based on the difference between the average price paid by Credit Suisse for the companys stock over the life of the program and the initial purchase price of $55.15 per share. At the companys election, any payments obligated pursuant to the settlement of the forward contract could either be in cash or in shares of the companys common stock. Changes in the fair value of the companys common stock will impact the final settlement of the program. Settlement is expected to occur in the first quarter of 2006, depending upon the timing and pace of purchases. Assuming Credit Suisse purchases the remaining shares at a price per share equal to the closing price of the companys common stock on December 31, 2005 ($60.11), the company would be required to pay approximately $30.2 million (including related settlement fees, interest and expenses) or issue approximately 500,000 shares of common stock to complete the transaction. 53 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION 
 
