Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations OVERVIEW Business We provide technologically advanced, innovative products, services, and integrated solutions in aerospace, electronics, information and services and shipbuilding to our global customers. We participate in many high priority defense and commercial technology programs in the United States (U.S.) and abroad as a prime contractor, principal subcontractor, partner, or preferred supplier. We conduct most of our business with the U.S. Government, principally the Department of Defense (DoD). We also conduct business with local, state, and foreign governments and domestic and international commercial customers. Notable Events Certain notable events or activities affecting our 2009 consolidated financial results included the following: Financial highlights for the year ended December 31, 2009 n Contributed voluntary pension pre funding amounts totaling $800 million. n Issued $850 million of unsecured senior obligations. n Repurchased 23.1 million common shares for $1.1 billion n Increased share repurchase authorization by $1.1 billion. Notable events for the year ended December 31, 2009 n Sold our Advisory Services Division (ASD) for $1.65 billion. n Delivered 6 ships in 6 different ship classes, USS Dewey (DDG 105), USS New York (LPD 21), USS Makin Island (LHD 8), New Mexico (SSN 779) and USS George H. W. Bush (CVN 77) to the U.S. Navy and USCGC Waesche (NSC 2) to the U.S Coast Guard. Completed the USS Carl Vinson (CVN 70) refueling and complex overhaul and redelivered the ship to the U.S. Navy. n Launched two Space Tracking and Surveillance System (STSS) Demonstrator satellites aboard a Delta II rocket. n Reached final settlement with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Office of Appeals on tax returns for the years ended 2001 through 2003. n Jointly settled the Department of Justice microelectronics claim and our claim against the U.S. Government for the termination of the TSSAM program. n Increased quarterly common stock dividend from $.40 per share to $.43 per share. n Streamlined our organizational structure from seven to five operating segments. Outlook From the end of 2008 through 2009, the United States and global economies endured a period of substantial economic uncertainty, and the related financial markets experienced significant volatility. While the financial markets showed signs of stabilization in the second half of 2009, the U.S. and global economies are still recovering and some companies continue to struggle. If the future economic environment continues to be less favorable than it has been in recent years, we could be negatively impacted if the financial viability of certain of our subcontractors and key suppliers is impaired. In addition, the valuation of our pension assets was negatively affected by the volatility in the financial markets in 2008, resulting in higher pension costs in 2009. Should the financial markets experience further decline which impacts our plan asset returns, we could again have higher future pension costs and required plan funding than in prior years. We conduct business primarily with U.S. Government customers under long term contracts and we have not materially changed our product and service offerings due to the current economic conditions. The U.S. Governments budgetary processes give us good visibility regarding future spending and the threat areas that it is addressing. We believe that our current contracts, and our strong backlog of previously awarded contracts align well with our customers future needs, and this provides us with good insight regarding future cash flows from our businesses. Nonetheless, we recognize that no business is completely immune to the current economic 26 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION situation and new policy initiatives could adversely affect future defense spending levels, which could lower our expected future revenues. Certain programs in which we participate may be subject to potential reductions due to a slower rate of growth in the U.S. Defense Budget and funds being utilized to support the ongoing conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan. We believe that our portfolio of technologically advanced, innovative products, services, and integrated solutions will generate revenue growth in 2010 and beyond, despite the trend of slower growth rates in the U.S. defense budget. We expect sales in 2010 to be in the range of $34 to $34.6 billion based on backlog (funded and unfunded) of approximately $69.2 billion as of December 31, 2009. We describe in the following paragraphs the major industry and economic factors that may affect our future performance. Industry Factors We are subject to the unique characteristics of the U.S. defense industry as a monopsony, whereby demand for our products and services comes primarily from one customer, and by certain elements peculiar to our own business mix. Liquidity Trends In light of the ongoing economic situation, we have evaluated our future liquidity needs, both from a short term and long term perspective. We expect that cash on hand at the beginning of the year plus cash generated from operations and cash available under credit lines will be sufficient in 2010 to service debt, finance capital expansion projects, pay federal, foreign, and state income taxes, fund pension and other post retirement benefit plans, and continue paying dividends to shareholders. We have a committed $2 billion revolving credit facility, with a maturity date of August 10, 2012, that can be accessed on a same day basis. During the second quarter of 2009, we issued $350 million of 5 year and $500 million of 10 year unsecured senior obligations. Interest on the notes is payable semi annually in arrears at fixed rates of 3.70 percent and 5.05 percent per annum, and the notes will mature on August 1, 2014, and August 1, 2019, respectively. We can redeem these senior notes at our discretion at any time prior to maturity. We are using the net proceeds from these notes for general corporate purposes including debt repayment, acquisitions, share repurchases, pension plan funding, and working capital. A portion of the net proceeds was used to retire $400 million of 8 percent senior debt that matured. We believe we can obtain additional capital to provide for long term liquidity, if necessary, from such sources as the public or private capital markets, the sale of assets, sale and leaseback of operating assets, and leasing rather than purchasing new assets. We have an effective shelf registration statement on file with the SEC. Recent Developments in U.S. Cost Accounting Standards (CAS) Pension Recovery Rules On September 2, 2008, the CAS Board published an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (ANPRM) that if adopted would provide a framework to partially harmonize the CAS rules with the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (PPA) requirements. The proposed CAS rule includes provisions for a transition period from the existing CAS requirement to a partially harmonized CAS requirement. As published, the proposed rule would partially mitigate the near term mismatch between PPA amended Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) minimum contribution requirements, which would not yet be recoverable under CAS. However, until the final rule is published, (and to the extent that the final rule does not completely eliminate any mismatch between ERISA funding requirements and CAS), government contractors maintaining defined benefit pension plans in general would still experience a timing mismatch between required contributions and the CAS recoverable pension costs. The CAS Board is expected to issue a final rule in 2010, which would apply to our contracts starting in 2011. We anticipate that contractors will be entitled to seek an equitable adjustment for the additional CAS contract costs required by the final rule. Economic Opportunities, Challenges, and Risks Today the United States faces a complex and rapidly changing national security environment. The defense of the U.S. and its allies requires the ability to respond to constantly evolving threats, terrorist acts, regional conflicts and cyber attacks, responses to which are increasingly dependent upon early threat identification. National responses to such threats can require unilateral or cooperative initiatives ranging from dissuasion, deterrence, 27 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION active defense, security and stability operations, or peacekeeping. We believe that the U.S. Government will continue to place a high priority on the protection of its engaged forces and citizenry and on minimizing collateral damage when force must be applied in pursuit of national objectives. As a result, the U.S. and its military coalitions increasingly rely on sophisticated systems providing long range surveillance and intelligence, battle management, and precision strike capabilities. Accordingly, defense procurement spending is expected to include the development and procurement of military platforms and systems demonstrating stealth, long range, survivability, persistence and standoff capabilities. Advanced electronics and software that enhance the capabilities of individual systems and provide for the real time integration of individual surveillance, information management, strike, and battle management platforms will also be a priority. The United States is engaged in a multi front, multi decade struggle that we expect will require an affordable balance between investments in current missions and investments in new capabilities to meet future challenges. The recently released 2010 Quadrennial Defense Review emphasizes the related challenge of rebuilding readiness at a time when DoD is pursuing growth, modernization and transformation of its forces and capabilities. We do not expect defense requirements to change significantly in the foreseeable future, and the size of national security budgets is expected to remain responsive. The fiscal year 2011 budget submitted by the President requests $548.9 billion in discretionary authority for the DoD base budget (and an additional $159 billion to support contingency operations), representing a slight increase over the 2010 budget. Although the Presidents budget request proposes reductions to certain programs in which we participate or for which we expect to compete, we believe that spending on recapitalization and modernization of defense and homeland security assets will continue to be a national priority. Our substantial new competitive opportunities include unmanned vehicles, reconnaissance and surveillance platforms, missile defense radar, satellite communications systems, restricted programs, cybersecurity, technical services and information technology contracts, and numerous international and homeland security programs. In pursuit of these opportunities, we continue to focus on operational and financial performance for continued improvements in earnings in 2010 and beyond. U.S. Government programs focused on areas involving intelligence, persistent surveillance, directed energy applications, and cyber space in which we either participate, or strive to participate, must compete with other programs for consideration and resources during the U.S. budget formulation and appropriation processes. In addition to domestic and international considerations, the Pentagon faces its own near term and long term internal fiscal constraints as it attempts to balance competing pressures from within and adhere to calls for better economy, efficiency and accountability. Budget decisions made in this environment will have long term consequences for our size and structure and the entire defense industry. We have historically concentrated our efforts in high technology areas such as stealth, airborne and space surveillance, battle management, systems integration, defense electronics, cybersecurity and information technology. We have a significant presence in federal and civil information systems; the manufacture of combatant ships including aircraft carriers and submarines; space technology; Command, Control, Communications, Computers, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (C4ISR); and missile systems. We believe that our programs are a high priority for national defense, but under budgetary pressures, one or more of our programs may be reduced, extended, or terminated by our U.S. Government customers. Congress last year passed legislation to add further discipline and accountability to the acquisition system. This legislation, the Weapon System Acquisition Reform Act of 2009, requires DoD to develop mechanisms to address cost, schedule and performance in establishing program requirements. As acquisition reform progresses, we will continue to anticipate and respond to the actions of the Pentagon and Congress to determine their impact on our operations. We provide certain product warranties that require repair or replacement of non conforming items for a specified period of time. Most of our product warranties are provided under government contracts, the costs of which are generally incorporated into contract pricing. 28 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Prime contracts with various agencies of the U.S. Government and subcontracts with other prime contractors are subject to numerous procurement regulations, including the False Claims Act and the International Traffic in Arms Regulations promulgated under the Arms Export Control Act. Noncompliance found by any one agency may result in fines, penalties, debarment, or suspension from receiving additional contracts with all U.S. Government agencies. We could experience material adverse effects on our business and results of operations if we were suspended or debarred from additional contracts. We could be affected by future laws or regulations, including those enacted in response to climate change concerns and other actions known as green initiatives. We recently established a goal of reducing our greenhouse gas emissions during the next five years. To comply with current and future environmental laws and regulations and to meet this goal, we expect to incur capital and operating costs, but at this time we do not expect that such costs will have a material adverse effect upon our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. See Risk Factors located in Part I, Item 1A for a more complete description of risks faced by us and the defense industry. BUSINESS ACQUISITIONS 2009 We acquired Sonoma Photonics, Inc., as well as assets from Swift Engineerings Killer Bee Unmanned Air Systems product line in April 2009 for an aggregate amount of approximately $33 million. The operating results from the date of acquisition are reported in the Aerospace Systems segment. 2008 We acquired 3001 International, Inc. (3001 Inc.) in October 2008 for approximately $92 million in cash. 3001 Inc. provides geospatial data production and analysis, including airborne imaging, surveying, mapping and geographic information systems for U.S. and international government intelligence, defense and civilian customers. The operating results of 3001 Inc. are reported in the Information Systems segment from the date of acquisition. 2007 We acquired Xinetics Inc. and the remaining 61 percent of Scaled Composites, LLC, both of which are reported in the Aerospace Systems segment, during the third quarter of 2007, for an aggregate amount of approximately $100 million in cash. In July 2007, we reorganized the AMSEC, LLC joint venture (AMSEC) with our partner, Science Applications International Corporation (SAIC), by dividing AMSEC along customer and product lines. AMSEC is a full service supplier that provides engineering, logistics and technical support services primarily to U.S. Navy ship and aviation programs. Under the reorganization plan, we retained the ship engineering, logistics and technical service businesses under the AMSEC name (the AMSEC Businesses) and, in exchange, SAIC received the aviation, combat systems and strike force integration services businesses (the Divested Businesses). We treated this reorganization as a step acquisition for the acquisition of SAICs interests in the AMSEC Businesses, and recognized a pre tax gain of $23 million for the effective sale of our interests in the Divested Businesses. From the date of this reorganization, the operating results of the AMSEC Businesses and transaction gain have been consolidated in the Shipbuilding segment. Prior to the reorganization, we accounted for the part of AMSEC, LLC that we did not already own under the equity method. In January 2007, we acquired Essex Corporation (Essex) for approximately $590 million in cash, including the assumption of debt totaling $23 million. Essex provides signal processing services and products, and advanced optoelectronic imaging for U.S. government intelligence and defense customers. We report operating results of Essex in the Information Systems segment. BUSINESS DISPOSITIONS 2009 We sold ASD in December 2009, for $1.65 billion in cash to an investor group led by General Atlantic, LLC and affiliates of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts Co. L.P., and recognized a gain of $15 million, net of taxes. ASD was a business unit comprised of the assets and liabilities of TASC, Inc., its wholly owned subsidiary TASC Services Corporation, and certain contracts carved out from other businesses also in Information Systems that provide systems engineering technical assistance (SETA) and other analysis and advisory services. Sales for ASD in 29 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, were approximately $1.5 billion, $1.6 billion, and $1.5 billion, respectively. The assets, liabilities and operating results of this business unit are reported as discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of operations for all periods presented. 2008 We sold our Electro Optical Systems (EOS) business in April 2008 for $175 million in cash to L 3 Communications Corporation and recognized a gain of $19 million, net of taxes. EOS, formerly a part of the Electronic Systems segment, produces night vision and applied optics products. Sales for this business through April 2008 and for the year ended December 31, 2007 were approximately $53 million and $190 million, respectively. The assets, liabilities and operating results of this business are reported as discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of operations for all periods presented. 2007 During the second quarter of 2007, we announced our decision to exit the remaining Interconnect Technologies (ITD) business reported within the Electronic Systems segment. Sales for this business in the year ended December 31, 2007 was $14 million. We completed the shut down during the third quarter of 2007 and costs associated with the shut down were not material. The results of this business are reported as discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of operations for all periods presented. Discontinued Operations Earnings for the businesses classified within discontinued operations (primarily as a result of the sale of ASD discussed above) were as follows: Year Ended December 31 $ in millions 2009 2008 2007 Sales and service revenues $ 1,536 $ 1,625 $ 1,691 Earnings from discontinued operations 149 146 60 Income tax expense (54 ) (55 ) (21 ) Earnings, net of tax $ 95 $ 91 $ 39 Gain on divestitures 446 66 Income tax expense on gain (428 ) (40 ) Gain from discontinued operations, net of tax $ 18 $ 26 Earnings from discontinued operations, net of tax $ 113 $ 117 $ 39 CONTRACTS We generate the majority of our business from long term government contracts for development, production, and support activities. Government contracts typically include the following cost elements: direct material, labor and subcontracting costs, and certain indirect costs including allowable general and administrative costs. Unless otherwise specified in a contract, costs billed to contracts with the U.S. Government are determined under the requirements of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) and CAS regulations as allowable and allocable costs. Examples of costs incurred by us and not billed to the U.S. Government in accordance with the requirements of the FAR and CAS regulations include, but are not limited to, certain legal costs, lobbying costs, charitable donations, interest expense and advertising costs. Our long term contracts typically fall into one of two broad categories: Flexibly Priced Contracts Includes both cost type and fixed price incentive contracts. Cost type contracts provide for reimbursement of the contractors allowable costs incurred plus a fee that represents profit. Cost type contracts generally require that the contractor use its best efforts to accomplish the scope of the work within some specified time and some stated dollar limitation. Fixed price incentive contracts also provide for reimbursement of the contractors allowable costs, but are subject to a cost share limit which affects profitability. Fixed price incentive contracts effectively become firm fixed price contracts once the cost share limit is reached. 30 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Firm Fixed Price Contracts A firm fixed price contract is a contract in which the specified scope of work is agreed to for a price that is a pre determined, negotiated amount and not generally subject to adjustment regardless of costs incurred by the contractor. Time and materials contracts are considered firm fixed price contracts as they specify a fixed hourly rate for each labor hour charged. The following table summarizes 2009 revenue recognized by contract type and customer: U.S. Other Percent ($ in millions) Government Customers Total of Total Flexibly priced $ 22,573 $ 149 $ 22,722 67 % Firm fixed price 8,464 2,569 11,033 33 % Total $ 31,037 $ 2,718 $ 33,755 100 % Contract Fees Negotiated contract fee structures, for both flexibly priced and fixed price contracts include, but are not limited to: fixed fee amounts, cost sharing arrangements to reward or penalize for either under or over cost target performance, positive award fees, and negative penalty arrangements. Profit margins may vary materially depending on the negotiated contract fee arrangements, percentage of completion of the contract, the achievement of performance objectives, and the stage of performance at which the right to receive fees, particularly under incentive and award fee contracts, is finally determined. Award Fees Certain contracts contain provisions consisting of award fees based on performance criteria such as cost, schedule, quality, and technical performance. Award fees are determined and earned based on an evaluation by the customer of the companys performance against such negotiated criteria. Fees that can be reasonably assured and reasonably estimated are recorded over the performance period of the contract. Award fee contracts are widely used throughout our operating segments. Examples of significant long term contracts with substantial negotiated award fee amounts are the Global Hawk Engineering and Manufacturing Development and the majority of satellite contracts. Compliance and Monitoring We monitor our policies and procedures with respect to our contracts on a regular basis to ensure consistent application under similar terms and conditions as well as compliance with all applicable government regulations. In addition, costs incurred and allocated to contracts with the U.S. Government are routinely audited by the Defense Contract Audit Agency. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES, ESTIMATES, AND JUDGMENTS Revenue Recognition Overview We derive the majority of our business from long term contracts for the production of goods and services provided to the federal government, which are accounted for in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) for construction type and production type contracts and federal government contractors. We classify contract revenues as product sales or service revenues depending on the predominant attributes of the relevant underlying contracts. We also enter into contracts that are not associated with the federal government, such as contracts to provide certain services to non federal government customers. We account for those contracts in accordance with the relevant revenue recognition GAAP. We consider the nature of these contracts and the types of products and services provided when determining the proper accounting method for a particular contract. Percentage of Completion Accounting We generally recognize revenues from our long term contracts under the cost to cost or the units of delivery measures of the percentage of completion method of accounting. The percentage of completion method recognizes income as work on a contract progresses. For most contracts, sales are calculated based on the percentage of total costs incurred in relation to total estimated costs at completion of the contract. For certain contracts with large up front purchases of material, primarily in the Shipbuilding segment, sales are generally calculated based on the percentage that direct labor costs incurred bear to total 31 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION estimated direct labor costs. The units of delivery measure is a modification of the percentage of completion method, which recognizes revenues as deliveries are made to the customer generally using unit sales values in accordance with the contract terms. We estimate profit as the difference between total estimated revenue and total estimated cost of a contract and recognize that profit over the life of the contract based on deliveries. The use of the percentage of completion method depends on our ability to make reasonably dependable cost estimates for the design, manufacture, and delivery of our products and services. Such costs are typically incurred over a period of several years, and estimation of these costs requires the use of judgment. We record sales under cost type contracts as costs are incurred. Many contracts contain positive and negative profit incentives based upon performance relative to predetermined targets that may occur during or subsequent to delivery of the product. These incentives take the form of potential additional fees to be earned or penalties to be incurred. Incentives and award fees that can be reasonably assured and reasonably estimated are recorded over the performance period of the contract. Incentives and award fees that are not reasonably assured or cannot be reasonably estimated are recorded when awarded or at such time as a reasonable estimate can be made. Other changes in estimates of contract sales, costs, and profits are recognized using the cumulative catch up method of accounting. This method recognizes in the current period the cumulative effect of the changes on current and prior periods. Hence, the effect of the changes on future periods of contract performance is recognized as if the revised estimate had been the original estimate. A significant change in an estimate on one or more contracts could have a material effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. Certain Service Contracts We generally recognize revenue under contracts to provide services to non federal government customers when services are performed. Service contracts include operations and maintenance contracts, and outsourcing type arrangements, primarily in Information Systems and Technical Services. We generally recognize revenue under such contracts on a straight line basis over the period of contract performance, unless evidence suggests that the revenue is earned or the obligations are fulfilled in a different pattern. Costs incurred under these service contracts are expensed as incurred, except that direct and incremental set up costs are capitalized and amortized over the life of the agreement. Operating profit related to such service contracts may fluctuate from period to period, particularly in the earlier phases of the contract. Contracts that include more than one type of product or service are accounted for under the relevant GAAP for revenue arrangements with multiple elements. Accordingly, for applicable arrangements, revenue recognition includes the proper identification of separate units of accounting and the allocation of revenue across all elements based on relative fair values. Cost Estimation The cost estimation process requires significant judgment and is based upon the professional knowledge and experience of our engineers, program managers, and financial professionals. Factors that are considered in estimating the work to be completed and ultimate contract recovery include the availability, productivity and cost of labor, the nature and complexity of the work to be performed, the effect of change orders, the availability of materials, the effect of any delays in performance, the availability and timing of funding from the customer, and the recoverability of any claims included in the estimates to complete. A significant change in an estimate on one or more contracts could have a material effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. We update our contract cost estimates at least annually and more frequently as determined by events or circumstances. We generally review and reassess our cost and revenue estimates for each significant contract on a quarterly basis. We record a provision for the entire loss on the contract in the period the loss is determined when estimates of total costs to be incurred on a contract exceed estimates of total revenue to be earned. We offset loss provisions first against costs that are included in unbilled accounts receivable or inventoried assets, with any remaining amount reflected in liabilities. 32 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Purchase Accounting and Goodwill Overview We allocate the purchase price of an acquired business to the underlying tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based upon their respective fair market values, with the excess recorded as goodwill. Such fair market value assessments require judgments and estimates that can be affected by contract performance and other factors over time, which may cause final amounts to differ materially from original estimates. For acquisitions completed through December 31, 2008, we recorded adjustments to fair value assessments to goodwill over the purchase price allocation period (typically not exceeding twelve months), and adjusted goodwill for the resolution of income tax uncertainties which extended beyond the purchase price allocation period. In 2009, we implemented new GAAP accounting guidance related to business combinations that impacts how we record adjustments to fair values included in the purchase price allocation and the resolution of income tax uncertainties. For acquisitions completed after January 1, 2009, any adjustments to the fair value of purchased assets and subsequent resolution of uncertain tax positions are recognized in net earnings, rather than as adjustments to goodwill. Acquisition Accruals We establish certain accruals in connection with indemnities and other contingencies from our acquisitions and divestitures. We have recorded these accruals and subsequent adjustments during the purchase price allocation period for acquisitions and as events occur for divestitures. The accruals were determined based upon the terms of the purchase or sales agreements and, in most cases, involve a significant degree of judgment. We recorded these accruals in accordance with our interpretation of the terms of the purchase or sale agreements, known facts, and an estimation of probable future events based on our experience. Tests for Impairment We perform impairment tests for goodwill as of November 30th of each year, or when evidence of potential impairment exists. We record a charge to operations when we determine that an impairment has occurred. In order to test for potential impairment, we use a discounted cash flow analysis, corroborated by comparative market multiples where appropriate. The principal factors used in the discounted cash flow analysis requiring judgment are the projected results of operations, weighted average cost of capital (WACC), and terminal value assumptions. The WACC takes into account the relative weights of each component of our consolidated capital structure (equity and debt) and represents the expected cost of new capital adjusted as appropriate to consider lower risk profiles associated with longer term contracts and barriers to market entry. The terminal value assumptions are applied to the final year of the discounted cash flow model. Due to the many variables inherent in the estimation of a businesss fair value and the relative size of our recorded goodwill, differences in assumptions may have a material effect on the results of our impairment analysis. Litigation, Commitments, and Contingencies Overview We are subject to a range of claims, lawsuits, environmental and income tax matters, and administrative proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business. Estimating liabilities and costs associated with these matters requires judgment and assessment based upon professional knowledge and experience of management and our internal and external legal counsel. In accordance with our practices relating to accounting for contingencies, we record amounts as charges to earnings after taking into consideration the facts and circumstances of each matter, including any settlement offers, and determine that it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. The ultimate resolution of any such exposure to us may vary from earlier estimates as further facts and circumstances become known. Environmental Accruals We are subject to the environmental laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which we conduct operations. We record a liability for the costs of expected environmental remediation obligations when we determine that it is probable we will incur such costs, and the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated. When a range of costs is possible and no amount within that range is a better estimate than another, we record the minimum amount of the range. 33 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Factors which could result in changes to the assessment of probability, range of estimated costs, and environmental accruals include: modification of planned remedial actions, increase or decrease in the estimated time required to remediate, discovery of more extensive contamination than anticipated, results of efforts to involve other legally responsible parties, financial insolvency of other responsible parties, changes in laws and regulations or contractual obligations affecting remediation requirements, and improvements in remediation technology. Although we cannot predict whether new information gained as projects progress will materially affect the estimated liability accrued, we do not anticipate that future remediation expenditures will have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Litigation Accruals Litigation accruals are recorded as charges to earnings when management, after taking into consideration the facts and circumstances of each matter, including any settlement offers, has determined that it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. The ultimate resolution of any exposure to us may vary from earlier estimates as further facts and circumstances become known. Based upon the information available, we believe that the resolution of any of these various claims and legal proceedings would not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Uncertain Tax Positions In 2007, we adopted a new accounting standard related to uncertain tax positions, and made a comprehensive review of our portfolio of uncertain tax positions at the date of adoption. Only tax positions meeting the more likely than not recognition threshold may be recognized or continue to be recognized in the financial statements. The timing and amount of accrued interest is determined by the applicable tax law associated with an underpayment of income taxes. If a tax position does not meet the minimum statutory threshold to avoid payment of penalties, we recognize an expense for the amount of the penalty in the period the tax position is claimed in our tax return. We recognize interest accrued related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. Penalties, if probable and reasonably estimable, are recognized as a component of income tax expense. See Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. Under existing GAAP, prior to January 1, 2009, changes in accruals associated with uncertainties arising from the resolution of pre acquisition contingencies of acquired businesses were charged or credited to goodwill; effective January 1, 2009, such changes will be recorded to income tax expense. Adjustments to other tax accruals are generally recorded in earnings in the period they are determined. Retirement Benefits Overview We annually evaluate assumptions used in determining projected benefit obligations and the fair values of plan assets for our pension plans and other post retirement benefits plans in consultation with our outside actuaries. In the event that we determine that plan amendments or changes in the assumptions are warranted, future pension and post retirement benefit expenses could increase or decrease. Assumptions The principal assumptions that have a significant effect on our consolidated financial position and results of operations are the discount rate, the expected long term rate of return on plan assets, the health care cost trend rate and the estimated fair market value of plan assets. For certain plan assets where the fair market value is not readily determinable, such as real estate, private equity, and hedge funds, estimates of fair value are determined using the best information available. Discount Rate The discount rate represents the interest rate that is used to determine the present value of future cash flows currently expected to be required to settle the pension and post retirement benefit obligations. The discount rate is generally based on the yield of high quality corporate fixed income investments. At the end of each year, the discount rate is primarily determined using the results of bond yield curve models based on a portfolio of high quality bonds matching the notional cash inflows with the expected benefit payments for each significant benefit plan. Taking into consideration the factors noted above, our weighted average pension composite discount rate was 6.03 percent at December 31, 2009, and 6.25 percent at December 31, 2008. Holding all other assumptions constant, and since net actuarial gains and losses were in excess of the 10 percent accounting corridor in 2009, an increase or decrease of 25 basis points in the discount rate assumption for 2009 34 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION would have decreased or increased pension and post retirement benefit expense for 2009 by approximately $80 million, of which $4 million relates to post retirement benefits, and decreased or increased the amount of the benefit obligation recorded at December 31, 2009, by approximately $800 million, of which $70 million relates to post retirement benefits. The effects of hypothetical changes in the discount rate for a single year may not be representative and may be asymmetrical or nonlinear for future years because of the application of the accounting corridor. The accounting corridor is a defined range within which amortization of net gains and losses is not required. Due to adverse capital market conditions in 2008 our pension plan assets experienced a negative return of approximately 16 percent in 2008. As a result, substantially all of our plans experienced net actuarial losses outside the 10 percent accounting corridor at the end of 2008, thus requiring accumulated gains and losses to be amortized to expense. As a result of this condition, sensitivity of net periodic costs to changes in the discount rate were much higher in 2009 than was the case in 2008 and prior. This condition is expected to continue into the near future. Expected Long Term Rate of Return The expected long term rate of return on plan assets represents the average rate of earnings expected on the funds invested in a specified target asset allocation to provide for anticipated future benefit payment obligations. For 2009 and 2008, we assumed an expected long term rate of return on plan assets of 8.5 percent. An increase or decrease of 25 basis points in the expected long term rate of return assumption for 2009, holding all other assumptions constant, would increase or decrease our pension and post retirement benefit expense for 2009 by approximately $48 million. Health Care Cost Trend Rates The health care cost trend rates represent the annual rates of change in the cost of health care benefits based on estimates of health care inflation, changes in health care utilization or delivery patterns, technological advances, and changes in the health status of the plan participants. For 2009, we assumed an expected initial health care cost trend rate of 7 percent and an ultimate health care cost trend rate of 5 percent reached in 2014. In 2008, we assumed an expected initial health care cost trend rate of 7.5 percent and an ultimate health care cost trend rate of 5 percent be reached in 2014. Differences in the initial through the ultimate health care cost trend rates within the range indicated below would have had the following impact on 2009 post retirement benefit results: 1 Percentage 1 Percentage $ in millions Point Increase Point Decrease Increase (Decrease) From Change In Health Care Cost Trend Rates To Post retirement benefit expense $ 7 $ (8 ) Post retirement benefit liability 81 (91 ) CONSOLIDATED OPERATING RESULTS Selected financial highlights are presented in the table below. Year Ended December 31 $ in millions, except per share 2009 2008 2007 Sales and service revenues $ 33,755 $ 32,315 $ 30,341 Cost of sales and service revenues 28,130 26,375 24,354 General and administrative expenses 3,142 3,143 3,062 Goodwill impairment 3,060 Operating income (loss) 2,483 (263 ) 2,925 Interest expense 281 295 336 Other, net 64 38 17 Federal and foreign income taxes 693 859 855 Diluted earnings (loss) per share from continuing operations 4.87 (4.12 ) 5.01 Net cash provided by operating activities 2,133 3,211 2,890 35 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Sales and Service Revenues Sales and service revenues consist of the following: Year Ended December 31 $ in millions 2009 2008 2007 Product sales $ 20,914 $ 19,634 $ 18,577 Service revenues 12,841 12,681 11,764 Sales and service revenues $ 33,755 $ 32,315 $ 30,341 2009 Product sales increased by $1.3 billion, or 7 percent, over 2008, reflecting sales growth at the principal products businesses in Aerospace Systems, Electronic Systems and Shipbuilding. Service revenues increased by $160 million, or 1 percent, over 2008, reflecting sales growth at the principal services businesses in Information Systems and Technical Services. 2008 Product sales increased by $1.1 billion, or 6 percent, over 2007, reflecting sales growth at the principal products businesses in Aerospace Systems, Electronic Systems and Shipbuilding. Service revenues increased by $917 million, or 8 percent, over 2007, reflecting sales growth at the principal services businesses in Information Systems and Technical Services. See the Segment Operating Results section below for further information. Cost of Sales and Service Revenues Cost of sales and service revenues and general and administrative expenses are comprised of the following: Year Ended December 31 $ in millions 2009 2008 2007 Cost of Sales and Service Revenues Cost of product sales $ 16,591 $ 15,490 $ 14,340 % of product sales 79.3 % 78.9 % 77.2 % Cost of service revenues 11,539 10,885 10,014 % of service revenues 89.9 % 85.8 % 85.1 % General and administrative expenses 3,142 3,143 3,062 % of total sales and service revenues 9.3 % 9.7 % 10.1 % Goodwill impairment 3,060 Cost of sales and service revenues $ 31,272 $ 32,578 $ 27,416 Cost of Product Sales and Service Revenues 2009 Cost of product sales in 2009 increased $1.1 billion, or 7 percent, over 2008 primarily as a result of the higher sales volume described above. The increase in cost of product sales as a percentage of product sales was primarily due to higher GAAP pension costs across all of our businesses. Cost of service revenues in 2009 increased $654 million, or 6 percent, over 2008 primarily as a result of the higher sales volume described above. The increase in cost of service revenues as a percentage of service revenues was primarily due to higher U.S. GAAP pension costs across all of our businesses. 2008 Cost of product sales in 2008 increased $1.2 billion, or 8 percent, over 2007 and increased 170 basis points as a percentage of product sales over the same period due largely to the sales volume increase described above. The increase in cost of product sales as a percentage of product sales is primarily due to cost growth at the Gulf Coast shipyards. In 2008, we recorded a net charge of $263 million on LHD 8 and other Shipbuilding programs, as well as additional costs for work delays at a subcontractor on the LPD program as a result of Hurricane Ike. 36 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Cost of service revenues in 2008 increased $871 million, or 9 percent, over 2007 primarily due to the sales volume increase described above. The 70 basis points increase in cost of service revenues as a percentage of service revenues is primarily due to lower performance in the Civil Systems business area in Information Systems. See the Segment Operating Results section below for further information. General and Administrative Expenses In accordance with industry practice and the regulations that govern the cost accounting requirements for government contracts, most general corporate expenses incurred at both the segment and corporate locations are considered allowable and allocable costs on government contracts. For most components of the company, these costs are allocated to contracts in progress on a systematic basis, and contract performance factors include this cost component as an element of cost. General and administrative expenses primarily relate to segment operations. General and administrative expenses as a percentage of total sales and service revenues decreased from 9.7 percent in 2008 to 9.3 percent in 2009, primarily as a result of lower corporate overhead costs and a gain resulting from a legal settlement. General and administrative expenses as a percentage of total sales and service revenues decreased from 10.1 percent in 2007 to 9.7 percent in 2008 primarily as a result of costs remaining relatively constant while revenues increased over the same period in 2007. Goodwill Impairment In 2008, we recorded a non cash charge totaling $3.1 billion at Aerospace Systems and Shipbuilding. See Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. Operating Income (Loss) We consider operating income to be an important measure for evaluating our operating performance and, as is typical in the industry, we define operating income as revenues less the related cost of producing the revenues and general and administrative expenses. We also further evaluate operating income for each of the business segments in which we operate. We internally manage our operations by reference to segment operating income. Segment operating income is defined as operating income before unallocated expenses and net pension adjustment, neither of which affect the segments, and the reversal of royalty income, which is classified as other, net for financial reporting purposes. Segment operating income is one of the key metrics we use to evaluate operating performance. Segment operating income is not, however, a measure of financial performance under GAAP, and may not be defined and calculated by other companies in the same manner. Year Ended December 31 $ in millions 2009 2008 2007 Segment operating income (loss) $ 2,929 $ (299 ) $ 3,025 Unallocated expenses (111 ) (157 ) (209 ) Net pension adjustment (311 ) 263 127 Royalty income adjustment (24 ) (70 ) (18 ) Total operating income (loss) $ 2,483 $ (263 ) $ 2,925 Segment Operating Income (Loss) 2009 Segment operating income in 2009 was $2.9 billion as compared with segment operating loss of $299 million in 2008 and segment operating income of $3.0 billion in 2007. The loss in 2008 was primarily due to a goodwill impairment charge totaling $3.1 billion at Aerospace Systems and Shipbuilding. Unallocated Expenses Unallocated expenses generally include the portion of corporate expenses not considered allowable or allocable under applicable CAS regulations and FAR, and therefore not allocated to the segments, for costs related to management and administration, legal, environmental, certain compensation and retiree benefits, and other expenses. Unallocated expenses for 2009 decreased $46 million, or 29 percent, as compared with 2008, primarily due to a gain resulting from a legal settlement, net of legal provisions and related expenses, partially offset by higher costs related to environmental remediation and post retirement employee benefits. Unallocated expenses 37 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION for 2008 decreased $52 million, or 25 percent, as compared with 2007 primarily due to $88 million in higher legal and investigative provisions recorded in 2007, partially offset by an increase in environmental, health and welfare, and other unallocated corporate costs in 2008. Net Pension Adjustment Net pension adjustment reflects the difference between pension expense determined in accordance with GAAP and pension expense allocated to the operating segments determined in accordance with CAS. The net pension adjustment in 2009 was an expense of $311 million, as compared with income of $263 million and $127 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. The net pension expense in 2009 was primarily the result of negative returns on plan assets in 2008. The income in 2008 and 2007 was due to decreased GAAP pension expense, primarily resulting from better than estimated investment returns in prior years and higher discount rate assumptions. Royalty Income Adjustment Royalty income is included in segment operating income and reclassified to other income for financial reporting purposes. See Other, net below. Interest Expense 2009 Interest expense in 2009 decreased $14 million, or 5 percent, as compared with 2008. The decrease is primarily due to higher capitalized interest and lower interest rates. 2008 Interest expense in 2008 decreased $41 million, or 12 percent, as compared with 2007. The decrease is primarily due to the conversion and redemption of the mandatorily redeemable convertible preferred stock in April 2008, which reduced the related dividends paid during 2008 (which were recorded as interest expense in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations in Part II, Item 8). Lower LIBOR rates on the interest rate swap agreements also contributed to the decrease in interest expense. Other, net 2009 Other, net for 2009 was $64 million income, an increase of $26 million as compared with 2008, primarily due to positive mark to market adjustments on investments in marketable securities used as funding for non qualified employee benefits and a gain from the recovery of a loan to an affiliate, partially offset by $60 million of royalty income from patent infringement settlements in 2008. 2008 Other, net for 2008 was $38 million income, an increase of $21 million as compared with 2007, primarily due to $60 million in royalty income from patent infringement settlements at Electronic Systems in 2008, partially offset by negative mark to market adjustments on investments in marketable securities used as a funding source for non qualified employee benefits. Federal and Foreign Income Taxes 2009 Our effective tax rate on earnings from continuing operations for 2009, was 30.6 percent compared with 33.8 percent in 2008 (excluding the non cash, non deductible goodwill impairment charge of $3.1 billion at Aerospace Systems and Shipbuilding). In 2009, we recognized net tax benefits of approximately $75 million primarily as a result of a final settlement with the IRS Office of Appeals and the U.S. Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation (Joint Committee) related to our tax returns for the years ended 2001 2003. 2008 Our effective tax rate on earnings from continuing operations for 2008, was 33.8 percent (excluding the non cash, non deductible goodwill impairment charge of $3.1 billion at Aerospace Systems and Shipbuilding) as compared with 32.8 percent in 2007. In 2008, we recognized net tax benefits of $35 million primarily attributable to a settlement reached with the IRS and the Joint Committee with respect to the IRS audit of TRW tax returns for the years 1999 2002. Discontinued Operations 2009 Earnings from discontinued operations, net of tax, was $113 million for 2009, compared with $117 million in 2008. The earnings were primarily attributable to the operating results and gain on disposition of the ASD, which was sold in December 2009. See Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. 38 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Diluted Earnings (Loss) Per Share 2009 Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations in 2009 were $4.87 per share, as compared with $4.12 diluted loss per share in 2008. Earnings per share are based on weighted average diluted shares outstanding of 323.3 million for 2009 and weighted average basic shares outstanding of 334.5 million for 2008. For the year ended December 31, 2008, the potential dilutive effect of 7.1 million shares from stock options, stock awards, and the mandatorily redeemable preferred stock were excluded from the computation of weighted average shares outstanding as the shares would have had an anti dilutive effect. The goodwill impairment charge of $3.1 billion at Aerospace Systems and Shipbuilding reduced our 2008 diluted earnings per share from continuing operations by $9.15 per share. 2008 Diluted loss per share from continuing operations in 2008 was $4.12 per share, as compared with $5.01 diluted earnings per share in 2007. Earnings per share are based on weighted average basic shares outstanding of 334.5 million for 2008 (which excludes potential dilutive shares as noted above) and weighted average diluted shares outstanding of 354.3 million for 2007. Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities 2009 Net cash provided by operating activities in 2009 was $2.1 billion compared with $3.2 billion in 2008 and reflects higher pension plan contributions and income tax payments. In 2009, we contributed $858 million to our pension plans, of which $800 million was voluntarily pre funded, as compared with $320 million in 2008, of which $200 million was voluntarily pre funded. Income taxes paid, net of refunds, was $1.3 billion in 2009, as compared with $719 million in 2008. Income taxes paid in 2009 included $508 million resulting from the sale of ASD. Net cash provided by operating activities for 2009 included $171 million of federal and state income tax refunds and $11 million of interest income. 2008 Net cash provided by operating activities in 2008 was $3.2 billion as compared to $2.9 billion in 2007 and reflects lower income tax payments and continued trade working capital reductions. Pension plan contributions totaled $320 million in 2008, of which $200 million was voluntarily pre funded, and were comparable to 2007. Net cash provided by operating activities for 2008 included $113 million of federal and state income tax refunds and $23 million of interest income. SEGMENT OPERATING RESULTS Basis of Presentation Realignments In January 2009, we streamlined our organizational structure by reducing the number of operating segments from seven to five. The five segments are Aerospace Systems, which combines the former Integrated Systems and Space Technology segments; Electronic Systems; Information Systems, which combines the former Information Technology and Mission Systems segments; Shipbuilding; and Technical Services. Creation of the Aerospace Systems and Information Systems segments is intended to strengthen alignment with customers, improve our ability to execute on programs and win new business, and enhance our cost competitiveness. During the first quarter of 2009, we realigned certain logistics, services, and technical support programs and transferred assets from the Information Systems and Electronic Systems segments to the Technical Services segment. This realignment is intended to strengthen our core capability in aircraft and electronics maintenance, repair and overhaul, life cycle optimization, and training and simulation services. The sales and segment operating income in the following tables have been revised to reflect the above realignments for all periods presented. During the first quarter of 2009, we transferred certain optics and laser programs from the Information Systems segment to the Aerospace Systems segment. We did not reclassify the prior year sales and segment operating income in the following tables to reflect this business transfer as the operating results of this business were not considered material. 39 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Business Dispositions As previously mentioned, we sold ASD in December 2009. Operating results of this business unit are reported as discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of operations for all periods presented and thus, are not included in the table below. Year Ended December 31 $ in millions 2009 2008 2007 Sales and Service Revenues Aerospace Systems $ 10,419 $ 9,825 $ 9,234 Electronic Systems 7,671 7,048 6,466 Information Systems 8,611 8,205 7,758 Shipbuilding 6,213 6,145 5,788 Technical Services 2,776 2,535 2,422 Intersegment eliminations (1,935 ) (1,443 ) (1,327 ) Total sales and service revenues $ 33,755 $ 32,315 $ 30,341 Year Ended December 31 $ in millions 2009 2008 2007 Operating Income (Loss) Aerospace Systems $ 1,071 $ 416 $ 919 Electronic Systems 969 947 809 Information Systems 631 629 725 Shipbuilding 299 (2,307 ) 538 Technical Services 161 144 139 Intersegment eliminations (202 ) (128 ) (105 ) Total segment operating income (loss) 2,929 (299 ) 3,025 Non segment factors affecting operating income (loss) Unallocated expenses (111 ) (157 ) (209 ) Net pension adjustment (311 ) 263 127 Royalty income adjustment (24 ) (70 ) (18 ) Total operating income (loss) $ 2,483 $ (263 ) $ 2,925 KEY SEGMENT FINANCIAL MEASURES Operating Performance Assessment and Reporting We manage and assess the performance of our businesses based on our performance on individual contracts and programs obtained generally from government organizations using the financial measures referred to below, with consideration given to the Critical Accounting Policies, Estimates and Judgments described on page 31. Based on this approach and the nature of our operations, the discussion of results of operations generally focuses around our five segments versus distinguishing between products and services. Product sales are predominantly generated in the Aerospace Systems, Electronic Systems and Shipbuilding segments, while the majority of our service revenues are generated by the Information Systems and Technical Services segments. 40 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Sales and Service Revenues Period to period sales reflect performance under new and ongoing contracts. Changes in sales and service revenues are typically expressed in terms of volume. Unless otherwise described, volume generally refers to increases (or decreases) in reported revenues due to varying production activity levels, delivery rates, or service levels on individual contracts. Volume changes will typically carry a corresponding income change based on the margin rate for a particular contract. Segment Operating Income Segment operating income reflects the aggregate performance results of contracts within a business area or segment. Excluded from this measure are certain costs not directly associated with contract performance, including the portion of corporate expenses such as management and administration, legal, environmental, certain compensation and other retiree benefits, and other expenses not considered allowable or allocable under applicable CAS regulations and the FAR, and therefore not allocated to the segments. Changes in segment operating income are typically expressed in terms of volume, as discussed above, or performance. Performance refers to changes in contract margin rates. These changes typically relate to profit recognition associated with revisions to total estimated costs at completion of the contract (EAC) that reflect improved (or deteriorated) operating performance on a particular contract. Operating income changes are accounted for on a cumulative to date basis at the time an EAC change is recorded. Operating income may also be affected by, among other things, the effects of workforce stoppages, the effects of natural disasters (such as hurricanes and earthquakes), resolution of disputed items with the customer, recovery of insurance proceeds, and other discrete events. At the completion of a long term contract, any originally estimated costs not incurred or reserves not fully utilized (such as warranty reserves) could also impact contract earnings. Where such items have occurred, and the effects are material, a separate description is provided. For a more complete understanding of each segments product and services, see the business descriptions in Part I, Item 1. Program Descriptions For convenience, a brief description of certain programs discussed in this Form 10 K are included in the Glossary of Programs beginning on page 51. AEROSPACE SYSTEMS Year Ended December 31 $ in millions 2009 2008 2007 Sales and Service Revenues $ 10,419 $ 9,825 $ 9,234 Segment Operating Income 1,071 416 919 As a percentage of segment sales 10.3 % 4.2 % 10.0 % Sales and Service Revenues 2009 Aerospace Systems revenue increased $594 million, or 6 percent, as compared with 2008. The increase was primarily due to $201 million higher sales in Space Systems (SS), $201 million higher sales in Battle Management Engagement Systems (BMES), and $191 million higher sales in Strike Surveillance Systems (SSS). The increase in SS was primarily due to the ramp up of restricted programs awarded in 2008, partially offset by decreased sales volume on the National Polar orbiting Operational Environmental Satellite System (NPOESS) and cancellation of the Transformational Satellite Communications System (TSAT) program. The increase in BMES was primarily due to higher sales volume on the Broad Area Maritime Surveillance (BAMS) Unmanned Aircraft System, the E 2D Advanced Hawkeye, and the EA 18G programs, partially offset by lower sales volume on the E2 C as the program is nearing completion. The increase in SSS was primarily due to higher sales volume from Global Hawk High Altitude Long Endurance (HALE) Systems, F 35, F/A 18, and B 2 programs, partially offset by decreased activity on the Kinetic Energy Interceptor (KEI) program, which was terminated for convenience in 2009, and the Intercontinental Ballistic Missile (ICBM) program. 41 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION 2008 Aerospace Systems revenue increased $591 million, or 6 percent, as compared with 2007. The increase was primarily due to $288 million higher sales in Advanced Products Technology (APT), $233 million higher sales in SSS, and $100 million higher sales in SS. The increase in APT was primarily due to higher sales volume associated with the N UCAS program. The increase in SSS was primarily due to higher sales volume on the Global Hawk HALE Systems, KEI, and B 2 programs, partially offset by lower sales volume on the F 35 program and the Multi Platform Radar Technology Insertion Program (MP RTIP). The increase in SS was primarily due to higher sales volume on the James Webb Space Telescope (JWST) program, NPOESS, and restricted programs, partially offset by lower sales volume on the Advanced Extremely High Frequency (AEHF) and STSS programs, and termination of the Space Radar program in the second quarter of 2008. Segment Operating Income 2009 Aerospace Systems operating income increased $655 million, or 157 percent, as compared with 2008. The increase was primarily due to a 2008 goodwill impairment charge of $570 million (see Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8), $61 million from the higher sales volume discussed above, and $24 million in improved program performance. The $24 million in improved program performance was principally due to $67 million in performance improvements in SSS programs, primarily related to ICBM and Global Hawk HALE Systems, partially offset by $33 million in lower performance across various programs in SS and BMES. 2008 Aerospace Systems operating income decreased $503 million, or 55 percent, as compared with 2007. The decrease in operating income was due to a $570 million goodwill impairment charge and a $27 million favorable adjustment in 2007 related to the settlement of prior years overhead costs, partially offset by $59 million from the higher sales volume described above and $35 million in net performance improvements associated with risk retirement in several key programs within SSS, APT, and various restricted programs. ELECTRONIC SYSTEMS Year Ended December 31 $ in millions 2009 2008 2007 Sales and Service Revenues $ 7,671 $ 7,048 $ 6,466 Segment Operating Income 969 947 809 As a percentage of segment sales 12.6 % 13.4 % 12.5 % Sales and Service Revenues 2009 Electronic Systems revenue increased $623 million, or 9 percent, as compared with 2008. The increase was primarily due to $225 million in higher sales in Aerospace Systems (AS), $128 million higher sales in Space ISR Systems, $89 million higher sales in Defensive Systems (DS), $80 million in higher sales in Navigation Systems (NS) and $59 million in higher sales in Naval Marine Systems (NMS). The increase in AS was due to higher volume on the F 35 Low Rate Initial Production (LRIP), B 52 Sustainment and intercompany programs. The increase in Space ISR Systems was due to higher volume on the Space Based Infrared System (SBIRS) follow on production program. The increase in DS was due to higher deliveries associated with the Large Aircraft Infrared Countermeasures (LAIRCM) program. The increase in NMS was due to higher volume on power and propulsion systems for the Virginia class submarine program. The increase in NS was due to higher volume on Inertial and Fiber Optic Gyro Navigation Programs. 2008 Electronic Systems revenue increased $582 million, or 9 percent, as compared with 2007. The increase was primarily due to $241 million in higher sales in AS, $165 million in higher sales in Land Forces, $69 million in higher sales in NS, and $60 million in higher sales in DS. The increase in AS was due to higher deliveries of upgraded F 16 international fire control radar systems and increased volume on the MESA Korea program. The increase in Land Forces was due to higher volume on vehicular intercommunication systems (VIS) and the Ground/Air Task Oriented Radar (G/ATOR) radar program. The increase in NS was due to higher volume associated with Inertial Navigation programs. The increase in DS was due to higher deliveries associated with the LAIRCM program. 42 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Segment Operating Income 2009 Electronic Systems operating income increased $22 million, or 2 percent, as compared with 2008. The increase was primarily due to $79 million from the higher sales volume discussed above, partially offset by $57 million in higher unfavorable performance adjustments in 2009. The higher unfavorable performance adjustments in 2009 were due to adjustments of $98 million in Government Systems, primarily on the Flats Sequencing System postal automation program, partially offset by favorable performance adjustments in restricted Aerospace Systems programs and Land Forces programs. Operating performance adjustments in 2008 included royalty income of $60 million and a $20 million charge for the MESA Wedgetail program as discussed below. 2008 Electronic Systems operating income increased $138 million, or 17 percent, as compared with 2007. The increase in operating income was primarily due to $78 million from the higher sales volume described above and $60 million in royalty income resulting from patent infringement settlements at NS. The 2008 operating income included a charge of $20 million for our MESA Wedgetail program associated with potential liquidated damages arising from the prime contractors announced schedule delay in completing the program. The 2007 operating income included a charge of $27 million for the F 16 Block 60 fixed price development combat avionics program. INFORMATION SYSTEMS Year Ended December 31 $ in millions 2009 2008 2007 Sales and Service Revenues $ 8,611 $ 8,205 $ 7,758 Segment Operating Income 631 629 725 As a percentage of segment sales 7.3 % 7.7 % 9.3 % Sales and Service Revenues 2009 Information Systems revenue increased $406 million, or 5 percent, as compared with 2008. The increase was primarily due to $287 million in higher sales in Intelligence Systems and $201 million in higher sales in Defense Systems, partially offset by $98 million in lower sales in Civil Systems. The increase in Intelligence Systems was primarily due to program growth on the Counter Narco Terrorism Program Office, Guardrail Common Sensor System IDIQ and certain restricted programs, partially offset by lower sales volume on the Navstar Global Positioning System Operational Control Segment (GPS OCX) program. The increase in Defense Systems was primarily driven by program growth on Trailer Mounted Support System, Airborne and Maritime/Fixed Stations Joint Tactical Radio Systems and Battlefield Airborne Communications Node (BACN) activities, partially offset by fewer delivery orders on the Force XXI Battle Brigade and Below (FBCB2) I Kits program. The decrease in Civil Systems was primarily driven by lower volume on the New York City Wireless (NYCWiN) and Virginia IT outsourcing (VITA) programs. 2008 Information Systems revenue increased $447 million, or 6 percent, as compared with 2007. The increase was primarily due to higher sales volume on the Navstar GPS OCX, Counter Rocket Artillery Mortar, Command Post Platform and Joint National Integration Center Research and Development programs, partially offset by lower sales volume on the Space Based Surveillance System, F 22 and F 35 programs, and the winding down of various commercial, state and local programs. Segment Operating Income 2009 Information Systems operating income increased $2 million as compared with 2008. The increase was primarily due to $30 million from the higher sales volume discussed above, offset by $37 million of non recurring costs associated with the sale of ASD and unfavorable performance results in Civil Systems (CSD) programs, principally due to the VITA outsourcing program for the Commonwealth of Virginia. 2008 Information Systems operating income decreased $96 million, or 13 percent, as compared with 2007. The decrease in operating income was primarily driven by lower performance results, primarily due to a 43 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION $57 million negative performance adjustment in the NYCWiN program recorded in the third quarter of 2008 in CSD. The adjustment included provisions related to a key supplier as well as a revised estimate of cost to complete the program. The decrease in operating income as a percentage of sales reflected lower performance for Defense Systems programs, including higher planned internal investment for a new business opportunity, and final allocation of current and prior year overhead items. SHIPBUILDING Year Ended December 31 $ in millions 2009 2008 2007 Sales and Service Revenues $ 6,213 $ 6,145 $ 5,788 Segment Operating Income 299 (2,307 ) 538 As a percentage of segment sales 4.8 % (37.5 )% 9.3 % Sales and Service Revenues 2009 Shipbuilding revenue increased $68 million as compared with 2008. The increase was due to $180 million higher sales in Submarines, $58 million higher sales in Expeditionary Warfare and $39 million higher sales in Aircraft Carriers, partially offset by $113 million lower sales in Fleet Support and $109 million lower sales in Surface Combatants. The increase in Submarines was primarily due to higher sales volume on the construction of the Virginia class submarines. The increase in Expeditionary Warfare was due to higher sales volume in the LPD program due to production ramp ups, partially offset by the delivery of the LHD 8. The decrease in Fleet Support was primarily due to the redelivery of the USS Toledo submarine in the first quarter of 2009 and decreased carrier fleet support services. The decrease in Surface Combatants was primarily due to lower sales volume on the DDG 51 program. 2008 Shipbuilding revenues increased $357 million, or 6 percent, as compared with 2007. The increase was primarily due to $254 million higher sales in Aircraft Carriers, $178 million higher sales in Surface Combatants, and $112 million higher sales in Fleet Support, partially offset by $184 million lower sales in Expeditionary Warfare. The increase in Aircraft Carriers was primarily due to higher sales volume on the Gerald R. Ford, USS Enterprise Extended Dry docking Selected Restricted Availability (EDSRA), and USS Theodore Roosevelt Refueling and Complex Overhaul (RCOH), partially offset by lower volume on the USS Carl Vinson. The increase in Surface Combatants was primarily due to higher sales volume in the DDG 51 and DDG 1000 programs. The increase in Fleet Support was primarily due to the consolidation of AMSEC in the 2008 period. Expeditionary Warfare sales for 2008 were negatively impacted by a contract adjustment of $134 million on the LHD 8 program and the impact of Hurricane Gustav, partially offset by higher sales in the LPD program. In 2007, all programs at the Pascagoula, Mississippi facility were negatively impacted by a labor strike. Segment Operating Income (Loss) 2009 Shipbuilding operating income was $299 million as compared with operating loss of $2.3 billion in 2008. The increase was primarily due to the 2008 goodwill impairment charge of $2.5 billion (See Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8), and improved performance in Expeditionary Warfare as compared to 2008. In 2008, the Expeditionary Warfare business had net negative performance adjustments of $263 million due principally to adjustments on the LHD 8 contract, cost growth and schedule delays on the LPD program and the effects of Hurricane Ike on a subcontractors performance. 2008 Shipbuilding operating loss was $2.3 billion as compared with operating income of $538 million in the same period of 2007. The decrease was due to a goodwill impairment charge of $2.5 billion, and $366 million in net lower performance results, partially offset by the higher sales volume described above. The decrease in performance results was primarily due to $263 million in net performance adjustments on LHD 8 and other programs in 2008, cost growth and schedule delays on several LPD ships resulting primarily from the effects of Hurricane Ike on an LPD subcontractor (see Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8), 44 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION and the effect of reductions in contract booking rates resulting from management taking a more conservative approach in its risk assessment on programs throughout the Gulf Coast Shipyards. TECHNICAL SERVICES Year Ended December 31 $ in millions 2009 2008 2007 Sales and Service Revenues $ 2,776 $ 2,535 $ 2,422 Segment Operating Income 161 144 139 As a percentage of segment sales 5.8 % 5.7 % 5.7 % Sales and Service Revenues 2009 Technical Services revenue increased $241 million, or 10 percent, as compared with 2008. The increase was primarily due to $245 million higher sales in the Life Cycle Optimization Engineering Group (LCOE), and $74 million higher sales in the Training Simulation Group (TSG), offset by $72 million in lower sales for the Systems Support Group (SSG). The increase in LCOE was due to increased task orders for the Counter Narcoterrorism Technology Program Office and higher demand on the Hunter Contractor Logistics Support (CLS) programs in support of the DoDs surge in Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) initiatives. The increase in TSG was due to higher volume on various training and simulation programs including the Joint Warfighting Center Support, Saudi Arabian National Guard Modernization and Training, Global Linguists Solutions, National Level Exercise 2009 and African Contingency Operations Training Assistance programs. These increases were partially offset by lower 2009 sales in SSG due to the completion of the Joint Base Operations Support (JBOSC) program in 2008. 2008 Technical Services revenue increased $113 million or 5 percent, as compared with 2007. The increase was primarily due to $93 million in higher sales in LCOE and $42 million in higher sales in TSG, partially offset by $26 million in lower sales in SSG. The increase in LCOE was associated with higher volume in the Hunter CLS and B 2 Stealth Bomber programs. The increase in TSG was primarily due to higher sales volume from various new training and simulation program awards. The decrease in SSG was primarily associated with the completion of the JBOSC program. Segment Operating Income 2009 Operating income at Technical Services increased $17 million, or 12 percent, as compared with 2008. The increase was primarily due to the higher sales volume discussed above and $3 million from performance improvements across numerous programs. 2008 Technical Services operating income increased $5 million, or 4 percent, as compared with 2007. The increase in operating income was due to higher sales volume was partially offset by a higher level of planned internal investment and final allocation of current and prior year overhead items. BACKLOG Total backlog at December 31, 2009, was approximately $69.2 billion. Total backlog includes both funded backlog (firm orders for which funding is contractually obligated by the customer) and unfunded backlog (firm orders for which funding is not currently contractually obligated by the customer). Unfunded backlog excludes unexercised contract options and unfunded IDIQ orders. For multi year services contracts with non federal government customers having no stated contract values, backlog includes only the amounts committed by the customer. 45 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION The following table presents funded and unfunded backlog by segment at December 31, 2009, and 2008: 2009 2008 Total Total $ in millions Funded Unfunded Backlog Funded Unfunded Backlog Aerospace Systems $ 8,320 $ 16,063 $ 24,383 $ 7,648 $ 22,883 $ 30,531 Electronic Systems 7,591 2,784 10,375 8,391 2,124 10,515 Information Systems 4,319 4,508 8,827 4,480 3,865 8,345 Shipbuilding 11,294 9,151 20,445 14,205 8,148 22,353 Technical Services 2,352 2,804 5,156 1,840 2,831 4,671 Total backlog $ 33,876 $ 35,310 $ 69,186 $ 36,564 $ 39,851 $ 76,415 Backlog is converted into the following years sales as costs are incurred or deliveries are made. Approximately 37 percent of the $69.2 billion total backlog at December 31, 2009, is expected to be converted into sales in 2010. Total U.S. Government orders, including those made on behalf of foreign governments, comprised 93 percent of the total backlog at the end of 2009. Total foreign customer orders accounted for 5 percent of the total backlog at the end of 2009. Domestic commercial backlog represented 2 percent of total backlog at the end of 2009. Backlog Adjustments In 2009, the change in backlog includes a decrease of $5.8 billion for the Kinetic Energy Interceptor program termination for convenience, and the DDG 1000 program restructure. Additionally, total backlog for both years have been adjusted by $1.6 billion for the divestiture of TASC, Inc. Awards 2009 The value of new contract awards during the year ended December 31, 2009, was approximately $32.3 billion. Significant new awards during this period include a contract valued up to $2.4 billion for the USS Theodore Roosevelt RCOH, $1.2 billion for the F 35 LRIP program, $1.2 billion for the Global Hawk HALE program, $1 billion for the B 2 program, up to $635 million for engineering, design and modernization support of new construction, operational, and decommissioning submarines, $485 million for the Nevada Test Site program, $484 million for the E2 D LRIP program, $437 million for the Integrated Battle Command System program, $403 million for the SBIRS follow on production program, $385 million for the Saudi Arabian National Guard Modernization and Training program, $374 million for the Gerald R. Ford aircraft carrier, $360 million for the BACN program, $296 million to finalize the development of the Distributed Common Ground System Army (DCGS A), $286 million for the LAIRCM IDIQ, and various restricted awards. 2008 The value of new contract awards during the year ended December 31, 2008, was approximately $48.3 billion. Significant new awards during this period include $5.6 billion for the Virginia class submarine program, $5.1 billion for the Gerald R. Ford (CVN 78) aircraft carrier, $1.4 billion for the DDG 1000 Zumwalt class destroyer, $1.2 billion for the BAMS Unmanned Aircraft System program, $402 million for the VIS IDIQ, $385 million for the ICBM program, and various restricted programs. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES We endeavor to ensure the most efficient conversion of operating results into cash for deployment in growing our businesses and maximizing shareholder value. We actively manage our capital resources through working capital improvements, capital expenditures, strategic business acquisitions and divestitures, debt repayments, required and voluntary pension contributions, and returning cash to our shareholders through dividend payments and repurchases of common stock. 46 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION We use various financial measures to assist in capital deployment decision making, including net cash provided by operations, free cash flow, net debt to equity, and net debt to capital. We believe these measures are useful to investors in assessing our financial performance. The table below summarizes key components of cash flow provided by operating activities. Year Ended December 31 $ in millions 2009 2008 2007 Net earnings $ 1,686 $ (1,262 ) $ 1,790 (Earnings) from discontinued operations (95 ) (91 ) (39 ) Gain on sale of business (446 ) (58 ) Impairment of goodwill 3,060 Other non cash items(1) 951 993 1,038 Retiree benefit funding in excess of expense (20 ) (167 ) (50 ) Trade working capital (increase) decrease (45 ) 563 73 Cash provided by discontinued operations 102 173 78 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 2,133 $ 3,211 $ 2,890 (1) Includes depreciation amortization, stock based compensation expense and deferred taxes. Free Cash Flow Free cash flow represents cash from operating activities less capital expenditures and outsourcing contract and related software costs. Outsourcing contract and related software costs are similar to capital expenditures in that the contract costs represent incremental external costs or certain specific internal costs that are directly related to the contract acquisition and transition/set up. These outsourcing contract and related software costs are deferred and expensed over the contract life. We believe free cash flow is a useful measure for investors as it reflects our ability to grow by funding strategic business acquisitions and return value to shareholders through repurchasing our shares and paying dividends. Free cash flow is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP, and may not be defined and calculated by other companies in the same manner. This measure should not be considered in isolation or as an alternative to operating results presented in accordance with GAAP as indicators of performance. The table below reconciles net cash provided by operating activities to free cash flow: Year Ended December 31 $ in millions 2009 2008 2007 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 2,133 $ 3,211 $ 2,890 Less: Capital expenditures (654 ) (681 ) (681 ) Outsourcing contract related software costs (68 ) (110 ) (137 ) Free cash flow from operations $ 1,411 $ 2,420 $ 2,072 Cash Flows The following is a discussion of our major operating, investing and financing activities for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009, as classified on the consolidated statements of cash flows located in Part II, Item 8. 47 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Operating Activities 2009 Net cash provided by operating activities in 2009 decreased $1.1 billion as compared with 2008, reflecting higher voluntary pension contributions and increased income taxes paid resulting from the sale of ASD. Pension plan contributions totaled $858 million in 2009, of which $800 million was voluntarily pre funded. In 2010, we expect to contribute the required minimum funding level of approximately $57 million to our pension plans and approximately $171 million to our other post retirement benefit plans and we also expect to make additional voluntary pension contributions of approximately $300 million in the second quarter of 2010. We expect cash generated from operations for 2010 to be sufficient to service debt and contract obligations, finance capital expenditures, continue acquisition of shares under the share repurchase program, and continue paying dividends to the our shareholders. Although 2010 cash from operations is expected to be sufficient to service these obligations, we may borrow under credit facilities to accommodate timing differences in cash flows. We have a committed $2 billion revolving credit facility that is currently undrawn and that can be accessed on a same day basis. Additionally, we believe we could access capital markets for debt financing for longer term funding, under current market conditions, if needed. 2008 Net cash provided by operating activities in 2008 increased $321 million as compared with 2007, and reflects lower income tax payments and continued trade working capital reductions. Pension plan contributions totaled $320 million in 2008, of which $200 million was voluntarily pre funded, and were comparable to 2007. Net cash provided by operating activities for 2008 included $113 million of federal and state income tax refunds and $23 million of interest income. 2007 Cash provided by operating activities in 2007 increased $1.1 billion as compared with 2006, and reflects lower pension contributions, higher net income, and continued trade working capital reductions. Pension plan contributions totaled $342 million in 2007, of which $200 million was voluntarily pre funded compared with contributions of $1.2 billion in 2006, of which $800 million was voluntarily pre funded. Net cash provided by operating activities for 2007 included the receipt of $125 million of insurance proceeds related to Hurricane Katrina, $52 million of federal and state income tax refunds, and $21 million of interest income. Investing Activities 2009 Cash provided by investing activities was $867 million in 2009. During 2009, we received $1.65 billion in proceeds from the sale of ASD (see Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8), paid $68 million for outsourcing costs related to outsourcing services contracts, and paid $33 million to acquire Sonoma Photonics, Inc. and the assets from Swift Engineerings Killer Bee Unmanned Air Systems product line (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8). Capital expenditures in 2009 were $654 million and include $36 million of capitalized software costs. 2008 Cash used in investing activities was $626 million in 2008. During 2008, we received $175 million in proceeds from the sale of the Electro Optical Systems business, spent $92 million for the acquisition of 3001 International, Inc. (see Notes 4 and 5 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8), paid $110 million for outsourcing costs related to outsourcing services contracts, and released $61 million of restricted cash related to the Gulf Opportunity Zone Industrial Development Revenue Bonds (see Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8). We had $11 million in restricted cash as of December 31, 2008 related to the Xinetics Inc. purchase (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8). Capital expenditures in 2008 were $681 million and include $23 million of capitalized software costs. Capital expenditure commitments at December 31, 2008, were approximately $554 million, which are expected to be paid with cash on hand. 2007 Cash used in investing activities was $1.4 billion in 2007. During 2007, we acquired Essex Corporation, Xinetics and the remaining 61 percent of Scaled Composites, LLC for approximately $690 million (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8), paid $137 million for outsourcing costs related to newly acquired outsourcing services contracts, and released $70 million of restricted cash related to the Gulf 48 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Opportunity Zone Industrial Development Revenue Bonds (see Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8) of which $60 million remained restricted as of December 31, 2007. This was partially offset by $11 million new restrictions related to the Xinetics purchase. Capital expenditures in 2007 were $681 million, including $118 million to replace property damaged by Hurricane Katrina and $47 million of capitalized software costs. Financing Activities 2009 Cash used in financing activities in 2009 was $1.2 billion compared with $2 billion in 2008. The $815 million decrease in cash used is primarily due to the $843 million in net proceeds from issuance of debt. In July 2009, we issued $350 million of 5 year and $500 million of 10 year unsecured senior obligations. Interest on the notes is payable semi annually in arrears at fixed rates of 3.70 percent and 5.05 percent per annum. The notes will mature on August 1, 2014, and August 1, 2019, respectively. These senior notes are subject to redemption at our discretion at any time prior to maturity in whole or in part at the principal amount plus any make whole premium and accrued and unpaid interest. The net proceeds from these notes are being used for general corporate purposes including debt repayment, acquisitions, share repurchases, pension plan funding, and working capital. A portion of the net proceeds was used to retire $400 million of 8 percent senior debt that matured in the third quarter of 2009. 2008 Cash used in financing activities in 2008 was $2 billion compared to $1.5 billion in 2007. The $532 million increase is primarily due to $380 million more for common stock purchases and $171 million lower proceeds from stock option exercises. See Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 for a discussion concerning our common stock repurchases. 2007 Cash used in financing activities in 2007 was $1.5 billion compared to $1.7 billion in 2006. The $233 million decrease is primarily due to $922 million lower net repayments of long term debt, partially offset by $350 million more common stock repurchases, $119 million lower proceeds from stock option exercises, $113 million higher net payments under lines of credits, and $102 million for higher dividends paid. Share Repurchases We repurchased 23.1 million, 21.4 million, and 15.4 million shares in 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. See Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. Credit Ratings The long term senior unsecured debt credit ratings at December 31, 2009, are summarized below: Fitch Moodys Standard Poors Northrop Grumman Corporation BBB+ Baa2 BBB Northrop Grumman Systems Corporation BBB+ Baa1 BBB + On December 31, 2009, Northrop Grumman Space Mission Systems Corp. (NGSMSC) (formerly TRW Inc.) was merged into Northrop Grumman Systems Corporation (NGSC) and NGSC became the successor in interest to NGSMSC with respect to the debt previously issued by TRW Inc. Credit Facility We have a revolving credit agreement which provides for a five year revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of $2 billion and a maturity date of August 10, 2012. The credit facility permits us to request additional lending commitments from the lenders under the agreement or other eligible lenders under certain circumstances, and thereby increase the aggregate principal amount of the lending commitments under the agreement by up to an additional $500 million. Our credit agreement contains a financial covenant relating to a maximum debt to capitalization ratio, and certain restrictions on additional asset liens, unless permitted by the agreement. As of December 31, 2009, we were in compliance with all covenants. There were no borrowings during 2009 and a maximum of $300 million borrowed under this facility during 2008. There was no balance outstanding under this facility at December 31, 2009, and 2008. 49 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Other Sources and Uses of Capital Additional Capital We believe we can obtain additional capital, if necessary for long term liquidity, from such sources as the public or private capital markets, the sale of assets, sale and leaseback of operating assets, and leasing rather than purchasing new assets. We have an effective shelf registration statement on file with the SEC. We expect that cash on hand at the beginning of the year plus cash generated from operations and cash available under credit lines will be sufficient in 2010 to service debt, finance capital expansion projects, pay federal, foreign, and state income taxes, fund pension and other post retirement benefit plans, and continue paying dividends to shareholders. We will continue to provide the productive capacity to perform our existing contracts, prepare for future contracts, and conduct research and development in the pursuit of developing opportunities. Financial Arrangements In the ordinary course of business, we use standby letters of credit and guarantees issued by commercial banks and surety bonds issued by insurance companies principally to guarantee the performance on certain contracts and to support our self insured workers compensation plans. At December 31, 2009, there were $531 million of unused stand by letters of credit, $178 million of bank guarantees, and $452 million of surety bonds outstanding. Contractual Obligations The following table presents our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2009, and the estimated timing of future cash payments: 2011 2013 2015 and $ in millions Total 2010 2012 2014 beyond Long term debt $ 4,258 $ 91 $ 780 $ 354 $ 3,033 Interest payments on long term debt 3,535 285 481 452 2,317 Operating leases 1,700 382 542 342 434 Purchase obligations(1) 9,520 6,474 2,090 885 71 Other long term liabilities(2) 1,472 305 484 250 433 Total contractual obligations $ 20,485 $ 7,537 $ 4,377 $ 2,283 $ 6,288 (1) A purchase obligation is defined as an agreement to purchase goods or services that is enforceable and legally binding on us and that specifies all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum, or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. These amounts are primarily comprised of open purchase order commitments to vendors and subcontractors pertaining to funded contracts. (2) Other long term liabilities primarily consist of total accrued workers compensation and environmental reserves, deferred compensation, and other miscellaneous liabilities, of which $115 million and $265 million of the environmental and workers compensation reserves, respectively, are recorded in other current liabilities. It excludes obligations for uncertain tax positions of $423 million, as the timing of the payments, if any, cannot be reasonably estimated. Further details regarding long term debt and operating leases can be found in Notes 13 and 15, respectively, to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. OTHER MATTERS Accounting Standard Updates The Financial Accounting Standards Board has issued new accounting standards which are not effective until after December 31, 2009. For further discussion of new accounting standards, see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. 50 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Off Balance Sheet Arrangements As of December 31, 2009, we had no significant off balance sheet arrangements other than operating leases. For a description of our operating leases, see Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. GLOSSARY OF PROGRAMS Listed below are brief descriptions of the programs mentioned in this Form 10 K. Program Name Program Description Advanced Extremely High Frequency (AEHF) Provide the communication payload for the nations next generation military strategic and tactical satellite relay systems that will deliver survivable, protected communications to U.S. forces and selected allies worldwide. African Contingency Operations Training Assistance (ACOTA) Provide peacekeeping training to militaries in African nations via the Department of State. The program is designed to improve the ability of African governments to respond quickly to crises by providing selected militaries with the training and equipment required to execute humanitarian or peace support operations. Airborne and Maritime/Fixed Stations Joint Tactical Radio Systems (AMF JTRS) AMF JTRS will develop a communications capability that includes two software defined, multifunction radio form factors for use by the U.S. Department of Defense and potential use by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. Northrop Grumman has the responsibility for leading the Joint Tactical Radio (JTR) integrated product team and co development of the JTR small airborne (JTR SA) hardware and software. The company will also provide common JTR software for two JTR form factors, wideband power amplifiers, and the use of Northrop Grummans Advanced Communications Test Center in San Diego as the integration and test site for the JTR SA radio, waveforms and ancillaries. Airborne Laser (ABL) Design and develop the systems Chemical Oxygen Iodine Laser (COIL) and the Beacon Illuminator Laser (BILL) for Missile Defense Agencys Airborne Laser, providing a capability to destroy boost phase missiles at very long range. Airborne Warning and Control System radar (AWACS) Provide all weather surveillance, Command, Control and Communications needed by commanders of air tactical forces. B 2 Stealth Bomber Maintain strategic, long range multi role bomber with war fighting capability that combines long range, large payload, all aspect stealth, and near precision weapons in one aircraft. B 52 Sustainment B 52 ALQ 155, ALQ 122, ALT 16, ALT 32 and ALR 20 Power Management Systems are legacy electronic countermeasures systems protecting the B 52 over a wideband frequency range. The program provides design and test products to resolve obsolescence and maintainability issues using modern digital receiver/exciter designs. Battlefield Airborne Communications Node (BACN) Install the BACN system in three Bombardier BD 700 Global Express aircraft for immediate fielding and install the BACN system into two Global Hawk Block 20 unmanned aerial vehicles. 51 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Program Name Program Description Broad Area Maritime Surveillance (BAMS) Unmanned Aircraft System A maritime derivative of the Global Hawk that provides persistent maritime Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) data collection and dissemination capability to the Maritime Patrol and Reconnaissance Force. Counter Narco Terrorism Program Office (CNTPO) Counter Narco Terrorism Program Office provides support to the U.S. Government, coalition partners, and host nations in Technology Development and Application Support; Training; Operations and Logistics Support; and Professional and Executive Support. The program provides equipment and services to research, develop, upgrade, install, fabricate, test, deploy, operate, train, maintain, and support new and existing federal Government platforms, systems, subsystems, items, and host nation support initiatives. DDG 51 Build Aegis guided missile destroyer, equipped for conducting anti air, anti submarine, anti surface and strike operations. DDG 1000 Zumwalt class Destroyer Design in conjunction with General Dynamics, Bath Iron Works, the first class of U.S. navys multi mission surface combatants tailored for land attack and littoral dominance and construct the ships integrated composite deckhouses, as well as portions of the ships peripheral vertical launch systems. Distributed Common Ground System Army (DCGS A) Mobile Basic DCGS A Mobile Basic is the Armys latest in a series of DCGS A systems designed to access and ingest multiple data types from a wide variety of intelligence sensors, sources and databases. This new system will also deliver greater operational and logistical advantages over the currently fielded DCGS A Version 3 and the nine ISR programs it replaces. E 2 Hawkeye The U.S. Navys airborne battle management command and control mission system platform providing airborne early warning detection, identification, tracking, targeting, and communication capabilities. The company is developing the next generation capability including radar, mission computer, vehicle, and other system enhancements, to support the U.S Naval Battle Groups and Joint Forces, called the E 2D. Recently the USN approved Milestone C for Low Rate Initial Production. EA 6B The EA 6B (Prowler) primary mission is to jam enemy radar and communications, thereby preventing them from directing hostile surface to air missiles at assets the Prowler protects. When equipped with the improved ALQ 218 receiver and the next generation ICAP III ( Increased Capability) Airborne Electronic Attack (AEA) suite the Prowler is able to provide rapid detection, precise classification, and highly accurate geolocation of electronic emissions and counter modern, frequency hopping radars. A derivative/variant of the EA 6B ICAP III mission system is also being incorporated into the F/A 18 platform and designated the EA 18G. EA 18G The EA 18G is the replacement platform for the EA6B Prowler, which is currently the armed services only offensive tactical radar jamming aircraft. The Increased Capability (ICAP) III mission system capability, developed for the EA 6B Prowler, will be in incorporated into an F/A 18 platform (designated the EA 18G). 52 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Program Name Program Description F 16 Block 60 Direct commercial firm fixed price program with Lockheed Martin Aeronautics Company to develop and produce 80 Lot systems for aircraft delivery to the United Arab Emirates Air Force as well as test equipment and spares to be used to support in country repairs of sensors. F/A 18 Produce the center and aft fuselage sections, twin vertical stabilizers, and integrate all associated subsystems for the F/A 18 Hornet strike fighters. F 35 Development (Joint Strike Fighter) Design, integration, and or development of the center fuselage and weapons bay, communications, navigations, identification subsystem, systems engineering, and mission systems software as well as provide ground and flight test support, modeling, simulation activities, and training courseware. Flats Sequencing System (FSS)/Postal Automation Build systems for the U.S. Postal Service designed to further automate the flat mail stream, which includes large envelopes, catalogs and magazines. Gerald R. Ford class Aircraft Carrier Design and construction for the new class of Aircraft Carriers. Global Hawk High Altitude Long Endurance (HALE) Systems Provide the Global Hawk HALE unmanned aerial system for use in the global war on terror and has a central role in Intelligence, Reconnaissance, and Surveillance supporting operations in Afghanistan and Iraq. Global Linguists Solutions (GLS) Provide interpretation, translation and linguist services in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom. Ground/Air Task Oriented Radar (G/ATOR) A development program to provide the next generation ground based multi mission radar for the USMC. Provides Short Range Air Defense, Air Defense Surveillance, Ground Weapon Location and Air Traffic Control. Replaces five existing USMC single mission radars. Guardrail Common Sensor System IDIQ (GRCS I) Sole source IDIQ contract which will encompass efforts for the upgrade and modernization of the current field Guardrail systems. Hunter Contractor Logistics Support (CLS) Operate, maintain, train and sustain the multi mission Hunter Unmanned Aerial System in addition to deploying Hunter support teams. I Kits Supports Full Rate Production of FBCB2 Version 4 I KITS (installation kits) for the US Army and Australian ground platform types. Services include Program Operations, Supply Chain Management, Procurement, Stores, Part Kitting and Engineering. Inertial Navigation Programs Consists of a wide variety of products across land, sea and space that address the customers needs for precise knowledge of position, velocity, attitude, and heading. These applications include platforms, such as the F 16, satellites and ground vehicles as well as for sensors such as radar, MP RTIP, and EO/IR pods. Many inertial applications require integration with GPS to provide a very high level of precision and long term stability. Intercontinental Ballistic Missile (ICBM) Maintain readiness of the nations ICBM weapon system. 53 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Program Name Program Description James Webb Space Telescope (JWST) Design, develop, integrate and test a space based infrared telescope satellite to observe the formation of the first stars and galaxies in the universe. Joint Base Operations Support (JBOSC) Provides all infrastructure support needed for launch and base operations at the NASA Spaceport. Joint National Integration Center Research and Development Contract (JRDC) Support the development and application of modeling and simulation, wargaming, test and analytic tools for air and missile defense. Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar System (Joint STARS) Joint STARS detects, locates, classifies, tracks and targets hostile ground movements, communicating real time information through secure data links with U.S. Air Force and Army command posts. Joint Warfighting Center Support (JWFC) Provide non personal general and technical support to the USJFCOM Joint Force Trainer/Joint Warfighting Center to ensure the successful worldwide execution of the Joint Training and Transformation missions. Kinetic Energy Interceptor (KEI) Develop mobile missile defense system with the unique capability to destroy a hostile missile during its boost, ascent or midcourse phase of flight. This program was terminated for the U.S. governments convenience in 2009. Large Aircraft Infrared Counter measures (LAIRCM) Infrared countermeasures systems for C 17 and C 130 aircraft. The IDIQ contract will further allow for the purchase of LAIRCM hardware for foreign military sales and other government agencies. LHA Amphibious assault ships that will provide forward presence and power projection as an integral part of joint, interagency, and multinational maritime expeditionary forces. LHD The multipurpose amphibious assault ship LHD is the centerpiece of an Expeditionary Strike Group (ESG). In wartime, these ships deploy very large numbers of troops and equipment to assault enemy held beaches. Like LPD, only larger, in times of peace, these ships have ample space for non combatant evacuations and other humanitarian missions. The program of record is 8 ships of which Makin Island (LHD 8) is the last. LPD The LPD 17 San Antonio Class is the newest addition to the U.S. Navys 21st Century amphibious assault force. The 684 foot long, 105 foot wide ships have a crew of 360 and are used to transport and land 700 to 800 Marines, their equipment, and supplies by embarked air cushion or conventional landing craft and assault vehicles, augmented by helicopters or other rotary wing aircraft. The ships will support amphibious assault, special operations, or expeditionary warfare humanitarian missions. MESA Korea Consists of a 4 lot Multirole Electronically Scanned Array (MESA) radar/Identification Friend or Foe subsystem delivery. Our customer is the Boeing Company, with ultimate product delivery to the Republic of Korea Air Force. 54 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Program Name Program Description MESA Peace Eagle Joint program with Boeing to supply MESA radar antenna for AEWC aircraft for the Turkish Air Force. MESA Wedgetail Joint program with Boeing to supply MESA radar antenna for AEWC aircraft for the Royal Australian Air Force. Multi Platform Radar Technology Insertion Program (MP RTIP) Design, develop, fabricate and test modular, scalable 2 dimensional active electronically scanned array (2D AESA) radars for integration on the Joint STARS and Global Hawk Airborne platforms. Also provides enhanced Wide Area Surveillance system capabilities. National Level Exercise 2009 (NLE) Provide program management and the necessary technical expertise to assist the FEMA National Exercise Division with planning, conducting and evaluating the FY09 Tier 1 National Level Exercise (NLE 09). National Polar orbiting Operational Environmental Satellite System (NPOESS) Design, develop, integrate, test, and operate an integrated system comprised of two satellites with mission sensors and associated ground elements for providing global and regional weather and environmental data. Navstar Global Positioning System Operational Control Segment (GPS OCX) Navstar Global Positioning System Operational Control Segment (GPS OCX) Operational control system for existing and future GPS constellation. Includes all satellite C2, mission planning, constellation management, external interfaces, monitoring stations, and ground antennas. Phase A effort includes effort to accomplish a System Requirements Review (SRR), System Design Review (SDR), and development of a Mission Capabilities Engineering Model (MCEM) prototype. Navy Unmanned Combat Air System Operational Assessment (N UCAS) Navy development/demonstration contract that will design, build and test two demonstration vehicles that will conduct a carrier demonstration. National Security Cutter (NSC) Detail design and construct the U.S. Coast Guards National Security Cutters equipped to carry out the core missions of maritime security, maritime safety, protection of natural resources, maritime mobility, and national defense. New York City Wireless Network (NYCWiN) Provide New York Citys broadband public safety wireless network. Saudi Arabian National Guard Modernization and Training (SANG) Provide military training, logistics and support services to modernize the Saudi Arabian National Guards capabilities to unilaterally execute and sustain military operations. Space Tracking and Surveillance System (STSS) Develop a critical system for the nations missile defense architecture employing low earth orbit satellites with onboard sensors to provide target acquisition, tracking, and discrimination of ballistic missile threats to the United States and its deployed forces and allies. The program includes delivery of two flight demonstration satellites and the ground processing segment. Space Based Infrared System (SBIRS) Space based surveillance systems for missile warning, missile defense, battlespace characterization and technical intelligence. SBIRS will meet United Stated infrared space surveillance needs through the next 2 3 decades. 55 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Program Name Program Description Trailer Mounted Support System (TMSS) Trailer Mounted Support System is a key part of the Armys SICPS Program providing workspace, power distribution, lighting, environmental conditioning (heating and cooling) tables and a common grounding system for commanders and staff at all echelons. Transformational Satellite Communication System (TSAT) Risk Reduction and System Definition (RRSD) Design, develop, brassboard and demonstrate key technologies to reduce risk in the TSAT space element and perform additional risk mitigation activities. This program was terminated in 2009. USS Carl Vinson Refueling and complex overhaul of the nuclear powered aircraft carrier USS Carl Vinson (CVN 70). USS Enterprise Extended Dry docking Selected Restricted Availability (EDSRA) Provide routine dry dock work, tank blasting and coating, hull preservation, propulsion and ship system repairs and limited enhancements to various hull, mechanical and electrical systems for the USS Enterprise. USS George H. W. Bush The 10th and final Nimitz class aircraft carrier that will incorporate many new design features, commissioned in early 2009 (CVN 77). USS Theodore Roosevelt Refueling and complex overhaul of the nuclear powered aircraft carrier USS Theodore Roosevelt (CVN 71). USS Toledo Depot Modernization Period (DMP) Provide routine dry dock work, tank blasting and coating, hull preservation, propulsion and ship system repairs and limited enhancements to various hull, mechanical and electrical systems for the USS Toledo. Vehicular Intercommunications Systems (VIS) Provide clear and noise free communications between crew members inside combat vehicles and externally over as many as six combat net radios for the U.S. Army. The active noise reduction features of VIS provide significant improvement in speech intelligibility, hearing protection, and vehicle crew performance. Virginia class Submarines Construct the newest attack submarine in conjunction with General Dynamics Electric Boat. Virginia IT Outsource (VITA) Provide high level IT consulting, IT infrastructure and services to Virginia state and local agencies including data center, help desk, desktop, network, applications and cross functional services. 56 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Interest Rates We are exposed to market risk, primarily related to interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. Financial instruments subject to interest rate risk include variable rate short term borrowings under the credit agreement, and short term investments. At December 31, 2009, substantially all outstanding borrowings were fixed rate long term debt obligations of which a significant portion are not callable until maturity. We have a modest exposure to interest rate risk resulting from the interest rate swap agreements described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. During 2008, we entered into two forward starting interest rate swap agreements with a notional value totaling $400 million to limit future interest rate exposure and designated them as cash flow hedges. These swaps were settled in June 2009. Our sensitivity to a 1 percent change in interest rates is tied to our $2 billion credit agreement, which had no balance outstanding at December 31, 2009 or 2008, and the aforementioned interest rate swap agreements. See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. Derivatives We do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. We may enter into interest rate swap agreements to manage our exposure to interest rate fluctuations. At December 31, 2009, and 2008, one and four interest rate swap agreements, respectively, were in effect. See Notes 1 and 11 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. Foreign Currency We enter into foreign currency forward contracts to manage foreign currency exchange rate risk related to receipts from customers and payments to suppliers denominated in foreign currencies. At December 31, 2009, and 2008, the amount of foreign currency forward contracts outstanding was not material. We do not consider the market risk exposure relating to foreign currency exchange to be material to the consolidated financial statements. See Notes 1 and 11 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. 57 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION 
 
