Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations OVERVIEW Notable Events Certain notable events or activities affecting our 2011 consolidated financial results included the following: Significant financial events for the year ended December 31, 2011: We completed the spin off of our Shipbuilding business (Huntington Ingalls Industries or HII), which is now reported within discontinued operations. In connection with the spin off of HII, we received cash of $1.4 billion. We reduced our participation in the National Security Technologies (NSTec) joint venture, which resulted in a $1.7 billion reduction in contract backlog and a $579 million reduction in 2011 revenues. We repaid notes with a face value of $768 million. We made voluntary pension funding contributions totaling $1.0 billion. We repurchased 40.2 million shares of common stock for a total of $2.3 billion. In the second quarter of 2011, we increased the quarterly stock dividend from $0.47 per share to $0.50 per share. We paid $543 million in cash dividends. Other notable events for the year ended December 31, 2011: We relocated our corporate offices in Los Angeles, California and in Rosslyn, Virginia to our new corporate office in Falls Church, Virginia. We increased the authorization for share repurchases by approximately $2.2 billion. Political and Economic Environment The U.S. and global economies have experienced a period of substantial economic uncertainty and turmoil, with high levels of national debt, and the related financial markets have been characterized by significant volatility. Current levels of deficit spending in the U.S. could prove to be unsustainable over the long term. Although defense spending is expected to remain a national priority within future federal budgets, the passage of the Budget Control Act of 2011 (the Budget Control Act) in August 2011 marked a growing political acceptance of cutting planned defense spending as part of a deficit reduction solution. Some allied government defense spending has also come under increasing pressure as governments search for ways to reduce their deficits and national debts. The Administration and Congress will likely continue to debate the size of the new defense budget plan for the next decade, but spending over the next several years is expected to drop measurably from previously planned levels, absent a significant national security event. Future defense plans and changes in defense spending levels could adversely affect the individual programs and delay purchasing by our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on the companys consolidated financial position, results of operations, and or cash flows. While these significant budgetary considerations put downward pressure on growth in our industry, we believe that our business is well positioned in areas that the DoD has indicated are areas of focus for future defense spending to help the DoD meet its critical future capability requirements for protecting U.S. security and the security of our allies in the years to come. The Budget Control Act raised the statutory limit on the amount of permissible federal debt and committed the U.S. Government to reduce significantly the federal deficit in the coming decade. The Budget Control Act consists of two parts, both of which could impact future defense spending levels. The first part mandates a total reduction of $940 billion to the fiscal year 2012 Presidential Budget submission as part of established caps on discretionary spending through 2021. Of this total reduction, approximately $490 billion is expected to come from defense spending. The Budget Control Act also set up a Joint Committee of Congress (the Joint Committee) that 27 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION was responsible for identifying an additional $1.2 to $1.5 trillion in deficit reductions by November 23, 2011. The Joint Committee was unable to identify the additional deficit reductions by this deadline thereby triggering a second provision of the Budget Control Act called sequestration, which calls for very substantial automatic spending cuts split between defense and non defense programs that will start in 2013 and continue over a nine year period. Both the Administration and many members of Congress have indicated that sequestration is not the preferred path to deficit reduction and that alternative steps should be pursued. While we believe efforts may be underway to prevent the automatic spending cuts scheduled to begin in 2013, the outcome of these efforts is uncertain. The fiscal year 2012 defense budget provides a nominal increase in base funding over fiscal year 2011 levels. We anticipate continued debate over defense spending with the Presidents Budget request for fiscal year 2013 and the subsequent Congressional budget process. The forthcoming general election in November is expected to generate significant additional political dialogue centered around the federal deficit and potential cuts in government spending. Budget decisions made in this environment could have long term consequences for our company and the entire defense industry. We expect U.S. force levels and budget resources tied to current hostilities to continue to draw down. As overall defense spending is reduced, the DoD is re evaluating the role and structure of the military. The DoD recently released a new defense strategy that resulted from a comprehensive review intended to guide its priorities and budgeting decisions. The new guidance indicates the U.S. military needs to project power globally and operate effectively in all domains, including cybersecurity, and it places particular emphasis on the Asia Pacific region as an area of strategic focus. In January 2012, the Secretary of Defense announced a number of program changes and cancellations that are scheduled to take place over the next several years in part to comply with certain provisions of the Budget Control Act. Certain of these program changes and cancellations will have an impact on programs in which we participate. The U.S. is expected to continue to maintain a range of powerful military capabilities to support U.S. national security interests, even amidst economic difficulties and reductions in defense spending levels, and consequently we expect the U.S. will continue to need many of the sophisticated capabilities that we provide. We believe our portfolio aligns well with the DoDs indicated requirements, and, as a result, we believe we are well positioned to help the DoD meet its critical future capability requirements for protecting U.S. security in the years ahead. Although reductions to individual programs in which we participate or for which we expect to compete are always possible (such as the recent announcements regarding the Block 30 Global Hawk and F 35 programs), we believe that spending on recapitalization, modernization and maintenance of defense, intelligence, and homeland security assets will continue to be a national priority. Future defense spending is expected to include the development and procurement of new manned and unmanned military platforms and systems along with advanced electronics and software to enhance the capabilities of individual systems and provide real time integration of individual surveillance, information management, strike, and battle management platforms. Given the current era of irregular warfare, we expect increased investment in persistent awareness with intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (ISR) systems, cyber warfare, and an expansion of information available for the warfighter to make timely decisions. We expect other significant new competitive opportunities to include long range strike, directed energy applications, missile defense, satellite communications systems, restricted programs, cybersecurity, technical services and information technology contracts, and numerous international and homeland security programs. We believe that the U.S. Government will continue to place a high priority on defense spending and national security, as well as economic challenges, and will continue to invest in sophisticated systems providing long range surveillance and intelligence, battle management, precision strike, and strategic agility. In addition, the U.S. Government continues to face challenges with recapitalizing equipment and rebuilding readiness while also pursuing modernization and reducing overhead and inefficiency. See Risk Factors located in Part I, Item 1A for a more complete description of risks we face. 28 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Cybersecurity Our industry and the broader national security community are subject to various cybersecurity threats including, but not limited to, attempts to gain unauthorized access to sensitive information. We proactively work to assess and mitigate the evolving risks. In addition, we have partnered with various industry and government participants, including the DoD, to collaborate around increased awareness and enhanced protections against cybersecurity threats. See Risk Factors located in Part I, Item 1A for a more complete description of the risks that we face due to security threats, including cybersecurity threats. Green Initiatives We could be affected by future laws or regulations, including but not limited to, those enacted in response to climate change concerns and other actions known as green initiatives. In 2009, we established a goal of reducing our greenhouse gas emissions over a five year period through December 31, 2014. In 2010, we established goals for water usage and solid waste generation. To comply with laws, regulations, and green initiatives, including our goals, we have incurred and expect to incur capital and operating costs, but at this time, such costs have not had, and we do not expect that such costs will have, a material adverse effect on the companys consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. BUSINESS DISPOSITIONS 2011 We completed the spin off to our shareholders of HII effective March 31, 2011. HII operates the business that was previously the Shipbuilding segment (Shipbuilding) of the company prior to the spin off. The spin off was the culmination of the companys decision to explore strategic alternatives for Shipbuilding as it was determined to be in the best interests of shareholders, customers, and employees to allow both the company and Shipbuilding to pursue more effectively their respective opportunities to maximize value. We made a pro rata distribution to our shareholders of one share of HII common stock for every six shares of our common stock held on the record date of March 30, 2011, or 48.8 million shares of HII common stock. There was no gain or loss recognized by the company as a result of the spin off transaction. In connection with the spin off, HII issued senior notes and entered into a credit facility with third party lenders, and HII used a portion of the proceeds of the notes and credit facility to fund a $1.4 billion cash contribution to us. Sales for Shipbuilding for the three months ended March 31, 2011, were $1.6 billion and sales for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, were $6.7 billion and $6.2 billion, respectively. The assets, liabilities and operating results of this business unit are reported as discontinued operations in the consolidated financial statements for all periods presented. 2009 We sold our Advisory Services Division (ASD) in December 2009, for $1.65 billion in cash to an investor group led by General Atlantic, LLC and affiliates of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P., and recognized a gain of $15 million, net of taxes. ASD was a business unit comprised of the assets and liabilities of TASC, Inc., its wholly owned subsidiary TASC Services Corporation, and certain contracts carved out from other businesses also in Information Systems that provide systems engineering technical assistance (SETA) and other analysis and advisory services. Sales for ASD in the year ended December 31, 2009 was approximately $1.5 billion. 29 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Discontinued Operations Earnings for the businesses classified within discontinued operations for the dispositions discussed above were as follows: Year Ended December 31 $ in millions 2011 2010 2009 Sales and service revenues $ 1,646 $ 6,711 $ 7,740 Earnings from discontinued operations 59 229 345 Income tax expense (28 ) (95 ) (111 ) Earnings, net of tax 31 134 234 Gain on divestitures 2 10 446 Income tax (expense) benefit (1 ) 5 (428 ) Gain on divestitures, net of tax 1 15 18 Earnings from discontinued operations, net of tax $ 32 $ 149 $ 252 CONTRACTS We generate the majority of our business from long term government contracts for development, production, and support activities. Government contracts typically include the following major cost elements: material, labor, overhead, subcontract costs, and general and administrative costs. Unless otherwise specified in a contract, costs billed to contracts with the U.S. Government are determined under the requirements of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) and CAS regulations as allowable and allocable costs. Examples of costs incurred by us and not billed to the U.S. Government in accordance with the requirements of the FAR and CAS regulations include, but are not limited to, certain legal costs, lobbying costs, charitable donations, interest expense and advertising costs. Our long term contracts typically fall into one of two broad categories: Flexibly Priced Contracts Flexibly priced contracts include both cost type and fixed price incentive contracts. Cost type contracts provide for reimbursement of the contractors allowable costs incurred plus a fee that represents profit. Cost type contracts generally require that the contractor use its best efforts to accomplish the scope of the work within some specified time and some stated dollar limitation. Fixed price incentive contracts also provide for reimbursement of the contractors allowable costs up to a ceiling amount, but are subject to a cost share limit that affects profitability. Fixed price incentive contracts effectively become firm fixed price contracts once the cost share limit is reached. Firm Fixed Price Contracts A firm fixed price contract is a contract in which the specified scope of work is agreed to for a price that is a pre determined, negotiated amount and not generally subject to adjustment regardless of costs incurred by the contractor. Time and materials contracts are considered firm fixed price contracts as they specify a fixed hourly rate for each labor hour charged. The following table summarizes 2011 revenue recognized by contract type and customer: ($ in millions) U.S.Government OtherCustomers Total Percentof Total Flexibly priced contracts $ 15,413 $ 237 $ 15,650 59% Firm fixed price contracts 8,492 2,270 10,762 41% Total sales and service revenues $ 23,905 $ 2,507 $ 26,412 100% 30 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Contract Fees Negotiated contract fee structures, for both flexibly priced and fixed price contracts include, but are not limited to: fixed fee amounts, cost sharing arrangements to reward or penalize for either under or over cost target performance, positive award fees, and negative penalty arrangements. Profit margins may vary materially depending on the negotiated contract fee arrangements, the achievement of performance objectives, and the stage of performance at which the right to receive fees, particularly under incentive and award fee contracts, is finally determined. Award Fees Certain contracts contain provisions consisting of award fees based on performance criteria such as cost, schedule, quality, and technical performance. Award fees are determined and earned based on an evaluation by the customer of the companys performance against negotiated criteria. Award fees that can reasonably be estimated and are deemed reasonably assured, are recorded over the performance period of the contract. Award fee contracts are used in certain of our operating segments. Compliance and Monitoring We monitor our policies and procedures with respect to our contracts on a regular basis to enhance consistent application under similar terms and conditions, as well as compliance with all applicable government regulations and laws. In addition, costs incurred and allocated to contracts with the U.S. Government are routinely audited by the Defense Contract Audit Agency. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES, ESTIMATES, AND JUDGMENTS Revenue Recognition Overview We derive the majority of our business from long term contracts for the production of goods and services provided to the federal government, which are accounted for in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) for construction type and production type contracts and federal government contractors. We classify contract revenues as product sales or service revenues depending on the predominant attributes of the relevant underlying contract. We also enter into contracts that are not associated with the federal government, such as contracts to provide certain services to non federal government customers. We account for those contracts in accordance with the relevant GAAP revenue recognition principles. We consider the nature of these contracts and the types of products and services provided when determining the proper accounting method for a particular contract. Percentage of Completion Accounting We generally recognize revenues from our long term contracts under the cost to cost or the units of delivery measures of the percentage of completion method of accounting. The percentage of completion method recognizes income as work on a contract progresses. For most contracts, sales are calculated based on the percentage of total costs incurred in relation to total estimated costs at completion of the contract. The units of delivery measure is a modification of the percentage of completion method, which recognizes revenues as deliveries are made to the customer generally using unit sales values in accordance with the contract terms. Under percentage of completion accounting, we estimate profit as the difference between total estimated revenue and total estimated cost of a contract and recognize that profit over the life of the contract based on each contracts percentage of completion. The use of the percentage of completion method requires us to make reasonably dependable cost estimates for the design, manufacture, and delivery of our products and services. The cost estimation process is based upon the professional knowledge of our engineers, program managers and financial professionals, and draws on their significant experience and judgment. Such costs are typically incurred over a period of several years, and estimation of these costs requires the use of judgment. Many contracts contain positive and negative profit incentives based upon performance relative to predetermined targets that may occur during or subsequent to delivery of the product. These incentives take the form of potential additional fees to be earned or penalties to be incurred. Incentives and award fees that can be reasonably assured and reasonably estimated are recorded over the performance period of the contract. Incentives and award fees that are not reasonably assured or cannot be reasonably estimated are recorded when awarded or at such time as we believe a reasonable estimate can be made. 31 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Changes in estimates of contract sales, costs, and profits are recognized using the cumulative catch up method of accounting. This method recognizes in the current period the cumulative effect of the changes on current and prior periods. Hence, the effect of the changes on future periods of contract performance is recognized as if the revised estimate had been the original estimate. A significant change in an estimate on one or more contracts could have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and or cash flows. Certain Service Contracts We generally recognize revenue under contracts to provide services to non federal government customers when services are performed. Service contracts include operations and maintenance contracts, and outsourcing type arrangements, primarily in Technical Services and Information Systems. We generally recognize revenue under such contracts on a straight line basis over the period of contract performance, unless evidence suggests that the revenue is earned or the obligations are fulfilled in a different pattern. Costs incurred under these service contracts are expensed as incurred, except that direct and incremental set up costs are capitalized and amortized over the life of the agreement. Operating profit related to such service contracts may fluctuate from period to period, particularly in the earlier phases of the contract. Contracts that include more than one type of product or service are accounted for under the relevant GAAP guidance for revenue arrangements with multiple elements. Accordingly, for applicable arrangements, revenue recognition includes the proper identification of separate units of accounting and the allocation of revenue across all elements based on relative fair values. Cost Estimation The cost estimation process is based upon the professional knowledge of our engineers, program managers and financial professionals, and draws on their significant experience and judgment. Factors that are considered in estimating the work to be completed and ultimate contract recovery include the availability, productivity and cost of labor, the nature and complexity of the work to be performed, the effect of change orders, the availability of materials, the effect of any delays in performance, the availability and timing of funding from the customer, and the recoverability of any claims included in the estimates to complete. A significant change in an estimate on one or more contracts could have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and or cash flows. We update our contract cost estimates at least annually and more frequently as determined by events or circumstances. We generally review and reassess our cost and revenue estimates for each significant contract on a quarterly basis. We record a provision for the entire loss on the contract in the period the loss is determined when estimates of total costs to be incurred on a contract exceed estimates of total revenue to be earned. We offset loss provisions first against costs that are included in unbilled accounts receivable or inventoried assets, with any remaining amount reflected in liabilities. Purchase Accounting Overview We allocate the purchase price of an acquired business to the underlying tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based upon their respective fair market values, with the excess recorded as goodwill. Such fair market value assessments require judgments and estimates that can be affected by contract performance and other factors over time, which may cause final amounts to differ materially from original estimates. Adjustments to the fair value of purchased assets and liabilities after the initial measurement period are recognized in net earnings. Acquisition Accruals We establish certain accruals in connection with indemnities and other contingencies from our acquisitions and divestitures. We have recorded these accruals and subsequent adjustments during the purchase price allocation period for acquisitions and as events occur for divestitures. The accruals are determined based upon the terms of the purchase or sales agreements and, in most cases, involve a significant degree of judgment. We record these accruals based on our interpretation of the terms of the purchase or sale agreements, known facts, and an estimation of probable future events based on our experience, which may cause final amounts to differ materially from original estimates. 32 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets We perform an annual impairment test of our goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives as of November 30th, or between annual tests if events occur or circumstances change which suggest that the goodwill or indefinite lived intangible assets should be evaluated. Intangible assets with finite lives are tested for impairment, whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. When testing goodwill, we compare the fair value of the reporting unit to its carrying value. To determine the fair value of our reporting units, we primarily use the income approach based on the cash flows that the reporting unit expects to generate in the future. This income valuation method requires management to project revenues, operating expenses, working capital investment, capital spending and cash flows for the reporting units over a multi year period, as well as determine the weighted average cost of capital (WACC) used as a discount rate and the terminal value assumptions. The WACC takes into account the relative weights of each component of our consolidated capital structure (equity and debt) and represents the expected cost of new capital adjusted as appropriate to consider lower risk profiles associated with longer term contracts and barriers to market entry. The terminal value assumptions are applied to the final year of the discounted cash flow model. Impairment assessment inherently involves management judgments as to assumptions about expected future cash flows and the impact of market conditions on those assumptions. Due to the many variables inherent in the estimation of a businesss fair value and the relative size of our recorded goodwill, differences in assumptions may have a material effect on the results of our impairment analysis. We also corroborate the fair values determined under the income approach using the market valuation method to estimate the fair value of our reporting units by utilizing industry multiples (including relevant control premiums) of operating earnings. When calculating impairment for intangible assets with indefinite lives, we compare the fair value of these assets, as determined based on the income and market valuation methods, to the carrying value. If the carrying value exceeds the fair value, we determine the fair value of the reporting units individual assets and liabilities and calculate the implied fair value of goodwill. In the fourth quarter of 2011, we performed our annual goodwill impairment evaluation. The results of our annual goodwill impairment test as of November 30, 2011, indicated that the estimated fair value of each reporting unit exceeds its carrying value. There were no impairment charges recorded in the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. Litigation, Commitments, and Contingencies We are subject to a range of claims, investigations, lawsuits, environmental matters, income tax matters, and administrative proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business. Estimating liabilities and costs associated with these matters requires judgment based upon professional knowledge and experience of management and our internal and external legal counsel. In accordance with our practices relating to accounting for contingencies, we determine whether to record a charge to earnings and, if so, what amount based on consideration of the facts and circumstances of each matter as then known to us, including any settlement offers, and our assessment of the probability of the liabilities and whether the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. The ultimate resolution of any such exposure to us may vary materially from earlier estimates as further facts and circumstances develop or become known to us. When we believe, based on the facts available to us, that a liability is probable and the loss is reasonably estimable, we record our best estimate of the amount of the ultimate loss. When a range of costs is reasonably estimable, but no amount within that range is a better estimate than another, we record what we estimate as the lower end of the range. For further information on the treatment of these contingencies, see Note 1, Note 14 and Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. U.S. Government Cost Claims From time to time, our customers advise us of ordinary course claims and penalties concerning certain potential disallowed costs. When such findings are presented, we engage U.S. Government representatives in discussions to enable us to evaluate the merits of these claims, as well as to assess the amounts being claimed. Where appropriate, provisions are made to reflect our expected exposure to matters raised by the U.S. Government representatives. 33 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Income Taxes Provisions for federal, foreign, state, and local income taxes are calculated on reported financial statement pre tax income based on current tax law and include the cumulative effect of any changes in tax rates from those used previously in determining deferred tax assets and liabilities. Such provisions differ from the amounts currently payable because certain items of income and expense are recognized in different time periods for financial reporting purposes than for income tax purposes. State and local income and franchise tax provisions are allocable to contracts in process and, accordingly, are included in operating income. Uncertain Tax Positions Tax positions that meet the more likely than not recognition threshold may be recognized or continue to be recognized in the financial statements. If a tax position does not meet the minimum statutory threshold to avoid payment of penalties, the company recognizes an expense for the amount of the penalty in the period it is determined. The company recognizes federal interest accrued related to unrecognized tax benefits within income tax expense. Federal penalties are recognized as a component of income tax expense. See Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. Retirement Benefits Overview We record our employee pension and other post retirement plans in accordance with US GAAP under Financial Accounting Standards (FAS) and charge the costs of these plans to our contracts with customers in accordance with the FAR and the related Cost Accounting Standards (CAS) that govern such plans. In measuring periodic pension cost, both FAS and CAS recognize a normal services cost component, but there are differences in the way the remaining components of annual pension costs are calculated under each method, including the assumptions and methods used for measuring the plan obligations. As a result, retiree benefit plan expense amounts for FAS purposes are different from the amounts for CAS purposes. Further, differences result from different methodologies in how estimated earnings on pension assets and interest expense on the pension obligations are measured, and the measurement and allocation periods over which gains/losses related to pension assets and actuarial changes are determined. CAS pension expense is allocated to our segments and is included in their measurement of segment operating income, and the difference between the CAS and FAS pension expense is recorded in operating income at the consolidated company level. Recent Developments in U.S. Government Cost Accounting Standards Pension Recovery Rules On December 27, 2011 the CAS Board published a final rule revising CAS 412, Composition and Measurement of Pension Cost, and CAS 413, Adjustment and Allocation of Pension Cost. These revisions are intended to partially harmonize the measurement and period of assignment of defined benefit pension plan costs allocable to U.S. Government contracts, and the minimum required contribution under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA), as amended by the Pension Protection Act (PPA) of 2006. We anticipate that the rule will better align, but not eliminate, mismatches between ERISA funding requirements and CAS pension costs for U.S. Government CAS covered contracts. Under the final rule, there is a five year transition period, during which an increasing percentage of the harmonization effect is to be recognized, starting from 0% in the first year to 100% in the fifth year and thereafter. The rule becomes effective February 27, 2012, with 2013 being the first year of applicability for the revised accounting practices required by the rule. Price proposals for CAS covered contracts awarded on or after the effective date of February 27, 2012, will reflect the effects of the rule. We believe for CAS covered contracts awarded prior to the effective date, contractors will be entitled to an equitable adjustment for any additional CAS basis contract costs resulting from implementation of the final rule. FAS Benefit Plan Assumptions We perform an annual evaluation of the assumptions used in determining projected benefit obligations and the fair values of plan assets for our pension plans and other post retirement benefit plans in consultation with our outside actuaries. In the event that we determine that plan amendments or changes in the assumptions are warranted, future pension and post retirement benefit expenses could increase or decrease. The principal assumptions that have a significant effect on our consolidated financial position and results of operations are the discount rate, the expected long term rate of return on plan assets, the health care cost trend rate and the estimated fair market value of plan assets. For certain plan assets where the fair market value is not readily determinable, such as real estate, private equity, and hedge funds, estimates of fair value are determined using the best information available. 34 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Discount Rate The discount rate represents the interest rate that is used to determine the present value of future cash flows currently expected to be required to settle the pension and post retirement benefit obligations. The discount rate is generally based on the yield of high quality corporate fixed income investments. At the end of each year, the discount rate is primarily determined using a portfolio of high quality bonds matching the notional cash inflows with the expected benefit payments for each significant benefit plan. Taking into consideration the factors noted above, our weighted average pension composite discount rate was 5.03 percent at December 31, 2011, and 5.75 percent at December 31, 2010. Holding all other assumptions constant, and since net actuarial gains and losses were in excess of the 10 percent accounting corridor in 2011, an increase or decrease of 25 basis points in the discount rate assumption for 2011 would have decreased or increased pension and post retirement benefit expense for 2011 by approximately $77 million, of which $2 million relates to post retirement benefits, and decreased or increased the amount of the benefit obligation recorded at December 31, 2011, by approximately $800 million, of which $55 million relates to post retirement benefits. The effects of hypothetical changes in the discount rate for a single year may not be representative and may be asymmetrical or nonlinear for future years because of the application of the accounting corridor. The accounting corridor is a defined range within which amortization of net gains and losses is not required. Expected Long Term Rate of Return The expected long term rate of return on plan assets represents the average rate of earnings expected on the funds invested in a specified target asset allocation to provide for anticipated future benefit payment obligations. For 2011 and 2010, we assumed an expected long term rate of return on plan assets of 8.5 percent. An increase or decrease of 25 basis points in the expected long term rate of return assumption for 2011, holding all other assumptions constant, would increase or decrease our pension and post retirement benefit expense for 2011 by approximately $52 million, of which $2 million relates to post retirement benefits. For 2012 pension and post retirement benefit plan purposes, we have assumed an expected long term rate of return on plan assets of 8.25 percent. Health Care Cost Trend Rates The health care cost trend rates represent the annual rates of change in the cost of health care benefits based on external estimates of health care inflation, changes in health care utilization or delivery patterns, technological advances, and changes in the health status of the plan participants. Using a combination of market expectations and economic projections including the effect of health care reform, we selected an expected initial health care cost trend rate of 7.5 percent for 2012 and an ultimate health care cost trend rate of 5 percent reached in 2017. In 2010, we assumed an expected initial health care cost trend rate of 8 percent for 2011 and an ultimate health care cost trend rate of 5 percent reached in 2017. Although our actual cost experience is much lower at this time, market conditions and the potential effects of health care reform are expected to increase medical cost trends in the next one to three years thus our past experience may not reflect future conditions. Differences in the initial through the ultimate health care cost trend rates within the range indicated below would have had the following impact on 2011 post retirement benefit results: $ in millions 1 Percentage Point Increase 1 Percentage Point Decrease Increase (Decrease) From Change In Health Care Cost Trend Rates To Post retirement benefit expense $ 5 $ (6 ) Post retirement benefit liability 64 (75 ) 35 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED OPERATING RESULTS Selected financial highlights are presented in the table below: Year Ended December 31 $ in millions 2011 2010 2009 Sales and service revenues $ 26,412 $ 28,143 $ 27,650 Cost of sales and service revenues (20,786 ) (22,849 ) (22,805 ) General and administrative expenses (2,350 ) (2,467 ) (2,571 ) Operating income 3,276 2,827 2,274 Interest expense (221 ) (269 ) (269 ) Charge on debt redemption (229 ) Federal and foreign income tax expense (997 ) (462 ) (636 ) Cash provided by continuing operations 2,347 2,056 1,995 Operating Performance Assessment and Reporting We manage and assess the performance of our businesses based on our performance on individual contracts and programs (two or more closely related contracts) generally obtained from government organizations using the financial measures referred to below, with consideration given to the Critical Accounting Policies, Estimates and Judgments described above in Part II, Item 7. As indicated in our discussion on Contracts above in Part II, Item 7, our portfolio of long term contracts is largely flexibly priced, which means that sales tend to fluctuate in concert with costs across our large portfolio of active contracts, with operating income being a critical measure of operational performance. Due to FAR rules that govern our business, most types of costs are allowable, and we do not focus on individual cost groupings (such as manufacturing, engineering, and design labor costs, subcontractor costs, material costs, overhead costs, and general and administrative costs), as much as we do on total contract costs, which is the key driver of both revenue and operating income. In any given reporting period, each of our segments manages numerous contracts that provide for the delivery of products or services to our customers. Our contract management process involves the use of contract estimates at completion (EACs) that are generally prepared and evaluated on a bottoms up basis at least annually and reviewed on a quarterly basis over the performance period of the contract. These EACs include an estimated contract operating income margin rate based initially on the contract award amount, adjusted to reflect estimated risks related to contract performance. These risks typically include technical risk, schedule risk and performance risk based upon our evaluation of the contract effort. Similarly, the EACs include identified opportunities for operating income margin rate improvement. Over the performance period of the contract, our program management organizations perform recurring evaluations of contract performance and adjust the contract revenue and cost estimates over the life of the contract to reflect the latest reliable information available. Our business and program management organizations are comprised of a large cadre of skilled professional managers who utilize our contract administration and management control systems with the objective of successfully overseeing our contract performance to satisfy the customers expectations, deliver high quality products and services, and manage contract risks and opportunities to achieve an appropriate operating income margin rate on the contract. Our comprehensive business and contract management process involves personnel from the planning, production control, contracts, cost management, supply chain and program and business management functions. As part of this overall contract management function, these personnel monitor compliance with our critical accounting policies related to contract accounting and compliance with U. S. Government regulations. As a result, contract operating income and period to period contract operating income margin rates are adjusted over the contract performance period to reflect changes in the risks and opportunities affecting the contract, and adjustments may have a favorable or unfavorable effect on operating income margin depending upon the specific conditions affecting each contract. 36 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION In evaluating our operating performance, we look primarily at changes in sales and service revenues, and operating income, including the effects of meaningful changes in operating income as a result of changes in contract estimates and the use of the cumulative catch up method of accounting in accordance with GAAP. Where applicable, unusual fluctuations in operating performance attributable to changes in a specific cost element across multiple contracts are described in our analysis. Based on this approach and the nature of our operations, the discussion of results of operations generally focuses around our four segments versus distinguishing between products and services. Sales and Service Revenues Sales and service revenues consist of the following: Year Ended December 31 $ in millions 2011 2010 2009 Product sales $ 15,073 $ 16,091 $ 16,004 Service revenues 11,339 12,052 11,646 Sales and service revenues $ 26,412 $ 28,143 $ 27,650 2011 Sales and service revenues for 2011 decreased $1,731 million, or 6 percent, as compared to 2010, reflecting lower sales at all four operating segments. Product sales for 2011 decreased $1,018 million, or 6 percent, as compared to 2010, primarily due to lower sales volume on space and manned aircraft programs at Aerospace Systems and lower sales volume in Land and Self Protection Systems at our Electronic Systems segment. Service revenues for 2011 decreased $713 million, or 6 percent, as compared to 2010, primarily due to the reduced participation by the Technical Services segment in the NSTec joint venture effective January 1, 2011, resulting in no sales recorded for the joint venture in 2011, compared to $579 million in 2010, and lower sales volume on defense and civil systems at the Information Systems segment. 2010 Sales and service revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010, increased $493 million, or 2 percent, as compared to 2009, reflecting higher sales at Aerospace Systems and Technical Services, partially offset by lower sales at Information Systems and Electronic Systems. Product sales for the year ended December 31, 2010, increased $87 million, or 1 percent, as compared to 2009, primarily due to sales growth in Aerospace Systems partially offset by lower product sales in Electronic Systems and Information Systems. Service revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010, increased $406 million, or 3 percent, as compared to 2009, primarily due to sales growth in Technical Services largely related to the KC 10 Contractor Logistics Support (KC 10) program. See the Segment Operating Results section below for further information. 37 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION The first table below presents cost of sales and service revenues and general and administrative expenses on a consolidated basis while the second table presents our cost of sales and service revenues on a segment by segment basis, and with the impact of non segment factors: Cost of Sales and Service Revenues and General Administrative Expenses(1) Year Ended December 31 $ in millions 2011 2010 2009 Cost of sales and service revenues Cost of product sales $ 11,491 $ 12,558 $ 12,648 % of product sales 76.2 % 78.0 % 79.0 % Cost of service revenues 9,295 10,291 10,157 % of service revenues 82.0 % 85.4 % 87.2 % General and administrative expenses 2,350 2,467 2,571 % of total sales and service revenues 8.9 % 8.8 % 9.3 % Cost of sales and service revenues and general and administrative expenses $ 23,136 $ 25,316 $ 25,376 (1) As of December 31, 2011, the company revised its reporting of intersegment cost of sales. See Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements. 38 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION For ease of understanding the items that drive changes in our consolidated cost of sales, we have presented below an analysis of sales and cost of sales by segment and the non segment factors that impact our consolidated amounts: Cost of Sales Elements by Segment and Non Segment Factors: Year Ended December 31 $ in millions 2011 2010 2009 Segment Information: Sales Cost ofSales Sales Cost ofSales Sales Cost ofSales Aerospace Systems Product $ 9,179 $ 8,058 $ 9,779 $ 8,676 $ 9,346 $ 8,370 Services 1,279 1,139 1,131 978 1,073 978 Electronic Systems Product 6,041 5,161 6,410 5,479 6,543 5,642 Services 1,331 1,141 1,203 1,111 1,128 1,060 Information Systems Product 486 430 535 476 687 613 Services 7,435 6,725 7,860 7,163 7,849 7,299 Technical Services Product 23 20 20 19 17 16 Services 2,676 2,463 3,210 3,005 2,759 2,599 Segment Totals Total Product $ 15,729 $ 13,669 $ 16,744 $ 14,650 $ 16,593 $ 14,641 Total Services 12,721 11,468 13,404 12,257 12,809 11,936 Intersegment eliminations (2,038 ) (1,780 ) (2,005 ) (1,774 ) (1,752 ) (1,562 ) Total Segment $ 26,412 $ 23,357 $ 28,143 $ 25,133 $ 27,650 $ 25,015 Non segment Factors: Unallocated corporate expenses 166 182 100 Net pension adjustment (400 ) (10 ) 237 Royalty income adjustment 13 11 24 Consolidated total $ 26,412 $ 23,136 $ 28,143 $ 25,316 $ 27,650 $ 25,376 Cost of Segment Product Sales 2011 Cost of segment product sales in 2011 decreased by $981 million and a 60 basis point reduction as a percentage of product sales as compared to 2010, due to the overall decline in sales for the period across all of the segments other than Technical Services. Aerospace Systems sales volume declined by $600 million largely due to sales declines in Space Systems ($388 million) and Strike & Surveillance Systems ($255 million), partially offset by sales increases in Battle Management & Engagement Systems and Advanced Programs & Technology (approximately $90 million each). Margin rates improved at Aerospace Systems by 90 basis points primarily due to net favorable performance improvements on programs and lower amortization of purchased intangibles in 2011. Sales volume at Electronic Systems decreased $369 million largely due to lower volume in the Land & Self Protection and Navigation Systems business areas. Margin rates at Electronic Systems remained consistent in 2011, primarily due to performance improvements on programs nearing completion in the Land & Self Protection and Intelligence and Surveillance business areas, offset by provisions for workforce reductions. 2010 Cost of segment product sales of $14.7 billion in 2010 was flat versus 2009 consistent with the relatively flat year over year segment sales. Cost of product sales at Aerospace Systems increased due to sales volume increases at Strike and Surveillance of $218 million and Battle Management and Engagement Systems of $517 million, offset by volume decreases at the Advanced Programs & Technology business area of $315 million. 39 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Product sales at Information Systems decreased in volume by approximately 22% primarily due to $210 million in sales volume that transitioned from product to service activity in 2010. Electronic Systems product sales volume decreased $133 million during the period, and product cost of sales decreased by $163 million reflecting performance improvement in land and self protection programs, higher volume in Targeting Systems, and lower operating loss provisions in postal automation programs. Cost of Segment Service Revenues 2011 Cost of service revenues in 2011 decreased by $789 million and 130 basis points as a percentage of service revenues as compared to 2010, due to the overall decline in sales for the period and margin rate improvements at Information Systems, Technical Services and Electronic Systems, offset somewhat by an unfavorable margin rate change at Aerospace Systems. Contributing to the overall decline in revenues was the companys participation in the NSTec joint venture, which resulted in the deconsolidation of this business in 2011. NSTec contributed revenues of $579 million and segment cost of sales of $559 million in 2010 when it was included in Technical Services sales, thus driving a 80 basis point improvement in margin rate for this segment. More modest margin rate improvements at Electronic Systems and Information Systems effectively offset the decline in margin rate at the Aerospace Systems business. 2010 Cost of segment service revenues of $12.3 billion in 2010 was up over 2009 by $321 million due to increased volume, which resulted in an increase in sales from $12.8 billion in 2009 to $13.4 billion in 2010. The sales volume increase was due principally to Technical Services contract volume, driven by the KC 10 and C 20 contracts, which together increased by $307 million. Segment service margin rates across all segments improved in 2010, with Information Systems being the primary contributor as it experienced higher margin rates at its Civil Systems division, and due to the absence of non recurring costs of $37 million from the sale of ASD in 2009. Overall, Information Systems experienced a 186 basis point margin rate improvement. Unallocated Corporate Expenses Unallocated corporate expenses generally include the portion of corporate expenses not considered allowable or allocable under applicable CAS and FAR rules, and therefore not allocated to the segments, such as management and administration, legal, environmental, certain compensation and retiree benefits, and other expenses. Unallocated corporate expenses for 2011 decreased $16 million, or 9 percent, as compared with 2010, primarily due to a decrease in stock based compensation. Unallocated corporate expenses for 2010 increased $82 million, or 82 percent, as compared with 2009, primarily due to inclusion of a $64 million net gain from a legal settlement in 2009, as well as an increase in environmental, health and welfare, and stock based compensation expenses in 2010. Net Pension Adjustment Net pension adjustment reflects the difference between pension expenses determined in accordance with GAAP and pension expense allocated to the operating segments determined in accordance with CAS. For 2011 and 2010, the net pension adjustment resulted in income of $400 million and $10 million, respectively. The increase in net pension adjustment for both years is due to decreased GAAP pension expense, primarily resulting from higher estimated returns on higher pension plan assets as of the beginning of the year. Royalty Income Adjustment Royalty income is included in segment operating income and reclassified to other income for financial reporting purposes. General and Administrative Expenses In accordance with industry practice and the regulations that govern the cost accounting requirements for government contracts, most general corporate expenses incurred at both the segment and corporate locations are considered allowable and allocable costs on government contracts. For most components of the company, these costs are allocated to contracts in progress on a systematic basis and contract performance factors therefore include this cost component as an element of cost. General and administrative expenses primarily relate to segment operations. 40 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION 2011 General and administrative expenses for 2011 decreased $117 million, or 5 percent, compared to 2010, primarily due to overall reductions in administrative costs due to cost reduction initiatives, lower bid and proposal costs and lower research and development expenses. General and administrative expenses as a percentage of total sales and service revenues was 9 percent for 2011, consistent with 2010. 2010 General and administrative expenses for 2010 decreased $104 million, or 4 percent, compared to 2009 primarily due to the disposition of ASD in 2009 at Information Systems. The decrease in general and administrative expenses as a percentage of total sales and service revenues for 2010, as compared to 2009, is primarily due to cost reductions realized from the 2009 streamlining of our organizational structure, which reduced the number of operating segments. Interest Expense 2011 Interest expense for 2011 decreased $48 million, as compared to 2010, primarily due to a lower weighted average interest rate resulting from our debt refinancing in November 2010. 2010 Interest expense in 2010 was comparable to 2009. Charge on Debt Redemption 2010 In November 2010, we repurchased outstanding debt and recorded a pre tax charge of $229 million as other expense primarily related to premiums paid on the debt tendered. See Liquidity and Capital Resources below and Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. Federal and Foreign Income Taxes 2011 Our effective tax rate on earnings from continuing operations for 2011 was 32.3 percent, as compared with 19.5 percent in 2010. In 2010, we recognized net tax benefits of $298 million to reflect the final approval from the IRS and the U.S. Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation (Joint Committee) of the IRS examination of our tax returns for the years 2004 through 2006. 2010 Our effective tax rate on earnings from continuing operations for 2010, was 19.5 percent compared with 30.7 percent in 2009. In 2010, we recognized net tax benefits of $298 million to reflect the final approval of the IRSs examination of our tax returns for years 2004 through 2006, as discussed above. In 2009, we recognized net tax benefits of $75 million primarily as a result of a final settlement with the IRS Office of Appeals and the Joint Committee related to our tax returns for years ended 2001 through 2003. Excluding the effects of the $298 million net tax benefit in 2010 and the $75 million net tax benefit in 2009, our effective tax rates would have been 32.1 percent and 34.3 percent in 2010 and 2009, respectively. Cash Provided by Operating Activities 2011 Cash provided by continuing operations in 2011 was $2.3 billion, as compared with $2.1 billion in 2010, and reflects lower tax payments and timing of trade working capital. In 2011, we contributed $1.1 billion to our pension plans, of which $1.0 billion was voluntarily pre funded, as compared with $789 million in 2010, of which $728 million was voluntarily pre funded. Income taxes paid, net of refunds, was $810 million in 2011, as compared with $1.1 billion in 2010. Cash provided by continuing operations for 2011 included $30 million of federal and state income tax refunds and $9 million of interest income received. 2010 Cash provided by continuing operations in 2010 was $2.1 billion as compared with $2 billion in 2009, and reflects higher cash paid to our suppliers offset by lower tax payments, primarily due to $508 million for taxes paid in 2009 related to the sale of ASD. In 2010, we contributed $789 million to our pension plans, of which $728 million was voluntarily pre funded, as compared with $657 million in 2009, of which $601 million was voluntarily pre funded. Income taxes paid, net of refunds, was $1.1 billion in 2010, as compared with $1.3 billion in 2009. Cash provided by continuing operations for 2010 included $94 million of federal and state income tax refunds and $11 million of interest income received. 41 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION SEGMENT OPERATING RESULTS Basis of Presentation We are aligned into four reportable segments: Aerospace Systems, Electronic Systems, Information Systems and Technical Services. See Note 7 in Part II, Item 8 for more information about our segments. In January 2010, we transferred our internal information technology services unit from the Information Systems segment to our corporate shared services group. The intersegment sales and operating income for this unit that were previously recognized in the Information Systems segment are immaterial and have been eliminated for the years presented. Year ended December 31 $ in millions 2011 2010 2009 Sales and Service Revenues Aerospace Systems $ 10,458 $ 10,910 $ 10,419 Electronic Systems 7,372 7,613 7,671 Information Systems 7,921 8,395 8,536 Technical Services 2,699 3,230 2,776 Intersegment eliminations (2,038 ) (2,005 ) (1,752 ) Total sales and service revenues $ 26,412 $ 28,143 $ 27,650 Year ended December 31 $ in millions 2011 2010 2009 Operating Income Aerospace Systems $ 1,261 $ 1,256 $ 1,071 Electronic Systems 1,070 1,023 969 Information Systems 766 756 624 Technical Services 216 206 161 Intersegment eliminations (258 ) (231 ) (190 ) Total Segment Operating Income 3,055 3,010 2,635 Non segment factors affecting operating income Unallocated corporate expenses (166 ) (182 ) (100 ) Net pension adjustment 400 10 (237 ) Royalty income adjustment (13 ) (11 ) (24 ) Total operating income $ 3,276 $ 2,827 $ 2,274 KEY SEGMENT FINANCIAL MEASURES Sales and Service Revenues Period to period sales reflect performance under new and ongoing contracts. Changes in sales and service revenues are typically expressed in terms of volume. Unless otherwise described, volume generally refers to increases (or decreases) in reported revenues incurred due to varying production activity levels, delivery rates, or service levels on individual contracts. Volume changes will typically carry a corresponding operating income change based on the margin rate for a particular contract. Segment Operating Income Segment operating income reflects the aggregate performance results of contracts within a business area or segment. Excluded from this measure are certain costs not directly associated with contract performance, including 42 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION the portion of corporate expenses such as management and administration, legal, environmental, certain compensation costs and other retiree benefits, and other expenses not considered allowable or allocable under applicable CAS regulations and the FAR, and therefore not allocated to the segments. Changes in segment operating income are typically expressed in terms of volume, as discussed above, or performance. Performance refers to changes in contract margin rates for the period. These changes typically relate to profit recognition associated with revisions to total estimated costs at completion of the contract (EAC) that reflect improved (or deteriorated) operating performance on a particular contract. Operating income changes are accounted for on a cumulative catch up basis at the time an EAC change is recorded. We identify favorable and unfavorable adjustments to determine our qualitative discussion of performance results and, where meaningful, we disclose the effects of such adjustments on a contract or program basis. Operating income may also be affected by, among other things, the effects of workforce stoppages, natural disasters (such as earthquakes), resolution of disputed items with the customer, recovery of insurance proceeds, and other discrete events. At the completion of a long term contract, any originally estimated costs not incurred or reserves not fully utilized (such as warranty reserves) could also impact contract earnings. Where such items have occurred and the effects are meaningful, a separate description is provided. Changes in estimates related to our contracts accounted for using the percentage of completion method are recorded using the cumulative catch up method of accounting. The aggregate effects of these favorable and unfavorable changes across our portfolio of numerous contracts can have a significant effect upon our reported sales and operating income in each of our reporting periods. In 2011, 2010 and 2009, we recognized favorable operating income adjustments of $1.1 billion, $945 million and $758 million, and unfavorable operating income adjustments of $385 million, $270 million and $337 million, respectively, consisting of cumulative catch up adjustments from the use of the percentage of completion method of accounting. For a more complete understanding of each segments product and services, see the business descriptions in Part I, Item 1. Program Descriptions For convenience, a brief description of certain programs discussed in this Form 10 K are included in the Glossary of Programs at the end of Part II, Item 7. AEROSPACE SYSTEMS Year Ended December 31 $ in millions 2011 2010 2009 Sales and service revenues $ 10,458 $ 10,910 $ 10,419 Segment operating income 1,261 1,256 1,071 As a percentage of segment sales 12.1 % 11.5 % 10.3 % Sales and Service Revenues 2011 Aerospace Systems revenue decreased $452 million, or 4 percent, as compared with 2010. The decrease is primarily due to $388 million lower sales in Space Systems (SS) and $255 million lower sales in Strike & Surveillance Systems (S&SS), partially offset by $90 million higher sales in Battle Management & Engagement Systems (BM&ES) and $87 million higher sales in Advanced Programs & Technology (AP&T). The lower sales at SS are primarily due to reduced funding for weather satellite programs and the James Webb Space Telescope (JWST), as well as lower volume for several other space programs. The lower sales at S&SS are primarily due to lower volume on the F 35 Lightning II (F 35) manned aircraft program, which transitioned to a units of delivery revenue recognition method beginning with low rate initial production lot 5, and the completion of the aerial targets program. The higher sales at BM&ES are primarily due to higher volume on Long Endurance Multi Intelligence Vehicle (LEMV) and Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar System (JSTARS), partially offset by lower volume on EA 18G. The higher sales at AP&T are primarily due to increased volume on restricted programs. 43 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION 2010 Aerospace Systems revenue increased $491 million, or 5 percent, as compared with 2009. The increase is primarily due to $517 million higher sales in BM&ES and $218 million higher sales in S&SS, partially offset by $315 million lower sales in AP&T. The increase at BM&ES is due to higher sales volume on the Broad Area Maritime Surveillance (BAMS) Unmanned Aircraft System, EA 6B, EA 18G, E 2 Hawkeye, and LEMV programs. The increase at S&SS is primarily due to higher sales volume associated with manned and unmanned aircraft programs, such as the Global Hawk High Altitude Long Endurance (HALE) Systems, the F 35, B 2 Stealth Bomber and F/A 18, partially offset by the termination of the Kinetic Energy Interceptor (KEI) program in 2009 and decreased activity on the Intercontinental Ballistic Missile (ICBM) program. The decrease at AP&T is primarily due to lower sales volume on restricted programs and the Navy Unmanned Combat Air System (N UCAS) program. Segment Operating Income 2011 Aerospace Systems operating income increased $5 million, or less than 1 percent, as compared with 2010. The increase is primarily due to improved performance across several programs at Aerospace Systems and lower amortization expense on purchased intangibles, partially offset by an unfavorable adjustment for performance incentives on a space program at SS and overall lower sales volume discussed above. 2010 Aerospace Systems operating income increased $185 million, or 17 percent, as compared with 2009, and as a percentage of sales increased 120 basis points. The increase is primarily due to net performance improvements across various programs, principally within SS, and the higher sales volume discussed above. ELECTRONIC SYSTEMS Year Ended December 31 $ in millions 2011 2010 2009 Sales and service revenues $ 7,372 $ 7,613 $ 7,671 Segment operating income 1,070 1,023 969 As a percentage of segment sales 14.5 % 13.4 % 12.6 % Sales and Service Revenues 2011 Electronic Systems revenue decreased $241 million, or 3 percent, as compared with 2010. The decrease was primarily due to $325 million lower sales in Land & Self Protection Systems, partially offset by $65 million higher sales in Advanced Concepts & Technologies (AC&T). The lower sales in Land & Self Protection Systems are primarily due to fewer deliveries on Large Aircraft Infrared Countermeasures (LAIRCM) and Vehicular Intercommunications Systems (VIS) programs. The higher sales in AC&T are primarily due to increased volume on restricted programs. 2010 Electronic Systems revenue decreased $58 million, or less than 1 percent, as compared with 2009. The decrease is primarily due to $150 million lower sales in Land & Self Protection Systems, $84 million lower sales in Intelligence, Surveillance & Reconnaissance (ISR) Systems and $82 million lower sales in Naval & Marine Systems, partially offset by $186 million higher sales in Targeting Systems and $72 million higher sales in Advanced Concepts & Technologies. The decrease in Land & Self Protection Systems is due to lower sales volume on the Ground/Air Task Oriented Radar (G/ATOR) program as it transitions from the development phase to the integration and test phase and lower unit deliveries on the VIS program. The decrease in ISR Systems is due to lower sales volume on the Space Based Infrared Systems (SBIRS) program as it transitions to follow on production, postal automation programs and various international programs. The decrease in Naval & Marine Systems is due to lower volume on the ship board Cobra Judy replacement radar program. The increase in Targeting Systems is due to higher sales volume on the F 35, various laser systems and restricted programs and increased unit deliveries of the LITENING targeting pod system. The increase in Advanced Concepts & Technologies is primarily due to volume on restricted programs. 44 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Segment Operating Income 2011 Electronic Systems operating income increased $47 million, or 5 percent, as compared to 2010, and as a percentage of sales increased 110 basis points. The higher operating income is primarily due to performance improvements on several contracts nearing completion in Land & Self Protection Systems and Intelligence, Surveillance & Reconnaissance programs. The improved program performance was partially offset by reserves established in 2011 for reductions in workforce and a reserve on a program related to outstanding contractual issues as the contract nears completion, and overall lower sales volume described above. 2010 Electronic Systems operating income increased $54 million, or 6 percent, as compared with 2009. The increase is primarily due to net performance improvements in land and self protection programs, higher volume in Targeting Systems, and lower operating loss provisions in postal automation programs. INFORMATION SYSTEMS Year Ended December 31 $ in millions 2011 2010 2009 Sales and service revenues $ 7,921 $ 8,395 $ 8,536 Segment operating income 766 756 624 As a percentage of segment sales 9.7 % 9.0 % 7.3 % Sales and Service Revenues 2011 Information Systems revenue decreased $474 million, or 6 percent, as compared with 2010. The decrease is primarily due to $327 million lower sales in Defense Systems and $99 million lower sales in Civil Systems. The decrease in Defense Systems is primarily due to lower sales volume from Force Protection Security System (FPS2), Saudi Arabian American Oil Company (ARAMCO), Netcents DKO, F 22 and several other programs, partially offset by higher volume on Encore II and Trailer Mounted Support System (TMSS) programs. The lower sales volume in Civil Systems is primarily due to the sale of the County of San Diego contract, which reduced sales by $70 million as compared to the same period in 2010, lower volume on the Enterprise Network Management program, and completion of the Treasury Communications System program in 2010. 2010 Information Systems revenue decreased $141 million, or 2 percent, as compared with 2009. The decrease is primarily due to $130 million lower sales in Intelligence Systems and $57 million lower sales in Civil Systems, partially offset by $55 million higher sales in Defense Systems. The decrease in Intelligence Systems is primarily due to lower sales volume on restricted programs and the loss of the Navstar Global Positioning System Operational Control Segment (GPS OCX) program. The decrease in Civil Systems is primarily due to lower sales volume on the New York City Wireless (NYCWiN) and Armed Forces Health Longitudinal Technology Application (AHLTA) programs. The increase in Defense Systems is primarily due to program growth on Battlefield Airborne Communications Node (BACN), Joint National Integration Center Research and Development Contract (JRDC) and Integrated Battle Command System (IBCS) activities, partially offset by lower sales volume on the TMSS program as it nears completion, and decreased Systems and Software Engineer Support activities. Segment Operating Income 2011 Information Systems operating income increased $10 million, or 1 percent, as compared with 2010. The increase is primarily driven by improved performance on several civil systems programs, including the Virginia IT Outsource (VITA) contract and the effect of the sale of the County of San Diego contract, partially offset by the lower sales volume primarily at Defense Systems described above. 2010 Information Systems operating income increased $132 million, or 21 percent, as compared with 2009 and as a percentage of sales increased 170 basis points. The increase is primarily due to performance improvements on Civil Systems programs. In 2009, operating income included $37 million of non recurring costs associated with the sale of ASD. 45 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION TECHNICAL SERVICES Year Ended December 31 $ in millions 2011 2010 2009 Sales and service revenues $ 2,699 $ 3,230 $ 2,776 Segment operating income 216 206 161 As a percentage of segment sales 8.0 % 6.4 % 5.8 % Sales and Service Revenues 2011 Technical Services revenue decreased $531 million, or 16 percent, as compared with 2010. The decrease is primarily due to $626 million lower sales in Defense and Government Services Division (DGSD) and $87 million lower sales in Training Solutions Division (TSD), partially offset by higher sales of $182 million in Integrated Logistics and Modernization Division (ILMD). The lower sales in DGSD are primarily due to the reduced participation in the NSTec joint venture. Effective January 1, 2011, the company reduced its participation in this joint venture, resulting in no sales recorded for the joint venture for 2011, compared with sales of $579 million in 2010. The lower sales in TSD are primarily due to lower volume on the Joint Warfighting Center and Africa Contingency Operations Training & Assistance programs and lower volume on completion of the Global Linguists Solutions program. The higher sales in ILMD are primarily due to increased activity on the KC 10 program, which began in February 2010. 2010 Technical Services revenue increased $454 million, or 16 percent, as compared with 2009. The increase is primarily due to $379 million higher sales in the ILMD. The increase in ILMD is primarily due to the continued ramp up of the recently awarded KC 10 and C 20 programs. Segment Operating Income 2011 Operating income at Technical Services increased $10 million, or 5 percent, as compared with 2010 and as a percentage of sales increased 160 basis points. The increase is primarily due to effects of the change in participation in the NSTec joint venture and performance improvements on several ILMD and DGSD programs, partially offset by unfavorable program performance on KC 10 and lower sales volume on certain TSD programs. 2010 Operating income at Technical Services increased $45 million, or 28 percent, as compared with 2009. The increase is primarily due to the higher sales volume discussed above. Operating income as a percentage of sales increased 60 basis points and reflects improved program performance and business mix changes. BACKLOG Definition Total backlog at December 31, 2011, was approximately $39.5 billion. Total backlog includes both funded backlog (firm orders for which funding is contractually obligated by the customer) and unfunded backlog (firm orders for which funding is not currently contractually obligated by the customer). Unfunded backlog excludes unexercised contract options and unfunded indefinite delivery indefinite quantity (IDIQ) orders (except for authorized task orders, which are included up to the authorized value). For multi year services contracts with non federal government customers having no stated contract values, backlog includes only the amounts committed by the customer. 46 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION The following table presents funded and unfunded backlog by segment for the year ended December 31, 2011 and total backlog for the year ended December 31, 2010: 2011 2010 $ in millions Funded Unfunded TotalBacklog TotalBacklog Aerospace Systems $ 9,614 $ 9,623 $ 19,237 $ 20,868 Electronic Systems 7,307 1,816 9,123 10,147 Information Systems 4,123 4,440 8,563 10,590 Technical Services 2,156 436 2,592 5,237 Total backlog $ 23,200 $ 16,315 $ 39,515 $ 46,842 Backlog is converted into the following years sales as costs are incurred or deliveries are made. Approximately 59 percent of the $39.5 billion total backlog at December 31, 2011, is expected to be converted into sales in 2012. Total U.S. Government orders, including those made on behalf of foreign governments, comprised 87 percent of the total backlog at the end of 2011. Total foreign customer orders accounted for 7 percent of the total backlog at the end of 2011. Domestic commercial backlog represented 6 percent of total backlog at the end of 2011. Backlog Adjustments In the fourth quarter of 2011, we changed our backlog measurement criteria to include a valuation adjustment for open, unfulfilled contracts that in our judgment, may not be converted to future sales, but which have not been closed or de obligated by the customer. Under our prior criteria, backlog represented remaining work effort to be incurred on signed contracts in process; or open contract value generally related to either: 1) work scope not fully utilized by the customer, and 2) open contract value related to the close out of overhead claim years. Based on this prior criteria, backlog was reduced as revenue was recognized or as the customer took contract action to close contracts and or de obligate funds. Our recent experience indicates that our customers have not been timely in taking the aforementioned contract actions. Accordingly, effective December 31, 2011, we have modified our criteria to include the recognition of a valuation reserve to adjust our outstanding backlog to reflect our future contract revenue expectations. The effects of this change in procedures reduced December 31, 2011 backlog by $3 billion, including a reduction in the backlog at Information Systems by $2.3 billion and Technical Services by $725 million. 2011 Total backlog was reduced by $1.7 billion at Technical Services to reflect a change in the companys participation in the NSTec joint venture effective January 1, 2011, at which time the NSTec joint venture results were no longer consolidated into the companys consolidated financial statements. Total backlog was also reduced by an aggregate of $1.5 billion at Aerospace Systems to reflect restructuring and termination of certain space programs. 2010 A $1.1 billion reduction in backlog was recorded in 2010 as a result of the restructure of the NPOESS program at our Aerospace Systems segment. Backlog was also impacted in 2010 by an agreement we reached with the Commonwealth of Virginia related to the VITA contract. The agreement defined minimum revenue amounts for the remaining years under the base contract and extended the contract for three additional years through 2019. We recorded a favorable backlog adjustment of $824 million for the definitization of the base contract revenues for years 2011 through 2016, while the contract extension and 2010 portion of the base contract revenues, totaling $802 million, were recorded as new awards in the period in our Information Systems segment. 47 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION New Awards 2011 The estimated value of contract awards added to backlog during the year ended December 31, 2011, is $25.3 billion. Significant new awards during this period include $2.0 billion for F/A 18 program, $1.1 billion for E2 D Advanced Hawkeye program, $1.0 billion for Global Hawk program, $1.1 billion for B 2 program , $886 million for F 35 program, and $404 million for KC 10 program. 2010 The estimated value of contract awards added to backlog during the year ended December 31, 2010, was $26.4 billion. Significant new awards during this period include $1.2 billion for the Global Hawk HALE program, $979 million for the E 2 Hawkeye programs, $942 million for the AEHF program, $802 million for the VITA program, $677 million for the Joint National Integration Center Research and Development contract, $656 million for the F/A 18 Hornet Strike Fighter program, $654 million for the ICBM program, $631 million for the B 2 Stealth Bomber programs, $579 million for the F 35 program, $565 million for the NSTec program, $507 for the KC 10 program, $505 million for the Large Aircraft Infrared Counter measures programs and various restricted awards. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES We endeavor to ensure the most efficient conversion of operating results into cash for deployment in growing our businesses and maximizing shareholder value. We actively manage our capital resources through working capital improvements, capital expenditures, strategic business acquisitions and divestitures, debt issuance and repayment, required and voluntary pension contributions, returning cash to our shareholders through dividend payments, and repurchases of common stock. In addition to our cash position, we use various financial measures to assist in capital deployment decision making, including, but not limited to, cash provided by operations, free cash flow, and debt to EBITDA ratio. We believe these measures are useful to investors in assessing our financial performance. As of December 31, 2011, the amount of cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities held outside of the U.S. by foreign subsidiaries was $546 million. At the present time, we do not anticipate repatriating these balances to fund domestic operations. The table below summarizes key components of operating cash flow for continuing operations: Year Ended December 31 $ in millions 2011 2010 2009 Net earnings $ 2,118 $ 2,053 $ 1,686 Earnings from discontinued operations, net of tax (32 ) (134 ) (234 ) Gain on sale of business (10 ) (446 ) Charge on debt redemption 229 Other non cash items(1) 1,108 758 857 Retiree benefit funding less than (in excess of) expense (904 ) (354 ) 60 Trade working capital change 57 (486 ) 72 Cash provided by continuing operations $ 2,347 $ 2,056 $ 1,995 (1) Includes depreciation and amortization, stock based compensation expense and deferred taxes. Free Cash Flow Free cash flow from continuing operations is a non GAAP financial measure and is calculated as cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations less capital expenditures and outsourcing contract and related software costs. Outsourcing contract and related software costs are similar to capital expenditures in that the contract costs represent incremental external costs or certain specific internal costs that are directly related to the contract acquisition and transition/set up. These outsourcing contract and related software costs are deferred and expensed over the contracts period of performance. We believe free cash flow from continuing operations is a useful measure for investors to consider. This measure is a key factor in our planning for and consideration of strategic acquisitions, stock repurchases and the payment of dividends. 48 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Free cash flow from continuing operations is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP, and may not be defined and calculated by other companies in the same manner. This measure should not be considered in isolation, as a measure of residual cash flow available for discretionary purposes, or as an alternative to operating results presented in accordance with GAAP as indicators of performance. The table below reconciles cash provided by continuing operations to free cash flow from continuing operations: Year Ended December 31 $ in millions 2011 2010 2009 Cash provided by continuing operations $ 2,347 $ 2,056 $ 1,995 Less: Capital expenditures (488) (579) (473 ) Outsourcing contract and related software costs (4) (6) (68 ) Free cash flow from continuing operations $ 1,855 $ 1,471 $ 1,454 Cash Flows The following is a discussion of our major operating, investing and financing activities from continuing operations for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011, as classified on the consolidated statements of cash flows in Part II, Item 8. Operating Activities 2011 Cash provided by continuing operations in 2011 increased $291 million, as compared to 2010, primarily due to lower tax payments and changes in trade working capital, partially offset by higher pension plan contributions. In 2011, pension plan contributions totaled $1.1 billion, of which $1 billion was voluntarily pre funded. In 2012, we expect to contribute the required minimum funding level of approximately $65 million to our pension plans and approximately $120 million to our other post retirement benefit plans. We expect our cash on hand and cash generated from operations for 2012 to be sufficient to service debt and contract obligations, finance capital expenditures, continue acquisition of shares under the share repurchase program, and continue paying dividends to our shareholders. Although 2012 cash from operations is expected to be sufficient to service these obligations, we may borrow under credit facilities to accommodate timing differences in cash flows. We have an aggregate commitment of $2 billion available under two revolving credit facilities that can be accessed on a same day basis. Both facilities are currently undrawn and had no borrowings during the year ended December 31, 2011. Additionally, we believe we could access capital markets for debt financing for longer term funding, under current market conditions, if needed. 2010 Cash provided by continuing operations in 2010 increased $61 million as compared with 2009, primarily the result of lower tax payments. Pension plan contributions totaled $789 million in 2010, of which $728 million was voluntarily pre funded. In 2009, cash provided by continuing operations included $508 million for taxes paid related to the sale of ASD. 2009 Cash provided by continuing operations in 2009 decreased $710 million as compared with 2008, reflecting higher voluntary pension contributions and increased income taxes paid resulting from the sale of ASD. Pension plan contributions totaled $657 million in 2009, of which $601 million was voluntarily pre funded. Investing Activities 2011 Net cash provided by investing activities of continuing operations was $743 million in 2011, reflecting a $1.4 billion contribution received from the spin off of Shipbuilding business in 2011, partially offset by $488 million of capital expenditures and a $250 million investment in short term investments. Capital expenditure commitments at December 31, 2011, of approximately $293 million are expected to be paid with cash on hand. 49 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION 2010 Net cash used in investing activities by continuing operations was $571 million in 2010 and reflects $579 million of capital expenditures, which includes $57 million of capitalized software costs. 2009 Cash provided by investing activities by continuing operations was $1.1 billion in 2009. During 2009, we received $1.65 billion in proceeds from the sale of ASD (see Note 6 to our consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8), paid $68 million for outsourcing costs related to outsourcing services contracts, and paid $33 million to acquire Sonoma Photonics, Inc. and the assets from Swift Engineerings Killer Bee Unmanned Air Systems product line (see Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8). Capital expenditures in 2009 were $473 million, which includes $36 million of capitalized software costs. Financing Activities 2011 Net cash used in financing activities by continuing operations in 2011 was $3.5 billion and reflects $2.3 billion in repurchases of common stock, $768 million in debt payments, and $543 in cash dividends paid. 2010 Net cash used in financing activities by continuing operations in 2010 was $1.1 billion and reflects $1.2 billion in repurchases of common stock, $1 billion in debt payments, including the redemption of $682 million of higher coupon debt and $229 million of fees and associated premiums paid to the tendering holders of these debt securities, and $545 million in cash dividends paid. These financing related cash outflows were partially offset by $1.5 billion in net proceeds from new debt issuances. See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. 2009 Net cash used in financing activities by continuing operations in 2009 was $1.2 billion and reflects $1.1 billion in repurchases of common stock, $539 million in cash dividends paid, and $474 million in debt payments. These financing related cash outflows were partially offset by $843 million in net proceeds from new debt issuance in 2009. Share Repurchases We repurchased 40.2 million, 19.7 million, and 23.1 million shares in 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. See Purchases of Equity Securities by Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers in Part II, Item 5 and Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 for a discussion concerning our common stock repurchases. Credit Facilities In September 2011, the company entered into two senior unsecured credit facilities (the Credit Agreements) in an aggregate principal amount of $2 billion. The first Credit Agreement amended the companys $2 billion five year credit facility dated August 10, 2007, by reducing the aggregate principal amount available under the facility by $500 million to $1.5 billion and extending the maturity date to September 2016. The second Credit Agreement is a new 364 day revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of $500 million. The Credit Agreements contain covenants substantially similar to those of the previous five year credit facility, which restrict the companys ability to sell all or substantially all of its assets, merge or consolidate with another entity or undertake other fundamental changes and incur liens. The company also cannot permit the ratio of its consolidated debt to capitalization (as set forth in the Credit Agreements) to exceed 65 percent. The company is in compliance with all covenants under the Credit Agreements. At December 31, 2011, there was no balance outstanding under either of these credit facilities. Other Sources and Uses of Capital Additional Capital We believe we can obtain additional capital, if necessary for long term liquidity, from such sources as the public or private capital markets, the sale of assets, sale and leaseback of operating assets, and leasing rather than purchasing new assets. We have an effective shelf registration statement on file with the SEC. We expect that cash on hand at the beginning of the year plus cash generated from continuing operations supplemented by borrowings under credit facilities and in the capital markets, if needed, will be sufficient in 2012 to service debt and contract obligations, finance capital expenditures, pay federal, foreign, and state income taxes, fund required and voluntary pension and other post retirement benefit plan contributions, continue acquisition of 50 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION shares under the share repurchase program, and continue paying dividends to shareholders. We will continue to assess potential ramifications of the U.S. Governments spending reduction initiatives as previously discussed. These reductions could have a significant impact on our business and our overall financial results. Financial Arrangements In the ordinary course of business, the company uses standby letters of credit and guarantees issued by commercial banks and surety bonds issued principally by insurance companies to guarantee the performance on certain obligations. At December 31, 2011, there were $195 million of stand by letters of credit, $186 million of bank guarantees, and $139 million of surety bonds outstanding. Contractual Obligations The following table presents our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2011, and the estimated timing of future cash payments: $ in millions Total 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 andbeyond Long term debt $ 3,929 $ 5 $ 358 $ 611 $ 2,955 Interest payments on long term debt 2,692 207 414 374 1,697 Operating leases 1,219 297 442 312 168 Purchase obligations(1) 6,992 4,554 1,719 580 139 Other long term liabilities(2) 877 97 223 114 443 Total contractual obligations $ 15,709 $ 5,160 $ 3,156 $ 1,991 $ 5,402 (1) A purchase obligation is defined as an agreement to purchase goods or services that is enforceable and legally binding on us and that specifies all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum, or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. These amounts are primarily comprised of open purchase order commitments to vendors and subcontractors pertaining to funded contracts. (2) Other long term liabilities primarily consist of total accrued environmental reserves, deferred compensation, and other miscellaneous liabilities, of which $86 million is related to environmental reserves recorded in other current liabilities. It excludes obligations for uncertain tax positions of $135 million, as the timing of such payments, if any, cannot be reasonably estimated. The table above also excludes estimated minimum funding requirements for retiree benefit plans as set forth by ERISA in relation to the companys pension and postretirement benefit obligations totaling approximately $3.5 billion over the next five years: $185 million in 2012, $421 million in 2013, $1.2 billion in 2014, $1 billion in 2015, and $702 million in 2016. The company also has payments due under plans that are not required to be funded in advance, but are funded on a pay as you go basis. See Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. Further details regarding long term debt and operating leases can be found in Notes 13 and 15, respectively, to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. OTHER MATTERS Accounting Standards Updates The Financial Accounting Standards Board has issued new accounting standards which are not effective until after December 31, 2011. For further discussion of new accounting standards, see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements As of December 31, 2011, we had no significant off balance sheet arrangements other than operating leases. For a description of our operating leases, see Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. 51 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION GLOSSARY OF PROGRAMS Listed below are brief descriptions of the programs discussed in Segment Operating Results of this Form 10 K. Program Name Program Description Advanced Extremely High Frequency (AEHF) Provide the communication payload for the nations next generation military strategic and tactical satellite relay systems that will deliver survivable, protected communications to U.S. forces and selected allies worldwide. Africa Contingency Operations Training & Assistance (ACOTA) Provide peacekeeping training to militaries in African nations via the Department of State. The program is designed to improve the ability of African governments to respond quickly to crises by providing selected militaries with the training and equipment required to execute humanitarian or peace support operations. Armed Forces Health Longitudinal Technology Application (AHLTA) An enterprise wide medical and dental clinical information system that provides secure online access to health records. B 2 Stealth Bomber Maintain and upgrade the fleet of strategic, long range multi role bomber with war fighting capability that combines long range, large payload, all aspect stealth, and near precision weapons in one aircraft. Battlefield Airborne Communications Node (BACN) Install the BACN system in three Bombardier BD 700 Global Express aircraft for immediate fielding and install the BACN system into two Global Hawk Block 20 unmanned aerial vehicles. Broad Area Maritime Surveillance (BAMS) Unmanned Aircraft Systems A maritime derivative of the Global Hawk that provides persistent maritime ISR data collection and dissemination capability to the Maritime Patrol and Reconnaissance Force. Cobra Judy The Cobra Judy Replacement program will replace the current U.S. Naval Ship (USNS) Observation Island and its aged AN/SPQ 11 Cobra Judy ballistic missile tracking radar. Northrop Grumman will provide the S band phased array radar for use in technical data collection against ballistic missiles in flight. C 20 Contractor Logistics Services contract supporting the U.S. Air Force, Army, Navy and Marine Corps C 20 aircraft including depot maintenance, contractor operational and maintained base supply, flight line maintenance and field team support at multiple main operating bases, located in the United States and overseas. County of San Diego IT Outsourcing Provide high level IT consulting and services to San Diego County including data center, help desk, desktop, network, applications and cross functional services. Defense Weather Satellite System (DWSS) Design, develop, integrate, test and operate two satellites with sensors that will provide global and regional weather and environmental data for the DoD. EA 6B The EA 6B (Prowler) primary mission is to jam enemy radar and communications, thereby preventing them from directing hostile surface to air missiles at assets the Prowler protects. When equipped with the improved ALQ 218 receiver and the next generation ICAP III (Improved Capability) Airborne Electronic Attack (AEA) suite the Prowler is able to provide rapid detection, precise classification, and highly accurate geolocation of electronic emissions and counter modern, frequency hopping radars. 52 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Program Name Program Description EA 18G The armed services only offensive tactical radar jamming aircraft. The Improved Capability (ICAP) III mission system capability, developed for the EA 6B Prowler, is being incorporated into an F/A 18 platform (designated the EA 18G). E 2 Hawkeye Develop the next generation capabilities for the U.S. Navys airborne battle management command and control mission system platform that provides airborne early warning detection, identification, tracking, targeting, and communication capabilities, including radar, mission computer, vehicle, and other system enhancements, to support the U.S Naval Battle Groups and Joint Forces, called the E 2D Advanced Hawkeye. Encore II Provide Military Agencies, the DoD, and other agencies of the Federal Government IT services and associated enabling products to satisfy IT activities at all operating levels, including hardware and software incidental to an overall IT solution. Enterprise Network Management Maintain and improve the Department of States enterprise wide IT infrastructure. F 16 Block 60 Direct commercial firm fixed price program with Lockheed Martin Aeronautics Company to develop and produce 80 Lot systems for aircraft delivery to the United Arab Emirates Air Force as well as test equipment and spares to be used to support in country repairs of sensors. F 22 Joint venture with Raytheon to design, develop and produce the F 22 radar system. Northrop Grumman is responsible for the overall design of the AN/APG 77 and AN/APG 77(V) 1 radar systems, including the control and signal processing software and responsibility for the AESA radar systems integration and test activities. In addition, Northrop Grumman is responsible for overall design and integration of the F 22 Communication, Navigation, and Identification (CNI) system. F 35 Lightning II (F 35) Design, integration, and development of the center fuselage and weapons bay, communications, navigations, identification subsystem, systems engineering, and mission systems software and sensors, as well as provide ground and flight test support, modeling, simulation activities, and training courseware. F/A 18 Produce the center and aft fuselage sections, twin vertical stabilizers, and integrate all associated subsystems for the F/A 18 Hornet strike fighters. Flat Sequencing System (FSS) Build systems for the U.S. Postal Service designed to further automate the flat mail stream, which includes large envelopes, catalogs and magazines. Force Protection Security System (FPS2) Follow on to the Integrated Base Defense Security System (IBDSS) program to provide the U.S. Air Force and other DoD customers with force protection security solutions, utilizing comprehensive and integrated technology to satisfy a wide array of security concerns both within and outside the continental U.S. 53 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Program Name Program Description Ground / Air Task Oriented Radar (G/ATOR) A development program to provide the next generation ground based multi mission radar for the USMC. Provides Short Range Air Defense, Air Defense Surveillance, Ground Weapon Location and Air Traffic Control. Replaces five existing USMC single mission radars. Global Hawk High Altitude Long Endurance (HALE) Systems Develop, deliver and sustain the Global Hawk HALE unmanned aerial system and its derivatives to both domestic and international customers for ISR, including deployment of assets to support the global war on terror. Global Linguists Solutions Provide interpretation, translation and linguist services in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom. Integrated Battle Command System (IBCS) The Integrated Air & Missile Defense, Battle Command System (IBCS) component concept provides for a common battle management, command, control, communications, computers and intelligence capability with integrated fire control hardware/software product design, integration, and development that supports initial operational capability of the Joint Integrated Air and Missile Defense Increment 2. Intercontinental Ballistic Missile (ICBM) Maintain readiness of the nations ICBM weapon system. James Webb Space Telescope (JWST) Design, develop, integrate and test a space based infrared telescope satellite to observe the formation of the first stars and galaxies in the universe. Joint National Integration Center Research and Development Contract (JRDC) Support the development and application of modeling and simulation, war gaming, test and analytic tools for air and missile defense. Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar System (Joint STARS) Detect, locate, classify, track, and target hostile ground movements, while communicating real time information through secure data links with U.S. Air Force and Army command posts. Joint Warfighting Center (JWFC) Provide non personal general and technical support to the USJFCOM Joint Force Trainer / JWFC to ensure the successful worldwide execution of the Joint Training and Transformation missions. KC 10 Contractor Logistics Support (KC 10) Provide support to the U.S. Air Force KC 10 tanker fleet, including depot maintenance, supply chain management, and maintenance and management at locations in the United States and worldwide. Kinetic Energy Interceptor (KEI) Develop mobile missile defense system with the unique capability to destroy a hostile missile during its boost, ascent or midcourse phase of flight. This program was terminated for the U.S. governments convenience in 2009. 54 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Program Name Program Description Large Aircraft Infrared Countermeasures (LAIRCM) Provide support and hardware for infrared countermeasures systems for the C 17 and C 130 aircrafts. The IDIQ contract will further allow for the purchase of LAIRCM hardware for foreign military sales and other government agencies. Long Endurance Multi Intelligence Vehicle (LEMV) Northrop was awarded the contract by the U.S. Army Space and Missile Defense Command for the development, fabrication, integration, certification and performance of one LEMV system. It is a state of the art, lighter than air airship designed to provide ground troops with persistent surveillance. Development and demonstration of the first airship is scheduled to be completed June 2012. The contract also includes options for 2 additional airships and in country support. LITENING Gen 4 Design and develop self contained multi sensor targeting and surveillance system that enables aircrews to detect, acquire, auto track and identify targets at extremely long ranges for weapons delivery and non traditional ISR missions. National Security Technologies (NSTec) Participate in a joint venture that manages and operates the Nevada National Security Site, providing infrastructure support, including oversight of the nuclear explosives safety team, supporting hazardous chemical spill testing, emergency response training and conventional weapons testing. Navstar Global Positioning System Operational Control Segment (GPS OCX) Operational control system for existing and future GPS constellation. Includes all satellite C2, mission planning, constellation management, external interfaces, monitoring stations, and ground antennas. Phase A effort includes effort to accomplish a System Requirements Review (SRR), System Design Review (SDR), and development of a Mission Capabilities Engineering Model (MCEM) prototype. Navy Unmanned Combat Air System (N UCAS) Design, develop and demonstrate the first unmanned jet aircraft able to take off and land aboard an aircraft carrier. N UCAS will demonstrate that a long range, low observable, unmanned aircraft can operate safely from aircraft carriers and refuel in flight to achieve ultra long endurance for several missions including strike and ISR. Network Centric Solutions Defense Knowledge Online (Netcents DKO) Maintain and enhance key user services such as Portal, E mail, IM, Directory, Search, Go Mobile, SSO, Database, Army Home Page in support of the 2.3 million Army and DoD users. New York City Wireless (NYCWiN) Provide New York Citys broadband public safety wireless network. Postal Automation Supports sequencing and sorting of flats with the United States Postal Service (USPS) and both letters and flats within the international market. Postal Automation also supports the USPS to ensure the safety of the mail through its Biohazard Detection equipment. Saudi Arabian American Oil Company (ARAMCO) Provide an integrated security system at multiple sites with C2 connectivity to various regional C2 centers within Saudi Arabia. 55 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION Program Name Program Description Space Based Infrared System (SBIRS) Design and develop space based surveillance systems for missile warning, missile defense, battlespace characterization and technical intelligence. Trailer Mounted Support System (TMSS) Trailer Mounted Support System is a key part of the Armys Standard Integrated Command Post System program providing workspace, power distribution, lighting, environmental conditioning (heating and cooling) tables and a common grounding system for commanders and staff at all echelons. Treasury Communication System (TCS) Provide telecommunications infrastructure for collaboration, communication and computing as required by the U.S. Department of Treasury. Vehicular Intercommunications Systems (VIS) Provide clear and noise free communications between crewmembers inside combat vehicles and externally over as many as six combat net radios for the Army. The active noise reduction features of VIS provide significant improvement in speech intelligibility, hearing protection, and vehicle crew performance. Virginia Class Submarine (VCS) Produce power and control systems along with advanced surveillance arrays for all Virginia Class Submarines. The Virginia Class is an advanced stealth multimission nuclear powered submarine for deep ocean anti submarine warfare and littoral operations. Virginia IT Outsource (VITA) Provide high level IT consulting, IT infrastructure and services to Virginia state and local agencies including data center, help desk, desktop, network, applications and cross functional services. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Market Risk We are exposed to market risk with respect to our portfolio of trading and available for sale marketable securities with a fair value of $223 million at December 31, 2011. Interest Rate Risk We are exposed to interest rate risk with respect to our holdings of cash and cash equivalents of $3.0 billion at December 31, 2011, and we are also exposed to interest rate risk on variable rate short term credit facilities for which there were no borrowings outstanding at December 31, 2011. At December 31, 2011, we have $3.9 billion of long term debt, primarily consisting of fixed rate debt, with a fair value of approximately $4.7 billion. Derivatives We do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. From time to time, we may enter into interest rate swap agreements to manage our exposure to interest rate fluctuations. At December 31, 2011, we have no interest rate swap agreements in effect. Foreign Currency Risk We are exposed to foreign currency risk with respect to our foreign operations. We enter into foreign currency forward contracts to manage a portion of the exchange rate risk related to receipts from customers and payments to suppliers denominated in foreign currencies. At December 31, 2011, foreign currency forward contracts with a notional amount of $233 million were outstanding. Inflation Risk We have generally been able to anticipate increases in costs when pricing our contracts. Bids for longer term firm fixed price contracts typically include labor and other cost escalations in amounts that historically have been sufficient to cover cost increases over the period of performance. A 10 percent change in interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates would not have a material impact to our consolidated financial position or results of operations. 56 Table of Contents NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION 
 
