FILE:TEG/TEG-8K-20040818110401.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Date of Report: (Date of earliest event reported)
August 6, 2004    
 
 
 <PAGE>
ITEM 9. Regulation FD Disclosure
Appointment of Principal Officers
On August 13, 2004, Wisconsin Public Service Corporation issued a news release announcing the appointment of two principal officers.
Effective August 15, 2004 Charles A. Schrock was named President and Chief Operating Officer - Generation and Lawrence T. Borgard was name President and Chief Operating Officer - Energy Delivery. Both individuals have extensive experience with Wisconsin Public Service and/or its parent WPS Resources Corporation.
In addition, effective August 15, 2004, Larry L. Weyers previously Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Wisconsin Public Service was named Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Wisconsin Public Service. Larry Weyers recent experience with Wisconsin Public Service Is:
Individual employment and severance agreements exist with each of these officers. The agreements are intended to retain the services of these officers in the event of a change in control of WPS Resources. Each agreement entitles the officer to a continuation of salary and benefits for a maximum period of three years after a change in control. Each employment and severance agreement also provides a cash termination payment should there be a termination of the officer's employment after a change of control or in anticipation of a change in control. Generally, total termination payments provided are not to exceed the present value of 2.99 times the executive's average annual salary and annual bonuses for the five years immediately preceding a change of control. Certain officers may receive termination payments, plus a tax gross up payment exceeding 2.99 times average annual salary, portions of which may not be tax deductible by WPS Resources. The termination payments replace all other severance payments to which the officer may be entitled under current severance agreements.
For additional details regarding the appointment of these officers see the news release attached as Exhibit 99.1.
Credit Line Syndications
On August 6, 2004, WPS Resources and Wisconsin Public Service renewed their 364-day credit line syndications for $225 million and $115.0 million, respectively. These credit lines are used to back 100% of WPS Resources' and Wisconsin Public Service's commercial paper borrowing programs and letters of credit for WPS Resources.
<PAGE>
<PAGE>
<PAGE>
<PAGE>

   
Exhibit 99.1
For immediate release:                                                                                   For more information, contact: August 13, 2004                                                                                            Media Hotline
 
Chief Executive Officer Larry L. Weyers recently announced the August 15, 2004, promotions of Charlie Schrock and Larry Borgard at Wisconsin Public Service Corporation's Green Bay headquarters. Public Service is a subsidiary of WPS Resources Corporation (NYSE:WPS).
Green Bay, WI -
Schrock, 51, was promoted to President and Chief Operating Officer - Generation and will have responsibility for all of the company's electric generation facilities and projects, including the proposed Weston 4 plant and the recently announced plans for a joint plant with Alliant Energy. Mr. Schrock joined the company in 1979 as an Associate Engineer and has previously held the positions of Nuclear Licensing Supervisor, Kewaunee Nuclear Plant Manager, and Senior Vice President, among others.
Schrock is a native of Detroit, Michigan, and a graduate of St. Agatha High School in Redford Township, Michigan, and the University of Michigan. He holds B.S. and Masters degrees in Nuclear Engineering.
Borgard, 42, was named President and Chief Operating Officer - Energy Delivery. He will continue to lead the company's distribution and customer service business units, as well as the energy supply, system operating and other functions. Borgard began his career at Public Service in 1984 as an Associate Engineer. He has also held the positions of Oshkosh Division Engineer, General Manager - Transmission, Vice President - Transmission, and Vice President - Distribution and Customer Service.
Borgard is a native of Stratford, N.J. He graduated from Sterling High School in Somerdale, N.J., and later graduated from Michigan State University with a B.S. in Electrical Engineering. He also holds a Masters Degree in Business Administration from the University of Wisconsin - Oshkosh.



