FILE:TEG/TEG-8K-20061102092158.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Date of Report:
  November 2, 2006     
(Date of earliest event reported)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
2
3
 
4

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
Green Bay, WI - November 2, 2006 - WPS Resources Corporation (NYSE: WPS), an operator of regulated utility and nonregulated business units, today announced the following results for the quarter and nine month period ended September 30, 2006:
Highlights:
WPS Resources Corporation Reports Results for Third Quarter of 2006 Page 2 November 2, 2006
 
operating performance because it eliminates the effects of certain items that are not comparable from one period to the next.
 
 
.
 
 
WPS Resources Corporation Reports Results for Third Quarter of 2006 Page 3 November 2, 2006
 
 
 
We produced solid results in the third quarter with our regulated electric operations leading the way with an approximate gain of 11% in earnings versus last year. stated Larry Weyers, WPS Resources' Chairman, President, and CEO. At our natural gas utility operations, we are moving out of our seasonally weak period into the time period where demand increases as temperatures decline. We look forward to the contribution of our newly acquired natural gas distribution assets in Minnesota and Michigan, where we are continuing our integration efforts. Although earnings from our nonregulated WPS Energy Services operations were down slightly quarter over quarter, the core business remains healthy, as evidenced by continued growth in forward contracted transaction volumes.
 
The following table depicts income available for common shareholders and revenue for the comparable third quarters.
WPS Resources Corporation Reports Results for Third Quarter of 2006 Page 4 November 2, 2006
 
Segments
WPS Resources' Electric Utility segment includes the regulated electric utility operations of two wholly owned utility subsidiaries, Wisconsin Public Service Corporation and Upper Peninsula Power Company. The Gas Utility segment consists of the natural gas utility operations of Wisconsin Public Service, Minnesota Energy Resources Corporation and Michigan Gas Utilities Corporation.
WPS Energy Services, Inc., a diversified energy supply, generation, and services company, offers nonregulated natural gas, electric, and alternative fuel supplies, as well as energy management and consulting services, to retail and wholesale customers in the Midwest and Northeastern United States, Texas, and portions of Canada adjacent to areas in the United States where WPS Energy Services conducts business. WPS Energy Services also owns several merchant electric generation plants, primarily in the Midwest and Northeastern United States and adjacent portions of Canada.
The Holding Company and Other segment includes the operations of the WPS Resources holding company and the non-utility activities of Wisconsin Public Service Corporation, Upper Peninsula Power Company, Minnesota Energy Resources Corporation and Michigan Gas Utilities Corporation. Equity earnings from the companys investments in ATC and Wisconsin River Power Company are also included in the Holding Company and Other Segment. WPS Resources divested of its investment in Guardian Pipeline, LLC in the second quarter of 2006.
Discontinued Operations
In July 2006, WPS Energy Services sold Sunbury Generation, LLC to Corona Power, LLC. Sunbury Generations primary asset was the Sunbury generation plant, located in Shamokin Dam, Pennsylvania. The gross proceeds received from the plant were $34.1 million and are subject to various working capital and other post-closing adjustments. The total after-tax gain of $12.7 million on this transaction was recognized in the third
WPS Resources Corporation Reports Results for Third Quarter of 2006 Page 5 November 2, 2006
 
quarter of 2006. Beginning in the second quarter of 2006, WPS Energy Services began reporting the assets and liabilities of Sunbury that were transferred to Corona Power, LLC as held for sale and also reported Sunburys results of operations and cash flows as discontinued operations. Prior periods have also been reclassified, as applicable, to reflect this change in presentation.
Third Quarter Financial Results
Electric Utility Segment Earnings
Electric utility earnings increased by $3.0 million to $31.0 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2006, compared to $28.0 million for comparable quarter last year. The rise in electric utility earnings was primarily due to the implementation of an approved rate increases for Wisconsin Public Service that was effective January 1, 2006, and an approved rate increase for Upper Peninsula Power that was effective June 28, 2006, partially offset by a milder cooling season that resulted in 3.9% less cooling degree days as compared to last year.
Natural Gas Utility Segment Earnings
During the seasonally weak third quarter, the companys natural gas utility operations produced a net loss of $11.0 million in this years third quarter, compared to a $3.5 million loss during the comparable quarter last year. Natural gas margins increased by $13.8 million, or 71.9%, to $33.0 million during the third quarter compared to the same quarter last year, reflecting approximately $14 million in added margin contribution from the newly acquired natural gas distribution operations in Michigan and Minnesota. Increased expenses, including the impact of external transition costs, and depreciation offset the rise in margins.
WPS Energy Services Segment Earnings
WPS Energy Services earnings declined $1.1 million, from $22.2 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2005, to $21.1 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2006. Margins declined $25.9 million, driven largely by mark-to-market losses on derivative instruments utilized to protect the value of the Section 29/45K tax credits in 2006 and 2007 (mark-to-market losses recognized on 2006 and 2007 oil hedges were $15.8 million and $2.2 million, respectively, for the quarter ended September 30, 2006). Also impacting earnings was a $5.1 million pre-tax increase in interest expense due to increased borrowings to fund higher working capital requirements resulting from higher levels of natural gas in storage. Partially offsetting the decline in earnings was a $6.9 million increase in Section 29/45K tax credits recognized, an $8.0 million after-tax increase in income from discontinued operations and $6.1 million pre-tax decrease in operating and maintenance expenses.
WPS Resources Corporation Reports Results for Third Quarter of 2006 Page 6 November 2, 2006
 
Detailed explanations related to the change in WPS Energy Services margin and more information on Section 29/45K tax credits will be available in WPS Resources third quarter report on Form 10-Q that we expect to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission later today.
Holding Company and Other Segment Earnings
The Holding Company and Other segment produced a net loss of $1.6 million during the third quarter of 2006 compared to income of $1.5 million for the comparable quarter last year. The decline in earnings was due, in part, to higher interest expenses resulting from an increase in short-term debt levels due to the companys acquisition of the natural gas distribution assets in Michigan and Minnesota.
Average Shares of Common Stock
The change in diluted earnings per share was impacted by the items discussed above as well as an increase of 4.8 million shares in the weighted average number of outstanding shares of WPS Resources' common stock for the quarter ended September 30, 2006, compared to the same quarter in 2005. WPS Resources issued 1.9 million shares of common stock through a public offering in November 2005 and also issued 2.7 million shares of common stock in May 2006 in order to settle its forward equity agreement with an affiliate of J.P. Morgan Securities, Inc. Additional shares were also issued under the Stock Investment Plan and certain stock-based employee benefit plans.
2006 EARNINGS FORECAST
In 2006, the company is continuing to manage its portfolio of businesses to achieve long-term growth in its utility and nonregulated operations, while maintaining an emphasis on regulated growth. The companys emphasis on regulated growth has been demonstrated by the on-going expansion of its generation fleet, as well as the acquisition of retail natural gas distribution operations in Michigan on April 1, 2006, and in Minnesota on July 1, 2006. The expansion of the utility generation fleet is aimed at meeting the high level of reliability expected by the companys customers and ensuring that the company continues to meet anticipated growth in electric demand. In all of the companys business units, financial tools commonly used in the industry are utilized to help mitigate risk for the benefit of both shareholders and customers. Also, the companys asset management strategy continues to deliver shareholder return from certain asset transactions. The companys long-term diluted earnings per share growth rate target remains at 6% to 8% on an average annualized basis, with fluctuations in any given year that may be above or below that targeted range.
The 2006 guidance has been narrowed to $3.73 to $3.95 diluted earnings per share, assuming normal weather for the remainder of the year, availability of generation units, and completion of asset management sales. Diluted earnings per share guidance reflects the companys estimate of transition costs of about $12.4 million (approximately $7.4 million after-tax) related to the acquisitions of natural gas distribution operations in Michigan and Minnesota. The guidance also includes about $6.4 million (approximately $3.8 million
WPS Resources Corporation Reports Results for Third Quarter of 2006 Page 7 November 2, 2006
 
after-tax) of increased purchased power costs for WPS Energy Services customers in Maine and approximately $2.8 million (approximately $1.7 million after-tax) in transition costs associated with the merger of Peoples Energy. Diluted earnings per share guidance does not reflect potential future mark-to-market gains or losses on derivative instruments utilized to protect the anticipated value of a portion of Section 29/45K tax credits in 2007.
Adjusting for certain items that are not comparable from one period to the next, the 2006 guidance range for diluted earnings per share from continuing operations - adjusted, which is a non-GAAP measure, is now $3.15 to $3.36 compared with $2.96 to $3.35, as announced previously. Please see attached Diluted Earnings per Share Information - Non-GAAP Financial Information (page 2) for a reconciliation of diluted earnings per share from continuing operations to diluted earnings per share from continuing operations - adjusted.
CONFERENCE CALL
An earnings conference call is scheduled for 3 p.m. central time on Thursday, November 2. Larry L. Weyers, WPS Resources Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer, will discuss third quarter 2006 financial results. To access the call, which is open to the public, call 888-690-9634 (toll free) 15 minutes prior to the scheduled start time. Callers will be required to supply EARNINGS as the passcode and MR. LARRY WEYERS as the leader. Callers will be placed on hold with music until the call begins. A replay of the conference call will be available through November 16, 2006 by dialing 800-284-7024 (toll free).
Investors may also listen to the conference live on the WPS Resources corporate website at http://www.wpsr.com/investor/presentations.asp. An archive of the webcast will be available until November 1, 2007.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Financial results for the third quarter of 2006 are unaudited. This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. You can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts and often include words such as
anticipate,
 
believe,
 
estimate,
 
expect,
 
intend,
 
plan,
 
project,
and other similar words. Although the company believes it has been prudent in its plans and assumptions, there can be no assurance that indicated results will be realized. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could differ materially from those anticipated.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made, and the company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. The company recommends that you consult any further disclosures it makes on related subjects in its 10-Q, 8-K, and 10-K reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The following is a cautionary list of risks and uncertainties that may affect the assumptions, which form the basis of forward-looking statements relevant to the companys business.
WPS Resources Corporation Reports Results for Third Quarter of 2006 Page 8 November 2, 2006
 
These factors, and other factors not listed here, could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements.
 
 
 
WPS Resources Corporation Reports Results for Third Quarter of 2006 Page 9 November 2, 2006
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Financial Informatio
n
WPS Resources prepares financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). Along with this information, we disclose and discuss diluted earnings per share (EPS) from continuing operations - adjusted, which is a non-GAAP measure. Management uses the measure in its internal performance reporting and for reports to the Board of Directors. We disclose this measure in our quarterly earnings releases, on investor conference calls, and during investor conferences and related events. Management believes that diluted EPS from continuing operations - adjusted is a useful measure for providing investors with additional insight into our operating performance because it eliminates the effects of certain items that are not comparable from one period to the next. Therefore, this measure allows investors to better compare our financial results from period to period. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for our results of operations prepared and presented in conformance with GAAP.
Actual Quarter and Year-to-Date for Periods Ended September 30, 2006 and 2005
Actual 2005 and 2006 Forecast
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



