FILE:TEG/TEG-8K-20060803091810.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Date of Report:
  August 3, 2006     
(Date of earliest event reported)
 
2
3
4

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
Green Bay, WI - August 3, 2006 - WPS Resources Corporation (NYSE: WPS), an operator of regulated utility and nonregulated energy related business units, today announced the following results for the quarter and six month period ended June 30, 2006:
Highlights
 
 
 
 
WPS Resources Corporation Reports Results for Second Quarter of 2006
Page 2
August 3, 2006
 
Financial results for the second quarter of 2006 improved over the same quarter of the prior year, aided by the continued strong performance of WPS Energy Services and by our asset management
WPS Resources Corporation Reports Results for Second Quarter of 2006
Page 3
August 3, 2006
 
strategies, stated Larry Weyers, WPS Resources' Chairman, President, and CEO. Strong results from wholesale electric operations at ESI continued in the second quarter of 2006, aided again by volatile energy prices. We also benefited from gains on the sales of WPS Energy Services natural gas storage field and our investment in Guardian Pipeline, LLC. Both of these transactions are consistent with our asset management strategy that calls for the disposition of existing assets, including land, plants, or entire business units that are no longer strategic to ongoing operations.
Unfortunately, we also continued to experience unfavorable weather conditions at our utility operations in the second quarter, which reduced customer consumption, and negatively impacted earnings from our utility operations. Furthermore, our utility results were negatively impacted by transition costs associated with the acquisition of retail natural gas distribution operations in Michigan and Minnesota, as well as the timing of the acquisition during what is typically a weak seasonal earnings period for these assets, added Weyers.
The following table depicts income available for common shareholders and revenue for the comparable second quarters.
The following tables depict the impact that weather conditions had on diluted earnings per share.
 
WPS Resources Corporation Reports Results for Second Quarter of 2006
Page 4
August 3, 2006
Segments
WPS Resources' Electric Utility segment includes the regulated electric utility operations of two wholly owned utility subsidiaries, Wisconsin Public Service Corporation and Upper Peninsula Power Company. The Gas Utility segment consists of the natural gas utility operations of Wisconsin Public Service and Michigan Gas Utilities Corporation, as well as certain transition costs related to Minnesota Energy Resources Corporation. The acquisition of Aquilas natural gas distribution operations in Michigan was completed on April 1, 2006, and the acquisition of Aquilas natural gas distribution operations in Minnesota was completed on July 1, 2006.
WPS Energy Services, Inc., a diversified energy supply, generation, and services company, offers nonregulated natural gas, electric, and alternative fuel supplies, as well as energy management and consulting services to retail and wholesale customers. Prior to the fourth quarter of 2005, WPS Resources reported two nonregulated segments, WPS Energy Services and WPS Power Development. Effective in the fourth quarter of 2005, WPS Resources began reporting one nonregulated segment, WPS Energy Services. Segment information related to prior periods reflects this change.
The Holding Company and Other segment includes the operations of the WPS Resources holding company and the non-utility activities of Wisconsin Public Service and Upper Peninsula Power. Equity earnings from the companys investments in ATC, Wisconsin River Power Company, and Guardian Pipeline, LLC are also included in the Holding Company and Other Segment. WPS Resources investment in Guardian Pipeline, LLC was sold in the second quarter of 2006.
Discontinued Operations
In July 2006, WPS Energy Services sold Sunbury Generation, LLC to Corona Power, LLC. Sunbury Generations primary asset was the Sunbury generation plant, located in Shamokin Dam, Pennsylvania. The gross proceeds received for the plant were $34.6 million and are subject to various working capital and other post-closing adjustments. The total estimated pre-tax gain of $19 million on this transaction will be recognized in the third quarter. Beginning in the second quarter of 2006, WPS Energy Services began reporting the assets and liabilities of Sunbury that were transferred to Corona Power, LLC as held for sale and also reported Sunburys results of operations and cash flows as discontinued operations. Prior periods have also been reclassified, as applicable, to reflect this change in presentation.
 
WPS Resources Corporation Reports Results for Second Quarter of 2006
Page 5
August 3, 2006
 
Second Quarter Financial Results
Electric Utility Segment Earnings
Electric utility earnings increased $2.5 million, from $20.9 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2005, to $23.4 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2006. The increase in electric utility earnings was driven by fuel and purchased power costs that were less than were recovered in rates in the second quarter of 2006. Fuel and purchased power costs are expected to be greater than what will be recovered in the second half of the year, which should negatively impact margins during that period. The margin increase related to fuel and purchased power costs during the second quarter of 2006 was partially offset by the impact of unfavorable weather conditions. Weather was approximately 41% cooler during the cooling season in the second quarter of 2006, compared to the same quarter in 2005 and approximately 5% cooler than normal. The unfavorable weather conditions drove a combined 2.5% quarter-over-quarter decrease in sales volumes from the electric utilitys higher margin residential, and commercial and industrial customers. Neither the lower fuel costs nor the unfavorable weather conditions were reflected in the Public Service Commission of Wisconsins final order authorizing an annual retail electric rate increase of $79.9 million (10.1%), effective January 1, 2006.
Natural Gas Utility Segment Earnings
The net loss from natural gas utility operations increased $5.6 million, from $1.9 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2005, to $7.5 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2006. A combined net loss of $5.4 million related to the results of natural gas operations and transition costs for natural gas distribution operations in Michigan (acquired on April 1, 2006) and also to transition costs for natural gas distribution operations in Minnesota (acquired on July 1, 2006). During the second quarter of 2006, $4.1 million of external pre-tax transition costs were incurred by these natural gas utilities, primarily for the start-up of outsourcing activities and other legal and consulting fees. The net loss recognized at Michigan Gas Utilities Corporation in excess of transition charges incurred can be attributed to the seasonal nature of natural gas utility operations, which recognize most of the earnings in the coldest months when customers are using natural gas to heat their homes and businesses.
WPS Energy Services Segment Earnings
WPS Energy Services earnings increased $9.8 million, from $3.6 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2005, to $13.4 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2006. Higher earnings were driven by a $22.0 million pre-tax increase in margin and a $9.0 million pre-tax gain on the sale of its Kimball natural gas storage field in the second quarter of 2006. These items were partially offset by a $5.4 million pre-tax increase in operating and maintenance expenses, a $2.7 million decrease in Section 29/45K federal tax credits recognized from the production of synthetic fuel, and a $2.3 million pre-tax increase in miscellaneous expense. There was also a $0.9 million after-tax increase in the loss from discontinued operations. Detailed explanations related to the change in WPS Energy Services margin and more information on Section 29/45K tax credits will be available in WPS Resources second quarter report on Form 10-Q that we expect to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission later today.
Holding Company and Other Segment Earnings
Holding Company and Other operations recognized earnings of $5.6 million during the quarter ended June 30, 2006, compared to earnings of $1.3 million during the same quarter in 2005. The increase was driven by a $3.8 million after-tax gain recognized from the sale of WPS Resources one-third interest in Guardian Pipeline, LLC, and a $2.4 million increase in after-tax equity earnings from ATC, partially offset by an increase in interest expense.
 
WPS Resources Corporation Reports Results for Second Quarter of 2006
Page 6
August 3, 2006
Average Shares of Common Stock
The change in diluted earnings per share was impacted by the items discussed above as well as an increase of 3.8 million shares (9.9%) in the weighted average number of outstanding shares of WPS Resources' common stock for the quarter ended June 30, 2006, compared to the same quarter in 2005. WPS Resources issued 1.9 million shares of common stock through a public offering in November 2005 and also issued 2.7 million shares of common stock in May 2006 in order to settle its forward equity agreement with an affiliate of J.P. Morgan Securities, Inc. Additional shares were also issued under the Stock Investment Plan and certain stock-based employee benefit plans.
2006
Earnings Forecast
In 2006, the company is continuing to manage its portfolio of businesses to achieve long-term growth in its utility and nonregulated operations, while maintaining an emphasis on regulated growth. The companys emphasis on regulated growth has been demonstrated by the on-going expansion of its generation fleet, the acquisition from Aquila of retail natural gas distribution operations in Michigan and Minnesota, and the proposed merger with Peoples Energy. The expansion of the utility generation fleet is aimed at meeting the high level of reliability expected by the companys customers and ensuring that the company continues to meet anticipated growth in electric demand. In all of the companys business units, financial tools commonly used in the industry are utilized to help mitigate risk for the benefit of both customers and shareholders. Also, the companys asset management strategy continues to deliver shareholder return from certain asset transactions. The companys long-term diluted earnings per share from continuing operations growth rate target remains at 6% to 8% on an average annualized basis, with fluctuations in any given year that may be above or below that targeted range. The 2006 guidance is being raised to between $3.64 and $4.12 diluted earnings per share, as shown below, assuming normal weather for the remainder of the year, availability of generation units, and completion of asset management sales. Diluted earnings per share guidance reflects the companys estimate of transition costs of about $14 million (approximately $9 million after-tax) related to the recently completed acquisitions of natural gas distribution operations in Michigan and Minnesota. The guidance also includes about $6.4 million ($3.8 million after-tax) of increased purchased power costs for WPS Energy Services relating to an $8.2 million ($4.9 million after-tax) gain recognized in 2005 from the liquidation of a supply contract for Maine customers. Diluted earnings per share guidance does not reflect potential future mark-to-market gains or losses on derivative instruments utilized to protect the anticipated value of a portion of Section 29/45K tax credits in 2007.
Conference Call
An earnings conference call is scheduled for 3 p.m. central time on Thursday, August 3. Larry L. Weyers, WPS Resources Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer, will discuss financial results. To access the call, which is open to the public, call 888-690-9634 (toll free) 15 minutes prior to the scheduled start time. Callers will be required to supply EARNINGS as the
 
WPS Resources Corporation Reports Results for Second Quarter of 2006
Page 7
August 3, 2006
passcode and MR. LARRY WEYERS as the leader. Callers will be placed on hold with music until the call begins. A replay of the conference call will be available through August 17 by dialing 800-406-7489.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. You can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts and often include words such as anticipate, expect, intend and other similar words. Forward-looking statements are beyond the ability of WPS Resources to control and, in many cases, WPS Resources cannot predict what factors would cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by forward-looking statements. Please see WPS Resources periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (including its 10-K and 10-Qs) for a listing of certain factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



