FILE:TEG/TEG-8K-20060711165826.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
        On July 8, 2006, WPS Resources Corporation (the "Company") and the Company's wholly owned subsidiary, Wedge Acquisition Corp. (the "Merger Sub"), entered into an agreement and plan of merger (the "Merger Agreement") with Peoples Energy Corporation ("Peoples Energy"), pursuant to which, among other things, the Merger Sub will merge with and into Peoples Energy (the "Merger"), with Peoples Energy as the surviving corporation. Under the Merger Agreement, each issued share of common stock, no par value, of Peoples Energy not owned by the Company, the Merger Sub or Peoples Energy will be converted into the right to receive 0.825 shares of common stock, par value $1.00 per share, of the Company.
        The Merger Agreement includes customary representations, warranties and covenants by the respective parties. Consummation of the Merger is subject to customary closing conditions, including without limitation: (1) the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the shares of the Company represented at the meeting and entitled to vote on the issuance of the Company's common stock pursuant to the Merger, provided that a majority of the outstanding shares are voted; (2) the affirmative vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding shares of Peoples Energy approving the Merger; (3) the expiration or termination of any waiting period (and any extension thereof) under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended; (4) approvals by public service or utility commissions of specified states; and (5) approval from the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.
        The Merger Agreement contains certain termination rights for the Company and Peoples Energy and further provides that, upon termination of the Merger Agreement under specified circumstances, either party may be required to pay a termination fee of $45 million if it terminates the merger agreement.
        The foregoing description of the Merger Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Merger Agreement, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 2.1 and incorporated by reference in this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Additional Information
This communication is not a solicitation of a proxy from any security holder of WPS Resources Corporation or Peoples Energy Corporation. WPS Resources Corporation intends to file a registration statement on Form S-4 with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") in connection with the proposed transaction. The registration statement will include a joint proxy statement of WPS Resources Corporation and Peoples Energy Corporation that also constitutes a prospectus of WPS Resources Corporation, which will be sent to the shareholders of WPS Resources Corporation and Peoples Energy Corporation. A definitive proxy statement will be sent to shareholders of WPS Resources Corporation and Peoples Energy Corporation seeking approval of the proposed transaction. The joint proxy statement/prospectus and other documents relating to the proposed transaction (when they are available) can be obtained free of charge from the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. These documents (when they are available) can also be obtained free of charge from WPS Resources Corporation upon written request to WPS Resources Corporation, Attention: Barth J. Wolf, Secretary and Manager - Legal Services, P.O. Box 19001, Green Bay, Wisconsin 54307-9001, or by calling (920) 433-1727, or from Peoples Energy Corporation, upon written request to Peoples Energy Corporation, Attention: Secretary, 130 East Randolph Drive, 24th Floor, Chicago, Illinois 60601, or by calling Investor Relations (312) 240-4366.
Shareholders are urged to read the joint proxy statement/prospectus and any other relevant document when they become available, because they will contain important information about WPS Resources Corporation, Peoples Energy Corporation and the proposed transaction.
Participants in the Proposed Transaction
WPS Resources Corporation, Peoples Energy Corporation and certain of their respective directors and executive officers may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from shareholders in connection with the proposed transaction under the rules of the SEC. Information about the directors and executive officers of WPS Resources Corporation may be found in its 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 28, 2006 and definitive proxy statement relating to its 2006 Annual Meeting of Shareholders filed with the SEC on April 7, 2006. Information about the directors and executive officers of Peoples Energy Corporation may be found in its Amendment No. 1 to its 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on December 14, 2005 and definitive proxy statement relating to its 2006 Annual Meeting of Shareholders filed with the SEC on January 1, 2006. These documents can be obtained free of charge from the sources indicated above. Additional information regarding the interests of these participants will also be included in the joint proxy statement/prospectus regarding the proposed transaction when it becomes available.
Non-Solicitation
This communication shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities, nor shall there be any sale of securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction. No offer of securities shall be made except by means of a prospectus meeting the requirements of Section 10 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
        In connection with the Merger Agreement, the Company and American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, a New York banking corporation, as successor in interest to U.S. Bank National Association and Firstar Trust Company (the "Rights Agent"), entered into that certain Second Amendment to the Rights Agreement, dated as of July 8, 2006 (the "Second Amendment"), amending the Rights Agreement, dated as of December 12, 1996, as amended (the "Rights Agreement"). The Second Amendment amends the Rights Agreement in order to, among other things, provide that it shall not apply to the Merger or the other transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement.
        The foregoing description of the Second Amendment is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Second Amendment, which is attached as Exhibit 4.3 to the Form 8-A/A filed by the Company on July 10, 2006 and is incorporated herein by reference.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

  
Exhibit 2.1
EXECUTION COPY
Page
        WHEREAS the respective Boards of Directors of Parent, Sub and the Company have approved the merger (the "") of Sub into the Company on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement, whereby each issued share of common stock, no par value, of the Company (the "") not owned by Parent, Sub or the Company shall be converted into the right to receive 0.825 (the "") shares of common stock, par value $1.00 per share, of Parent (the "Stock");
Merger
Company Common Stock
Exchange Ratio
Parent Common
        WHEREAS for U.S. Federal income tax purposes it is intended that (a) the Merger qualify as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the ""), (b) this Agreement is intended to be, and is hereby, adopted as a "plan of reorganization" for purposes of Sections 354 and 361 of the Code, and (c) Parent, Sub and the Company will each be a party to the reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(b) of the Code; and
Code
        WHEREAS Parent, Sub and the Company desire to make certain representations, warranties, covenants and agreements in connection with the Merger and also to prescribe various conditions to the Merger.
        NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto agree as follows:
        SECTION 1.01. On the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement, and in accordance with the Illinois Business Corporation Act (the ""), Sub shall be merged with and into the Company at the Effective Time (as defined in Section 1.03). At the Effective Time, the separate corporate existence of Sub shall cease and the Company shall continue as the surviving corporation (the ""). The Merger, the issuance by Parent of Parent Common Stock in connection with the Merger (the ""), the Charter Amendment (as defined in Section 1.08) and the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement are referred to in this Agreement collectively as the "".
The Merger.
IBCA
Surviving Corporation
Share Issuance
Transactions
2
        SECTION 1.02. The closing (the "") of the Merger shall take place at the offices of Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP, 825 Eighth Avenue, New York, New York 10019 at 10:00 a.m. on the second business day following the satisfaction (or, to the extent permitted by Law (as defined in Section 3.05), waiver by all parties) of the conditions set forth in Section 7.01, or, if on such day any condition set forth in Section 7.02 or 7.03 has not been satisfied (or, to the extent permitted by Law, waived by the party or parties entitled to the benefits thereof), as soon as practicable after all the conditions set forth in Article VII have been satisfied (or, to the extent permitted by Law, waived by the parties entitled to the benefits thereof), or at such other place, time and date as shall be agreed in writing between Parent and the Company. The date on which the Closing occurs is referred to in this Agreement as the "".
Closing.
Closing
Closing Date
        SECTION 1.03. Prior to the Closing, the parties shall prepare, and on the Closing Date the parties shall file with the Secretary of State of the State of Illinois, articles of merger or other appropriate documents (in any such case, the ") executed in accordance with the relevant provisions of the IBCA and shall make all other filings or recordings required under the IBCA. The Merger shall become effective at such time as the Articles of Merger are duly filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Illinois, or, to the extent within the time limitations provided in the IBCA, at such other time as Parent and the Company shall agree and specify in the Articles of Merger (the time the Merger becomes effective being the "").
Effective Time.
"Articles of Merger
Effective Time
        SECTION 1.04. The Merger shall have the effects set forth in Section 11.50 and any other applicable provision of the IBCA.
Effects.
        SECTION 1.05. (a) The Articles of Incorporation of Sub as in effect immediately prior to the Effective Time shall be the Articles of Incorporation of the Surviving Corporation until thereafter changed or amended as provided therein or by applicable Law.
Articles of Incorporation and By-laws.
        (b)     The By-laws of Sub as in effect immediately prior to the Effective Time, which shall be in the form of Exhibit A, shall be the By-laws of the Surviving Corporation until thereafter changed or amended as provided therein or by applicable Law.
        SECTION 1.06. The directors of Sub immediately prior to the Effective Time shall be the directors of the Surviving Corporation, until the earlier of their resignation or removal or until their respective successors are duly elected and qualified, as the case may be.
Directors.
        SECTION 1.07. The officers of the Company immediately prior to the Effective Time shall be the officers of the Surviving Corporation, until the earlier of their resignation or removal or until their respective successors are duly elected or appointed and qualified, as the case may be.
Officers.
        SECTION 1.08. Parent and the Company agree to use their commercially reasonable efforts acting in good faith to agree on a new name for Parent prior to the mailing of the Joint Proxy Statement (as defined in Section 3.05(b)); that neither Parent nor the Company shall have any obligation to agree that the new Parent name (i) shall be WPS or Peoples or (ii) shall include the word "Wisconsin". Subject to receipt of the Parent Shareholder Approval (as defined in Section 4.04), promptly following the Effective Time, Parent shall file with the Wisconsin Department of Financial Institutions an amendment to the Parent Charter (the ") to change the name of Parent.
Name.
provided
"Charter Amendment
3
        SECTION 2.01. At the Effective Time, by virtue of the Merger and without any action on the part of the holder of any shares of Company Common Stock or any shares of Sub:
Effect on Shares.
        (a)     Each issued and outstanding share of Sub shall be converted into and become one fully paid and nonassessable share of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Surviving Corporation.
Shares of Sub.
        (b)     Each share of Company Common Stock that is owned by the Company or Parent shall no longer be outstanding and shall automatically be canceled and retired and shall cease to exist, and no Parent Common Stock or other consideration shall be delivered or deliverable in exchange therefor.
Cancelation of Treasury Shares and Parent- Owned Shares.
        (c)     (1) Subject to Sections 2.01(b), 2.02(d) and 2.02(f), each issued share of Company Common Stock shall be converted into the right to receive a number of fully paid and nonassessable (except for statutory liability under Section 180.0622(2)(b) of the WBCL for unpaid employee wages) shares of Parent Common Stock equal to the Exchange Ratio. The shares of Parent Common Stock to be issued upon the conversion of shares of Company Common Stock pursuant to this Section 2.01(c) and cash in lieu of fractional shares of Parent Common Stock as contemplated by Section 2.02(f) are referred to collectively as "". As of the Effective Time, all such shares of Company Common Stock shall no longer be outstanding and shall automatically be canceled and retired and shall cease to exist, and each holder of a certificate representing any such shares of Company Common Stock shall cease to have any rights with respect thereto, except the right to receive Merger Consideration upon surrender of such certificate in accordance with Section 2.02, without interest.
Conversion of Company Common Stock.
Merger Consideration
        SECTION 2.02. (a) Promptly following the Effective Time, Parent shall deposit with a bank or trust company designated by Parent, and reasonably acceptable to the Company (the ""), for the benefit of the holders of shares of Company Common Stock, for exchange in accordance with this Article II, through the Exchange Agent, certificates representing the shares of Parent Common Stock issuable pursuant to Section 2.01 in exchange for outstanding shares of Company Common Stock (such shares of Parent Common Stock, together with any dividends or distributions with respect thereto, being hereinafter referred to as the ""). For the purposes of such deposit, Parent shall assume that there will not be any fractional shares of Parent Common Stock. Parent shall make available to the Exchange Agent, for addition to the Exchange Fund, from time to time as needed, cash sufficient to pay cash in lieu of fractional shares in accordance with Section 2.02(f). The Exchange Agent shall, pursuant to irrevocable instructions, deliver the Parent Common Stock contemplated to be issued pursuant to Section 2.01 out of the Exchange Fund. The Exchange Fund shall not be used for any other purpose.
Exchange of Certificates.
Exchange Agent.
Exchange Agent
Exchange Fund
4
        (b)     As soon as reasonably practicable after the Effective Time, the Exchange Agent shall mail to each holder of record of a certificate or certificates (the "") that immediately prior to the Effective Time represented outstanding shares of Company Common Stock whose shares were converted into the right to receive Merger Consideration pursuant to Section 2.01, (i) a letter of transmittal (which shall specify that delivery shall be effected, and risk of loss and title to the Certificates shall pass, only upon delivery of the Certificates to the Exchange Agent and shall be in such form and have such other provisions as Parent may reasonably specify) and (ii) instructions for use in effecting the surrender of the Certificates in exchange for Merger Consideration. Upon surrender of a Certificate for cancelation to the Exchange Agent, together with such letter of transmittal, duly executed, and such other documents as may reasonably be required by the Exchange Agent, the holder of such Certificate shall be entitled to receive in exchange therefor a certificate representing that number of whole shares of Parent Common Stock (together with cash in lieu of fractional shares) that such holder has the right to receive pursuant to the provisions of this Article II, and the Certificate so surrendered shall forthwith be canceled. Until such time as a certificate representing Parent Common Stock is issued to or at the direction of the holder of a surrendered Certificate, such Parent Common Stock shall not be voted on any matter. In the event of a transfer of ownership of Company Common Stock that is not registered in the transfer records of the Company, a certificate representing the appropriate number of shares of Parent Common Stock may be issued to a person other than the person in whose name the Certificate so surrendered is registered, if such Certificate shall be properly endorsed or otherwise be in proper form for transfer and the person requesting such issuance shall pay any transfer or other taxes required by reason of the issuance of shares of Parent Common Stock to a person other than the registered holder of such Certificate or establish to the satisfaction of Parent that such tax has been paid or is not applicable. Subject to Section 2.02(d), until surrendered as contemplated by this Section 2.02, each Certificate shall be deemed at any time after the Effective Time to represent only the right to receive upon such surrender Merger Consideration as contemplated by this Section 2.02. No interest shall be paid or accrue on any cash payable upon surrender of any Certificate.
Exchange Procedures.
Certificates
5
        (c)     No dividends or other distributions with respect to Parent Common Stock with a record date after the Effective Time shall be paid to the holder of any certificate formerly representing Company Common Stock with respect to the shares of Parent Common Stock issuable upon surrender thereof, and no cash payment in lieu of fractional shares shall be paid to any such holder pursuant to Section 2.02(f), until the surrender of such certificate in accordance with this Article II. Subject to applicable Law, following surrender of any such certificate, there shall be paid to the holder of the certificate representing whole shares of Parent Common Stock issued in exchange therefor, without interest, (i) promptly after the time of such surrender, the amount of any cash payable in lieu of a fractional share of Parent Common Stock to which such holder is entitled pursuant to Section 2.02(f) and the amount of dividends or other distributions with a record date after the Effective Time theretofore paid with respect to such whole shares of Parent Common Stock, and (ii) at the appropriate payment date, the amount of dividends or other distributions with a record date after the Effective Time but prior to such surrender and a payment date subsequent to such surrender payable with respect to such whole shares of Parent Common Stock.
Distributions with Respect to Unexchanged Shares.
        (d)     Holders of shares of Company Common Stock who have complied with requirements for perfecting dissenters' rights under Section 11.70 of the IBCA will be entitled to exercise such rights with respect to the shares as to which such rights have been perfected (""), to the extent available under Section 11.70 of the IBCA. Upon consummation of the Merger, the Company Dissenting Shares shall cease to be issued and outstanding and the holders thereof only shall be entitled to receive such consideration as will be determined under Section 11.70 of the IBCA. If a holder of Company Dissenting Shares shall fail to perfect or shall otherwise waive, withdraw or lose its dissenters' rights under the IBCA, such that dissenters' rights can no longer be legally perfected or exercised under the IBCA with respect to such Company Common Stock, then the right of such holder to receive such consideration for Company Dissenting Shares as determined under Section 11.70 of the IBCA shall cease and such Company Dissenting Shares shall become exchangeable solely for the right to receive Parent Company Stock as provided in Section 2.01(c). The Company shall serve prompt notice to Parent of any notice relating to any Company Dissenting Shares received by the Company, and Parent shall have the right to participate in and direct all negotiations and proceedings with respect to any Company Dissenting Shares. Prior to the Effective Time, the Company shall not, without the prior written consent of Parent, make any payment with respect to, or settle or offer to settle, any such demands, or agree to do any of the foregoing.
Dissenting Shares.
Company Dissenting Shares
        (e)     The Merger Consideration issued (and paid) in accordance with the terms of this Article II upon conversion of any shares of Company Common Stock shall be deemed to have been issued (and paid) in full satisfaction of all rights pertaining to such shares of Company Common Stock, , , to (i) the Surviving Corporation's obligation to pay or provide for the rights of dissenters and (ii) the Surviving Corporation's obligation to pay any dividends or make any other distributions with a record date prior to the Effective Time that may have been declared or made by the Company on such shares of Company Common Stock in accordance with the terms of this Agreement or prior to the date of this Agreement and which remain unpaid at the Effective Time, and after the Effective Time there shall be no further registration of transfers on the stock transfer books of the Surviving Corporation of shares of Company Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time. If, after the Effective Time, any certificates formerly representing shares of Company Common Stock are presented to the Surviving Corporation or the Exchange Agent for any reason, they shall be canceled and exchanged as provided in this Article II.
No Further Ownership Rights in Company Common Stock.
subject
however
6
        (f)     (1) No certificates or scrip representing fractional shares of Parent Common Stock shall be issued upon the conversion of Company Common Stock pursuant to Section 2.01, and such fractional share interests shall not entitle the owner thereof to vote or to any rights of a holder of Parent Common Stock. For purposes of this Section 2.02(f), all fractional shares to which a single record holder would be entitled shall be aggregated and calculations shall be rounded to three decimal places.
No Fractional Shares.
        (2)     In lieu of any such fractional shares, each holder of Company Common Stock who would otherwise be entitled to such fractional shares shall be entitled to an amount in cash, without interest, rounded to the nearest cent, equal to the product of (A) the amount of the fractional share interest in a share of Parent Common Stock to which such holder is entitled under Section 2.01(c) (or would be entitled but for this Section 2.02(f)) and (B) Fair Market Value. "" means an amount equal to the average of the closing sale prices for the Parent Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. (the "") Composite Transactions Tape (as reported in (Northeastern edition), or if not reported thereby, as reported by any other authoritative source) for each of the ten consecutive trading days ending with the fifth complete trading day prior the Closing Date (not counting the Closing Date).
Fair Market Value
NYSE
The Wall Street Journal
        (3)     As soon as practicable after the determination of the amount of cash, if any, to be paid to holders of Company Common Stock in lieu of any fractional share interests in Parent Common Stock, the Exchange Agent shall make available such amounts, without interest, to the holders of Company Common Stock entitled to receive such cash.
        (g)     Any portion of the Exchange Fund that remains undistributed to the holders of Company Common Stock for one year after the Effective Time shall be delivered to Parent, upon demand, and any holder of Company Common Stock who has not theretofore complied with this Article II shall thereafter look only to Parent for payment of its claim for Merger Consideration and any dividends or distributions with respect to Parent Common Stock as contemplated by Section 2.02(c).
Termination of Exchange Fund.
        (h)     In the event that Parent changes or establishes a record date for changing the number of Parent Common Stock issued and outstanding as a result of a stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization, subdivision, reclassification, combination or similar transaction with respect to the outstanding Parent Common Stock and the record date therefor shall be prior to the Effective Time, the Exchange Ratio applicable to the Merger and any other calculations based on or relating to Parent Common Stock shall be appropriately, equitably and proportionately adjusted in light of such stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization, subdivision, reclassification, combination or similar transaction.
Adjustment of Exchange Ratio.
7
        (i)     None of Parent, Sub, the Surviving Corporation or the Exchange Agent or any of their respective directors, officers, employees or agents shall be liable to any person in respect of any shares of Parent Common Stock (or dividends or distributions with respect thereto) or cash from the Exchange Fund delivered to a public official pursuant to any applicable abandoned property, escheat or similar Law. If any Certificate has not been surrendered prior to five years after the Effective Time (or immediately prior to such earlier date on which Merger Consideration or any dividends or distributions with respect to Parent Common Stock as contemplated by Section 2.02(c) in respect of such Certificate would otherwise escheat to or become the property of any Governmental Entity (as defined in Section 3.05)), any such shares, cash, dividends or distributions in respect of such Certificate shall, to the extent permitted by applicable Law, become the property of the Surviving Corporation, free and clear of all claims or interest of any person previously entitled thereto.
No Liability.
        (j)     The Exchange Agent shall invest any cash included in the Exchange Fund, as directed by Parent, on a daily basis. Any interest and other income resulting from such investments shall be paid to Parent.
Investment of Exchange Fund.
        (k)     If any Certificate has been lost, stolen or destroyed, upon the making of an affidavit of that fact by the person claiming such Certificate to be lost, stolen or destroyed and, if required by Parent or the Exchange Agent, the posting by such person of a bond in such reasonable amount as Parent or the Exchange Agent may direct as indemnity against any claim that may be made against it with respect to such Certificate, the Exchange Agent shall issue in exchange for such lost, stolen or destroyed Certificate, the Merger Consideration and, if applicable, any unpaid dividends and distributions on shares of Company Common Stock deliverable in respect thereof, in each case pursuant to this Agreement.
Lost Certificates.
        (l)     Notwithstanding any provision in this Agreement to the contrary, Parent, Sub and the Company shall cooperate with each other and take all reasonably necessary steps between the date hereof and the Effective Time to determine if any amounts should be withheld or deducted pursuant to the Code or under any provision of any state, county, local or foreign Tax Law, including, without limitation, Section 1445 of the Code, from payments or distributions made pursuant to this Agreement. Each of the parties and the Exchange Agent will be entitled to deduct and withhold from amounts otherwise payable under this Article II any amounts that it is required to deduct and withhold with respect to such payments under any provision of Tax Law. Any amounts so deducted and withheld will be treated for all purposes of this Agreement as having been paid to the person in respect of which such deduction and withholding was made.
Withholding Rights.
8
        Except as set forth in the Company Disclosure Letter (as defined in Section 3.02(a)) (with specific reference to the relevant sections of the representations and warranties or covenants in this Agreement or disclosure in such a way to make its relevance to the information called for by the representations and warranties or covenants readily apparent), the Company represents and warrants to Parent and Sub as follows (each representation or warranty made by the Company relating to a Company Joint Venture (as defined below) that is neither operated nor managed by the Company or a Company Subsidiary (as defined below) shall be deemed made only to the knowledge of the Company):
        SECTION 3.01. . (a)     The Company is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Illinois and has the requisite power and authority to carry on its business as now being conducted.
Organization, Standing and Power
        (b)     Each subsidiary of the Company (each a "") is a corporation or other legal entity duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction in which it is organized and has the requisite power and authority to carry on its business as now being conducted, except where such failure (individually or in the aggregate) has not had and would not reasonably be expected to (i) have a material adverse effect on the business, properties, condition (financial or otherwise) or results of operations of the Company and the Company Subsidiaries, taken as a whole (other than effects to the extent relating to (A) the United States regulated gas and electric utility industries in general to the extent not disproportionately affecting the Company and the Company Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, as compared to other similarly situated companies in the Company's industry, (B) general economic, financial or securities market conditions in the United States or elsewhere to the extent not disproportionately affecting the Company and the Company Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, as compared to other similarly situated companies in the Company's industry, or (C) the commencement, occurrence, or intensification of any war, sabotage, armed hostilities or acts of terrorism that does not directly affect the assets or properties of, or the communities served by, the Company or any Company Subsidiary, (D) fluctuations, in and of themselves, in the price of Company Common Stock, (E) any change in generally accepted accounting principles ("") (or any interpretation thereof) by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (""), the SEC or any other applicable regulatory body, (F) changes in Laws, rules or regulations of any Governmental Entity (as defined in Section 3.05(b)) to the extent not disproportionately affecting the Company and the Company Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, as compared to similarly situated companies in the Company's industry, or (G) the announcement of this Agreement or the consummation of the Transactions) or (ii) have a material adverse effect on or materially delay the Company's ability to perform its obligations under this Agreement (a ""). Each of the Company and each Company Subsidiary is duly qualified or licensed or admitted to do business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which the nature of its business or the ownership, use or leasing of its properties makes such qualification or licensing or admission necessary, other than in such jurisdictions where the failure to be so qualified or licensed or admitted (individually or in the aggregate) has not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect. The Company has made available to Parent true and complete copies of the articles of incorporation of the Company, as amended to the date of this Agreement (as so amended, the "Charter"), and the By-laws of the Company, as amended to the date of this Agreement (as so amended, the ""), and the comparable charter and organizational documents of each Company Subsidiary, in each case as amended through the date of this Agreement. The Company is a public utility holding company but is not subject to regulation as such by the State of Illinois or any other state. Other than The Peoples Gas Light and Coke Company and North Shore Gas Company, each of which is regulated as a public utility in the State of Illinois, none of the Company Subsidiaries is regulated as a public utility or subject to such regulation by any state.
Company Subsidiary
GAAP
FASB
Company Material Adverse Effect
Company
Company By-laws
9
        SECTION 3.02. . (a)     Section 3.02(a) of the letter, dated as of the date of this Agreement, from the Company to Parent (the "Letter") lists each Company Subsidiary and its jurisdiction of organization. All the outstanding shares of each Company Subsidiary have been validly issued and are fully paid and nonassessable and, except as set forth in the Company Disclosure Letter, are owned by the Company, by another Company Subsidiary or by the Company and another Company Subsidiary, free and clear of all pledges, liens, charges, mortgages, encumbrances and security interests of any kind or nature whatsoever (collectively, "").
Company Subsidiaries; Equity Interests
Company Disclosure
Liens
        (b)     Section 3.02(b) of the Company Disclosure Letter sets forth a description as of the date of this Agreement of all Company Joint Ventures, including (A) the name of the project associated with each such Company Joint Venture and (B) a brief description of the principal line or lines of business conducted by each such entity. For purposes of this Agreement:
        (c)     Except for interests in the Company Subsidiaries, the Company Joint Ventures and interests acquired after the date of this Agreement without violating any covenant contained herein, the Company does not directly or indirectly own any shares of capital stock, other voting securities or Equity Interests in any person, in which the fair market value as of the date of this Agreement of such interest individually exceeds $20,000,000.
10
        SECTION 3.03. (a) The authorized capital stock of the Company consists of 60,000,000 shares of Company Common Stock and 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, no par value ("", and together with the Company Common Stock, the ""). At the close of business on June 30, 2006, (i) 38,426,474 shares of Company Common Stock were issued and 38,669,574 shares of Company Common Stock were outstanding and no shares of Company Preferred Stock were issued and outstanding (including 141,785 shares of Company Common Stock issued under a Company Stock Plan (as defined below) that were subject to vesting or other forfeiture restrictions or repurchase conditions (such shares, "")), (ii) 243,100 shares of Company Common Stock were held by the Company in its treasury, (iii) 134,075 shares of Company Common Stock were subject to outstanding rights under a Company Stock Plan to receive such shares contingent upon the achievement of one or more performance goals (such shares, ""), (iv) 90,881 shares of Company Common Stock were subject to outstanding rights under a Company Stock Plan to receive such shares on a deferred basis (such shares, ""), (v) 583,200 shares of Company Common Stock were subject to outstanding stock options to purchase or acquire Company Common Stock (exclusive of rights under the ESPP (as defined below)) ("") granted under the Company Stock Plans, none of which Company Stock Options have been issued since September 30, 2005, (vi) 3,448,092 additional shares of Company Common Stock were reserved and available for issuance pursuant to the Company's 2004 Incentive Compensation Plan, the Company's Directors Stock and Option Plan, the Directors Deferred Compensation Plan (the ""), the Company's Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "") and the Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan (such plans, collectively, the ""). Except as set forth above, at the close of business on June 30, 2006, no shares of capital stock or other voting securities or equity interests of the Company were issued, reserved for issuance or outstanding. The maximum number of shares of Company Common Stock that could be purchased with accumulated payroll deductions under the ESPP at the close of business on November 30, 2006 (assuming the fair market value of a share of Company Common Stock is equal to the product of the Fair Market Value and the Exchange Ratio and payroll deductions continue at the current rate) is 8,000. 33,400 stock appreciation rights linked to the price of Company Common Stock and settleable only in cash ("") are outstanding under a Company Stock Plan, none of which Company SARs have been issued since September 30, 2005. Each outstanding Company Stock Option and Company SAR may, pursuant to its terms, be treated at the Effective Time as set forth in Section 6.04. The exercise price of each Company Stock Option and each Company SAR is no less than the fair market value of a share of Company Common Stock as determined on the date of grant of such Company Stock Option and Company SAR. All outstanding shares of Company Capital Stock (other than Company Restricted Stock) are, and all such shares that may be issued prior to the Effective Time will be when issued, duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable and not subject to or issued in violation of any purchase option, call option, right of first refusal, preemptive right, subscription right or any similar right under any provision of the IBCA, the Company Charter, the Company By-laws or any Contract (as defined in Section 3.05) to which the Company is a party or otherwise bound. There are not any bonds, debentures, notes or other indebtedness of the Company or any Company Subsidiary having the right to vote (or convertible into, or exchangeable for, securities having the right to vote) on any matters on which holders of Company Capital Stock or holders of the capital stock of any Company Subsidiary may vote (""). Except as set forth above, as of the date of this Agreement, there are not any options, warrants, rights, convertible or exchangeable securities, "phantom" stock rights, stock appreciation rights or other stock-based compensation awards, commitments, Contracts, arrangements or undertakings of any kind to which the Company or any Company Subsidiary is a party or by which any of them is bound (i) obligating the Company or any Company Subsidiary to issue, deliver or sell, or cause to be issued, delivered or sold, additional shares of capital stock, other voting securities or other equity interests in, or any security convertible or exercisable for or exchangeable into any shares of capital stock, other voting securities or other equity interests in, the Company or of any Company Subsidiary or any Voting Company Debt, (ii) obligating the Company or any Company Subsidiary to issue, grant, extend or enter into any such option, warrant, call, right, security, commitment, Contract, arrangement or undertaking of any kind (together, "") or (iii) other rights the value of which is in any way based on or derived from, or that give any person the right to receive any economic benefit or right similar to or derived from the economic benefits and rights accruing to holders of Company Capital Stock. As of the date of this Agreement, there are not any outstanding contractual obligations of the Company or any Company Subsidiary to repurchase, redeem or otherwise acquire any shares of capital stock of the Company or any Company Subsidiary.
Capital Structure.
Company Preferred Stock
Company Capital Stock
Company Restricted Stock
Company Performance Shares
Company Deferred Shares
Company Stock Options
DDCP
ESPP
Company Stock Plans
Company SARs
Voting Company Debt
Options
11
        (b)     Neither the Company nor any Company Subsidiary is a party to any voting agreement with respect to the voting of any shares of capital stock or other voting securities or equity interests of the Company or any Company Subsidiary.
        SECTION 3.04. .
Authority; Execution and Delivery; Enforceability
        (a)     The Company has all requisite corporate power and authority to execute and deliver this Agreement and to consummate the Transactions. The execution and delivery by the Company of this Agreement and the consummation by the Company of the Transactions have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of the Company, subject, in the case of the Merger, to receipt of the Company Shareholder Approval (as defined in Section 3.04(c)). The Company has duly executed and delivered this Agreement, and this Agreement constitutes its legal, valid and binding obligation, enforceable against it in accordance with its terms.
        (b)     The Board of Directors of the Company (the ""), at a meeting duly called and held duly and unanimously adopted resolutions (i) approving this Agreement, the Merger and the other Transactions and (ii) recommending that the Company's shareholders approve this Agreement. Such resolutions are sufficient to render inapplicable to Parent and Sub, this Agreement, the Merger and the other Transactions, the provisions of Sections 7.85 and 11.75 of the IBCA. To the Company's knowledge, no other state takeover statute or similar statute or regulation applies or purports to apply to the Company with respect to this Agreement, the Merger or any other Transactions.
Company Board
12
        (c)     The affirmative vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding shares of Company Common Stock entitled to vote thereon (the "") is the only vote of the holders of any class or series of shares or other securities of the Company necessary to approve the Merger, this Agreement and the other Transactions.
Company Shareholder Approval
        SECTION 3.05. (a) The execution and delivery by the Company of this Agreement do not, and the consummation of the Merger and the other Transactions and compliance with the terms hereof will not, conflict with, or result in any violation or breach of or default (with or without notice or lapse of time, or both) under, or give rise to a right of payment or reimbursement, or termination, cancelation, modification or acceleration of any obligation or to loss of a material benefit under, or to increased, additional, accelerated or guaranteed rights or entitlements of any person under, or result in the creation of any Lien upon any of the properties or assets of the Company, any Company Subsidiary or any Company Joint Venture, under any of the terms, conditions or provisions of (i) the Company Charter, the Company By-laws or the comparable charter or organizational documents of any Company Subsidiary, (ii) any contract, lease, license, indenture, note, bond, agreement, permit, concession, franchise or other instrument or legally binding agreement, whether written or oral (a "") to which the Company, any Company Subsidiary or any Company Joint Venture is a party or by which any of their respective properties or assets is bound or (iii) subject to the governmental filings and the obtaining of the Company Shareholder Approval and other matters referred to in Section 3.05(b), any judgment, order, writ or decree ("") or statute, law, duty or obligations created by common law, ordinance, rule or regulation ("") applicable to the Company, any Company Subsidiary or any Company Joint Venture or their respective properties or assets, other than, in the case of clauses (ii) and (iii) above, any such items that, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect (excluding for purposes of this Section 3.05(a) and the application of Section 7.02(a) hereto, clause (i)(G) of the definition of "Company Material Adverse Effect").
No Conflicts; Consents.
Contract
Judgment
Law
        (b)     No consent, approval, license, permit, order or authorization ("") of, or registration, declaration or filing with, or permit (collectively, "") from, any Federal, state, local or foreign government or any court of competent jurisdiction, administrative or regulatory agency or commission or other governmental authority or instrumentality, or any nongovernmental self-regulatory agency, commission or authority, domestic, foreign or supranational (a "") is required to be obtained or made by or with respect to the Company, any Company Subsidiary or any Company Joint Venture in connection with the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement or the consummation of the Transactions, other than (i) compliance with and filings under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended (the ""), (ii) the filing with the SEC of (A) a joint proxy statement relating to the approval of this Agreement and the Merger by the Company's shareholders and the approval of the Share Issuance and the Charter Amendment by Parent's shareholders (as amended or supplemented from time to time, the ""), and (B) such reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the ""), as may be required in connection with this Agreement, the Merger and the other Transactions, (iii) the filing of the Articles of Merger with the Secretary of State of the State of Illinois and appropriate documents with the relevant authorities of the other jurisdictions in which the Company is qualified to do business, (iv) the filing of documents with various state securities authorities that may be required in connection with the Transactions, (v) notifications to the NYSE, (vi) notice to, and the consent and approval of, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (the "") under Section 203 of the Federal Power Act, as amended (the ""), or an order under the Power Act disclaiming jurisdiction over the Transactions, (vii) to the extent required, notice to and the approval of the Illinois Commerce Commission (""), (viii) pre-approvals ("") of license transfers with the Federal Communications Commission (the "") (the items set forth above in clauses (vi) through (viii) collectively the ""), (ix) compliance with and such filings as may be required under applicable Environmental Laws, (x) such filings as may be required in connection with the Taxes described in Section 6.09 and (ix) such other items (A) that may be required under the applicable Law of any foreign country, (B) required solely by reason of the participation of Parent or Sub (as opposed to any third party) in the Transactions or that, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect (excluding for purposes of this Section 3.05(b) and the application of Section 7.02(a) hereto, clause (i)(G) of the definition of "Company Material Adverse Effect").
Consent
Permits
Governmental Entity
HSR Act
Joint Proxy Statement
Exchange Act
FERC
Power Act
ICC
FCC Pre-Approvals
FCC
Company Required Statutory Approvals
13
        SECTION 3.06. . (a)     The Company and the Company Subsidiaries, including each of The Peoples Gas Light and Coke Company and North Shore Gas Company (together, the "" and each a ""), have filed all reports, schedules, forms, registration statements, definitive proxy statements and other documents (together with all amendments thereof and supplements thereto) required to be filed by the Company or any Company Subsidiary with the SEC since October 1, 2004 (the "Documents").
SEC Documents; Undisclosed Liabilities
Company Filing Subsidiaries
Company Filing Subsidiary
Company SEC
        (b)     As of its respective date, each Company SEC Document complied in all material respects with the requirements of the Exchange Act or the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), as the case may be, and the rules and regulations of the SEC promulgated thereunder applicable to such Company SEC Document, and did not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. Except to the extent that information contained in any Company SEC Document has been revised or superseded by a later filed Company SEC Document, none of the Company SEC Documents contains any untrue statement of a material fact or omits to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The consolidated financial statements (including the notes, if any, thereto) of the Company included in the Company SEC Documents comply as to form in all material respects with applicable accounting requirements and the published rules and regulations of the SEC with respect thereto, have been prepared in accordance with GAAP (except, in the case of unaudited statements, as permitted by Form 10-Q of the SEC) as in effect on the respective dates thereof applied on a consistent basis during the periods involved (except as may be indicated in the notes thereto) and fairly present the consolidated financial position of the Company and its consolidated Company Subsidiaries as of the dates thereof and the consolidated results of their operations and cash flows for the periods shown (subject, in the case of unaudited statements, to normal year-end audit adjustments).
Securities Act
14
        (c)     Except as set forth on the most recent audited balance sheet (or in the notes thereto) of the Company included in the Company SEC Documents filed and publicly available prior to the date of this Agreement (the ""), neither the Company nor any Company Subsidiary has any liabilities or obligations of any nature (whether accrued, absolute, contingent or otherwise) required by GAAP to be set forth on a consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its consolidated Company Subsidiaries or in the notes thereto and that, individually or in the aggregate, have had or would reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect.
Filed Company SEC Documents
        (d)     With respect to each Company SEC Document that is a report on Form 10-K or 10-Q or an amendment thereto, each of the principal executive officer and the principal financial officer of the Company (or each former principal executive officer and principal financial officer of Company) has made all certifications required by Rule 13a-14 or 15d-14 under the Exchange Act and Sections 302 and 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ("") and the rules and regulations of the SEC promulgated thereunder. For purposes of the preceding sentence, "principal executive officer" and "principal financial officer" shall have the meanings given to such terms in SOX. Since the effectiveness of SOX, neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has arranged any "extensions of credit" to directors or executive officers within the meaning of Section 402 of SOX. The Company has previously made available to Parent a true and complete copy of any reports by the Company's management to the Company Board or any committee thereof relating to compliance with SOX, as well as the reports of any outside consultant or auditor with respect thereto.
SOX
        (e)     The management of the Company has designed and implemented disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the Exchange Act), or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed and implemented under their supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the Company, including consolidated Company Subsidiaries, is made known to the management of the Company by others within those entities. Since the date of the filing of the Company's most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2006, the Company's outside auditors and the audit committee of the Company Board have not been advised of (i) any significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the Company's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information or (ii) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the Company's internal control over financial reporting. Since September 30, 2005, any material change in internal control over financial reporting required to be disclosed in any Filed Company SEC Document has been so disclosed.
15
        (f)     Since September 30, 2005, (A) neither the Company nor any Company Subsidiary nor, to the knowledge of the Company, any director, officer, employee, auditor, accountant or representative of the Company or any Company Subsidiary has received or otherwise obtained knowledge of any material complaint, allegation, assertion or claim, whether written or oral, regarding the accounting or auditing practices, procedures, methodologies or methods of the Company or any Company Subsidiary or their respective internal accounting controls relating to periods after September 30, 2005, including any material complaint, allegation, assertion or claim that the Company or any Company Subsidiary has engaged in questionable accounting or auditing practices (except for any of the foregoing received after the date of this Agreement which have no reasonable basis), and (B) to the knowledge of the Company, no attorney representing the Company or any Company Subsidiary, whether or not employed by the Company or any Company Subsidiary, has reported evidence of a material violation of securities Laws, breach of fiduciary duty or similar violation, relating to periods after September 30, 2005, by the Company or any of its officers, directors, employees or agents to the Company Board or any committee thereof or to any director or executive officer of the Company.
        (g)     Except for the Company Filing Subsidiaries, none of the Company Subsidiaries is, or has at any time since October 1, 2003 been, subject to the reporting requirements of Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
        (h)     The Company is not and, at the Effective Time, will not be, an "ineligible issuer" as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act.
        SECTION 3.07. None of the information supplied or to be supplied by the Company for inclusion or incorporation by reference in (i) the registration statement on Form S-4 to be filed with the SEC by Parent in connection with the Share Issuance (the "") will, at the time the Form S-4 is filed with the SEC, at any time it is amended or supplemented or at the time it becomes effective under the Securities Act, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, or (ii) the Joint Proxy Statement will, at the date it is first mailed to the Company's shareholders and Parent's shareholders or at the time of the Company Shareholders Meeting (as defined in Section 6.01) or the Parent Shareholders Meeting (as defined in Section 6.01), contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they are made, not misleading. The Joint Proxy Statement will comply as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder, except that no representation is made by the Company with respect to statements made or incorporated by reference therein based on information supplied by Parent or Sub for inclusion or incorporation by reference in the Joint Proxy Statement.
Information Supplied.
Form S-4
16
        SECTION 3.08. From the date of the most recent audited financial statements included in the Filed Company SEC Documents to the date of this Agreement, except to the extent otherwise readily apparent from disclosure in the Filed Company SEC Documents (excluding, in each case, any disclosures set forth in any risk factor section, in any section relating to forward looking statements and any other disclosures included therein to the extent that they are cautionary, predictive or forward looking in nature) (such disclosures the ""), the Company has conducted its business only in the ordinary course, and during such period there has not been:
Absence of Certain Changes or Events.
Applicable Filed Company SEC Disclosures
17
        SECTION 3.09. (a) The Company and each Company Subsidiary have timely filed, or have caused to be timely filed on their behalf, all Tax Returns required to be filed by them, and all such Tax Returns are true, complete and accurate, except to the extent any failure to file or any inaccuracies in any filed Tax Returns, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect. The Company and each Company Subsidiary have paid all Taxes required to be paid by them other than Taxes that are not yet due and payable or that are being contested in good faith in appropriate proceedings, except to the extent that any failure to pay, individually or in the aggregate, has not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect.
Taxes.
        (b)     No deficiency with respect to any Taxes has been proposed, asserted or assessed against the Company or any Company Subsidiary in writing, and no requests for waivers of the time to assess any such Taxes are pending, except to the extent any such deficiency or request for waiver, individually or in the aggregate, has not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect.
        (c)     The U.S. Federal income Tax Returns of the Company and each Company Subsidiary consolidated in such Tax Returns have been examined by and settled with the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the "") or have closed by virtue of the expiration of the relevant statute of limitations, for all years ending on or prior to December 31, 1998. All material assessments for Taxes due with respect to such completed and settled examinations or any concluded litigation have been fully paid.
I.R.S.
18
        (d)     There are no material Liens for Taxes (other than for current Taxes not yet due and payable) on the assets of the Company or any Company Subsidiary, except Liens for Taxes that (i) are being contested in good faith or (ii) have been accrued or otherwise reflected on the most recent audited financial statements in the Filed Company SEC Documents.
        (e)     Neither the Company nor any Company Subsidiary is a party to or is bound by any Tax sharing, allocation or indemnification agreement or arrangement (other than such an agreement or arrangement exclusively between or among the Company and the Company Subsidiaries).
        (f)     Neither the Company nor any Company Subsidiary (A) has been a member of an affiliated group (or similar state, local or foreign filing group) filing a consolidated U.S. Federal income Tax Return (other than the group the common parent of which is the Company) or (B) has any liability for the Taxes of any person (other than the Company or any Company Subsidiary) (1) under Treasury Regulation Section 1.1502-6 (or any similar provision of state, local or foreign Law), or (2) as a transferee or successor.
        (g)     Neither the Company nor any Company Subsidiary was a "distributing corporation" in a transaction intended to be governed by Section 355 of the Code (i) in the two years prior to the date of this Agreement or (ii) in a distribution which could otherwise constitute part of a "plan" or "series of related transactions" (within the meaning of Section 355 of the Code) in conjunction with the Merger.
        (h)     Neither the Company nor any Company Subsidiary has been a party to a transaction that constitutes a "listed transaction", for purposes of Section 6011 of the Code and applicable Treasury Regulations thereunder (or a similar provision of state Law), that is or may be subject to examination by the I.R.S.
        (i)     The Peoples Gas Light and Coke Company is the obligor on $377,000,000 outstanding principal amount of tax-exempt bonds and North Shore Gas Company is the obligor on $29,250,000 outstanding principal amount of tax-exempt bonds. Such $406,250,000 aggregate principal amount of tax-exempt bonds are collectively referred to herein as the "". Each issue consisting of Tax-Exempt Bonds meets, and has at all times since the applicable date of issuance met, all applicable requirements of sections 103 and 141 through 150 of the Code and, as applicable, all comparable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, in order for interest on such Tax-Exempt Bonds to be excludable from gross income under section 103 of the Code. The facility of The Peoples Gas Light and Coke Company and the facility of North Shore Gas Company are operated, and at all times since the date of issuance of any Tax-Exempt Bonds have been operated, as separate "systems" within the meaning of Treas. Reg.  1.103-8(f)(2)(iii)(d).
Tax-Exempt Bonds
        (j)     Neither the Company nor any Company Subsidiary has taken or agreed to take any action or knows of any fact, agreement, plan or other circumstance that is reasonably likely to prevent or impede the Merger from constituting a reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code.
19
        (k)     For purposes of this Agreement:
        "" includes all forms of taxation, whenever created or imposed, and whether of the United States or elsewhere, and whether imposed by any level of government or Governmental Entity, or in connection with any agreement with respect to Taxes, including all interest, surcharges, penalties and additions imposed with respect to such amounts.
Taxes
        "" means all U.S. Federal, state, local, provincial and foreign Tax returns, declarations, statements, reports, schedules, forms and information returns and any amended Tax return relating to Taxes (whether or not payment is required to be made with such filing).
Tax Return
        SECTION 3.10. From the date of the most recent audited financial statements included in the Filed Company SEC Documents to the date of this Agreement, and except as disclosed in the Applicable Filed Company SEC Disclosures, there has not been any establishment, adoption, entering into, amendment or modification in any material respect by the Company or any Company Subsidiary or termination of any collective bargaining agreement or any pension, retirement, profit sharing, deferred compensation, bonus, incentive compensation, stock ownership, stock purchase, stock option, phantom stock or other equity-based compensation, vacation, severance, change in control, disability, death benefit, hospitalization, medical, welfare benefit or other employee benefits plan, program, policy, arrangement or understanding (whether or not legally binding) sponsored, maintained or contributed to, or required to be maintained or contributed to, by the Company or any Company Subsidiary, in each case, providing compensation or benefits to any current or former employees, consultants, officers or directors of the Company, any Company Subsidiary, or any other person or entity that, together with the Company, is treated as a single employer under Section 414(b), (c), (m) or (o) of the Code or with respect to which the Company is otherwise jointly or severally liable under applicable Law (each, a "), but not including any Company Benefit Agreements (collectively, ""). As of the date of this Agreement, except as filed as an exhibit to the Filed Company SEC Documents, there are not any employment, consulting, indemnification, retention, severance, change in control or termination agreements or arrangements between the Company or any Company Subsidiary and any current or former employee, officer or director of the Company or any Company Subsidiary or applicable to any employees of the Company or any Company Subsidiary (collectively, the "").
Absence of Changes in Benefit Plans.
"Company Commonly Controlled Entity
Company Benefit Plans
Company Benefit Agreements
        SECTION 3.11. . (a)     The Company Disclosure Letter contains a list of all "employee pension benefit plans" (as defined in Section 3(2) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ("")) (""), "employee welfare benefit plans" (as defined in Section 3(1) of ERISA) and all other Company Benefit Plans and Company Benefit Agreements. Each Company Benefit Plan has been administered in compliance with its terms and with applicable Law (including, without limitation, ERISA and the Code) and the terms of all applicable collective bargaining agreements in all material respects. The Company has made available to Parent true, complete and correct copies of (i) each Company Benefit Plan (or, in the case of any unwritten Company Benefit Plan, a description thereof) and Company Benefit Agreement, (ii) the most recent annual report on Form 5500 filed with the Internal Revenue Service with respect to each Company Benefit Plan (if any such report was required by applicable Law), (iii) the most recent summary plan description for each Company Benefit Plan for which such summary plan description is required, (iv) each trust agreement and group annuity contract relating to any Company Benefit Plan, (v) the most recent determination letter received from the Internal Revenue Service with respect to each Company Benefit Plan that is intended to be a "qualified" plan under Sections 401(a) and 501(a) of the Code and (vi) the most recently prepared actuarial valuation report and audited financial statements in connection with each Company Benefit Plan for which an actuarial valuation report or audited financial statements were required to be prepared under applicable Law.
ERISA Compliance; Excess Parachute Payments
ERISA
Company Pension Plans
20
        (b)     All Company Pension Plans that are intended to be qualified for Federal income tax purposes have been the subject of determination letters from the Internal Revenue Service to the effect that such Company Pension Plans are qualified and exempt from Federal income taxes under Sections 401(a) and 501(a), respectively, of the Code, and no such determination letter has been revoked nor, to the knowledge of the Company, has revocation been threatened, nor has any such Company Pension Plan been amended, or has failed to have been amended in order to comply with applicable Law, since the date of its most recent determination letter or application therefor in any respect that would adversely affect its qualification or materially increase its costs.
        (c)     None of the Company Pension Plans are subject to Section 302 or Title IV of ERISA or Section 412 of the Code. With respect to the Company, any Company Subsidiary and any other Company Commonly Controlled Entity, there does not exist, nor do any circumstances exist that would reasonably be expected to result in, any Controlled Group Liability that would reasonably be expected to become a liability, at or after the Closing, of the Company, any Company Subsidiary or any other Company Commonly Controlled Entity , in each case except as would not reasonably be expected to result in a Company Material Adverse Effect. For purposes of this Agreement, "" means any and all liabilities (i) under Title IV of ERISA, other than for payment of premiums to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, (ii) under Section 302, 4062, 4063, 4064, 4068 or 4069 of ERISA, (iii) under Section 412(n) or 4971 of the Code and (iv) for violation of the continuation coverage requirements of Sections 601 of ERISA and Section 4980B of the Code or the group health requirements of Sections 701 of ERISA and Sections 9801 of the Code. No Company Pension Plan, other than any Company Pension Plan that is a "multiemployer plan" (as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA (a "")), had, as of the respective last annual valuation date for each such Company Pension Plan, an "unfunded benefit liability" (as defined in Section 4001(a)(18) of ERISA), based on actuarial assumptions that have been furnished to Parent. None of the Company Pension Plans has an "accumulated funding deficiency" (as defined in Section 302 of ERISA or Section 412 of the Code), whether or not waived. None of such Company Benefit Plans or trusts created thereunder has been terminated, nor has there been any "reportable event" (as defined in Section 4043 of ERISA) with respect to any Company Benefit Plan during the last five years and no notice of a reportable event will be required to be filed in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby. None of the Company, any Company Subsidiary or any Company Commonly Controlled Entity has incurred a "complete withdrawal" or a "partial withdrawal" (as defined in Sections 4203 and 4205, respectively, of ERISA) since the effective date of such Sections 4203 and 4205 with respect to any Company Multiemployer Pension Plan.
Controlled Group Liability
et seq.
et seq.
et seq.
Company Multiemployer Pension Plan
21
        (d)     None of the Company, any Company Subsidiary, any Company Commonly Control Entity, any director or officer of the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries or any of the Company Benefit Plans which are subject to ERISA, including the Company Pension Plans, any trusts created thereunder or any trustee or administrator thereof, has engaged in a "prohibited transaction" (as defined in Section 406 of ERISA or Section 4975 of the Code) or any other breach of fiduciary responsibility that could subject the Company, any Company Subsidiary, any Company Commonly Controlled Entity, any director or officer of the Company or any Company Subsidiary to the tax or penalty on prohibited transactions imposed by such Section 4975 or to any liability under Section 502(i) or 502(1) of ERISA.
        (e)     With respect to any Company Benefit Plan that is an employee welfare benefit plan (whether or not subject to ERISA), (i) no such Company Benefit Plan is unfunded, self insured or funded through a "welfare benefits fund" (as defined in Section 419(e) of the Code or any similar state or local law), (ii) each such Company Benefit Plan that is a "group health plan" (as defined in Section 5000(b)(1) of the Code or any similar state or local law), complies with the applicable requirements of Section 4980B(f) of the Code or any similar state or local law, (iii) each such Company Benefit Plan (including any such Plan covering retirees or other former employees) may be amended or terminated without material liability to the Company and the Company Subsidiaries on or at any time after the Effective Time and (iv) no such Company Benefit Plan provides benefits after termination of employment, except where the cost thereof is born entirely by the former employee (or his or her eligible dependents or beneficiaries) or as required by Section 4980B(f) of the Code.
        (f)     No amount that could be received (whether in cash or property or the vesting of property) as a result of the Merger or any other Transaction by any person who is a "disqualified individual" (as defined in Treasury Regulation Section 1.280G-1) with respect to the Company could be characterized as an "excess parachute payment" (as defined in Section 280G(b)(1) of the Code), and no such disqualified individual is entitled to receive any additional payment from the Company or any other person in the event that the excise tax required by Section 4999(a) of the Code is imposed on such disqualified individual.
        (g)     The execution and delivery by the Company of this Agreement do not, and the consummation of the Merger and the other Transactions and compliance with the terms hereof will not (i) entitle any employee, officer or director of the Company or any Company Subsidiary to severance, termination, change in control or similar compensation or benefits, (ii) accelerate the time of payment or vesting or trigger any payment or funding (through a grantor trust or otherwise) of compensation or benefits under, increase the amount payable or trigger any other material obligation pursuant to, or increase the cost of, any Company Benefit Plan or Company Benefit Agreement or otherwise or (iii) result in any breach or violation of, or a default under, any Company Benefit Plan or Company Benefit Agreement.
22
        (h)     No deduction by the Company or any Company Subsidiary in respect of any "applicable employee remuneration" (within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code) has been disallowed or is subject to disallowance by reason of Section 162(m) of the Code.
        SECTION 3.12. As of the date of this Agreement, except as set forth in the Applicable Filed Company SEC Disclosures, there is no suit, action or proceeding pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened against the Company, any Company Subsidiary or any Company Joint Venture that, individually or in the aggregate, has had or would reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect, nor is there any Judgment outstanding against the Company or any Company Subsidiary that has had or would reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect.
Litigation.
        SECTION 3.13. The Company, the Company Subsidiaries and the Company Joint Ventures, except as set forth in the Applicable Filed Company SEC Disclosures, are in compliance with all applicable Laws and Judgments of any Governmental Entity, except for instances of noncompliance that, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect. Except as set forth in the Applicable Filed Company SEC Disclosures, none of the Company, any Company Subsidiary or any Company Joint Venture has received any written communication during the past two years from a Governmental Entity that alleges that the Company, a Company Subsidiary or a Company Joint Venture is not in compliance in any material respect with any applicable Law. This Section 3.13 does not relate to matters with respect to Taxes, ERISA or Environmental Law, which are the subject of Sections 3.09, 3.11 and 3.16, respectively.
Compliance with Applicable Laws.
        SECTION 3.14. No broker, investment banker, financial advisor or other person, other than Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated (""), the fees and expenses of which will be paid by the Company, is entitled to any broker's, finder's, financial advisor's or other similar fee or commission in connection with the Merger and the other Transactions based upon arrangements made by or on behalf of the Company. The Company has furnished to Parent a true and complete copy of all agreements between the Company and Morgan Stanley relating to the Merger and the other Transactions.
Brokers.
Morgan Stanley
23
        SECTION 3.15. The Company has received the opinion of Morgan Stanley, dated the date of this Agreement, to the effect that, as of such date, the Exchange Ratio pursuant to this Agreement is fair from a financial point of view to holders of the Company Common Stock, a signed copy of which opinion will be delivered to Parent for informational purposes only promptly following the date of this Agreement.
Opinion of Financial Advisor.
        SECTION 3.16. (a) Except for such matters set forth in the Applicable Filed Company SEC Disclosures or that, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect:
Environmental Matters.
24
        (b)     As used in this Agreement: (A) "" means any and all administrative, regulatory or judicial actions, suits, orders, demands, directives, claims, liens, investigations, proceedings or notices of noncompliance, liability or violation by or from any person alleging liability (including potential responsibility or liability for enforcement, investigatory costs, cleanup costs, response costs, removal costs, remedial costs, natural resource damages or restoration, property damages, personal injuries or penalties) based on, arising out of, resulting from, or in connection with (y) the presence or Release of, or exposure to, any Hazardous Materials at any location; or (z) the failure to comply with any Environmental Law; (B) "" means all applicable federal, state, local and foreign Laws, Judgments, legally binding agreements or Environmental Permits issued, promulgated or entered into by or with any Governmental Entity, relating to pollution, the presence, Release, manufacture, processing, distribution, use, treatment, storage, disposal, transport, handling of, or exposure to, Hazardous Materials, natural resources or protection of endangered or threatened species, human health or the environment (including ambient air, surface water, groundwater, land surface or subsurface strata); (C) "" means (y) any petroleum or petroleum products, radioactive materials or wastes, asbestos in any form, and polychlorinated biphenyls; and (z) any other chemical, material, substance or waste that in relevant form or concentration is prohibited, limited or regulated under any Environmental Law; and (D) "" means any actual or threatened release, spill, emission, leaking, dumping, injection, pouring, deposit, disposal, discharge, dispersal, leaching or migration into or through the environment (including ambient air, surface water, groundwater, land surface or subsurface strata) or within any building, structure, facility or fixture.
Environmental Claim
Environmental Laws
Hazardous Materials
Release
        SECTION 3.17. As of the date of this Agreement, since January 1, 2004 and except as disclosed in the Applicable Filed Company SEC Disclosures, there has not been any (i) labor dispute, strike, work stoppage or lockout or, to the knowledge of the Company, threat thereof, by or with respect to any employee of the Company or any Company Subsidiary, or (ii) unfair labor practice charge or complaint against the Company or any Company Subsidiary pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened before the National Labor Relations Board or any other comparable Governmental Entity. As of the date of this Agreement, since January 1, 2004, there has not been any demand for recognition by any labor organization or petition for election pending with the National Labor Relations Board or any other comparable Governmental Entity, and to the knowledge of the Company, there has been no effort by any labor organization to organize any employees of the Company or any Company Subsidiary into one or more collective bargaining units. As of the date of this Agreement, no discussions or negotiations with any labor organizations are taking place, or are expected to take place prior to the Closing, with respect to the Company or any Company Subsidiary entering into a new collective bargaining agreement or an amendment, modification, renewal or extension of an existing collective bargaining agreement. Schedule 3.17 of the Company Disclosure Letter sets forth the expiration date of each collective bargaining agreement to which the Company or any Company Subsidiary is a party.
Labor Matters.
25
        SECTION 3.18. . (a) As of the date of this Agreement, there are no Contracts to which the Company or any Company Subsidiary is a party, or by which any of them is bound, which are or would be required to be filed or listed as an exhibit to the Company SEC Documents (any Contracts so filed or listed or required to be so filed or listed collectively, together with any Company Non-Compete Contracts, the "") which have not been so filed or listed. There are no Contracts to which the Company or any Company Subsidiary is a party or by which they are bound which contain provisions restricting or limiting the Company's or any Company Subsidiary's ability to compete or otherwise engage in specified lines of business, in any material respect (each, a "") and, except for Contracts and dealings incident to such person's position as a director, officer or employee of the Company, there are no material Contracts or material business dealings between the Company, on the one hand, and any director, officer or employee of the Company or any entity of which any such Company director, officer or employee serves as a senior officer or director, on the other.
Contracts
Company Material Contracts
Company Non-Compete Contract
        (b)     Neither the Company nor any Company Subsidiary is in default under any Company Material Contract, and there has not occurred any event that, with the giving of notice or the lapse of time or both, would constitute such a default by the Company or any Company Subsidiary or, to the knowledge of the Company, a default thereunder by any other party thereto, except for any such defaults that individually or in the aggregate have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect.
        SECTION 3.19. (a) Each of the Company and the Company Subsidiaries has good and marketable title to, or valid leasehold interests in, all of its properties and assets except for such as are no longer used or useful in the conduct of its business or as have been disposed of in the ordinary course of business and except for defects in title, easements, restrictive covenants and similar encumbrances that individually or in the aggregate have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect. All such properties and assets, other than properties and assets in which the Company or any Company Subsidiary has a leasehold interest, are free and clear of all Liens, except for Liens that individually or in the aggregate have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect.
Title to Property.
26
        (b)     Each of the Company and the Company Subsidiaries has complied with the terms of all leases to which it is a party and under which it is in occupancy, and all such leases are in full force and effect, except for such matters that individually or in the aggregate have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect. The Company and the Company Subsidiaries enjoy peaceful and undisturbed possession under all such leases, except for failures to do so that individually or in the aggregate have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect.
        SECTION 3.20. The Company and the Company Subsidiaries own, or are validly licensed or otherwise have the right to use, all patents, patent rights, trademarks, trademark rights, trade names, trade name rights, service marks, service mark rights, copyrights and other proprietary intellectual property rights and computer programs (collectively, "") except as has not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect. No claims are pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened that the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries is infringing or otherwise adversely affecting the rights of any person with regard to any Intellectual Property Right except as has not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect. To the knowledge of the Company, no person is infringing the rights of the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries with respect to any Intellectual Property Right except as has not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect.
Intellectual Property.
Intellectual Property Rights
        SECTION 3.21. The Company has established risk parameters, limits and guidelines in compliance with the risk management policy approved by the Company Board (the "") to restrict the level of risk that the Company and the Company Subsidiaries are authorized to take with respect to, among other things, the net position resulting from all physical commodity transactions, exchange-traded futures and options transactions, over-the-counter transactions and derivatives thereof and similar transactions (the "") and monitors compliance by the Company and the Company Subsidiaries with such Company Trading Guidelines. The Company has provided a copy of the Company Trading Guidelines to Parent prior to the date of this Agreement. At no time between March 31, 2006 and the date hereof, (i) has the Net Company Position not been within the risk parameters in all material respects that are set forth in the Company Trading Guidelines, or (ii) has the exposure of the Company and the Company Subsidiaries with respect to the Net Company Position resulting from all such transactions been material to the Company and the Company Subsidiaries taken as a whole. From March 31, 2006 to the date hereof, the Company and the Company Subsidiaries have not, in accordance with generally recognized mark to market accounting policies, experienced an aggregate net loss in its trading and related operations that would be material to the Company and the Company Subsidiaries taken as a whole.
Trading.
Company Trading Guidelines
Net Company Position
27
        SECTION 3.22. (a) Except as set forth in the Applicable Filed Company SEC Disclosures, other than purchase gas adjustment, environmental cost recovery or similar adjusting rate mechanisms or as otherwise permitted under the terms of this Agreement, none of the Company or the Company Subsidiaries all or part of whose rates or services are regulated by a Governmental Entity (i) is a party to any rate proceeding before a Governmental Entity that would reasonably be expected to result in orders having a Company Material Adverse Effect or (ii) other than pursuant to the Settlement Agreement, has rates that have been or are being collected subject to refund, pending final resolution of any rate proceeding pending before a Governmental Entity or on appeal to a court. As of the date hereof, the Settlement Agreement is final and is in full force and effect, subject to future ICC processes or actions, and there are no agreements or understandings with the ICC or the Illinois Attorney General or their respective staffs or any other party to the Settlement Agreement concerning the matters that are the subject of the Settlement Agreement that are not disclosed in the Settlement Agreement. The Company has made available to Parent the Settlement Agreement and as of the date hereof, such agreement has not been amended, modified or supplemented in any way, and no portion of, annexes or exhibits to, or documents otherwise constituting a part of such agreement has been omitted from the Settlement Agreement made available to Parent.
Regulatory Proceedings.
        "" means the Settlement Agreement and Release, dated January 17, 2006, among and between Peoples Energy Corporation, The Peoples Gas Light and Coke Company, Peoples MW, LLC, Peoples Energy Resources Company, LLC and North Shore Gas Company, the People of the State of Illinois through Lisa Madigan, Illinois Attorney General, the City of Chicago and the Citizen's Utility Board, as amended by an Amended and Addendum dated March 6, 2006.
Settlement Agreement
        (b)     All filings required to be made by the Company or any Company Subsidiaries since January 1, 2002, under the Power Act, the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, as amended (the ""), and applicable state Laws and regulations, have been filed with the SEC, the FERC, the Department of Energy (the ""), or any applicable state public utility commissions (including, to the extent required the ICC), as the case may be, including all forms, statements, reports, agreements (oral or written) and all documents, exhibits, amendments and supplements pertaining thereto, including all rates, tariffs, franchises, service agreements and related documents, and all such filings complied, as of their respective dates, with all applicable requirements of the applicable statute and the rules and regulations thereunder, except for filings the failure of which to make or the failure of which to make in compliance with all applicable requirements of the applicable statute and the rules and regulations thereunder, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect.
1935 Act
DOE
        SECTION 3.23. Neither the Company nor any of the Company Subsidiaries or other affiliates beneficially owns (as such term is defined for purposes of Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act) any shares of Parent Common Stock or any other class or series of Parent Capital Stock.
Ownership of Parent Common Stock.
28
        SECTION 3.24. . (a) The Company has furnished to Parent true and complete copies of the most recent reports estimating the proved oil and gas reserves of Peoples Energy Production Company (the "") with respect to the E&P Sub's Will-Drill Properties, Gulf Coast Properties, Texas and Louisiana Properties, New Mexico and North Dakota Properties and South Texas Properties, as prepared by the respective independent petroleum engineering firms named therein (collectively, the ""). The factual, non-interpretive data on which the Company Reserve Reports were based for purposes of estimating the oil and gas reserves set forth in the Company Reserve Reports was accurate in all material respects. The oil and gas properties described in the Company Reserve Reports (the "") are the E&P Sub's only material properties and assets.
Oil and Gas Matters
E&P Sub
Company Reserve Reports
Oil and Gas Properties
        (b)     All operated producing oil and gas wells included in the Company Reserve Reports have been operated and produced and, to the knowledge of the Company, drilled, in accordance with generally accepted oil and gas field practices, except where failures to operate, produce and drill in accordance with such practices, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect.
        (c)     All proceeds from the sale of crude oil, natural gas liquids and other hydrocarbons produced from crude oil and natural gas ("") produced from the Oil and Gas Properties are being received by the E&P Sub in a timely manner and are not being held in suspense for any reason, except where failures to receive such proceeds or the holding in suspense of such proceeds, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect.
Hydrocarbons
        (d)     The E&P Sub has not received any advance, take-or-pay or other similar payments that entitle purchasers of production to receive deliveries of Hydrocarbons without paying therefor, and, on a net, company-wide basis, the E&P Sub is neither underproduced nor overproduced, in either case, under gas balancing or similar arrangements, except where receipt of such payments entitling purchasers to receive deliveries without paying therefor or the E&P Sub being underproduced or overproduced under gas balancing or similar arrangements, individually or in the aggregate, has not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect.
        (e)     The oil and gas leases and other agreements (collectively, the "") that provide the E&P Sub with operating rights in the Oil and Gas Properties are legal, valid and binding and in full force and effect, and the rentals, royalties and other payments due thereunder have been properly and timely paid and there is no existing default, breach or violation (or event that, with notice or lapse of time or both, would become a default, breach or violation) under any Oil and Gas Agreement, except where failure to be legal, valid and binding and in full force and effect and such defaults, breaches and violations, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect.
Oil and Gas Agreements
        (f)     No claim, notice or order from any Governmental Entity or other person has been received by the Company or the E&P Sub, or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened against the E&P Sub, due to Hydrocarbons production in excess of allowables or similar violations that could result in curtailment of production from any unit or oil and gas properties of the E&P Sub, except any such violations that, individually or in the aggregate, has not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect.
29
        Except as set forth in the Parent Disclosure Letter (with specific reference to the relevant sections of the representations and warranties or covenants in this Agreement or disclosure in such a way to make its relevance to the information called for by the representations and warranties or covenants readily apparent), Parent represents and warrants to the Company as follows (each representation or warranty made by Parent relating to a Parent Joint Venture (as defined below) that is neither operated nor managed by Parent or a Parent Subsidiary (as defined below) shall be deemed made only to the knowledge of the Parent):
        SECTION 4.01. . (a)     Parent is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Wisconsin.
Organization, Standing and Power
        (b)     Each subsidiary of Parent (each a "") is a corporation or other legal entity duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction in which it is organized and has the requisite power and authority to carry on its business as now being conducted, except where such failure (individually or in the aggregate) has not had and would not reasonably be expected to (i) have a material adverse effect on the business, properties, condition (financial or otherwise) or results of operations of Parent and the Parent Subsidiaries, taken as a whole (other than effects to the extent relating to (A) the United States regulated gas and electric utility industries in general to the extent not disproportionately affecting Parent and the Parent Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, as compared to other similarly situated companies in Parent's industry, (B) general economic, financial or securities market conditions in the United States or elsewhere to the extent not disproportionately affecting Parent and the Parent Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, as compared to other similarly situated companies in Parent's industry, or (C) the commencement, occurrence, or intensification of any war, sabotage, armed hostilities or acts of terrorism that does not directly affect the assets or properties of, or the communities served by, Parent or any Parent Subsidiary, (D) fluctuations, in and of themselves, in the price of Parent Common Stock, (E) any change in GAAP (or any interpretation thereof) by FASB, the SEC or any other applicable regulatory body, (F) changes in Laws, rules or the regulations of any Governmental Entity to the extent not disproportionately affecting Parent and the Parent Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, as compared to other similarly situated companies in Parent's industry or (G) the announcement of this Agreement or the consummation of the Transactions) or (ii) have a material adverse effect on or materially delay Parent's ability to perform its obligations under this Agreement (a ""). Each of Parent and each Parent Subsidiary is duly qualified or licensed or admitted to do business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which the nature of its business or the ownership, use or leasing of its properties makes such qualification or licensing or admission necessary, other than in such jurisdictions where the failure to be so qualified or licensed or admitted (individually or in the aggregate) has not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Parent Material Adverse Effect. Parent has made available to the Company true and complete copies of the articles of incorporation of Parent, as amended to the date of this Agreement (as so amended, the ""), and the By-laws of Parent, as amended to the date of this Agreement (as so amended, the ""), and the comparable charter and organizational documents of Sub and each other Parent Subsidiary, in each case as amended through the date of this Agreement. Parent is regulated as a public utility holding company in the State of Wisconsin and is not subject to regulation as such by any other state. Other than (i) Michigan Gas Utilities Corporation, which is a regulated public utility in the State of Michigan, (ii) Upper Peninsula Power Company which is a regulated public utility in the State of Michigan, (iii) Wisconsin Public Service Corporation, which is a regulated public utility in the State of Wisconsin and the State of Michigan, (iv) Minnesota Energy Resources Corporation, which is a regulated public utility in the state of Minnesota and (v) Wisconsin River Power Company, which is a regulated public utility in the State of Wisconsin, none of the Parent Subsidiaries is regulated as a public utility or subject to such regulation by any state.
Parent Subsidiary
Parent Material Adverse Effect
Parent Charter
Parent By-laws
30
        SECTION 4.02. (a)     Section 4.02(a) of the letter, dated as of the date of this Agreement, from Parent to the Company (the "") lists each Parent Subsidiary and its jurisdiction of organization. All the outstanding shares of each Parent Subsidiary have been validly issued and are fully paid and nonassessable (except as provided in Section 180.0622(2)(b) of the Wisconsin Business Corporation Law (the "")) and, except as set forth in Parent Disclosure Letter, are owned by Parent, by another Parent Subsidiary or by Parent and another Parent Subsidiary, free and clear of all Liens.
Parent Subsidiaries; Equity Interests.
Parent Disclosure Letter
WBCL
        (b)     Section 4.02(b) of the Parent Disclosure Letter sets forth a description as of the date of this Agreement of all Parent Joint Ventures, including (A) the name of the project associated with each such Parent Joint Venture and (B) a brief description of the principal line or lines of business conducted by each such entity. For purposes of this Agreement:
        (c)     Except for interests in the Parent Subsidiaries, the Parent Joint Ventures and interests acquired after the date of this Agreement without violating any covenant contained herein, Parent does not directly or indirectly own any shares of capital stock, other voting securities or Equity Interests in any person, in which the fair market value as of the date of this Agreement of such interest individually exceeds $20,000,000.
31
        (d)     Since the date of its incorporation, Sub has not carried on any business or conducted any operations other than the execution of this Agreement, the performance of its obligations hereunder and matters ancillary thereto.
        SECTION 4.03. (a) The authorized shares of Parent consists of 200 million shares of Parent Common Stock. At the close of business on June 30, 2006, (i) 43,110,346 shares of Parent Common Stock were issued and outstanding, (ii) 12,000 shares of Parent Common Stock were held by Parent in its treasury, (iii) 175,915 shares of Parent Common Stock were subject to outstanding rights under a Parent Stock Plan to receive such shares contingent upon the achievement of one or more performance goals (such shares, ""), (iv) 1,675,767 shares of Parent Common Stock were subject to outstanding stock options to purchase or acquire Parent Common Stock ("") granted under the Parent Stock Plans, (v) 2,800,280 additional shares of Parent Common Stock were reserved and available for issuance pursuant to Parent's 2005 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan, Parent's Deferred Compensation Plan, Parent's 2001 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan, Wisconsin Public Service Corporation Employee Stock Ownership Plan, Parent's 1999 Stock Option Plan, Parent's 1999 Non-Employee Directors Stock Option Plan and Parent's Stock Investment Plan (such plans, collectively, the ""), and (vi) 46,177,163 shares of Parent Common Stock were reserved for issuance in connection with the rights (the "") issued pursuant to the Rights Agreement dated as of December 12, 1996 (as amended from time to time, the ""), between Parent and American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, as Rights Agent. Except as set forth above, at the close of business on June 30, 2006, no shares of capital stock or other voting securities or equity interests of Parent were issued, reserved for issuance or outstanding. All outstanding shares of Parent Common Stock are, and all such shares that may be issued prior to the Effective Time will be when issued, duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable (except for statutory liability under Section 180.0622(2)(b) of the WBCL for unpaid employee wages) and not subject to or issued in violation of any purchase option, call option, right of first refusal, preemptive right, subscription right or any similar right under any provision of the WBCL, the Parent Charter, the Parent By-laws or any Contract to which Parent is a party or otherwise bound. There are not any bonds, debentures, notes or other indebtedness of Parent or any Parent Subsidiary having the right to vote (or convertible into, or exchangeable for, securities having the right to vote) on any matters on which holders of Parent Common Stock or holders of the capital stock of any Parent Subsidiary may vote (""). Except as set forth above, as of the date of this Agreement, there are not any options, warrants, rights, convertible or exchangeable securities, "phantom" stock rights, stock appreciation rights or other stock-based compensation awards, commitments, Contracts, arrangements or undertakings of any kind to which Parent or any Parent Subsidiary is a party or by which any of them is bound (i) obligating Parent or any Parent Subsidiary to issue, deliver or sell, or cause to be issued, delivered or sold, additional shares of capital stock, other voting securities or other equity interests in, or any security convertible or exercisable for or exchangeable into any shares of capital stock, other voting securities or other equity interests in Parent or of any Parent Subsidiary or any Voting Parent Debt, (ii) obligating Parent or any Parent Subsidiary to issue, grant, extend or enter into any Option or (iii) other rights the value of which is in any way based on or derived from, or that give any person the right to receive any economic benefit or right similar to or derived from the economic benefits and rights accruing to holders of Parent Common Stock. As of the date of this Agreement, there are not any outstanding contractual obligations of Parent or any Parent Subsidiary to repurchase, redeem or otherwise acquire any shares of capital stock of Parent or any Parent Subsidiary. Parent has delivered to the Company a complete and correct copy of the Parent Rights Agreement as amended to the date of this Agreement.
Capital Structure.
Parent Performance Shares
Parent Stock Options
Parent Stock Plans
Parent Rights
Parent Rights Agreement
Voting Parent Debt
32
        (b)     The authorized capital stock of Sub consists of 1,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, all of which have been validly issued, are fully paid and nonassessable and are owned by Parent free and clear of any Lien.
        SECTION 4.04. . (a)     Each of Parent and Sub has all requisite corporate power and authority to execute and deliver this Agreement and to consummate the Transactions. The execution and delivery by each of Parent and Sub of this Agreement and the consummation by each of them of the Transactions have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of Parent and Sub, subject in the case of the Share Issuance and the Charter Amendment to receipt of the Parent Shareholder Approval (as defined in Section 4.04(c)). Parent, as sole shareholder of Sub, has approved this Agreement. Each of Parent and Sub has duly executed and delivered this Agreement, and this Agreement constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation, enforceable against each of them in accordance with its terms.
Authority; Execution and Delivery; Enforceability
        (b)     The Board of Directors of Parent (the ""), at a meeting duly called and held duly and unanimously adopted resolutions (i) approving this Agreement, the Merger, the Share Issuance and the other Transactions (other than the Charter Amendment )and (ii) recommending that Parent's shareholders approve the Share Issuance. The Parent Board will adopt resolutions approving the Charter Amendment and recommending that Parent's shareholders approve the Charter Amendment promptly after a new name for Parent has been determined pursuant to Section 1.08.
Parent Board
        (c)     The affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the shares of Parent Common Stock represented at the Parent Shareholder Meeting and entitled to vote thereon approving the Share Issuance and the Charter Amendment, provided that a majority of the shares of the outstanding Parent Common Stock is present and votes on such proposals at the Parent Shareholder Meeting (the ""), is the only vote of the holders of any class or series of shares or other securities of Parent necessary to approve the Merger, this Agreement, the Share Issuance, the Charter Amendment and the other Transactions.
Parent Shareholder Approval
        SECTION 4.05. (a) The execution and delivery by each of Parent and Sub of this Agreement, do not, and the consummation of the Merger, the Share Issuance, the Charter Amendment and the other Transactions and compliance with the terms hereof will not, conflict with, or result in any violation or breach of or default (with or without notice or lapse of time, or both) under, or give rise to a right of payment or reimbursement or termination, cancelation, modification or acceleration of any obligation or to loss of a material benefit under, or to increased, additional, accelerated or guaranteed rights or entitlements of any person under, or result in the creation of any Lien upon any of the properties or assets of Parent, any Parent Subsidiary or any Parent Joint Venture under, any of the terms, conditions or provisions of (i) the Parent Charter, the Parent By-laws or the comparable charter or organizational documents of any Parent Subsidiary (subject to the approval, filing and effectiveness of the Charter Amendment), (ii) any Contract to which Parent, Parent Subsidiary or any Parent Joint Venture is a party or by which any of their respective properties or assets is bound or (iii) subject to the governmental filings and the obtaining of the Parent Shareholder Approval and other matters referred to in Section 4.05(b), any Judgment or Law applicable to Parent, any Parent subsidiary or any Parent Joint Venture or their respective properties or assets, other than, in the case of clauses (ii) and (iii) above, any such items that, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Parent Material Adverse Effect (excluding for purposes of this Section 4.05(a) and the application of Section 7.03(a) hereto, clause (i)(G) of the definition of "Parent Material Adverse Effect").
No Conflicts; Consents.
33
        (b)     No Consent of, or registration, declaration or filing with, or permit from, any Governmental Entity is required to be obtained or made by or with respect to Parent, Parent Subsidiary or any Parent Joint Venture in connection with the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement or the consummation of the Transactions, other than (i) compliance with and filings under the HSR Act, (ii) the filing with the SEC of (A) the Form S-4 and the Joint Proxy Statement and (B) such reports under the Exchange Act, as may be required in connection with this Agreement, the Merger and the other Transactions, (iii) the filing of the Articles of Merger with the Secretary of State of the State of Illinois and the Charter Amendment with the Wisconsin Department of Financial Institutions, (iv) the filing of documents with various state securities authorities that may be required in connection with the Transactions, (v) such filings with and approvals of the NYSE to permit the shares of Parent Common Stock that are to be issued pursuant to Article II to be listed on the NYSE, (vi) notice to, and the consent and approval of, FERC under Section 203 of the Power Act, or an order under the Power Act disclaiming jurisdiction over the Transactions, (vii) to the extent required, or, in Parent's sole discretion, advisable in response to an assertion of jurisdiction by the Public Service Commission of Wisconsin (the ""), the Michigan Public Service Commission (the "") or the Minnesota Public Utilities Commission (""), notice to and the approval of the PSCW, the MPSC and the MPUC and notice to and the approval of the ICC, (viii) the FCC Pre-Approvals (the items set forth above in clauses (vi) through (viii) collectively the ""), (ix) compliance with and such filings as may be required under applicable Environmental Laws, (x) such filings as may be required in connection with the Taxes described in Section 6.09 and (xi) such other items (A) that may be required under the applicable Law of any foreign country, (B) required solely by reason of the participation of the Company (as opposed to any third party) in the Transactions or (C) that, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Parent Material Adverse Effect (excluding for purposes of this Section 4.05(b) and the application of Section 7.03(a) hereto, clause (i)(G) of the definition of "Parent Material Adverse Effect").
PSCW
MPSC
MPUC
Parent Required Statutory Approvals
34
        (c)     Parent and the Parent Board have taken all action necessary to (i) render the Parent Rights inapplicable to this Agreement, the Merger, the Share Issuance and the other Transactions and (ii) ensure that (A) neither the Company nor any of its affiliates or associates is or will become an "Acquiring Person" (as defined in the Parent Rights Agreement) by reason of this Agreement, the Merger, the Share Issuance or any other Transaction, and (B) assuming no material change in the current ownership of Company Common Stock prior to the Effective Time, a "Distribution Date" (as defined in the Parent Rights Agreement) shall not occur by reason of this Agreement, the Merger, the Share Issuance or any other Transaction.
        SECTION 4.06. (a) Parent and the Parent Subsidiaries have filed all reports, schedules, forms, registration statements, definitive proxy statements, and other documents (together with all amendments thereof and supplements thereto) required to be filed by Parent and the Parent Subsidiaries with the SEC since January 1, 2005 (the "").
SEC Documents; Undisclosed Liabilities.
Parent SEC Documents
        (b)     As of its respective date, each Parent SEC Document complied in all material respects with the requirements of the Exchange Act or the Securities Act, as the case may be, and did not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. Except to the extent that information contained in any Parent SEC Document has been revised or superseded by a later filed Parent SEC Document, none of the Parent SEC Documents contains any untrue statement of a material fact or omits to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The consolidated financial statements (including the notes, if any, thereto) of Parent included in the Parent SEC Documents comply as to form in all material respects with applicable accounting requirements and the published rules and regulations of the SEC with respect thereto, have been prepared in accordance with GAAP (except, in the case of unaudited statements, as permitted by Form 10-Q of the SEC) as in effect on the respective dates thereof applied on a consistent basis during the periods involved (except as may be indicated in the notes thereto) and fairly present the consolidated financial position of Parent and its consolidated Parent Subsidiaries as of the dates thereof and the consolidated results of their operations and cash flows for the periods shown (subject, in the case of unaudited statements, to normal year-end audit adjustments).
        (c)     Except as set forth on the most recent audited balance sheet (or in the notes thereto) of Parent included in the Parent SEC Documents filed and publicly available prior to the date of this Agreement (the ""), neither Parent nor any Parent Subsidiary has any liabilities or obligations of any nature (whether accrued, absolute, contingent or otherwise) required by GAAP to be set forth on a consolidated balance sheet of Parent and its consolidated Parent Subsidiaries or in the notes thereto and that, individually or in the aggregate, have had or would reasonably be expected to have a Parent Material Adverse Effect.
Filed Parent SEC Documents
35
        (d)     With respect to each Parent SEC Document that is a report on Form 10-K or 10-Q or an amendment thereto, each of the principal executive officer and the principal financial officer of Parent or each former principal executive officer and principal financial officer of Parent) has made all certifications required by Rule 13a-14 or 15d-14 under the Exchange Act and Sections 302 and 906 of SOX and the rules and regulations of the SEC promulgated thereunder. For purposes of the preceding sentence, "principal executive officer" and "principal financial officer" shall have the meanings given to such terms in SOX. Since the effectiveness of SOX, neither Parent nor any of its subsidiaries has arranged any "extensions of credit" to directors or executive officers within the meaning of Section 402 of SOX. Parent has previously made available to the Company a true and complete copy of any reports by Parent's management to the Parent Board or any committee thereof relating to compliance with SOX, as well as the reports of any outside consultant or auditor with respect thereto.
        (e)     The management of Parent has designed and implemented disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the Exchange Act), or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed and implemented under their supervision, to ensure that material information relating to Parent, including consolidated Parent Subsidiaries, is made known to the management of Parent by others within those entities. Since the date of the filing of the Parent's most recent quarterly report on Form 10 Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2006, Parent's outside auditors and the audit committee of the Parent Board have not been advised of (i) any significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect Parent's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information and (ii) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in Parent's internal control over financial reporting. Since December 31, 2005, any material change in internal control over financial reporting required to be disclosed in any Filed Parent SEC Document has been so disclosed.
        (f)     Since December 31, 2005, (A) neither Parent nor any Parent Subsidiary nor, to the knowledge of Parent, any director, officer, employee, auditor, accountant or representative of Parent or any Parent Subsidiary has received or otherwise obtained knowledge of any material complaint, allegation, assertion or claim, whether written or oral, regarding the accounting or auditing practices, procedures, methodologies or methods of Parent or any Parent Subsidiary or their respective internal accounting controls relating to periods after December 31, 2005, including any material complaint, allegation, assertion or claim that Parent or any Parent Subsidiary has engaged in questionable accounting or auditing practices (except for any of the foregoing received after the date of this Agreement which have no reasonable basis), and (B) to the knowledge of Parent, no attorney representing Parent or any Parent Subsidiary, whether or not employed by Parent or any Parent Subsidiary, has reported evidence of a material violation of securities Laws, breach of fiduciary duty or similar violation, relating to periods after December 31, 2005, by Parent or any of its officers, directors, employees or agents to the Parent Board or any committee thereof or to any director or executive officer of Parent.
        (g)     Except for Wisconsin Public Service Corporation, none of the Parent Subsidiaries is, or has at any time since January 1, 2004 been, subject to the reporting requirements of Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
        (h)     Parent is not and, at the Effective Time, will not be, an "ineligible issuer" as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act.
        SECTION 4.07. None of the information supplied or to be supplied by Parent or Sub for inclusion or incorporation by reference in (i) the Form S-4 will, at the time the Form S-4 is filed with the SEC, at any time it is amended or supplemented or at the time it becomes effective under the Securities Act, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, or (ii) the Joint Proxy Statement will, at the date it is first mailed to the Company's shareholders and Parent's shareholders or at the time of the Company Shareholders Meeting or the Parent Shareholders Meeting, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they are made, not misleading. The Form S-4 and the Joint Proxy Statement will comply as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act, as applicable, and the rules and regulations thereunder, except that no representation is made by Parent or Sub with respect to statements made or incorporated by reference therein based on information supplied by the Company for inclusion or incorporation by reference in the Form S-4 or the Joint Proxy Statement, as the case may be.
Information Supplied.
        SECTION 4.08. (a) From the date of the most recent audited financial statements included in the Filed Parent SEC Documents to the date of this Agreement, except to the extent otherwise readily apparent from disclosure in the Filed Parent SEC Documents (excluding, in each case, any disclosures set forth in any risk factor section, in any section relating to forward looking statements and any other disclosures included therein to the extent that they are cautionary, predictive or forward looking in nature) (such disclosures the ""). Parent has conducted its business only in the ordinary course, and during such period there has not been:
Absence of Certain Changes or Events.
Applicable Filed Parent SEC Disclosures
37
        (b)     Since the date of its incorporation, Sub has not carried on any business or conducted any operations other than the execution of this Agreement, the performance of its obligations hereunder and matters ancillary thereto.
        SECTION 4.09. (a)    Parent and each Parent Subsidiary have timely filed, or have caused to be timely filed on their behalf, all Tax Returns required to be filed by them, and all such Tax Returns are true, complete and accurate, except to the extent any failure to file or any inaccuracies in any filed Tax Returns, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Parent Material Adverse Effect. Parent and each Parent Subsidiary have paid all Taxes required to be paid by them other than Taxes that are not yet due and payable or that are being contested in good faith in appropriate proceedings, except to the extent that any failure to pay, individually or in the aggregate, has not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Parent Material Adverse Effect.
Taxes.
38
        (b)     No deficiency with respect to any Taxes has been proposed, asserted or assessed against Parent or any Parent Subsidiary in writing, and no requests for waivers of the time to assess any such Taxes are pending, except to the extent any such deficiency or request for waiver, individually or in the aggregate, has not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Parent Material Adverse Effect.
        (c)     The U.S. Federal income Tax Returns of Parent and each Parent Subsidiary consolidated in such Tax Returns have been examined by and settled with the I.R.S., or have closed by virtue of the expiration of the relevant statute of limitations, for all years ending on or prior to December 31, 2003. All material assessments for Taxes due with respect to such completed and settled examinations or any concluded litigation have been fully paid.
        (d)     There are no material Liens for Taxes (other than for current Taxes not yet due and payable) on the assets of Parent or any Parent Subsidiary except Liens for Taxes that (i) are being contested in good faith or (ii) have been accrued or otherwise reflected on the most recent audited financial statements included in the Filed Parent SEC Documents.
        (e)     Neither Parent nor any Parent Subsidiary is a party to or is bound by Tax sharing, allocation or indemnification agreement or arrangement (other than such an agreement or arrangement exclusively between or among the Parent and the Parent Subsidiaries).
        (f)     Neither Parent nor any Parent Subsidiary (A) has been a member of an affiliated group (or similar state, local or foreign filing group) filing a consolidated U.S. Federal income Tax Return (other than the group the common parent of which is Parent) or (B) has any liability for the Taxes of any person (other than Parent or any of its subsidiaries) (1) under Treasury Regulation Section 1.1502-6 (or any similar provision of state, local or foreign Law), or (2) as a transferee or successor.
        (g)     neither Parent nor any Parent Subsidiary was a "distributing corporation" in a transaction intended to be governed by Section 355 of the Code (i) in the two years prior to the date of this Agreement or (ii) in a distribution which could otherwise constitute part of a "plan" or "series of related transactions" (within the meaning of Section 355 of the Code) in conjunction with the Merger.
39
        (h)     Neither Parent nor any Parent Subsidiary has been a party to a transaction that constitutes a "listed transaction", for purposes of Section 6011 of the Code and applicable Treasury Regulations thereunder (or a similar provision of state Law), that is or may be subject to examination by the I.R.S.
        (i)     Neither Parent nor any Parent Subsidiary has taken or agreed to take any action or knows of any fact, agreement, plan or other circumstance that is reasonably likely to prevent or impede the Merger from constituting a reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code.
        SECTION 4.10. From the date of the most recent audited financial statements included in the Filed Parent SEC Documents to the date of this Agreement and except as disclosed in the Applicable Filed Parent SEC Disclosures, there has not been any establishment, adoption entering into, amendment or modification in any material respect by Parent or any Parent Subsidiary or termination of any collective bargaining agreement or any pension, retirement, profit sharing, deferred compensation, bonus, incentive compensation, stock ownership, stock purchase, stock option, phantom stock or other equity based compensation, vacation, severance, change in control, disability, death benefit, hospitalization, medical, welfare benefit or other employee benefits plan, program, policy, arrangement or understanding (whether or not legally binding) sponsored, maintained or contributed to, or required to be maintained or contributed to, by Parent or any Parent Subsidiary in each case, providing compensation or benefits to any current or former employees, consultants, officers or directors of Parent, any Parent Subsidiary, or any other person or entity that, together with Parent, is treated as a single employer under Section 414(b), (c), (m) or (o) of the Code or with respect to which Parent is otherwise jointly or severally liable under applicable Law (each, a ""), but not including any Parent Benefit Agreements (collectively, ""). As of the date of this Agreement, except as filed as an exhibit the Filed Parent SEC Documents, there are not any employment, consulting, indemnification, retention, severance, change in control or termination agreements or arrangements between Parent or any Parent Subsidiary and any current or former employee, officer or director of Parent or any Parent Subsidiary or applicable to any employees of Parent or any Parent Subsidiary (collectively, the "").
Absence of Changes in Benefit Plans.
Parent Commonly Controlled Entity
Parent Benefit Plans
Parent Benefit Agreements
        SECTION 4.11. (a)     The Parent Disclosure Letter contains a list of all "employee pension benefit plans" (as defined in Section 3(2) of ERISA) (""), "employee welfare benefit plans" (as defined in Section 3(1) of ERISA) and all other Parent Benefit Plans and Parent Benefit Agreements. Each Parent Benefit Plan has been administered in compliance with its terms and with applicable Law (including ERISA and the Code) and the terms of all applicable collective bargaining agreements in all material respects. The Parent has made available to the Company true, complete and correct copies of (i) each Parent Benefit Plan (or, in the case of any unwritten Parent Benefit Plan, a description thereof) and Parent Benefit Agreement, (ii) the most recent annual report on Form 5500 filed with the Internal Revenue Service with respect to each Parent Benefit Plan (if any such report was required by applicable Law), (iii) the most recent summary plan description for each Parent Benefit Plan for which such summary plan description is required, (iv) each trust agreement and group annuity contract relating to any Parent Benefit Plan, (v) the most recent determination letter received from the Internal Revenue Service with respect to each Parent Benefit Plan that is intended to be a "qualified" plan under Sections 401(a) and 501(a) of the Code and (vi)the most recently prepared actuarial valuation report and audited financial statements in connection with each Parent Benefit Plan for which an actuarial valuation report or audited financial statements were required to be prepared under applicable Law.
ERISA Compliance.
Parent Pension Plans
40
        (b)     All Parent Pension Plans that are intended to be qualified for Federal income tax purposes have been the subject of determination letters from the Internal Revenue Service to the effect that such Parent Pension Plans are qualified and exempt from Federal income taxes under Sections 401(a) and 501(a), respectively, of the Code, and no such determination letter has been revoked nor, to the knowledge of Parent, has revocation been threatened, nor has any such Parent Pension Plan been amended, or has failed to have been amended in order to comply with applicable Law, since the date of its most recent determination letter or application therefor in any respect that would adversely affect its qualification or materially increase its costs.
        (c)     None of the Parent Pension Plans are subject to Section 302 or Title IV of ERISA or Section 412 of the Code. With respect to Parent, any Parent Subsidiary and any other Parent Commonly Controlled Entity, there does not exist, nor do any circumstances exist that would reasonably be expected to result in, any Controlled Group Liability that would reasonably be expected to become a liability, at or after the Closing, of Parent, any Parent Subsidiary or any other Parent Commonly Controlled Entity , in each case except as would not reasonably be expected to result in a Parent Material Adverse Effect. No Parent Pension Plan, other than any Parent Pension Plan that is a "multiemployer plan" (as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA (a "Plan")), had, as of the respective last annual valuation date for each such Parent Pension Plan, an "unfunded benefit liability" (as defined in Section 4001(a)(18) of ERISA), based on actuarial assumptions that have been furnished to the Company. None of Parent Pension Plans has an "accumulated funding deficiency" (as defined in Section 302 of ERISA or Section 412 of the Code), whether or not waived. None of such Parent Benefit Plans or trusts created thereunder has been terminated, nor has there been any "reportable event" (as defined in Section 4043 of ERISA) with respect to any Parent Benefit Plan during the last five years and no notice of a reportable event will be required to be filed in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby. None of Parent, any Parent Subsidiary or any Parent Commonly Controlled Entity has incurred a "complete withdrawal" or a "partial withdrawal" (as defined in Sections 4203 and 4205, respectively, of ERISA) since the effective date of such Sections 4203 and 4205 with respect to any Parent Multiemployer Pension Plan.
Parent Multiemployer Pension
        (d)     None of Parent, any Parent Subsidiary, any Parent Commonly Controlled Entity, any director or officer of Parent or any of the Parent Subsidiaries or any of Parent Benefit Plans which are subject to ERISA, including the Parent Pension Plans, any trusts created thereunder or any trustee or administrator thereof, has engaged in a "prohibited transaction" (as defined in Section 406 of ERISA or Section 4975 of the Code) or any other breach of fiduciary responsibility that could subject Parent, any Parent Subsidiary, any Parent Commonly Controlled Entity or any director or officer of Parent or any Parent Subsidiary to the tax or penalty on prohibited transactions imposed by such Section 4975 or to any liability under Section 502(i) or 502(1) of ERISA.
41
        (e)     With respect to any Parent Benefit Plan that is an employee welfare benefit plan (whether or not subject to ERISA), (i) no such Parent Benefit Plan is unfunded, self-insured or funded through a "welfare benefits fund" (as defined in Section 419(e) of the Code), (ii) each such Parent Benefit Plan that is a "group health plan" (as defined in Section 5000(b)(1) of the Code or any similar state or local law), complies with the applicable requirements of Section 4980B(f) of the Code or any similar state or local law, (iii) each such Parent Benefit Plan (including any such Plan covering retirees or other former employees) may be amended or terminated without material liability to Parent and Parent Subsidiary on or at any time after the Effective Time and (iv) no such Parent Benefit Plan provides benefits after termination of employment, except where the cost thereof is born entirely by the former employee (or his or her eligible dependents or beneficiaries) or as required by Section 4980B(f) of the Code.
        (f)     No amount that could be received (whether in cash or property or the vesting of property) as a result of the Merger or any other Transaction by any person who is a "disqualified individual" (as defined in Treasury Regulation Section 1.280G-1) with respect to Parent could be characterized as an "excess parachute payment" (as defined in Section 280G(b)(1) of the Code), and no such disqualified individual is entitled to receive any additional payment from Parent or any other person in the event that the excise tax required by Section 4999(a) of the Code is imposed on such disqualified individual.
        (g)     The execution and delivery by the Parent of this Agreement do not, and the consummation of the Merger and the other Transactions and compliance with the terms hereof will not (i) entitle any employee, officer or director of the Parent or any Parent Subsidiary to severance, termination, change in control or similar compensation or benefits, (ii) accelerate the time of payment or vesting or trigger any payment or funding (through a grantor trust or otherwise) of compensation or benefits under, increase the amount payable or trigger any other material obligation pursuant to, or increase the cost of, any Parent Benefit Plan or Parent Benefit Agreement or otherwise or (iii) result in any breach or violation of, or a default under, any Parent Benefit Plan or Parent Benefit Agreement.
        (h)     No deduction by the Parent or any Parent Subsidiary in respect of any "applicable employee remuneration" (within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code) has been disallowed or is subject to disallowance by reason of Section 162(m) of the Code.
        SECTION 4.12. . As of the date of this Agreement, except as set forth in the Applicable Filed Parent SEC Disclosures, there is no suit, action or proceeding pending or, to the knowledge of Parent, threatened against Parent, any Parent Subsidiary or any Parent Joint Venture that, individually or in the aggregate, has had or would reasonably be expected to have a Parent Material Adverse Effect, nor is there any Judgment outstanding against Parent, any Parent Subsidiary or any Parent Joint Venture that has had or would reasonably be expected to have a Parent Material Adverse Effect.
Litigation
42
        SECTION 4.13. . Parent, the Parent Subsidiaries and the Parent Joint Ventures except as set forth in the Applicable Filed Parent SEC Disclosures are in compliance with all applicable Laws and judgments of any Governmental Entity, except for instances of noncompliance that, individually and in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Parent Material Adverse Effect. Except as set forth in the Applicable Filed Parent SEC Disclosures, none of Parent, any Parent Subsidiary or any Parent Joint Venture has received any written communication during the past two years from a Governmental Entity that alleges that Parent, any Parent Subsidiary or a Parent Joint Venture is not in compliance in any material respect with any applicable Law. This Section 4.13 does not relate to matters with respect to Taxes, ERISA or Environmental Law, which are the subject of Sections 4.09, 4.11 and 4.16, respectively.
Compliance with Applicable Laws
        SECTION 4.14. . No broker, investment banker, financial advisor or other person, other than J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. "), the fees and expenses of which will be paid by Parent, is entitled to any broker's, finder's, financial advisor's or other similar fee or commission in connection with the Merger and the other Transactions based upon arrangements made by or on behalf of Parent or Sub. Parent has furnished to the Company a true and complete copy of all agreements between Parent and JPMorgan relating to the Merger and the other Transactions.
Brokers
("JPMorgan
        SECTION 4.15. . Parent has received the opinion of JPMorgan, dated the date of this Agreement, to the effect that, as of such date, the Exchange Ratio in the Merger is fair from a financial point of view to Parent, a signed copy of which opinion will be delivered to the Company for informational purposes only promptly following the date of this Agreement.
Opinion of Financial Advisor
        SECTION 4.16. . Except for such matters set forth in the Applicable Filed Parent SEC Disclosures or that, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Parent Material Adverse Effect:
Environmental Matters
43
        SECTION 4.17. . As of the date of this Agreement, since January 1, 2004 and except as disclosed in the Applicable Filed Parent SEC Disclosures, there has not been any (i) labor dispute, strike, work stoppage or lockout or, to the knowledge of Parent, threat thereof, by or with respect to any employee of Parent or any Parent Subsidiary, or (ii) unfair labor practice charge or complaint against Parent or any Parent Subsidiary pending or, to the knowledge of Parent, threatened before the National Labor Relations Board or any other comparable Governmental Entity. As of the date of this Agreement, since January 1, 2004, there has not been any demand for recognition by any labor organization or petition for election pending with the National Labor Relations Board or any other comparable Governmental Entity, and to the knowledge of Parent, there has been no effort by any labor organization to organize any employees of Parent or any Parent Subsidiary into one or more collective bargaining units. As of the date of this Agreement, no discussions or negotiations with any labor organizations are taking place, or are expected to take place prior to the Closing, with respect to Parent or any Parent Subsidiary entering into a new collective bargaining agreement or an amendment, modification, renewal or extension of an existing collective bargaining agreement. Schedule 4.17 of the Parent Disclosure Letter sets forth the expiration date of each collective bargaining agreement to which Parent or any Parent Subsidiary is a party.
Labor Matters
44
        SECTION 4.18. . (a)     As of the date of this Agreement, there are no Contracts to which Parent or any Parent Subsidiary is a party, or by which any of them is bound, which are or would be required to be filed or listed as an exhibit to the Parent SEC Documents (any Contracts so filed or listed or required to be so filed or listed collectively, together with the Parent Non-Compete Contracts, the "") which have not been so filed or listed. There are no Contracts to which Parent or any Parent Subsidiary is a party or by which they are bound which contain provisions restricting or limiting Parent's or any Parent Subsidiary's ability to compete or otherwise engage in specified lines of business, in any material respect (each, a "") and, except for Contracts and dealings incident to such person's position as a director, officer or employee of Parent, there are no material Contracts or material business dealings between Parent, on the one hand, and any director, officer or employee of Parent or any entity of which any such Parent director, officer or employee serves as a senior officer or director, on the other.
Contracts
Parent Material Contracts
Parent Non-Compete Contract
        (b)     Neither Parent nor any Parent Subsidiary is in default under any Parent Material Contract, and there has not occurred any event that, with the giving of notice or the lapse of time or both, would constitute such a default by Parent or any Parent Subsidiary or, to the knowledge of Parent, a default thereunder by any other party thereto, except for any such defaults that individually or in the aggregate have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Parent Material Adverse Effect.
        SECTION 4.19. . (a)   Each of Parent and the Parent Subsidiaries has good and marketable title to, or valid leasehold interests in, all of its properties and assets except for such as are no longer used or useful in the conduct of its business or as have been disposed of in the ordinary course of business and except for defects in title, easements, restrictive covenants and similar encumbrances that individually or in the aggregate have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Parent Material Adverse Effect. All such properties and assets, other than properties and assets in which Parent or any Parent Subsidiary has a leasehold interest, are free and clear of all Liens, except for Liens that individually or in the aggregate have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Parent Material Adverse Effect.
Title to Property
        (b)     Each of Parent and the Parent Subsidiaries has complied with the terms of all leases to which it is a party and under which it is in occupancy, and all such leases are in full force and effect, except for such matters that individually or in the aggregate have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Parent Material Adverse Effect. Parent and the Parent Subsidiaries enjoy peaceful and undisturbed possession under all such leases, except for failures to do so that individually or in the aggregate have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Parent Material Adverse Effect.
45
        SECTION 4.20. . Parent and the Parent Subsidiaries own, or are validly licensed or otherwise have the right to use, all Intellectual Property Rights except as has not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect. No claims are pending or, to the knowledge of Parent, threatened that Parent or any of the Parent Subsidiaries is infringing or otherwise adversely affecting the rights of any person with regard to any Intellectual Property Right except as has not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Parent Material Adverse Effect. To the knowledge of Parent, no person is infringing the rights of Parent or any of the Parent Subsidiaries with respect to any Intellectual Property Right except as has not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Parent Material Adverse Effect.
Intellectual Property
        SECTION 4.21. . Parent has established risk parameters, limits and guidelines in compliance with the risk management policy approved by Parent Board (the "") to restrict the level of risk that Parent and the Parent Subsidiaries are authorized to take with respect to, among other things, the net position resulting from all physical commodity transactions, exchange-traded futures and options transactions, over-the-counter transactions and derivatives thereof and similar transactions (the "") and monitors compliance by Parent and the Parent Subsidiaries with such Parent Trading Guidelines. Parent has provided a copy of the Parent Trading Guidelines to the Company prior to the date of this Agreement. At no time between March 31, 2006 and the date hereof, (i) has the Net Parent Position not been within the risk parameters in all material respects that are set forth in the Parent Trading Guidelines, and (ii) has the exposure of Parent and the Parent Subsidiaries with respect to the Net Parent Position resulting from all such transactions been material to Parent and the Parent Subsidiaries taken as a whole. From March 31, 2006 to the date hereof, Parent and the Parent Subsidiaries have not, in accordance with generally recognized mark to market accounting policies, experienced an aggregate net loss in its trading and related operations that would be material to Parent and the Parent Subsidiaries taken as a whole.
Trading
Parent Trading Guidelines
Net Parent Position
        SECTION 4.22. . (a) Except as set forth in the Applicable Filed Parent SEC Disclosures, other than fuel adjustment or purchase gas adjustment or similar adjusting rate mechanisms and except as otherwise permitted under the terms of this Agreement, none of Parent or the Parent Subsidiaries all or part of whose rates or services are regulated by a Governmental Entity (i) is a party to any rate proceeding before a Governmental Entity that would reasonably be expected to result in orders having a Parent Material Adverse Effect or (ii) has rates that have been or are being collected subject to refund, pending final resolution of any rate proceeding pending before a Governmental Entity or on appeal to a court.
Regulatory Proceedings
        (b)     All filings required to be made by Parent or any Parent Subsidiary since January 1, 2002, under the Power Act, or the Atomic Energy Act, the 1935 Act and applicable state Laws and regulations, have been filed with the SEC, the FERC, the DOE, Nuclear Regulatory Commission (the "") or any applicable state public utility commissions (including, to the extent required, the PSCW, MPSC, MPUC and the ICC), as the case may be, including all forms, statements, reports, agreements (oral or written) and all documents, exhibits, amendments and supplements pertaining thereto, including all rates, tariffs, franchises, service agreements and related documents, and all such filings complied, as of their respective dates, with all applicable requirements of the applicable statute and the rules and regulations thereunder, except for filings the failure of which to make or the failure of which to make in compliance with all applicable requirements of the applicable statute and the rules and regulations thereunder, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Parent Material Adverse Effect.
NRC
46
        SECTION 4.23. . None of Parent or the Parent Subsidiaries, nor any of the Parent Joint Ventures, currently owns or operates, in whole or in part, any nuclear generating facilities. With respect to Parent's former interest in the Kewaunee Nuclear Power Plant (the ""), Parent is in compliance with all requirements of the agreement governing the sale of the Kewaunee Plant and any applicable provisions of the Atomic Energy Act or regulations of the NRC, except as set forth in the Applicable Filed Parent SEC Disclosures and except where such non-compliance has not and would not be reasonably expected to have a Parent Material Adverse Effect. There are no contingent liabilities for Parent associated with Parent's prior ownership or operation of the Kewaunee Plant, except as set forth in the Applicable Filed Parent SEC Disclosures and except such contingent liabilities that would not be expected to have a Parent Material Adverse Effect.
Nuclear Generating Facilities
Kewaunee Plant
        SECTION 4.24. . Neither Parent nor any Parent Subsidiaries or other affiliates beneficially owns (as such term is defined for purposes of Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act) any shares of Company Common Stock or any other class or series of Company Capital Stock.
Ownership of Company Capital Stock
        SECTION 5.01. . (a)     Conduct of Business by the Company. During the period from the date of this Agreement to the Effective Time, except as consented to in writing by Parent, the Company shall, and shall cause each Company Subsidiary to, conduct its business in the usual, regular and ordinary course in substantially the same manner as previously conducted and, to the extent consistent therewith, use all commercially reasonable efforts to preserve intact its current business organization, keep available the services of its current officers and employees and keep its relationships with customers, suppliers, licensors, licensees, distributors and others having business dealings with them and to comply in all material respects with all Laws, Judgments and Consents of and Permits with all Governmental Entities applicable to them (including, without limitation, the Settlement Agreement) to the end that its goodwill and ongoing business shall not be impaired in any material respect at the Effective Time. In addition, and without limiting the generality of the foregoing, except for matters set forth in the Company Disclosure Letter (with specific reference to the relevant sections of the covenants) or otherwise expressly contemplated by this Agreement, during the period from the date of this Agreement to the Effective Time, the Company shall not, and shall not permit any Company Subsidiary to, do any of the following without the prior written consent of Parent (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed in the case of subsections (ix), (x), (xi), (xiii) and (xiv) and, to the extent applicable, subsection (xvi)):
Conduct of Business
47
48
49
50
51
52
        (b)     During the period from the date of this Agreement to the Effective Time, except as consented to in writing by the Company, Parent shall, and shall cause each Parent Subsidiary to, conduct its business in the usual, regular and ordinary course in substantially the same manner as previously conducted and, to the extent consistent therewith, use all commercially reasonable efforts to preserve intact its current business organization, keep available the services of its current officers and employees and keep its relationships with customers, suppliers, licensors, licensees, distributors and others having business dealings with them and to comply in all material respects with all Laws, Judgments and Consents of and Permits with all Governmental Entities applicable to them to the end that its goodwill and ongoing business shall not be impaired in any material respect at the Effective Time. In addition, and without limiting the generality of the foregoing, except for matters set forth in the Parent Disclosure Letter (with specific reference to the relevant sections of the covenants) or otherwise expressly contemplated by this Agreement, during the period from the date of this Agreement to the Effective Time, Parent shall not, and shall not permit any Parent Subsidiary to, do any of the following without the prior written consent of the Company (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed in the case of subsections (ix), (x), (xi), (xiii) and (xiv) and, to the extent applicable, subsection (xvi)):
Conduct of Business by Parent.
53
54
56
57
        (c)     The Company and Parent shall not, and shall not permit any of their respective subsidiaries to, take any action that would, or that could reasonably be expected to, result in (i) any of the representations and warranties of such party set forth in this Agreement that is qualified as to materiality becoming untrue, (ii) any of such representations and warranties that is not so qualified becoming untrue in any material respect or (iii) any condition to the Merger set forth in Article VII not being satisfied.
Other Actions.
        (d)     The Company and Parent shall promptly advise the other orally and in writing of any change or event that has had or would reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect or a Parent Material Adverse Effect, as applicable.
Advice of Changes.
58
        SECTION 5.02. . (a)    The Company, the Company Subsidiaries and their respective officers, directors or employees, or investment bankers, attorneys, accountants or other advisors, agents or representatives (collectively, "") immediately shall cease and cause to be terminated any activities, discussions or negotiations existing as of the date of this Agreement with respect to any Company Takeover Proposal (as defined in Section 5.02(e)) and, to the extent permitted by the applicable confidentiality or similar agreement governing such activities, discussions or negotiations, require any third parties to such activities, discussions or negotiations to return to the Company or to destroy all confidential information of the Company or any Company Subsidiary. The Company shall not, nor shall it authorize or permit any Company Subsidiary to, nor shall it authorize or permit any Representatives of the Company or any Company Subsidiary to, (i) directly or indirectly solicit, initiate or encourage (including by way of furnishing information) the submission of, or take any other action designed to facilitate, any inquiries or the making of any proposal that constitutes or is reasonably expected to lead to any Company Takeover Proposal, (ii) enter into any Company Acquisition Agreement (as defined in Section 5.02(b)) with respect to any Company Takeover Proposal or (iii) directly or indirectly participate in any discussions or negotiations regarding, or furnish to any person any information with respect to, or take any other action to facilitate any inquiries or the making of any proposal that constitutes, or may reasonably be expected to lead to, any Company Takeover Proposal; , , that prior to receipt of the Company Shareholder Approval (the ""), the Company may, to the extent required by the fiduciary obligations of the Company Board to the shareholders of the Company under applicable Law, as determined in good faith by a majority of the members of the Company Board after consultation with the Company's outside counsel, in response to a bona fide written Company Takeover Proposal that is made by a person that the Company Board determines, in good faith, after consultation with the Company's outside counsel and financial advisors, constitutes or is reasonably expected to result in a Superior Company Proposal that was not solicited by the Company or its Representatives and that did not otherwise result from a breach or a deemed breach of this Section 5.02(a), and subject to compliance with Section 5.02(c), (x) furnish information with respect to the Company to the person making such Company Takeover Proposal pursuant to a confidentiality and standstill agreement not less restrictive of the other party than the Confidentiality Agreement (as defined in Section 6.02); provided that such confidentiality and standstill agreement may allow such party to submit to the Company a non-public proposal or offer relating to a Company Takeover Proposal; and (y) participate in discussions with such person and its Representatives regarding any Company Takeover Proposal. Without limiting the foregoing, it is agreed that any violation of the restrictions set forth in the preceding sentence by any Representative or affiliate of the Company or any Company Subsidiary, whether or not such person is purporting to act on behalf of the Company or any Company Subsidiary or otherwise, shall be deemed to be a breach of this Section 5.02(a) by the Company including for all purposes of this Section 5.02(a), Section 5.02(b), Section 8.01(c) and Section 8.05(b); that the Company shall not be liable for any monetary damage on account of such deemed breach (for the avoidance of doubt, other than any fee due pursuant to Section 6.07(b)) so long as the Company or any Company Subsidiary did not authorize or permit such violation.
No Solicitation
Representatives
provided
however
Company Applicable Period
provided
59
        (b)     Except as contemplated by this Section 5.02, neither the Company Board nor any committee thereof shall (i) (A) recommend the approval or adoption of any Company Takeover Proposal, (B) withdraw or modify, in a manner adverse to Parent, the recommendation to the Company's shareholders by the Company Board or such committee of this Agreement, the Merger or any other Transactions, (C) recommend that the shareholders of the Company reject this Agreement or (D) resolve, agree or propose publicly to take any of the actions set forth in clauses (A) through (C) above (each such action set forth in this Section 5.02(b)(i) being referred to herein as a ""), (ii) approve or adopt, or resolve, agree or propose publicly to approve or adopt, any Company Takeover Proposal, (iii) withdraw or modify, or resolve, agree or propose publicly to withdraw or modify, in a manner adverse to Parent, the approval or adoption by the Company Board or such committee of this Agreement, the Merger or any other Transactions, (iv) determine that this Agreement or the Merger is no longer advisable to the extent such determination is necessary in order to validly submit the Agreement to the Company's shareholders at the Company Shareholders Meeting or (v) cause or permit the Company to enter into any letter of intent, agreement in principle, acquisition agreement, joint venture agreement, partnership agreement or any other agreement (each, a "") related to any Company Takeover Proposal (other than a confidentiality and standstill agreement referred to in, and in accordance with, Section 5.02(a)), or resolve, agree or propose publicly to take any such actions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, during the Company Applicable Period, the Company Board may make a Company Adverse Recommendation Change, if (x) a majority of the members of the Company Board determines in good faith, after consulting with the Company's outside counsel and financial advisors, that the failure to take such action would reasonably be likely to result in a breach of the fiduciary obligations of the Company Board to the shareholders of the Company under applicable Law, and (y) (1) the Company Board has provided to Parent five business days' prior written notice of its intent to effect a Company Adverse Recommendation Change (which notice shall include the reasonable details regarding the cause for, and nature of, the Company Adverse Recommendation Change) and, if requested by Parent, negotiated in good faith with Parent during such five business day period regarding revisions to this Agreement that would avoid such Company Adverse Recommendation Change and (2) the Company Board has provided to Parent advance written notice of such Company Adverse Recommendation Change immediately prior thereto.
Company Adverse Recommendation Change
Company Acquisition Agreement
        (c)     The Company promptly (but in any event within 24 hours of such request for information or receipt of such Company Takeover Proposal) shall advise Parent orally and in writing of any Company Takeover Proposal or any inquiry with respect to or that could lead to any Company Takeover Proposal, the identity of the person making any such Company Takeover Proposal or inquiry and the principal terms and conditions of any such Company Takeover Proposal or inquiry. The Company shall (i) keep Parent fully informed of the status including any change or proposed change to the terms of any such Company Takeover Proposal or inquiry, (ii) provide to Parent as soon as practicable after receipt or delivery thereof with copies of all correspondence and other written material sent or provided to the Company from any third party in connection with any Company Takeover Proposal or sent or provided by the Company to any third party in connection with any Company Takeover Proposal and (iii) provide Parent with advance written notice of any scheduled meeting of the Company Board to discuss a Company Takeover Proposal.
60
        (d)     Nothing contained in this Section 5.02 shall prohibit the Company from taking and disclosing to its shareholders a position contemplated by Rule 14e-2(a) promulgated under the Exchange Act or from making any required disclosure to the Company's shareholders if, in the good faith judgment of the Company Board, after consultation with outside counsel, failure so to disclose would be inconsistent with its obligations under applicable Law.
        (e)     For purposes of this Agreement:
        (1)     all financial considerations and financial aspects of the Company Takeover Proposal and the Merger and other Transactions,
        (2)     all strategic considerations, including whether such Company Takeover Proposal is more favorable from a long-term strategic standpoint,
        (3)     all legal and regulatory considerations of such Company Takeover Proposal and the Merger and other transactions contemplated hereby,
61
        (4)     the identity of the third party making such Company Takeover Proposal,
        (5)     the conditions and likelihood of completion of such Company Takeover Proposal as compared to the Merger and other Transactions (taking into account any necessary regulatory approvals),
        (6)     whether such Company Takeover Proposal is likely to impose material obligations on the Company (or the post-closing entity in which the Company shareholders will hold securities) in connection with obtaining necessary regulatory approvals,
        (7)     whether such Company Takeover Proposal is subject to a financing condition and the likelihood of such Company Takeover Proposal being financed, and
        (8)     the payment of any Company Termination Fee, if relevant,
         that in the definition of "" (x) all references to "20%" shall be deemed to be references to "50%", (y) the reference to "or any subsidiary of the Company owning, operating or controlling a Company Material Business" shall be deemed to be deleted and (z) all the references to "" shall be deemed to be deleted
provided
Company Takeover Proposal
Company Material Business Subsidiary
.
        (f)     Except with respect to any third party making an unsolicited bona fide written Company Takeover Proposal that does not result from a violation of Section 5.02(a), during the period from and after the date of this Agreement until the earlier of the Effective Time and the termination of this Agreement, (i) the Company shall not terminate, amend, modify or waive any provision of any confidentiality or standstill agreement to which it or any Company Subsidiary is a party (other than any involving Parent or a Parent Subsidiaries) and (ii) the Company agrees to use commercially reasonable efforts to enforce, to the fullest extent permitted under applicable Law, the provisions of any such agreements.
62
        SECTION 5.03. . (a)     Parent, the Parent Subsidiaries, including Sub, and their respective Representatives immediately shall cease and cause to be terminated any activities, discussions or negotiations existing as of the date of this Agreement with respect to any Parent Takeover Proposal (as defined in Section 5.03(e)) and, to the extent permitted by the applicable confidentiality or similar agreement, governing such activities, discussions or negotiations require any third parties to such activities, discussions or negotiations to return to Parent or to destroy all confidential information of Parent or any Parent Subsidiary. Parent shall not, nor shall it authorize or permit any Parent Subsidiary to, nor shall it authorize or permit any Representative of Parent or any Parent Subsidiary to, (i) directly or indirectly solicit, initiate or encourage (including by way of furnishing information) the submission of, or take any other action designed to facilitate, any inquiries or the making of any proposal that constitutes or is reasonably expected to lead, any Parent Takeover Proposal, (ii) enter into any Parent Acquisition Agreement (as defined in Section 5.03(b)) with respect to any Parent Takeover Proposal or (iii) directly or indirectly participate in any discussions or negotiations regarding, or furnish to any person any information with respect to, or take any other action to facilitate any inquiries or the making of any proposal that constitutes, or may reasonably be expected to lead to, any Parent Takeover Proposal; , , that prior to receipt of Parent Shareholder Approval (the ""), Parent may, to the extent required by the fiduciary obligations of the Parent Board to the shareholders of Parent under applicable Law, as determined in good faith by a majority of the members of the Parent Board after consultation with Parent's outside counsel, in response to a written Parent Takeover Proposal that is made by a person a majority of the members of the Parent Board determine, in good faith, after consultation with Parent's outside counsel and financial advisors, constitutes or is reasonably expected to result in a Superior Parent Proposal that was not solicited by Parent or its Representatives and that did not otherwise result from a breach or a deemed breach of this Section 5.03(a), and subject to compliance with Section 5.03(c), (x) furnish information with respect to Parent to the person making such Parent Takeover Proposal pursuant to a confidentiality and standstill agreement not less restrictive of the other party than the Confidentiality Agreement (as defined in Section 6.02); provided that such confidentiality and standstill agreement may allow such party to submit to Parent a non-public proposal or offer relating to a Parent Takeover Proposal; and (y) participate in discussions with such person and its Representatives regarding any Parent Takeover Proposal. Without limiting the foregoing, it is agreed that any violation of the restrictions set forth in the preceding sentence by any Representative or affiliate of Parent or any Parent Subsidiary, whether or not such person is purporting to act on behalf of Parent or any Parent Subsidiary or otherwise, shall be deemed to be a breach of this Section 5.03(a) by Parent by including for all purposes of this Section 5.03(a), Section 5.03(b), Section 8.01(d) and Section 8.05(c); that Parent shall not be liable for any monetary damage on account of such deemed breach (for the avoidance of doubt, other than any fee due pursuant to Section 6.07(d)) so long as Parent or any Parent Subsidiary did not authorize or permit such violation.
No Solicitation by Parent
provided
however
Parent Applicable Period
bona
fide
provided
        (b)     Except as contemplated by this Section 5.03, neither the Parent Board nor any committee thereof shall (i) (A) recommend the approval or adoption of any Parent Takeover Proposal, (B) withdraw or modify, in a manner adverse to the Company, the recommendation to Parent's Shareholders by the Parent Board or such committee of the Share Issuance, the Charter Amendment or any other Transactions, (C) recommend that the shareholders of Parent reject the Share Issuance or the Charter Amendment or (D) resolve, agree or propose publicly to take any of the actions set forth in clauses (A) through (C) above (each such action set forth in this Section 5.03(b)(i) being referred to herein as a ""), (ii) approve or adopt, or resolve, agree or propose publicly to approve or adopt, any Parent Takeover Proposal, (iii) withdraw or modify, or resolve, agree or propose publicly to withdraw or modify, in a manner adverse to the Company, the approval or adoption by the Parent Board or such committee of this Agreement, the Share Issuance, or the Charter Amendment, the Merger or any other Transactions, (iv) determine that the Share Issuance, or the Charter Amendment is no longer advisable to the extent such determination is necessary in order to validly submit the Share Issuance or the Charter Amendment to Parent shareholders at the Parent Shareholders Meeting or (v) cause or permit Parent to enter into any letter of intent, agreement in principle, acquisition agreement, joint venture agreement, partnership agreement or any other agreement (each, a "") related to any Parent Takeover Proposal (other than a confidentiality and standstill agreement referred to in, and in accordance with, Section 5.03(a)), or resolve, agree or propose publicly to take any such actions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, during the Parent Applicable Period, the Parent Board may make a Parent Adverse Recommendation Change, if (x) a majority of the members of the Parent Board determines in good faith, after consulting with Parent's outside counsel and financial advisors, that the failure to take such action would reasonably be likely to result in a breach of the fiduciary obligations of the Parent Board to the shareholders of Parent under applicable Law and (y)(1) the Parent Board has provided to the Company five business days prior written notice of its intent to effect a Parent Adverse Recommendation Change (which notice shall include the reasonable details regarding the cause for, and nature of, the Parent Adverse Recommendation Change) and, if requested by the Company, negotiated in good faith with the Company during such five business day period regarding revisions to this Agreement that would avoid such Parent Adverse Recommendation Change and (2) the Company Board has provided to Parent advance written notice of such Company Adverse Recommendation Change immediately prior thereto.
Parent Adverse Recommendation Change
Parent Acquisition Agreement
63
        (c)     Parent promptly (but in any event within 24 hours of such request for information or receipt of such Parent Takeover Proposal) shall advise the Company orally and in writing of any Parent Takeover Proposal or any inquiry with respect to or that could lead to any Parent Takeover Proposal, the identity of the person making any such Parent Takeover Proposal or inquiry and the principal terms and conditions of any such Parent Takeover Proposal or inquiry. Parent shall (i) keep the Company fully informed of the status including any change or proposed change to the terms of any such Parent Takeover Proposal or inquiry, (ii) provide to the Company as soon as practicable after receipt or delivery thereof with copies of all correspondence and other written material sent or provided to Parent from any third party in connection with any Parent Takeover Proposal or sent or provided by Parent to any third party in connection with any Parent Takeover Proposal and (iii) provide Parent with advance written notice of any scheduled meeting of the Parent Board to discuss a Parent Takeover Proposal.
        (d)     Nothing contained in this Section 5.03 shall prohibit Parent from taking and disclosing to its shareholders a position contemplated by Rule 14e-2(a) promulgated under the Exchange Act or from making any required disclosure to Parent's shareholders if, in the good faith judgment of the Parent Board, after consultation with outside counsel, failure so to disclose would be inconsistent with its obligations under applicable Law.
        (e)     For purposes of this Agreement:
64
        (1)     all financial considerations and financial aspects of such Parent Takeover Proposal and the Merger and other Transactions contemplated hereby,
        (2)     all strategic considerations, including whether such Parent Takeover Proposal is more favorable from a long-term strategic standpoint,
        (3)     all legal and regulatory considerations of such Parent Takeover Proposal and the Merger and other Transactions,
        (4)     the identity of the third party making such Parent Takeover Proposal,
        (5)     the conditions and likelihood of completion of such Parent Takeover Proposal as compared to the Merger and other Transactions contemplated (taking into account any necessary regulatory approvals),
        (6)     whether such Parent Takeover Proposal is likely to impose material obligations on Parent (or the post-closing entity in which Parent shareholders will hold securities) in connection with obtaining necessary regulatory approvals,
        (7)     whether such Parent Takeover Proposal is subject to a financing condition and the likelihood of such Parent Takeover Proposal being financed, and
        (8)     the payment of any Parent Termination Fee, if relevant,
that in the definition of "Parent Takeover Proposal" (x) all of the references to "20%" shall be deemed to be references to "50%," (y) the reference to "or any subsidiary of Parent owning, operating or controlling a Parent Material Business" shall be deemed to be deleted and (z) all of the references to "Parent Material Business Subsidiary" shall be deemed to be deleted.
provided
65
        (f)     Except with respect to any third party making an unsolicited bona fide written Parent Takeover Proposal that does not result from a violation of Section 5.03(a), during the period from and after the date of this Agreement until the earlier of the Effective Time and the termination of this Agreement, (i) Parent shall not terminate, amend, modify or waive any provision of any confidentiality or standstill agreement to which it or any Parent Subsidiary is a party (other than any involving Parent or Parent Subsidiary) and (ii) Parent agrees to use commercially reasonable efforts to enforce, to the fullest extent permitted under applicable Laws, the provisions of any such agreements.
        SECTION 6.01. . (a)     As soon as practicable following the date of this Agreement, the Company and Parent shall prepare and file with the SEC the Joint Proxy Statement in preliminary form and Parent shall prepare and file with the SEC the Form S-4, in which the Joint Proxy Statement will be included as a prospectus, and each of the Company and Parent shall use its reasonable best efforts to respond as promptly as practicable to any comments of the SEC with respect thereto. Each of the Company and Parent shall use its reasonable best efforts to have the Form S-4 declared effective under the Securities Act as promptly as practicable after such filing. The Company shall use reasonable best efforts to cause the Joint Proxy Statement to be mailed to the Company's shareholders, and Parent shall use reasonable best efforts to cause the Joint Proxy Statement to be mailed to Parent's shareholders, in each as promptly as practicable after the Form S-4 is declared effective under the Securities Act. Parent shall also take any action (other than qualifying to do business in any jurisdiction in which it is not now so qualified) required to be taken under any applicable state securities or "blue sky" laws in connection with the issuance of Parent Common Stock and Parent Rights in the Merger and the Company shall furnish all information concerning the Company and the holders of the Company Common Stock and rights to acquire Company Common Stock pursuant to the Company Stock Plans as may be reasonably requested in connection with any such action. The parties shall notify each other promptly of the receipt of any comments from the SEC or its staff and of any request by the SEC or its staff for amendments or supplements to the Joint Proxy Statement or the Form S-4 or for additional information and shall supply each other with copies of all correspondence between such or any of its representatives, on the one hand, and the SEC or its staff, on the other hand, with respect to the Joint Proxy Statement, the Form S-4 or the Merger.
Preparation of the Form S-4 and the Joint Proxy Statement; Shareholders Meetings
        (b)     If prior to the Effective Time, any event occurs with respect to the Company or any Company Subsidiary, or any change occurs with respect to other information supplied by the Company for inclusion in the Joint Proxy Statement or the Form S-4, which is required to be described in an amendment of, or a supplement to, the Joint Proxy Statement or the Form S-4, the Company shall promptly notify Parent of such event, and the Company and Parent shall cooperate in the prompt filing with the SEC of any necessary amendment or supplement to the Proxy Statement and Form S-4 and, as required by Law, in disseminating the information contained in such amendment or supplement to the Company's shareholders and to Parent's shareholders.
66
        (c)     If prior to the Effective Time, any event occurs with respect to Parent or any Parent Subsidiary, or any change occurs with respect to other information supplied by Parent for inclusion in the Joint Proxy Statement or the Form S-4, which is required to be described in an amendment of, or a supplement to, the Joint Proxy Statement or the Form S-4, Parent shall promptly notify the Company of such event, and Parent and the Company shall cooperate in the prompt filing with the SEC of any necessary amendment or supplement to the Joint Proxy Statement and the Form S-4 and, as required by Law, in disseminating the information contained in such amendment or supplement to the Company's shareholders and to Parent's shareholders.
        (d)     The Company shall, as soon as practicable following the date of this Agreement, duly call, give notice of, convene and hold a meeting of its shareholders (the "") for the purpose of seeking the Company Shareholder Approval. The Company shall, through the Company Board, recommend to its shareholders that they give the Company Shareholder Approval, except to the extent that the Company Board shall have withdrawn or modified its approval or recommendation of this Agreement or the Merger as permitted by Section 5.02(b). Notwithstanding any Company Adverse Recommendation Change, the Company shall nevertheless submit this Agreement and the Merger to the shareholders of the Company for the purpose of obtaining the Company Shareholder Approval at the Company Shareholders Meeting and nothing contained herein shall be deemed to relieve the Company of such obligation, unless this Agreement shall have been terminated in accordance with its terms prior to the Company Shareholders Meeting.
Company Shareholders Meeting
        (e)     Parent shall, as soon as practicable following the date of this Agreement, duly call, give notice of, convene and hold a meeting of its shareholders (the "") for the purpose of seeking the Parent Shareholder Approval. Parent shall, through the Parent Board, recommend to its shareholders that they give the Parent Shareholder Approval, except to the extent that the Parent Board shall have withdrawn or modified its approval or recommendation of this Agreement or the Merger as permitted by Section 5.03(b). Notwithstanding any Parent Adverse Recommendation Change, Parent shall nevertheless submit the Share Issuance and the Charter Amendment to the shareholders of Parent for the purpose of obtaining the Parent Shareholder Approval at the Parent Shareholders Meeting and nothing contained herein shall be deemed to relieve Parent of such obligation, unless this Agreement shall have been terminated in accordance with its terms prior to the Parent Shareholders Meeting.
Parent Shareholders Meeting
        (f)     The Company shall use reasonable best efforts to cause to be delivered to Parent two letters of Deloitte & Touche LLP, the Company's independent public accountants, one dated a date within two business days before the date on which the Form S-4 shall become effective and one dated a date within two business days before the Closing Date, each addressed to Parent, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Parent and customary in scope and substance for letters delivered by independent public accountants in connection with registration statements similar to the Form S-4.
67
        (g)     Parent shall use reasonable best efforts to cause to be delivered to the Company two letters of Deloitte & Touche LLP, Parent's independent public accountants, one dated a date within two business days before the date on which the Form S-4 shall become effective and one dated a date within two business days before the Closing Date, each addressed to the Company, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Company and customary in scope and substance for letters delivered by independent public accountants in connection with registration statements similar to the Form S-4.
        SECTION 6.02. . Each of the Company and Parent shall, and shall cause each of its respective subsidiaries to, afford to the other party and to the officers, employees, accountants, counsel, financial advisors and other representatives of such other party, reasonable access during normal business hours during the period prior to the Effective Time to all their respective properties, books, contracts, commitments, personnel and records and, during such period, each of the Company and Parent shall, and shall cause each of its respective subsidiaries to, furnish promptly to the other party (a) a copy of each report, schedule, registration statement and other document filed by it during such period pursuant to the requirements of Federal or state securities laws or filed with or sent to the SEC, the FERC, the Department of Energy, the PSCW, the ICC or any other Federal or state regulatory agency or commission and (b) all other information concerning its business, properties and personnel as such other party may reasonably request; , , that either party may withhold (i) any document or information that is subject to the terms of a confidentiality agreement with a third party or (ii) such portions of documents or information relating to pricing or other matters that are highly sensitive if the exchange of such documents (or portions thereof) or information, as determined by such party's counsel, might reasonably result in antitrust difficulties for such party (or any of its affiliates), including without limitation information relating to such party's energy marketing operations in any overlapping territory. If any material is withheld by such party pursuant to the proviso to the preceding sentence, such party shall inform the other party as to the general nature of what is being withheld. All information exchanged pursuant to this Section 6.02 shall be subject to the confidentiality agreement dated March 24, 2006 between the Company and Parent (the "").
Access to Information; Confidentiality
provided
however
Confidentiality Agreement
68
        SECTION 6.03. . (a)     Upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement, each of the parties shall use reasonable best efforts to take, or cause to be taken, all actions, and to do, or cause to be done, and to assist and cooperate with the other parties in doing, all things necessary, proper or advisable to consummate and make effective, in the most expeditious manner practicable, the Merger and the other Transactions, including (i) the obtaining of all necessary actions or nonactions, waivers, consents and approvals from Governmental Entities and the making of all necessary registrations and filings (including filings with Governmental Entities, if any) and the taking of all reasonable steps as may be necessary to obtain an approval or waiver from, or to avoid an action or proceeding by, any Governmental Entity, (ii) the obtaining of all necessary consents, approvals or waivers from third parties, (iii) the defending of any lawsuits or other legal proceedings, whether judicial or administrative, challenging this Agreement or the consummation of the Transactions, including seeking to have any stay or temporary restraining order entered by any court or other Governmental Entity vacated or reversed and (iv) the execution and delivery of any additional instruments necessary to consummate the Transactions and to fully carry out the purposes of this Agreement. Each party will consult with counsel for the other parties as to, and will permit such counsel to participate in, any litigation referred to in clause (iii) above. In connection with the foregoing, Parent and the Company agree that Parent shall have primary responsibility for the preparation and filing of all applications, filings or other materials with the PSCW, the ICC, the FCC, the FERC under Section 203 of the Power Act, any other Federal or state regulatory agency or commission, in each case with respect to the Transactions; , , that the Company shall have the right to review and approve in advance drafts of all such applications, filings and other materials, including testimony and responses to discovery requests. In connection with and without limiting the foregoing, Parent, the Company, the Company Board and the Parent Board shall (i) take all action necessary to ensure that no state takeover statute or similar statute or regulation is or becomes applicable to any Transaction or this Agreement and (ii) if any state takeover statute or similar statute or regulation becomes applicable to any Transaction or this Agreement take all action necessary to ensure that the Merger and the other Transactions may be consummated as promptly as practicable on the terms contemplated by this Agreement. Each of Parent and the Company shall file or cause to be filed with the Federal Trade Commission and the Department of Justice any notifications required to be filed under the HSR Act, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder with respect to the Transactions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company and its Representatives and Parent and its Representatives shall not be prohibited under this Section 6.03(a) from taking any action permitted by Section 5.02(b) or 5.03(b).
Reasonable Best Efforts; Notification
provided
however
        (b)     The Company shall give prompt notice to Parent, and Parent shall give prompt notice to the Company, of (i) any representation or warranty made by it contained in this Agreement that is qualified as to materiality becoming untrue or inaccurate in any respect or any such representation or warranty that is not so qualified becoming untrue or inaccurate in any material respect or (ii) the failure by it to comply with or satisfy in any material respect any covenant, condition or agreement to be complied with or satisfied by it under this Agreement; , , that no such notification shall affect the representations, warranties, covenants or agreements of the parties or the conditions to the obligations of the parties under this Agreement.
provided
however
        (c)     As used in Section 6.03(a), the term "reasonable best efforts" shall not require either party to dispose of any of its assets or to limit its freedom of action with respect to any of its businesses, or to consent to any disposition of its assets or limits on such party's freedom of action with respect to any of its businesses, or to commit or agree to any of the foregoing, to obtain any consents, approvals, permits or authorizations or to remove any impediments to the Merger relating to the HSR Act or other antitrust, competition or premerger notification, trade regulation law, regulation or order ("") or to the Company Required Statutory Approvals or Parent Required Statutory Approvals or to avoid the entry of any Order in any suit or proceeding relating to Antitrust Laws, other than dispositions, limitations or consents or commitments (i) that, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to (A) have a material adverse effect on the business, properties, condition (financial or otherwise) or results of operations of Parent and the Parent Subsidiaries, taken as a whole or (B) have a material adverse effect on the business, properties, condition (financial or otherwise) or results of operations of the Company and the Company Subsidiaries, taken as a whole and (ii) that otherwise are consistent with the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 7.01(c).
Antitrust Laws
69
        SECTION 6.04. . (a)     As soon as practicable following the date of this Agreement, the Company Board (or, if appropriate, any committee administering the Company Stock Plans) shall adopt such resolutions or take such other actions as may be required to effect the following:
Company Equity Awards
70
        (b)     Promptly following the Effective Time, Parent shall file a registration statement on Form S-8 (or any successor or other appropriate form) with respect to the shares of Parent Common Stock subject to the Adjusted Options and shall use its reasonable best efforts to maintain the effectiveness of such registration statement or registration statements (and maintain the current status of the prospectus or prospectuses contained therein) for so long as such Adjusted Options remain outstanding.
71
        SECTION 6.05. . (a)     For a period of one year after the Effective Time, Parent shall provide benefits to employees of the Company and the Company Subsidiaries that are substantially comparable in the aggregate to those in effect for such employees on the date of this Agreement.
Benefit Plans
        (b)     With respect to any "employee benefit plan", as defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA, maintained by Parent or any Parent Subsidiary in which employees of the Company or any Company Subsidiary participate after the Effective Time, service with the Company or any Company Subsidiary shall be treated as service with Parent or the Parent Subsidiaries for purposes of determining eligibility to participate and vesting (but not for purposes of benefit accrual or level of benefits); provided, however, that such service shall not be recognized to the extent that such recognition would result in any duplication of benefits. For the avoidance of doubt, no employee of the Company or any Company Subsidiary will be entitled to receive benefits or credits under formulae applicable to employees of Parent or any Parent Subsidiary hired prior to January 1, 2001.
        (c)     Parent shall waive, or cause to be waived, any pre-existing condition limitation under any welfare benefit plan maintained by Parent or any of its affiliates (other than the Company) in which employees of the Company and the Company Subsidiaries and their eligible dependents) will be eligible to participate from and after the Effective Time, except to the extent that such pre-existing condition limitation would have been applicable under the comparable Company welfare benefit plan immediately prior to the Effective Time. Parent shall recognize, or cause to be recognized, the dollar amount of all expenses incurred by each Company employee (and his or her eligible dependents) during the calendar year in which the Effective Time occurs for purposes of satisfying such year's deductible and co-payment limitations under the relevant welfare benefit plans in which they will be eligible to participate from and after the Effective Time to the extent such amounts were so recognized under the comparable Company welfare benefit plan immediately prior to the Effective Time.
        SECTION 6.06. . (a)    Parent and Sub agree that all rights to indemnification and exculpation from liabilities for acts or omissions occurring at or prior to the Effective Time now existing in favor of the current or former directors, officers or fiduciaries under the Company Benefit Plans currently indemnified by the Company and the Company Subsidiaries (each an "") as provided in their respective certificates of incorporation, by-laws (or comparable organizational documents) or other agreements providing indemnification, shall survive the Merger and, subject to applicable Law, shall continue in full force and effect in accordance with their terms. In addition, from and after the Effective Time, Indemnified Persons who become directors, officers or fiduciaries under benefit plans of Parent will be entitled to the indemnity rights and protections then afforded to directors, officers and fiduciaries under benefit plans of Parent.
Indemnification
Indemnified Party
72
        (b)     Parent shall cause to be maintained for a period of not less than six years from the Effective Time either (i) the Company's current directors' and officers' insurance and indemnification policy to the extent that it provides coverage for events occurring prior to the Effective Time (the "") for Indemnified Persons on the date of this Agreement, so long as the annual premium therefor would not be in excess of 200% of the last annual premium paid prior to the date of this Agreement (such 200% amount, the "") or (ii) D&O Insurance with an insurer substantially comparable, to the insurer under the D&O Insurance provided to Indemnified Persons as of the date of this Agreement, of at least the same coverage and amounts and containing terms and conditions no less advantageous to the Indemnified Persons; that the annualized premium for such D&O Insurance does not exceed the Maximum Premium, in which case, Parent will obtain the most favorable D&O Insurance available for the Maximum Premium. If the existing D&O Insurance expires, is terminated or canceled during such six-year period, Parent shall use all reasonable efforts to cause to be obtained as much D&O Insurance as can be obtained for the remainder of such period for an annualized premium not in excess of the Maximum Premium, on terms and conditions no less advantageous than the existing D&O Insurance. The Company represents to Parent that the Maximum Premium is $2.9 million.
D&O Insurance
Maximum Premium
provided
        SECTION 6.07. .  (a)     Except as provided below, all fees and expenses incurred in connection with the Merger and the other Transactions shall be paid by the party incurring such fees or expenses, whether or not the Merger is consummated, except that expenses incurred in connection with filing, printing and mailing the Joint Proxy Statement and the Form S-4 shall be shared equally by Parent and the Company.
Fees and Expenses
        (b)     The Company shall pay to Parent a fee of $45 million if: (i) the Company terminates this Agreement pursuant to Section 8.01(f); (ii) Parent terminates this Agreement pursuant to Section 8.01(d); or (iii) (A) this Agreement is terminated pursuant to Section 8.01(b)(i), Section 8.01(b)(iii), or Section 8.01(c) and prior to such termination (or, in the case of any termination following a failure to obtain the Company Shareholder Approval, prior to or at the time of the shareholder meeting at which such failure occurred), any person makes a Company Takeover Proposal, which has not been withdrawn (x) in the case of any termination following a failure to obtain the Company Shareholder Approval, at least 10 business days prior to such shareholder meeting and (y) in the case of any termination pursuant to Section 8.01(b)(i) at least 30 days prior to the Outside Date, and (B) at or within twelve (12) months of the date of the termination, the Company enters into a definitive agreement to consummate, or consummates, the transactions contemplated by any Company Takeover Proposal. Any fee due under this Section 6.07(b) shall be paid by wire transfer of same-day funds on the date of termination of this Agreement (except that in the case of termination pursuant to clause (iii) above such payment shall be made on the earlier of the date of the consummation of such Company Takeover Proposal or the date of execution of such definitive agreement, and shall be subject to a credit for any expense reimbursement actually paid pursuant to Section 6.07(c).
73
        (c)     The Company shall reimburse Parent and Sub for all their out-of-pocket expenses actually incurred in connection with this Agreement, the Merger and the other Transactions, up to a limit of $15 million, if this Agreement is terminated pursuant to Section 8.01(b)(iii) (and prior to the Company Shareholder Meeting at which the Company Shareholder Approval was not obtained relating to such termination, any person has made a Company Takeover Proposal which was not withdrawn at least 10 business days prior to such shareholder meeting) or Section 8.01(c), and up to a limit of $5 million, if this Agreement is terminated pursuant to Section 8.01(b)(iii) (if no such Company Takeover Proposal has been made or was so withdrawn). Such reimbursement shall be paid upon demand following such termination, except that no payment shall be due under this Section 6.07(c) if the Company has previously made any payment due under Section 6.07(b).
        (d)     Parent shall pay to the Company a fee of $45 million if: (i) Parent terminates this Agreement pursuant to Section 8.01(h), (ii) the Company terminates this Agreement pursuant to Section 8.01(g); or (iii) (A) this Agreement is terminated pursuant to Section 8.01(b)(i), Section 8.01(b)(iv), or Section 8.01(e) and prior to such termination (or, in the case of any termination following a failure to obtain the Parent Shareholder Approval, prior to or at the time of the shareholder meeting at which such failure occurred), any person makes a Parent Takeover Proposal, which has not been withdrawn (x) in the case of any termination following a failure to obtain the Parent Shareholder Approval, at least 10 business days prior to such shareholder meeting and (y) in the case of any termination pursuant to Section 8.01(b)(i) at least 30 days prior to the Outside Date, and (B) at or within twelve (12) months of the date of the termination, Parent enters into a definitive agreement to consummate, or consummates, the transactions contemplated by any Parent Takeover Proposal. Any fee due under this Section 6.07(d) shall be paid by wire transfer of same-day funds on the date of termination of this Agreement (except that in the case of termination pursuant to clause (iii) above such payment shall be made on the earlier of the date of the consummation of such Parent Takeover Proposal or the date of execution of such definitive agreement, and shall be subject to a credit for any expense reimbursement actually paid pursuant to Section 6.07(e).
        (e)     Parent shall reimburse the Company for all its out-of-pocket expenses actually incurred in connection with this Agreement, the Merger and the other Transactions, up to a limit of $15 million, if this Agreement is terminated pursuant to Section 8.01(b)(iv) (and prior to the Parent Shareholder Meeting at which the Parent Shareholder Approval was not obtained relating to such termination, any person has made a Parent Takeover Proposal which was not withdrawn at least 10 business days prior to such shareholder meeting) or Section 8.01(e) and up to a limit of $5 million, if this Agreement is terminated pursuant to Section 8.01(b)(iv) (if no such Parent Takeover Proposal has been made or was so withdrawn). Such reimbursement shall be paid upon demand following such termination, except that no payment shall be due under this Section 6.07(e) if Parent has previously made any payment due under Section 6.07(d).
        SECTION 6.08. . Other than with respect to any action taken pursuant to Section 5.02(b) or 5.03(b), Parent and Sub, on the one hand, and the Company, on the other hand, shall consult with each other before issuing, and provide each other the opportunity to review and comment upon, any press release or other public statements with respect to the Merger and the other Transactions and shall not issue any such press release or make any such public statement prior to such consultation, except as may be required by applicable Law, court process or by obligations pursuant to any listing agreement with any national securities exchange.
Public Announcements
74
        SECTION 6.09. . All stock transfer, real estate transfer, documentary, stamp, recording and other similar Taxes (including interest, penalties and additions to any such Taxes) ("") incurred in connection with the Transactions shall be paid by the party on which such Tax is imposed under applicable Law, and the Company shall cooperate with Sub and Parent in preparing, executing and filing any Tax Returns with respect to such Transfer Taxes, including, if applicable, supplying in a timely manner a complete list of all real property interests held by the Company that are located in New York State and any information with respect to such property that is reasonably necessary to complete such Tax Returns. If applicable, prior to the Effective Time, the Company and Parent shall mutually agree upon the portion of the consideration to be received by holders of Company Common Stock in connection with the Merger that is allocable to the real property of the Company and the Company Subsidiaries in New York State, and Company, Sub, Parent and the Surviving Company shall not take any positions that are inconsistent with or contrary to such allocation.
Transfer Taxes
Transfer Taxes
        SECTION 6.10. . Prior to the Closing Date, the Company shall deliver to Parent a letter identifying all persons who are expected by the Company to be, at the date of the Company Shareholders Meeting, "affiliates" of the Company for purposes of Rule 145 under the Securities Act. The Company shall use reasonable best efforts to cause each such person to deliver to Parent on or prior to the Closing Date a written agreement substantially in the form attached as Exhibit C.
Affiliates
        SECTION 6.11. . Parent shall use reasonable best efforts to cause the shares of Parent Common Stock to be issued in the Merger to be approved for listing on the NYSE, subject to official notice of issuance, prior to the Closing Date.
Stock Exchange Listing
        SECTION 6.12. . The Parent Board shall take all further action (in addition to that referred to in Section 4.05(c)) requested in writing by the Company in order to render the Parent Rights inapplicable to the Merger and the other Transactions and shall take all necessary action to cause one Parent Right to be issued with each share of Parent Common Stock issuable to holders of Company Common Stock upon consummation of the Merger pursuant to Article II. If any Distribution Date or Triggering Event occurs under the Parent Rights Agreement at any time during the period from the date of this Agreement to the Effective Time, the Parent Board shall take such actions as are necessary and permitted under the Parent Rights Agreement to provide that Rights Certificates representing an appropriate number of Parent Rights are issued to the Company's shareholders who receive Parent Common Stock pursuant to the Merger. If Parent is not permitted under the Parent Rights Agreement to provide Rights Certificates to such Company shareholders, the Company and Parent shall make such adjustment to the Exchange Ratio as the Company and Parent shall mutually agree so as to preserve the economic benefits that the Company and Parent each reasonably expected on the date of this Agreement to receive as a result of the consummation of the Merger and the other Transactions.
Parent Rights Agreement; Consequences if Rights Triggered
75
        SECTION 6.13. . The parties intend the Merger to qualify as a reorganization under Section 368(a) of the Code. This Agreement will constitute a "plan of reorganization" for purposes of Sections 354 and 361 of the Code. Each party and its affiliates shall use reasonable efforts to cause the Merger to so qualify and to obtain the opinions of LeBoeuf, Lamb, Greene & MacRae LLP and Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP to the effect that the Merger will be treated for U.S. Federal income tax purposes as a "reorganization"within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code, and that Parent, Sub and the Company will each be a party to that reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(b) of the Code. For tax purposes, each party and its affiliates will report the Merger in a manner consistent with this Section. For purposes of the tax opinions described in Sections 7.02(d) and 7.03(d) of this Agreement, each of Parent and the Company shall provide customary representations to LeBoeuf, Lamb, Greene & MacRae LLP and Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP as each such counsel reasonably deems relevant, necessary and satisfactory, including such representations and warranties set forth on certificates of officers of Parent, the Company and any of their respective subsidiaries, each dated on or about the date that is two business days prior to the date the Joint Proxy Statement is mailed to the shareholders of Parent and the Company and reissued in the same form as of the Closing Date. Each of Parent, Sub and the Company and each of their respective affiliates shall not take any action and shall not fail to take any action which action or failure to act would prevent, or would be reasonably likely to prevent, the Merger from qualifying as a reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code.
Tax Treatment
        SECTION 6.14. . (a)     Board of Directors. The Parent Board shall take such action as may be necessary to cause at the Effective Time:
Board of Directors and Related Matters
        Other than Mr. Weyers, all directors designated pursuant to this Section 6.14 shall meet the independence standards of the listing standards of the NYSE. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if, prior to the Effective Time, any of such designees shall decline or be unable to serve, the respective party which designated such person shall designate another person to serve in such person's stead. The Parent Board shall take such action as may be necessary to cause there to be an Executive Committee of the Parent Board at the Effective Time consisting of four directors, with Parent and the Company each designating one director to such committee and the Chief Executive Officer and non-executive Chairman of the Parent Board comprising the other two members of such committee. The Parent Board shall also take such action as may be necessary to cause the Audit Committee, the Compensation Committee, the Governance Committee and the Financial Committee of the Parent Board at the Effective Time each to be comprised directors selected by Parent and the Company respectively in approximately a nine to seven ratio (the ratio of directors on the Parent Board set forth in Section 6.14(a)(ii) above). For example, for a committee of three directors, Parent shall select two of the initial directors and the Company shall select one; for a committee of four directors, Parent shall select two of the initial directors and the Company shall select two; and for a committee of five directors, Parent shall select three of the initial directors and the Company shall select two.
76
        (b)    . At the Effective Time, Mr. Weyers shall hold the position of President and Chief Executive Officer.
Company Officers
        (c)    . Immediately following the Effective Time, Parent shall conduct its operations in accordance with the following:
Post-Merger Operations
        SECTION 6.15. . (a)    Coordination of Dividends. Each of Parent and Company shall coordinate with the other regarding the declaration and payment of dividends in respect of Parent Common Stock and Company Common Stock and the record dates and payment dates relating thereto, it being the intention of Parent and Company that no holder of Parent Common Stock or Company Common Stock shall receive two dividends, or fail to receive one dividend, for any single calendar quarter with respect to its shares of Parent Common Stock or Company Common Stock, as the case may be, and/or any shares of Parent Common Stock any holder of Company Common Stock receives pursuant to the Merger. For the avoidance of doubt, it is the parties' intent that (i) the first quarterly dividend paid to the holders of the Parent Common Stock (including former holders of Company Common Stock) following the Effective Time shall be paid in accordance with the policy described in Section 6.15(b), with effect from the Closing Date, and (ii) the parties accordingly shall coordinate their declaration and payment of dividends prior to the Effective Time and Parent shall coordinate the declaration and payment of its dividends after the Effective time to achieve such intent.
Dividends
77
        (b)    . Parent shall adopt a dividend policy immediately after the Effective Time, and in no event later than the first record date for the payment of dividends after the Closing Date, providing for a quarterly dividend of $0.66 per share of Parent Common Stock, but this policy will be evaluated over time as future business needs dictate.
Dividends after the Effective Time
        SECTION 6.16. . As promptly as practicable after the date hereof, Parent and Company shall establish a transition planning committee (the "") consisting of five individuals, three of whom will be designated by Parent and two of whom shall be designated by Company. Mr. Weyers shall be one of the members of the Transition Committee designated by Parent and shall be the chairman of the Transition Committee. The activities of the Transition Committee shall include:
Transition Committee
Transition Committee
        (a)     the development of regulatory plans and proposals, corporate organizational and management plans, workforce combination proposals and other matters as the Transition Committee deems appropriate; and
        (b)     the evaluation of the appropriate manner in which to organize and manage the businesses, operations and assets of Parent and Surviving Corporation after the Effective Time.
        SECTION 7.01. . The respective obligation of each party to effect the Merger is subject to the satisfaction or waiver on or prior to the Closing Date of the following conditions:
Conditions to Each Party's Obligation To Effect The Merger
        (a)     The Company shall have obtained the Company Shareholder Approval, and Parent shall have obtained the Parent Shareholder Approval.
Shareholder Approval.
        (b)     The shares of Parent Company Stock issuable to the Company's shareholders pursuant to this Agreement and under the Company Stock Plans shall have been approved for listing on the NYSE, subject to official notice of issuance.
Listing.
78
        (c)     The waiting period (and any extension thereof) applicable to the Merger under the HSR Act shall have been terminated or shall have expired. Any consents, approvals and filings under any foreign antitrust law, the absence of which would prohibit the consummation of Merger, shall have been obtained or made. The Company Required Statutory Approvals and the Parent Required Statutory Approvals shall have been obtained at or prior to the Effective Time, such approvals shall have become Final Orders (as defined below); such Final Orders shall not impose terms or conditions that, individually or in the aggregate, would reasonably be expected to have (x) a material adverse effect on the business, properties, condition (financial or otherwise) or results of operations of Parent and the Parent Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, or (y) a material adverse effect on the business, properties, condition (financial or otherwise) or results of operations of the Company and the Company Subsidiaries, taken as a whole; the Merger and any related affiliated interest agreements shall have been approved by the ICC, with only such terms or conditions as in the aggregate would not reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the regulatory prospects in the State of Illinois of the Surviving Corporation and its subsidiaries taken as a whole; and the Merger, if applicable, and any related affiliated interest agreements shall have been approved by the PSCW, with only such terms or conditions as in the aggregate would not reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the regulatory prospects in the State of Wisconsin of Parent and the Parent Subsidiaries taken as a whole. A "" means action by the relevant Governmental Entity that has not been revised, stayed, enjoined, set aside, annulled or suspended, with respect to which any waiting period prescribed by Law before the Transactions may be consummated has expired, and as to which all conditions to the consummation of such Transactions prescribed by Law, regulation or order have been satisfied. For purposes of this Section 7.01(c),"regulatory prospects" means the ability of the Company's or Parent's respective public utility subsidiaries to recover and to be authorized to earn a reasonable rate of return on their prudently incurred capital investment in accordance with ratemaking laws, regulations and practices in the State of Illinois or the State of Wisconsin, as the case may be, in effect as of the Effective Time.
Antitrust/Statutory Approvals.
Final Order
        (d)     No temporary restraining order, preliminary or permanent injunction or other order issued by any court of competent jurisdiction or other legal restraint or prohibition preventing the consummation of the Merger shall be in effect; , , that prior to asserting this condition each of the parties shall have used its reasonable best efforts to prevent the entry of any such injunction or other order and to appeal as promptly as possible any such injunction or other order that may be entered.
No Injunctions or Restraints.
provided
however
        (e)     The Form S-4 shall have become effective under the Securities Act and shall not be the subject of any stop order or proceedings seeking a stop order, and Parent shall have received all state securities or "blue sky" authorizations necessary to issue Parent Common Stock and Parent Rights pursuant to the Merger.
Form S-4.
        SECTION 7.02. . The obligations of Parent and Sub to effect the Merger are further subject to the satisfaction or waiver by Parent on or prior to the Closing Date of the following conditions:
Conditions to Obligations of Parent and Sub
        (a)     (i) The representations and warranties of the Company in this Agreement shall be true and correct, as of the date of this Agreement and as of the Closing Date as though made on the Closing Date, except to the extent such representations and warranties expressly relate to an earlier date (in which case such representations and warranties shall be true and correct on and as of such earlier date), in each case, other than where the failure of such representations and warranties to be so true and correct (without giving effect to any limitation as to "materiality" or "material adverse effect" or "Company Material Adverse Effect" set forth therein) does not have, and would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Company Material Adverse Effect. Parent shall have received a certificate signed on behalf of the Company by the Company Certifying Officers to such effect.
Representations and Warranties.
79
        (ii)  The representations and warranties of Company set forth in Sections 3.01(a), 3.03 and 3.04 that are qualified as to materiality shall be true and correct and those not so qualified shall be true and correct in all material respects, as of the date of this Agreement and as of the Closing Date as though made on the Closing Date of the date of this Agreement, except to the extent such representations and warranties expressly relate to an earlier date (in which case such representations and warranties that are qualified as to the materiality shall be true and correct, and those not so qualified shall be true and correct in all material respects, on and as of such earlier date).
        (b)     The Company shall have performed in all material respects all obligations required to be performed by it under this Agreement at or prior to the Closing Date, and Parent shall have received a certificate signed on behalf of the Company by the Company Certifying Officers to such effect.
Performance of Obligations of the Company.
        (c)     Except as disclosed in the Company Disclosure Letter, since the date of this Agreement there shall not have been any event, change, effect or development that, individually or in the aggregate, has had or would reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect.
Absence of Company Material Adverse Effect.
        (d)     Parent shall have received a written opinion, dated as of the Closing Date, from Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP, counsel to Parent, to the effect that the Merger will be treated for U.S. Federal income tax purposes as a reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code, and that Parent, Sub and the Company will each be a party to that reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(b) of the Code; it being understood that in rendering such opinion, such tax counsel shall be entitled to rely upon customary assumptions as set forth in such opinion and customary representations as counsel to Parent reasonably deems relevant and satisfactory, including the representations provided by the parties hereto on the certificates of officers of Parent, the Company and their respective subsidiaries.
Tax Opinion.
        (e)     The number of Company Dissenting Shares shall not exceed 10% of the outstanding Company Common Stock at the Closing.
Dissenting Shares.
        SECTION 7.03. . The obligation of the Company to effect the Merger is further subject to the satisfaction or waiver by the Company on or prior to the Closing Date of the following conditions:
Conditions to Obligation of the Company
80
        (a)     (i) The representations and warranties of Parent in this Agreement shall be true and correct, as of the date of this Agreement and on the Closing Date as though made on the Closing Date, except to the extent such representations and warranties expressly relate to an earlier date (in which case such representations and warranties shall be true and correct, on and as of such earlier date), in each case, other than where the failure of such representations and warranties to be so true and correct (without giving effect to any limitation as to "materiality" or "material adverse effect" or "Parent Material Adverse Effect" set forth therein) does not have, and would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Parent Material Adverse Effect. The Company shall have received a certificate signed on behalf of Parent by the Parent Certifying Officers to such effect.
Representations and Warranties.
        (ii)  The representations and warranties of Parent set forth in Sections 4.01(a), 4.03 and 4.04 that are qualified as to materiality shall be true and correct and those not so qualified shall be true and correct in all material respects as of the date of this Agreement and on the Closing Date as though made on the Closing Date, except to the extent such representations and warranties expressly relate to an earlier date (in which case such representations and warranties that are qualified as to materiality shall be true and correct and those not so qualified shall be true and correct in all material respects, on and as of such earlier date).
        (b)     Parent and Sub shall have performed in all material respects all obligations required to be performed by them under this Agreement at or prior to the Closing Date, and the Company shall have received a certificate signed on behalf of Parent by the Parent Certifying Officers to such effect.
Performance of Obligations of Parent and Sub.
        (c)     Except as disclosed in the Parent Disclosure Letter, since the date of this Agreement there shall not have been any event, change, effect or development that, individually or in the aggregate, has had or would reasonably be expected to have a Parent Material Adverse Effect.
Absence of Parent Material Adverse Effect.
        (d)     The Company shall have received a written opinion, dated as of the Closing Date, from LeBoeuf, Lamb, Greene & MacRae LLP, counsel to the Company, to the effect that the Merger will be treated for U.S. Federal income tax purposes as a reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code; it being understood that in rendering such opinion, such tax counsel shall be entitled to rely upon customary assumptions as set forth in such opinion and customary representations as counsel to the Company reasonably deems relevant and satisfactory, including the representations provided by the parties hereto on the certificates of officers of Parent, the Company and their respective subsidiaries.
Tax Opinion.
81
        SECTION 8.01. . This Agreement may be terminated at any time prior to the Effective Time, whether before or after receipt of the Company Shareholder Approval or the Parent Shareholder Approval:
Termination
        (a)     by mutual written consent of Parent, Sub and the Company;
        (b)     by either Parent or the Company:
        (c)     by Parent, if the Company breaches or fails to perform in any material respect any of its representations, warranties or covenants contained in this Agreement, which breach or failure to perform (i) would give rise to the failure of a condition set forth in Section 7.02(a) or 7.02(b), and (ii) cannot be or has not been cured within 30 days after the giving of written notice to the Company of such breach (provided that Parent is not then in material breach of any representation, warranty or covenant contained in this Agreement);
        (d)     by Parent, if there is a Company Adverse Recommendation Change or the Company Board or any committee thereof fails to recommend to the Company's shareholders that they give the Company Shareholder Approval or approves or recommends, or proposes publicly to approve or recommend, any Company Takeover Proposal;
82
        (e)     by the Company, if Parent breaches or fails to perform in any material respect of any of its representations, warranties or covenants contained in this Agreement, which breach or failure to perform (i) would give rise to the failure of a condition set forth in Section 7.03(a) or 7.03(b), and (ii) cannot be or has not been cured within 30 days after the giving of written notice to Parent of such breach (provided that the Company is not then in material breach of any representation, warranty or covenant in this Agreement);
        (f)     by the Company prior to receipt of the Company Shareholder Approval in accordance with Section 8.05(b); , , that the Company shall have complied with all provisions thereof, including the notice provisions therein;
provided
however
        (g)     by the Company, if there is a Parent Adverse Recommendation Change or the Parent Board or any committee thereof fails to recommend to Parent's shareholders that they give the Parent Shareholder Approval or approves or recommends, or proposes publicly to approve or recommend, any Parent Takeover Proposal;
        (h)     by Parent prior to receipt of the Parent Shareholder Approval in accordance with Section 8.05(c); , , that Parent shall have complied with all provisions thereof, including the notice provisions therein.
provided
however
        SECTION 8.02. . In the event of termination of this Agreement by either the Company or Parent as provided in Section 8.01, this Agreement shall forthwith become void and have no effect, without any liability or obligation on the part of Parent, Sub or the Company, other than Section 3.14, Section 4.14, the last sentence of Section 6.02, Section 6.07, this Section 8.02 and Article IX, which provisions shall survive such termination, and except to the extent that such termination results from the wilful and material breach by a party of any representation, warranty or covenant set forth in this Agreement.
Effect of Termination
        SECTION 8.03. . This Agreement may be amended by the parties at any time before or after receipt of the Company Shareholder Approval or the Parent Shareholder Approval; , , that (i) after receipt of the Company Shareholder Approval or the Parent Shareholder Approval, there shall be made no amendment that by Law requires further approval by the shareholders of the Company or Parent without the further approval of such shareholders and (ii) no amendment shall be made to this Agreement after the Effective Time. This Agreement may not be amended except by an instrument in writing signed on behalf of each of the parties.
Amendment
provided
however
        SECTION 8.04. . At any time prior to the Effective Time, the parties may (a) extend the time for the performance of any of the obligations or other acts of the other parties, (b) waive any inaccuracies in the representations and warranties contained in this Agreement or in any document delivered pursuant to this Agreement or (c) subject to the proviso of Section 8.03, waive compliance with any of the agreements or conditions contained in this Agreement. Any agreement on the part of a party to any such extension or waiver shall be valid only if set forth in an instrument in writing signed on behalf of such party. The failure of any party to this Agreement to assert any of its rights under this Agreement or otherwise shall not constitute a waiver of such rights.
Extension; Waiver
83
        SECTION 8.05. . (a)     A termination of this Agreement pursuant to Section 8.01, an amendment of this Agreement pursuant to Section 8.03 or an extension or waiver pursuant to Section 8.04 shall, in order to be effective, require in the case of Parent, Sub or the Company, action by its Board of Directors or, in the case of an extension or waiver pursuant to Section 8.04, the duly authorized designee of its Board of Directors. Termination of this Agreement prior to the Effective Time shall not require the approval of the shareholders of Parent or the Company.
Procedure for Termination, Amendment, Extension or Waiver
        (b)     The Company may terminate this Agreement pursuant to Section 8.01(f) only if (i) the Company Board has received a Superior Company Proposal, (ii) in light of such Superior Company Proposal a majority of the members of the Company Board shall have determined in good faith, after consultation with outside counsel, that it is necessary for the Company Board to withdraw or modify its approval or recommendation of this Agreement or the Merger or accept a Company Superior Proposal in order to comply with its fiduciary duty under applicable Law, (iii) the Company has notified Parent in writing of the determinations described in clause (ii) above, (iv) at least five business days following receipt by Parent of the notice referred to in clause (iii) above, and taking into account any revised proposal made by Parent since receipt of the notice referred to in clause (iii) above, such Superior Company Proposal remains a Superior Company Proposal and a majority of the members of the Company Board has again made the determinations referred to in clause (ii) above, (v) the Company and its Representatives are in compliance with Section 5.02, (vi) the Company has previously paid or concurrently pays the fee due under Section 6.07, and (vii) the Company Board concurrently approves, and the Company concurrently enters into, a definitive agreement providing for the implementation of such Superior Company Proposal. Acceptance by Parent of the fee due under Section 6.07 shall constitute acceptance by Parent of the validity of any termination of this Agreement under Section 8.01(f) and this Section 8.05(b).
        (c)     Parent may terminate this Agreement pursuant to Section 8.01(h) only if (i) the Parent Board has received a Superior Parent Proposal, (ii) in light of such Superior Parent Proposal a majority of the members of the Parent Board has determined in good faith, after consultation with outside counsel, that it is necessary for the Parent Board to withdraw or modify its approval or recommendation of this Agreement, the Merger, the Share Issuance or the Charter Amendment or accept a Parent Superior Proposal in order to comply with its fiduciary duty under applicable Law, (iii) Parent has notified the Company in writing of the determinations described in clause (ii) above, (iv) at least five business days following receipt by the Company of the notice referred to in clause (iii) above, and taking into account any revised proposal made by the Company since receipt of the notice referred to in clause (iii) above, such Superior Parent Proposal remains a Superior Parent Proposal and a majority of the members of the Parent Board has again made the determinations referred to in clause (ii) above, (v) Parent and its Representatives are in compliance with Section 5.03, (vi) Parent has previously paid or concurrently pays the fee due under Section 6.07 and (vii) the Parent Board concurrently approves, and Parent concurrently enters into, a definitive agreement providing for the implementation of such Superior Parent Proposal. Acceptance by the Company of the fee due under Section 6.07 shall constitute acceptance by the Company of the validity of any termination of this Agreement under Section 8.01(h) and this Section 8.05(c).
84
        SECTION 9.01. . None of the representations and warranties in this Agreement or in any instrument delivered pursuant to this Agreement shall survive the Effective Time. This Section 9.01 shall not limit any covenant or agreement of the parties which by its terms contemplates performance after the Effective Time.
Nonsurvival of Representations and Warranties
        SECTION 9.02. . All notices, requests, claims, demands and other communications under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed given upon receipt by the parties at the following addresses (or at such other address for a party as shall be specified by like notice):
Notices
        (a)     if to Parent or Sub, to
85
        (b)     if to the Company, to
        SECTION 9.03. . For purposes of this Agreement:
Definitions
        An "" of any person means another person that directly or indirectly, through one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, such first person.
affiliate
        "" of a party shall mean the actual knowledge of its executive officers.
knowledge
        A "" means any individual, firm, corporation, partnership, company, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association, Governmental Entity or other entity.
person
        A "" means any subsidiary of the Company that constitutes a significant subsidiary within the meaning of Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-X of the SEC.
Significant Company Subsidiary
        A "" means Sub and any subsidiary of Parent that constitutes a significant subsidiary within the meaning of Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-X of the SEC.
Significant Parent Subsidiary
        A "" of any person means another person, an amount of the voting securities, other voting ownership or voting partnership interests of which is sufficient to elect at least a majority of its Board of Directors or other governing body (or, if there are no such voting interests, 50% or more of the equity interests of which) is owned directly or indirectly by such first person.
subsidiary
86
        SECTION 9.04. . When a reference is made in this Agreement to a Section, such reference shall be to a Section of this Agreement unless otherwise indicated. The table of contents and headings contained in this Agreement are for reference purposes only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement. Whenever the words "include", "includes" or "including" are used in this Agreement, they shall be deemed to be followed by the words "without limitation".
Interpretation; Disclosure Letters
        SECTION 9.05. . If any term or other provision of this Agreement is invalid, illegal or incapable of being enforced by any rule or Law, or public policy, all other conditions and provisions of this Agreement shall nevertheless remain in full force and effect so long as the economic or legal substance of the transactions contemplated hereby is not affected in any manner materially adverse to any party. Upon such determination that any term or other provision is invalid, illegal or incapable of being enforced, the parties hereto shall negotiate in good faith to modify this Agreement so as to effect the original intent of the parties as closely as possible in an acceptable manner to the end that transactions contemplated hereby are fulfilled to the extent possible.
Severability
        SECTION 9.06. . This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, all of which shall be considered one and the same agreement and shall become effective when one or more counterparts have been signed by each of the parties and delivered to the other parties.
Counterparts
        SECTION 9.07. . This Agreement, taken together with the Company Disclosure Letter, the Parent Disclosure Letter and the Confidentiality Agreement, (a) constitute the entire agreement, and supersede all prior agreements and understandings, both written and oral, among the parties with respect to the Transactions and (b) except for Sections 6.04 and 6.06, are not intended to confer upon any person other than the parties any rights or remedies. Notwithstanding clause (b) of the immediately preceding sentence, following the Effective Time the provisions of Article II shall be enforceable by holders of Certificates.
Entire Agreement; No Third-Party Beneficiaries
        SECTION 9.08. . This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with (a)  the Laws of the State of Wisconsin, with respect to matters, issues and questions relating to the fiduciary duties of the board of directors and officers of Parent and other matters to which the Laws of the State of Wisconsin are mandatorily applicable, (b) the Laws of the State of Illinois with respect to matters, issues and questions relating to the fiduciary duties of the board of directors and officers of the Company and other matters to which the Laws of the State of Illinois are mandatorily applicable, and (c) the Laws of the State of New York with respect to all other matters, issues and questions regardless of the Laws that might otherwise govern under applicable principles of conflicts of Laws.
Governing Law
87
        SECTION 9.09. . Neither this Agreement nor any of the rights, interests or obligations under this Agreement shall be assigned, in whole or in part, by operation of Law or otherwise by any of the parties without the prior written consent of the other parties, except that Sub may assign, in its sole discretion, any of or all its rights, interests and obligations under this Agreement to Parent or to any direct or indirect wholly owned Parent Subsidiary, but no such assignment shall relieve Sub of any of its obligations under this Agreement. Any purported assignment without such consent shall be void. Subject to the preceding sentences, this Agreement will be binding upon, inure to the benefit of, and be enforceable by, the parties and their respective successors and assigns.
Assignment
        SECTION 9.10. . The parties agree that irreparable damage would occur in the event that any of the provisions of this Agreement were not performed in accordance with their specific terms or were otherwise breached. It is accordingly agreed that the parties shall be entitled to an injunction or injunctions to prevent breaches of this Agreement and to enforce specifically the terms and provisions of this Agreement in any New York state court or any Federal court located in the Borough of Manhattan in The City of New York, this being in addition to any other remedy of any kind to which they are entitled at law or in equity (and all such remedies shall be cumulative). In addition, each of the parties hereto (a) consents to submit itself to the personal jurisdiction of any New York state court or the Federal court located in the Borough of Manhattan in The City of New York in the event any dispute arises out of this Agreement or any Transaction, (b) agrees that it will not attempt to deny or defeat such personal jurisdiction by motion or other request for leave from any such court, (c) agrees that it will not bring any action relating to this Agreement or any Transaction in any court other than a New York state court or a Federal court sitting in the Borough of Manhattan in The City of New York and (d) waives any right to trial by jury with respect to any action related to or arising out of this Agreement or any Transaction.
Enforcement
        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Parent, Sub and the Company have duly executed this Agreement, all as of the date first written above.
EXHIBIT A
             The annual meeting of the shareholders shall be held on or before the last business day of the anniversary month of the filing of the corporation's Articles of Incorporation, beginning in the year 2007, for the purpose of electing directors and for the transaction of such other business as may come before the meeting. If the day fixed for the annual meeting shall be a legal holiday, such meeting shall be held on the next succeeding business day. If the election of directors shall not be held on the day designated herein for any annual meeting, or at any adjournment thereof, the board of directors shall cause the election to be held at a special meeting of the shareholders as soon thereafter as may be convenient.
SECTION 1.1
ANNUAL MEETING.
             Special meetings of the shareholders may be called by the president, by the board of directors or by the holders of not less than one-fifth of all the outstanding shares of the corporation entitled to vote on the matter for which the meeting is called.
SECTION 1.2
SPECIAL MEETINGS.
             Meetings of shareholders may be held at such place, either within or without the State of incorporation, as may be designated in the notice or waiver of notice of the meeting. If no designation is made, the place of the meeting shall be the principal office of the corporation.
SECTION 1.3
PLACE OF MEETING.
             Written notice stating the place, day and hour of the meeting and, in case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called, shall be delivered not less than 10 nor more than 60 days before the date of the meeting, or in the case of a merger, consolidation, share exchange, dissolution or sale, lease or exchange of assets, not less than 20 nor more than 60 days before the meeting, either personally or by mail, by or at the direction of the president, or the secretary, or the officer or persons calling the meeting, to each shareholder of record entitled to vote at such meeting. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed to be delivered when deposited in the United States mail in a sealed envelope addressed to the shareholder at the shareholder's address as it appears on the records of the corporation, with postage thereon prepaid. Whenever any notice whatever is required to be given, a waiver thereof in writing signed by the person or persons entitled to such notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to the giving of such notice. Attendance at any meeting shall constitute waiver of notice thereof unless the person at the meeting objects to the holding of the meeting because proper notice was not given.
SECTION 1.4
NOTICE AND WAIVER OF NOTICE.
             For the purpose of determining shareholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of shareholders, or shareholders entitled to receive payment of any dividend, or in order to make a determination of shareholders for any other proper purpose, the board of directors of the corporation may fix in advance a date as the record date for any such determination of shareholders, such date in any case to be not more than 60 days and, for a meeting of shareholders, not less than 10 days, or in the case of a merger, consolidation, share exchange, dissolution or sale, lease or exchange of assets, not less than 20 days, immediately preceding such meeting. If no record date is fixed for the determination of shareholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of shareholders, or shareholders entitled to receive payment of a dividend, the date on which notice of the meeting is mailed or the date on which the resolution of the board of directors declaring such dividend is adopted, as the case may be, shall be the record date for such determination of shareholders. When a determination of shareholders entitled to vote at any meeting of shareholders has been made as provided in this Section, such determination shall apply to any adjournment thereof.
SECTION 1.5
CLOSING OF TRANSFER BOOKS AND FIXING RECORD DATE.
             Unless otherwise provided in the Articles of Incorporation, each outstanding share, regardless of class, shall be entitled to one vote upon each matter submitted to a vote at a meeting of shareholders.
SECTION 1.6
VOTING OF SHARES.
             Unless otherwise provided in the Articles of Incorporation, a majority of the outstanding shares entitled to vote on a matter, represented in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at any meeting of shareholders; provided, that if less than a quorum is present, a majority of the shares represented at the meeting may adjourn the meeting from time to time without further notice. If a quorum is present, the affirmative vote of a majority of the shares represented at the meeting shall be the act of the shareholders, unless the vote of a greater number or voting by classes is required by law or the Articles of Incorporation.
SECTION 1.7
QUORUM AND REQUIRED VOTE.
             A shareholder may appoint a proxy to vote or otherwise act for such shareholder by signing an appointment form and delivering it to the person so appointed. Unless the appointment of a proxy contains an express limitation on the proxy's authority, a corporation may accept the proxy's vote or other action as that of the shareholder making the appointment.
SECTION 1.8
PROXIES.
        No proxy shall be valid after the expiration of 11 months from the date thereof unless otherwise provided in the proxy. Every proxy continues in full force and effect until revoked by the person executing it prior to the vote pursuant thereto, except as otherwise provided in this Section. Such revocation may be effected by a writing delivered to the corporation stating that the proxy is revoked or by a subsequent proxy executed by, or by attendance at the meeting and voting in person by the person executing the proxy. The dates contained on the forms of proxy presumptively determine the order of execution, regardless of the postmark dates on the envelopes in which they are mailed.
             Unless otherwise provided in the Articles of Incorporation, any action required to be taken at any annual or special meeting of the shareholders of the corporation, or any other action which may be taken at a meeting of the shareholders, may be taken without a meeting and without a vote, if a consent in writing, setting forth the action so taken, shall be signed (i) by the holders of outstanding shares having not less than the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to authorize or take such action at a meeting at which all shares entitled to vote thereon were present and voting or (ii) by all of the shareholders entitled to vote with respect to the subject matter thereof. If such consent is signed by less than all of the shareholders entitled to vote on the action which is the subject of the consent, then such consent shall become effective only if at least 5 days prior to the execution of the consent a notice in writing is delivered to all the shareholders entitled to vote with respect to the subject matter thereof and, after the effective date of consent, prompt notice of the taking of the corporation action without a meeting by less than unanimous written consent shall be delivered in writing to those shareholders who have not consented in writing.
SECTION 1.9
INFORMAL ACTION BY SHAREHOLDERS.
             Shares registered in the name of a deceased person, a minor ward or an incompetent person, may be voted by such person's administrator, executor, court appointed guardian or conservator either in person or by proxy without a transfer of such shares into the name of such administrator, executor, court appointed guardian or conservator. Shares standing in the name of a trustee may be voted by such trustee either in person or by proxy.
SECTION 1.10
VOTING OF SHARES BY CERTAIN HOLDERS.
        Shares registered in the name of a receiver may be voted by such receiver, and shares held by or under the control of a receiver may be voted by such receiver without the transfer thereof into such receiver's name if authority to do so is contained in an appropriate order of the court by which such receiver was appointed.
        A shareholder whose shares are pledged shall be entitled to vote such shares until the shares have been transferred into the name of the pledgee, and thereafter the pledgee shall be entitled to vote the shares so transferred.
             Any number of shareholders of the corporation may create a voting trust for the purpose of conferring upon a trustee or trustees the right to vote or otherwise represent their shares, for a period not to exceed 10 years, by entering into a written voting trust agreement specifying the terms and conditions of the voting trust, and by transferring their shares to such trustee or trustees for the purposes of the agreement. Any such trust agreement shall not become effective until a counterpart of the agreement is deposited with the corporation at its registered office. The counterpart of the voting trust agreement so deposited with the corporation shall be subject to the same right of examination by a shareholder of the corporation, in person or by agent or attorney, as is the record of shareholders of the corporation, and shall be subject to examination by any holder of a beneficial interest in the voting trust, either in person or by agent or attorney, at any reasonable time for any proper purpose.
SECTION 1.11
VOTING TRUST AGREEMENTS.
             The corporation shall keep correct and complete books and records of account and minutes of the proceedings of its shareholders and board of directors and committees thereof. The corporation shall also keep at its principal place of business, or at its agent's place of business, a record of its shareholders, giving the names and addresses of all shareholders and the number and class of shares held by each.
SECTION 1.12
CORPORATE RECORDS; EXAMINATION BY SHAREHOLDERS.
        Any person who is a shareholder of record shall have the right to examine, in person or by agent, at any reasonable time or times, the corporation's books and records of account, minutes, voting trust agreements filed with the corporation and record of shareholders, and to make extracts therefrom but only for a proper purpose. In order to exercise this right, a shareholder must make written demand upon the corporation, stating with particularity the records sought to be examined and the purpose therefor.
             . The business and affairs of the corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of its board of directors.
SECTION 2.1
GENERAL POWERS
             The number of directors of the corporation shall be no less than one (1). Each director shall hold office until the next annual meeting of shareholders and until such director's successor shall have been duly elected and qualified. Unless the laws of the State of incorporation, the corporation's charter and amendments thereto, or these Bylaws otherwise provide, directors need not be residents of the State of incorporation or shareholders of the corporation. The number of directors may be increased or decreased from time to time by amendment to these Bylaws. A decrease in the number of directors does not shorten an incumbent director's term.
SECTION 2.2
NUMBER, TENURE AND QUALIFICATIONS.
             A regular annual meeting of the board of directors shall be held without other notice than this Bylaw, immediately after and at the same place as the annual meeting of shareholders. The board of directors may provide, by resolution, the time and place, at any reasonable location, for the holding of additional regular meetings without other notice than such resolution.
SECTION 2.3
REGULAR MEETINGS.
             Special meetings of the board of directors may be called by or at the request of the president or any director. The person or persons authorized to call special meetings of the board of directors may fix any reasonable place as the place for holding any special meeting of the board of directors called by them.
SECTION 2.4
SPECIAL MEETINGS.
             Unless specifically prohibited by the Articles of Incorporation, any action required to be taken at a meeting of the board of directors of the corporation, or any other action which may be taken at a meeting of the board of directors or a committee thereof, may be taken without a meeting if a consent in writing, setting forth the action so taken, shall be signed by all of the directors entitled to vote with respect to the subject matter thereof, or by all the members of such committee, as the case may be.
SECTION 2.5
INFORMAL ACTION BY DIRECTORS.
        The consent shall be evidenced by one or more written approvals, each of which sets forth the action taken and bears the signature of one or more directors. All the approvals evidencing the consent shall be delivered to the secretary to be filed in the corporate records. The action taken shall be effective when all the directors have approved the consent unless the consent specifies a different effective date.
             Notice of any special meeting shall be given to each director at least two (2) full days prior thereto by written notice delivered in person or delivered, to an address, facsimile number or e-mail account previously provided in writing to the Secretary of the corporation, by United States mail, overnight courier service, messenger, facsimile, electronic mail, or telegram. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed to be delivered when deposited in the United States mail in a sealed envelope with postage thereon prepaid. If notice is given by overnight courier service or messenger, such notice shall be deemed to be delivered when it is received for delivery by the overnight courier service or messenger. If notice is given by facsimile or electronic mail, such notice shall be deemed to be delivered when the fax or e-mail is sent to the correct fax number or e-mail address. If notice is given by telegram, such notice shall be deemed to be delivered when the telegram is delivered to the telegraph company. The attendance of a director at any meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting except where a director attends the meeting for the express purpose of objecting to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened. Neither the business to be transacted at nor the purpose of any regular or special meeting of the board of directors need be specified in the notice or waiver of notice of such meeting.
SECTION 2.6
NOTICE AND WAIVER OF NOTICE.
             A majority of the board of directors fixed by these Bylaws shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting of the board of directors provided that, if less than a majority of the directors are present at said meeting, a majority of the directors present may adjourn the meeting from time to time without further notice.
SECTION 2.7
QUORUM.
             The act of a majority of the directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the board of directors unless a greater number is required by law, the Articles of Incorporation or these Bylaws.
SECTION 2.8
MANNER OF ACTING.
             . One or more of the directors may be removed, with or without cause, at a meeting of shareholders by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares then entitled to vote at an election of directors; provided that no director shall be removed at a meeting of shareholders unless the notice of such meeting shall state that a purpose of the meeting is to vote upon the removal of one or more directors named in the notice.
SECTION 2.9
REMOVAL OF DIRECTORS
             A director may resign at any time by giving written notice to the board of directors, its chairman, or to the president or secretary of the corporation. A resignation is effective when the notice is given unless the notice specifies a future date. The pending vacancy may be filled before the effective date, but the successor shall not take office until the effective date.
SECTION 2.10
RESIGNATION OF DIRECTORS.
             Any vacancy occurring in the board of directors or a directorship to be filled by reason of an increase in the number of directors may be filled by election at any annual meeting of shareholders or at a special meeting of shareholders called for that purpose; provided, however, that in the event of a vacancy or vacancies arising between meetings of the shareholders by reason of an increase in the number of directors or otherwise, the board of directors may fill such vacancy. A director elected by the shareholders to fill a vacancy shall hold office for the balance of the term for which such director was elected. A director appointed by the board of directors to fill a vacancy shall serve until the next annual meeting of shareholders at which directors are to be elected.
SECTION 2.11
VACANCIES.
             A majority of the directors may create one or more committees and appoint members of the board to serve on the committee or committees. Each committee shall have two or more members, who serve at the pleasure of the board.
SECTION 2.12
COMMITTEES.
        Unless the appointment by the board of directors requires a greater number, a majority of any committee shall constitute a quorum and a majority of a quorum is necessary for committee action. A committee may act by unanimous consent in writing without a meeting and, subject to the provisions of these Bylaws or action by the board of directors, the committee by majority vote of its members shall determine the time and place of meetings and the notice required therefor.
        To the extent specified by the board of directors or in the Articles of Incorporation or these Bylaws, each committee may exercise the authority of the board of directors; provided, however, that a committee may not:
             Unless specifically prohibited by the Articles of Incorporation, members of the board of directors or of any committee of the board of directors may participate in and act at any meeting of such board or committee through the use of a conference telephone or other communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other. Participation in such a meeting shall constitute attendance and presence in person at the meeting of the person or persons so participating.
SECTION 2.13
COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT.
             The affirmative vote of a majority of directors then in office shall be required to fix the compensation of the directors, which compensation shall be reasonable. No director shall be precluded from serving the corporation in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor.
SECTION 2.14
COMPENSATION.
             The Board of Directors shall elect such officers as are required by law and such additional officers as it from time to time may determine. Any two or more offices may be held by the same person.
SECTION 3.1
NUMBER.
             The officers of the corporation shall be elected annually by the board of directors at the regular meeting of the board of directors held immediately after each annual meeting of shareholders. If the election of officers shall not be held at such meeting, such election shall be held as soon thereafter as may be convenient. Vacancies may be filled or new offices created and filled at any meeting of the board of directors. Each officer shall hold office until the next annual meeting of directors and until such officer's successor shall have been duly elected and shall have qualified or until such officer's earlier death, resignation or removal.
SECTION 3.2
ELECTION AND TERM OF OFFICE.
             Any officer elected or appointed by the board of directors may be removed by the board of directors whenever in its judgment the best interests of the corporation would be served thereby, but such removal shall be without prejudice to the contract rights, if any, of the person so removed. Election or appointment of an officer shall not of itself create contract rights.
SECTION 3.3
REMOVAL.
             The chairman, if one is elected, shall be the chief executive officer of the corporation. Subject to the direction of the board of directors, the chairman shall have general charge over the business affairs and policies of the corporation. The chairman may sign and execute all instruments in the name of the corporation. The chairman shall preside at all meetings of the shareholders and of the board of directors. In the absence or disability of the president or the president's refusal to perform the president's functions, the chairman shall be vested with the powers and shall perform the duties of the president. The chairman may delegate any of the chairman's powers or functions to any officers of the corporation. The chairman shall be a member of the board of directors.
SECTION 3.4
CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD.
             The president shall be the chief operating officer of the corporation and, if no chairman is elected, the chief executive officer of the corporation. Subject to the control of the board of directors, the president shall have general and active management of the day-to-day business of the corporation. The president may sign and execute all instruments in the name of the corporation. In the absence of the chairman, or if no chairman is elected, the president shall perform the duties of and shall be vested with all the powers of the chairman.
SECTION 3.5
PRESIDENT.
             In the absence of the president or in the event of the president's inability or refusal to act, the vice president, if one is elected, or in the event there are more than one vice president, the vice presidents in the order designated by the board of directors or if no such designation has been made, then in the order of their election, shall perform the duties of the president, and when so acting, shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the president. Any vice president may sign all instruments in the name of the corporation and shall perform such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to such vice president by the president or by the board of directors.
SECTION 3.6
THE VICE PRESIDENTS.
             The treasurer, if one is elected, shall: (a) have charge and custody of and be responsible for all funds and securities of the corporation, receive and give receipts for moneys due and payable to the corporation from any source whatsoever and deposit all such money in the name of the corporation in such banks, trust companies or other depositaries as shall be selected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of these Bylaws; and (b) in general perform all the duties incident to the office of treasurer and such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to the treasurer by the president, or by the board of directors. If required by the board of directors, the treasurer shall give a bond for the faithful discharge of the treasurer's duties in such sum and with such surety or sureties as the board of directors shall determine.
SECTION 3.7
TREASURER.
             The secretary shall: (a) keep the minutes of the shareholders' and of the board of directors' meetings in one or more books provided for that purpose; (b) see that all notices are duly given in accordance with the provisions of these Bylaws or as required by law; (c) be custodian of the corporate records and of the seal of the corporation and see that the seal of the corporation is affixed to all certificates for shares prior to the issuance thereof and to all documents, the execution of which on behalf of the corporation under its seal is duly authorized in accordance with the provisions of these Bylaws; (d) keep a register of the post office address of each shareholder which shall be furnished to the secretary by such shareholder; (e) sign with the chairman of the board, the president, or a vice president, certificates for shares of the corporation, the issue of which shall have been authorized by resolution of the board of directors; (f) have general charge of the stock transfer books of the corporation; and (g) in general perform all duties incident to the office of secretary or such other duties as from time to time may be assigned by the president or by the board of directors.
SECTION 3.8
THE SECRETARY.
             The assistant treasurers and assistant secretaries, if selected by the board of directors, shall hold office for such period as the board of directors may prescribe. The assistant treasurers shall, respectively, if required by the board of directors, give bonds for the faithful discharge of their duties in such sums and with such sureties as the board of directors shall determine. The assistant secretaries may sign with the chairman of the board, the president or a vice president, certificates for shares of the corporation, the issue of which shall have been authorized by a resolution of the board of directors. The assistant treasurers and assistant secretaries, in general, shall perform such duties as shall be assigned to them by the treasurer or the secretary, respectively, or by the president or the board of directors.
SECTION 3.9
ASSISTANT TREASURERS AND ASSISTANT SECRETARIES.
             Officers, assistant officers and agents, if any, other than those whose duties are provided for in these Bylaws, shall have such authority and perform such duties as may from time to time be prescribed by resolution of the board of directors.
SECTION 3.10
OTHER OFFICERS, ASSISTANT OFFICERS AND AGENTS.
             Compensation of the officers shall be fixed from time to time by the board of directors and no officer shall be prevented from receiving such compensation by reason of the fact that such officer is also a director of the corporation. If an officer is also a director, then the affirmative vote of a majority of directors then in office shall be required to fix said officer's compensation.
SECTION 3.11
COMPENSATION.
             The board of directors may authorize any officer or officers, agent or agents, to enter into any contract or execute and deliver any instrument in the name of and on behalf of the corporation, and such authority may be general or confined to specific instances.
SECTION 4.1
CONTRACTS.
             No loans shall be contracted on behalf of the corporation and no evidence of indebtedness shall be issued in its name unless authorized by a resolution of the board of directors. Such authority may be general or confined to specific instances.
SECTION 4.2
LOANS.
             All checks, drafts or other orders for the payment of money, notes or other evidences of indebtedness issued in the name of the corporation, shall be signed by such officer or officers, agent or agents of the corporation and in such manner as shall from time to time be determined by resolution of the board of directors.
SECTION 4.3
CHECKS, DRAFTS, ETC.
             All funds of the corporation not otherwise employed shall be deposited from time to time to the credit of the corporation in such banks, trust companies or other depositories as the board of directors may select.
SECTION 4.4
DEPOSITS.
             . Certificates representing shares of the corporation shall be in such form as may be determined by the board of directors; provided that:
SECTION 5.1
CERTIFICATES FOR SHARES
        Such certificate shall be signed by the chairman of the board, the president or a vice president and by the secretary or an assistant secretary, and may be sealed with the seal or a facsimile of the seal of the corporation, if the corporation uses a seal. If a certificate is countersigned by a transfer agent or registrar, other than the corporation itself or its employee, any other signatures or countersignature on the certificate may be facsimiles. No certificate shall be issued for any share until such share is fully paid.
             Unless otherwise provided by the Articles of Incorporation, the board of directors may provide by resolution that some or all of any or all classes and series of its shares shall be uncertificated shares, provided that such resolution shall not apply to shares represented by a certificate until such certificate is surrendered to the corporation. Within a reasonable time after the issuance or transfer of uncertificated shares, the corporation shall send to the registered owner thereof a written notice containing all of the information required to be set forth on certificates pursuant to Section 5.1 of this Article.
SECTION 5.2
UNCERTIFICATED SHARES.
             Transfers of shares of the corporation shall be made only on the books of the corporation by the registered holder thereof or by such holder's attorney thereunto authorized by power of attorney duly executed and filed with the secretary of the corporation. In addition, in the case of transfers of shares represented by certificates, transfers shall be made upon the books of the corporation only upon surrender to the corporation of the certificates representing the number of shares to be transferred except that in the case of a lost, destroyed or mutilated certificate, a transfer may be made upon such terms and indemnification of the corporation as the board of directors may prescribe. Regardless of whether shares are represented by certificates or are uncertificated, the person in whose name shares stand on the books of the corporation shall be deemed the owner thereof for all purposes as regards the corporation.
SECTION 5.3
TRANSFERS OF SHARES.
             The corporation shall indemnify, to the fullest extent permitted under the laws of the State of Illinois and any other applicable laws, as they now exist or as they may be amended in the future, any person who was or is a party, or is threatened to be made a party, to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (including, without limitation, an action by or in the right of the corporation), by reason of the fact that he or she is or was a director, officer or employee of the corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise against expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by such person in connection with such action, suit or proceeding.
SECTION 6.1
INDEMNIFICATION OF DIRECTORS, OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
             S. Expenses incurred by such a director, officer or employee in defending a civil or criminal action, suit or proceeding shall be paid by the corporation in advance of the final disposition of such action, suit or proceeding to the fullest extent permitted under the laws of the State of Illinois and any other applicable laws, as they now exist or as they may be amended in the future.
SECTION 6.2
ADVANCEMENT OF EXPENSES TO DIRECTORS, OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEE
             The board of directors may, by resolution, extend the provisions of this Article VI regarding indemnification and the advancement of expenses to any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding by reason of the fact he or she is or was an agent of the corporation or is or was serving at the request of the corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise.
SECTION 6.3
INDEMNIFICATION AND ADVANCEMENT OF EXPENSES TO AGENTS.
             The rights provided by or granted under this Article VI are not exclusive of any other rights to which those seeking indemnification or advancement of expenses may be entitled.
SECTION 6.4
RIGHTS NOT EXCLUSIVE.
             The indemnification and advancement of expenses provided by or granted under this Article VI shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director, officer, employee or agent and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators of that person.
SECTION 6.5
CONTINUING RIGHTS.
             The fiscal year of the corporation shall begin on the first day of January and end on the last day of December of each year.
SECTION 7.1
             The board of directors may provide a corporate seal which shall be in the form of a circle and shall have inscribed thereon the name of the corporation, the words "Corporate Seal", and the name of the State of incorporation.
SECTION 8.1
             Unless the power to make, alter, amend or repeal the Bylaws is reserved to the shareholders by the Articles of Incorporation, these Bylaws may be altered, amended or repealed at any meeting of the shareholders or of the board of directors; provided, however, that no Bylaws amended by the shareholders may be altered, amended, or repealed by the board of directors.
SECTION 9.1
             These Bylaws govern the regulation and management of the corporation's affairs to the extent they are consistent with applicable law and the Articles of Incorporation. To the extent of any inconsistency, applicable law and the Articles of Incorporation shall govern the corporation's affairs.
SECTION 10.1
EXHIBIT B
The Corporation may reject a vote, consent, waiver or proxy appointment if the Secretary or other officer or agent of the Corporation who is authorized to tabulate votes, acting in good faith, has reasonable basis for doubt about the validity of the signature on it or about the signatory's authority to sign for the shareholder.
[*NOTEthese dates will be as follows: 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2007, respectively, if the Effective Time of the Merger is before the 2007 annual shareholder meeting; or 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2008, respectively, if the Effective Time of the Merger is after the 2007 annual shareholder meeting and before the 2008 meeting. This bracketed language will be in the amended Bylaws.]
not
15. Amendment
Board of Directors
The Board of Directors shall provide a corporate seal which shall be circular in form and shall have inscribed thereon the words "WPS RESOURCES CORPORATION, CORPORATE SEAL." The continued use for any purpose of any former corporate seal or facsimile thereof shall have the same effect as the use of the corporate seal or facsimile thereof in the form provided by the preceding sentence.
EXHIBIT C
Dear Sirs:
        The undersigned refers to the Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "") dated as of July 8, 2006, among WPS RESOURCES CORPORATION, a Wisconsin corporation, WEDGE ACQUISITION CORP., an Illinois corporation, and PEOPLES ENERGY CORPORATION, an Illinois corporation. Capitalized terms used but not defined in this letter have the meanings give such terms in the Merger Agreement.
Merger Agreement
        The undersigned, a holder of shares of Company Common Stock, is entitled to receive in connection with the Merger shares of Parent Common Stock. The undersigned acknowledges that the undersigned may be deemed an "affiliate" of the Company within the meaning of Rule 145 ("") promulgated under the Securities Act, although nothing contained herein should be construed as an admission of such fact.
Rule 145
        If in fact the undersigned were an affiliate under the Securities Act, the undersigned's ability to sell, assign or transfer the Parent Common Stock received by the undersigned in exchange for any shares of Company Common Stock pursuant to the Merger may be restricted unless much transaction is registered under the Securities Act or an exemption from such registration is available. The undersigned (i) understands that such exemptions are limited and that Parent is not under any obligation to effect any such registration and (ii) has obtained advice of counsel as to the nature and conditions of such exemptions, including information with respect to the applicability to the sale of such securities of Rules 144 and 145(d) promulgated under the Securities Act.
        The undersigned hereby represents to and covenants with Parent that the undersigned will not sell, assign or transfer any of the Parent Common Stock received by the undersigned in exchange for shares of Company Common Stock pursuant to the Merger except (i) pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, (ii) in a transaction that meets the requirements of Rule 145 or (iii) in a transaction that, in the opinion of counsel to the undersigned, such counsel to be reasonably satisfactory to Parent and such opinion to be in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Parent, or as described in a "no-action" or interpretive letter from the Staff of the SEC specifically issued with respect to a transaction to be engaged in by the undersigned, is not required to be registered under the Securities Act.
        In the event of a sale or other disposition by the undersigned pursuant to Rule 145 of Parent Common Stock received by the undersigned in the Merger, the undersigned will supply Parent with evidence of compliance with such Rule, in the form of a letter in the form of Annex I hereto and the opinion of counsel or no-action letter referred to above. The undersigned understands that Parent may instruct its transfer agent to withhold the transfer of any Parent Common Stock disposed of by the undersigned, but that upon receipt of such evidence of compliance the transfer agent shall effectuate the transfer of the Parent Common Stock sold as indicated in the letter.
        The undersigned acknowledges and agrees that (i) the Parent Common Stock issued to the undersigned will all be in certificated form and (ii) appropriate legends will be placed on certificates representing Parent Common Stock received by the undersigned in the merger or held by a transferee thereof, which legends will be removed by delivery of substitute certificates upon receipt of an opinion in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Parent from counsel reasonably satisfactory to Parent to the effect that such legends are no longer required for purposes of the Securities Act or in the event of a sale of the Parent Common Stock issued to the undersigned which has been registered under the Securities Act.
        The undersigned acknowledges that (i) the undersigned has carefully read this letter and understands the requirements hereof and the limitations imposed upon the distribution, sale, transfer or other disposition of Parent Common Stock and (ii) the receipt by Parent of this letter is an inducement to Parent's obligations to consummate the Merger.
Dated:
        On                 , the undersigned sold the securities of WPS RESOURCES CORPORATION ("") described below in the space provided for that purpose (the ""). The Securities were received by the undersigned in connection with the merger of WEDGE ACQUISITION CORP., a subsidiary of Parent, with and into PEOPLES ENERGY CORPORATION.
Parent
Securities
        Based upon the most recent report or statement filed by Parent with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Securities sold by the undersigned were within the prescribed limitations set forth in Rule 144(e) promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "").
Securities Act
        The undersigned hereby represents that the Securities were sold in "brokers' transactions" within the meaning of Section 4(4) of the Securities Act or in transactions directly with a "market maker" as that term is defined in Section 3(a)(38) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The undersigned further represents that the undersigned has not solicited or arranged for the solicitation of orders to buy the Securities, and that the undersigned has not made any payment in connection with the offer or sale of the Securities to any person other than to the broker who executed the order in respect of such sale.
Dated:


