FILE:TEG/TEG-8K-20070227162512.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Date of Report:
  February 21, 2007     
(Date of earliest event reported)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
1
 
Item 2.01
 
Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
On February 21, 2007, pursuant to that certain Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Merger Agreement) dated as of July 8, 2006, as amended, by and among Peoples Energy Corporation (Peoples Energy), WPS Resources Corporation (WPS Resources) and Wedge Acquisition Corp., a wholly-owned subsidiary of WPS Resources (Wedge), the merger of Wedge with and into Peoples Energy was completed. As a result of the merger, Peoples Energy became a wholly-owned subsidiary of WPS Resources.
Pursuant to the merger, shareholders of Peoples Energy will receive 0.825 shares of WPS Resources common stock, $1 par value, for each share of Peoples Energy common stock, no par value that they held immediately prior to the merger. The total value of the merger consideration was approximately $1.8 billion. Simultaneously with the completion of the merger, WPS Resources changed its name to Integrys Energy Group, Inc. (Integrys), and its new ticker symbol is TEG.
On February 21, 2007, Integrys issued a press release announcing the completion of the merger and the other transactions contemplated by the merger. A copy of the press release is attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 5.02
 
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
In connection with the merger reported in Item 2.01, the following individuals were appointed as new directors of Integrys as of February 21, 2007:
In connection with the completion of the merger reported in Item 2.01, Charles A. Schrock (age 53) was named President of Wisconsin Public Service Corporation (WPSC) as of February 21, 2007. Before his appointment as President, Mr. Schrock was President and Chief Operating Officer - Generation of WPSC since August 15, 2004, prior to that date Mr. Schrock was Senior Vice President of WPS Resources since September 14, 2003. In addition, Larry L. Weyers ceased serving as Chief Executive Officer of WPSC as of February 21, 2007. Also in connection with the completion of the merger, Thomas P. Meinz and Bernard J. Treml, who were named executive officers in the 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K, ceased serving in their positions as Executive Vice President - Public Affairs and Senior Vice President - Human Resources with WPSC.
In connection with the completion of the merger reported in Item 2.01, the following individuals were removed as directors of WPSC as of February 21, 2007: Richard A. Bemis, Albert J. Budney, Jr., Ellen Carnahan, Robert C. Gallagher, Kathryn M. Hasselblad-Pascale, James L. Kemerling, John C. Meng and William F. Protz, Jr.
 
 
 
2
 
 
In connection with the completion of the merger reported in Item 2.01, the following individuals were appointed as new directors of WPSC as of February 21, 2007: Lawrence T. Borgard, Phillip M. Mikulsky, Thomas P. Meinz, Thomas A. Nardi, Joseph P. OLeary, Desiree G. Rogers, and Charles A. Schrock.
 
Item 5.03
 
Amendments to Articles of Incorporation; Change in Fiscal Year
In connection with the merger, on February 21, 2007 Integrys amended its articles of incorporation and bylaws. Integrys articles of incorporation were amended to change the name of WPS Resources Corporation to Integrys Energy Group, Inc.. The bylaws of Integrys were amended to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Also, on February 21, 2007, WPSC amended its bylaws to:
 
 
 
 
A copy of the amendments to Integrys Restated Articles of Incorporation is attached as Exhibit 3.1, and a copy of Integrys Restated Articles of Incorporation, as amended, is attached as Exhibit 3.2. A copy of the amendments to Integrys Bylaws is attached as Exhibit 3.3, and a copy of Integrys Bylaws, as amended, is attached as Exhibit 3.4. A copy of the amendments to WPSCs Bylaws is attached as Exhibit 3.5, and a copy of WPSCs Bylaws, as amended, is attached as Exhibit 3.6.
 
3
 
Item 9.01
 
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Financial Statements of Business Acquired
 
The financial statements required by this Item are incorporated herein by reference to Item 8, Financial Statements, of Peoples Energys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2006, which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (File No. 001-05540) on December 14, 2006.
 
Pro Forma Financial Information
 
The pro forma financial information required by this Item, with respect to the merger described in Item 2.01, will be filed as soon as practicable, and in any event not later than May 9, 2007.
 
Exhibits
 
The exhibits identified on the attached exhibit index are filed herewith.
 
 
4
 
 
 
5
 
 
6
 

 
Exhibit 3.1
1.
  
Name of the Corporation
: WPS Resources Corporation
 
2.
  
Text of Amendment
:
 
Article 1 of the Corporations Restated Articles of Incorporation is hereby amended in its entirety to provide as follows:
 
The name of the Corporation is Integrys Energy Group, Inc.
 
3.
  
Adoption
: The foregoing amendment to the Corporations Restated Articles of Incorporation was submitted to the Corporations shareholders by the Board of Directors of the Corporation and was approved and adopted by such shareholders on December 6, 2006, in accordance with Section 180.1003 of the
Wisconsin Business Corporation Law
.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed these Articles of Amendment on behalf of the Corporation this 21st day of February, 2007.
 
By: 
/s/ Larry L. Weyers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Larry L. Weyers
Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer
 
 
 
 
__________________
 
 
This instrument was drafted by, and after filing should be returned to, David W. Clark of Foley & Lardner LLP, 777 East Wisconsin Avenue, Milwaukee, Wisconsin 53202.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 3.2
 
Integrys Energy Group, Inc., a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Wisconsin and being subject to the provisions of the Wisconsin Business Corporation Law, hereby amends its Articles of Incorporation in their entirety and as so amended adopts the following Restated Articles of Incorporation of said Corporation, which supersede and take the place of the existing Articles of Incorporation of said Corporation and any amendments to the Articles of Incorporation of said Corporation.
The name of the Corporation is Integrys Energy Group, Inc.
The Corporation is organized for the purpose of engaging in any lawful activity within the purposes for which corporations may be organized under the Wisconsin Business Corporation Law.
The aggregate number of shares which the Corporation shall have authority to issue is Two Hundred Million (200,000,000), consisting of one class only, designated as "Common Stock," with a par value of one dollar ($1) per share.
The Corporation shall be entitled to treat the holder of record of any share or shares of stock as the owner thereof for all purposes, and shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in any such share or shares on the part of any other person, whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof.
The general powers, number and classification of Directors shall be as set forth in Article III, Sections 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the By-Laws (and as such Sections shall exist from time to time) and such Article III, Sections 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the By-Laws, or any provision thereof, shall be amended, altered, changed or repealed only by the affirmative vote of shareholders possessing at least three-fourths of the voting power of the then outstanding shares of all classes of stock of the corporation generally possessing voting rights in elections for Directors, considered for this purpose as one class; provided, however, that the Board of Directors, by a resolution adopted by the Requisite Vote (as defined herein), may amend, alter, change or repeal Sections 1, 2, 3 and 4 of Article III of the By-Laws, or any provision thereof, without the vote of the
 
 
shareholders. As used herein, the term "Requisite Vote" shall mean the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the Directors then in office plus one Director.
Any Director may be removed from office, but only for cause as hereinafter defined, by the affirmative vote of shareholders possessing at least a majority of the voting power of the then outstanding shares of all classes of stock of the corporation generally possessing voting rights in elections for Directors, considered for this purpose as one class; provided, however, that if the Board of Directors by a resolution adopted by the Requisite Vote shall have recommended removal of a Director, then the shareholders may remove such Director from office by the foregoing vote without cause. As used herein, the meaning of "cause" shall be construed to exist only if the Director whose removal is proposed has been convicted of a felony by a court of competent jurisdiction and such conviction is no longer subject to direct appeal or has been adjudged to be liable for negligence or misconduct in the performance of his duty to the corporation in a matter which has a materially adverse effect on the business of the corporation, and such adjudication is no longer subject to direct appeal.
Any vacancy occurring in the Board of Directors, including a vacancy created by an increase in the number of Directors, may be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Directors then in office, though less than a quorum of the Board of Directors, or by a sole remaining Director. Any Director so elected shall serve until the next election of the class for which such Director shall have been chosen and until his successor shall be elected and qualified.
The provisions of this Article 5 shall be amended, altered, changed or repealed only by the affirmative vote of shareholders possessing at least three-fourths of the voting power of the then outstanding shares of all classes of stock of the corporation generally possessing voting rights in elections for Directors, considered for this purpose as one class.
The address of the registered office of the Corporation is 700 North Adams Street, P.O. Box 19001, Green Bay, Wisconsin, 54307. The name of the Corporation's registered agent at such address is B. J. Wolf.
The By-Laws of the Corporation may provide for a greater or lower quorum requirement or a greater voting requirement for shareholders or voting groups of shareholders than is provided by the Wisconsin Business Corporation Law.

Exhibit 3.3
Additions are noted by [  ].
 
The annual meeting of the shareholders ("Annual Meeting") shall be held each year
not later than the fourth Tuesday in May,
at such time
or[
and]
on such day as may be designated by resolution of the Board of Directors. In fixing a meeting date for any Annual Meeting, the Board of Directors may consider such factors as it deems relevant within the good faith exercise of its business judgment.
 
1.
 
General Powers
The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by its Board of Directors. The Board shall determine the nature and character of the business to be conducted by the Corporation and the method of doing so; what employees, agents, and officers shall be employed and their compensation; and what purchases or contracts for purchase shall be made. The Board may delegate any of its aforesaid powers to committees or to officers, agents, or employees as it may from time to time determine.[
The Board of Directors may elect from among the directors a Chairman of the Board of Directors and a Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors.]
The number of directors of the Corporation shall be
nine,[
16,]
divided into three classes: [
designated ]
Class A
- 3 members
, Class B
- 3 members, and Class C - 3 members
,[ and Class C. Each class shall consist, as nearly as may be possible, of one-third of the total number of directors constituting the entire Board of Directors
.]
 
 
 
1
 
 
3.
 
Term
At the 1994 annual meeting of shareholders, the directors of Class A shall be elected for a term to expire at the first[
The term of the initial Class A directors shall terminate on the date of the 2007]
annual meeting of shareholders
after their election, and until their successors are elected and qualify, the directors of Class B shall be elected for a term to expire at the second
;[ the term of the initial Class B directors shall terminate on the date of the 2008]
annual meeting of shareholders
after their election, and until their successors are elected and qualify, and the directors of Class C shall be elected for a term to expire at the third
;[ and the term of the Class C directors shall terminate on the date of the 2009]
annual meeting of shareholders
after their election and until their successors are elected and qualify
. At each annual meeting of shareholders
after the 1994 annual meeting of shareholders, the[
beginning in 2007,]
successors to the class of directors whose
terms shall expire at the time of such annual meeting shall be elected to hold office until the third succeeding annual meeting of shareholders, and until their successors are elected and qualify[
term expires at that annual meeting shall be elected for a three-year term and until their successors are elected and qualified. If the number of directors is changed, any increase or decrease in directorships shall be apportioned among the classes so as to maintain the number of directors in each class as nearly equal as possible, and any additional directors of any class elected to fill a vacancy resulting from an increase in such class shall hold office for a term that shall coincide with the remaining term of that class, but in no case will a decrease in the number of directors shorten the term of any incumbent director
.]
13.
 
Committees
The Board of Directors by resolution adopted by the affirmative vote of a majority of all of the directors then in office may create one or more committees, appoint members of the Board of Directors to serve on the committees and designate other members of the Board of Directors to serve as alternates. Each committee shall have
two or more members[
at least one member]
who shall, unless otherwise provided by the Board of Directors, serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. A committee may be authorized to exercise the authority of the Board of Directors, except that a committee may not do any of the following:
 
a.
 
Authorize distributions;b.
 
Approve or propose
[ (a) approve or recommend]
to shareholders [
for approval any ]
action
that
or[ matter expressly required by]
the Wisconsin Business Corporation Law
requires to be approved by shareholders;
 
 
2
 
 
d.
 
Amend the Corporation's Articles of Incorporation;e.
 
Adopt
,[ Chapter 180 of the Wisconsin Statutes, to be submitted to shareholders for approval; and (b) adopt
,] amend
,
or repeal
By-laws;
 
 
g.
 
Authorize or approve reacquisition of shares, except according to a formula or method prescribed by the Board of Directors; and h.
 
Authorize or approve the issuance or sale or contract for sale of shares, or determine the designation and relative rights, preferences and limitations of a class or series of shares, except that the Board of Directors may authorize a committee to do so within limits prescribed by the Board of Directors[
any By-Law of the Corporation
.] Unless otherwise provided by the Board of Directors in creating the committee, a committee may employ counsel, accountants
,
and other consultants to assist it in the exercise of its authority.
[16.
 
Non-Executive Chairman of the Board
If a Chairman of the Board of Directors shall be elected, he or she shall preside as Chairman of all meetings of the shareholders and of the Board of Directors. He or she shall have such other authority as the Board may from time to time prescribe. If there is no Chairman of the Board, or in the absence of the Chairman, the presiding officer at meetings of the shareholders, and of the Board of Directors shall be the Lead Director, if any, or in the absence of the Lead Director, if any, another officer in the following order of priority: Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, President and Vice Presidents (subject, however, to Section 4 of Article IV). The Chairman shall be neither an officer nor an employee of the Corporation by virtue of his or her election and service as Chairman of the Board; provided, however, the Chairman may be an officer of the Corporation. The Chairman may use the title Chairman or Chairman of the Board interchangeably.]
 
3
1.
 
Principal Officers
The principal officers of the Corporation required by statute shall be a President, such number of Vice Presidents as may be elected by the Board of Directors, a Secretary, and a Treasurer. The Board of Directors may elect
from among the directors a Chairman of the Board of Directors and a Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, may designate such Chairman, Vice Chairman, or
any principal officer as the Chief Executive Officer
,
[and]
may elect such assistant secretaries and assistant treasurers and other officers as it shall deem necessary, and may prescribe by resolution their respective powers and duties.
If a Chairman of the Board of Directors shall be elected, he or she shall preside as Chairman of all meetings of the shareholders and of the Board of Directors. He or she shall have such other authority as the Board may from time to time prescribe. If there is no Chairman of the Board, or in the absence of the Chairman, the presiding officer at meetings of the shareholders and of the Board of Directors shall be the Lead Director, if any, or in the absence of the Lead Director, if any, another officer in the following order of priority: Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, President and Vice Presidents (subject, however, to Section 5 of this Article).
 
 
 
4
 

Exhibit 3.4
 
 
1.
 
Principal Office
The principal office of the Corporation in the State of Wisconsin shall be in the City of Green Bay. The Corporation may also have offices at such other places, within and outside of the State of Wisconsin, as the Board of Directors may designate or as the business of the Corporation may require.
2.
 
Registered Office
The Board of Directors shall designate the registered office of the Corporation and may change such registered office by resolution.
 
The annual meeting of the shareholders ("Annual Meeting") shall be held each year at such time and on such day as may be designated by resolution of the Board of Directors. In fixing a meeting date for any Annual Meeting, the Board of Directors may consider such factors as it deems relevant within the good faith exercise of its business judgment.
 
 
At each Annual Meeting, the shareholders shall elect the number of directors equal to the number of directors in the class whose term expires at the time of such Annual Meeting and transact such other business as may properly come before the Annual Meeting in accordance with Section 14 of Article II of these By-laws. If the election of directors shall not be held on the date fixed as herein provided, for any Annual Meeting, or any adjournment thereof, the Board of Directors shall cause the election to be held at a special meeting of shareholders (a "Special Meeting") as soon thereafter as is practicable.
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
The Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the President or the Secretary may designate any place, either within or without the State of
 
5
 
Wisconsin, as the place of meeting for any Annual Meeting or for any Special Meeting or for any postponement or adjournment thereof. If no designation is made, the place of meeting shall be the principal business office of the Corporation in the State of Wisconsin. Any meeting may be adjourned to reconvene at any place designated by vote of the Board of Directors or by the Chairman of the Board, the President or the Secretary.
 
 
Written or printed notice stating the date, time and place of any Annual Meeting or Special Meeting shall be delivered not less than ten days (unless a longer period is required by the Wisconsin Business Corporation Law or the Articles of Incorporation of the Corporation) nor more than 70 days before the date of such meeting either personally or by mail, by or at the direction of the Chairman of the Board, the President or the Secretary, to each shareholder of record entitled to vote at such meeting and to such other shareholders as required by the Wisconsin Business Corporation Law. In the event of any Demand Special Meeting, such notice shall be sent not more than 45 days after the Delivery Date. If mailed, notice pursuant to this Section 5 shall be deemed to be effective when deposited in the United States mail, addressed to the shareholder at his address as it appears on the stock record books of the Corporation, with postage thereon prepaid. Unless otherwise required by the Wisconsin Business Corporation Law or the Articles of Incorporation of the Corporation, a notice of an Annual Meeting need not include a description of the purpose for which the meeting is called. In the case of any Special Meeting, (a) the notice of meeting shall describe any business that the Board of Directors shall have theretofore determined to bring before the meeting and (b) in the case of a Demand Special Meeting, the notice of meeting (i) shall describe any business set forth in the statement of purpose of the demands received by the Corporation in accordance with Section 3 of this Article II and (ii) shall contain all of the information required in the notice received by the Corporation in accordance with Section 14(b) of this Article II. If an Annual Meeting or Special Meeting is adjourned to a different date, time or place, the Corporation shall not be required to give notice of the new date, time or place if the new date, time or place is announced at the meeting before adjournment; provided, however, that if a new Meeting Record Date for an adjourned meeting is or must be fixed, the Corporation shall give notice of the adjourned meeting to persons who are shareholders as of the new Meeting Record Date.
 
 
The Board of Directors may fix in advance a date not less than 10 days and not more than 70 days prior to the date of any Annual Meeting or Special Meeting (other than a Demand Special Meeting) as the record date for the purpose of
 
6
 
determining shareholders entitled to notice of, and to vote at, such meeting ("Meeting Record Date"). If a Meeting Record Date is not fixed by the Board of Directors or by the Wisconsin Business Corporation Law for any Annual Meeting or Special Meeting (other than a Demand Special Meeting), the Meeting Record Date shall be the close of business on the day before the first notice is given to Shareholders. In the case of any Demand Special Meeting, (i) the Meeting Record Date shall not be later than the 30
th
day after the Delivery Date and (ii) if the Board of Directors fails to fix the Meeting Record Date within 30 days after the Delivery Date, then the close of business on such 30
th
day shall be the Meeting Record Date. The shareholders of record on the Meeting Record Date shall be the shareholders entitled to notice of, and to vote at, the meeting. Except as provided by the Wisconsin Business Corporation Law for a court-ordered adjournment, a determination of shareholders entitled to notice of, and to vote at, any Annual Meeting or Special Meeting is effective for any adjournment of such meeting unless the Board of Directors fixes a new Meeting Record Date, which it shall do if the meeting is adjourned to a date more than 120 days after the date fixed for the original meeting. The Board of Directors may also fix in advance a date as the record date for the purpose of determining shareholders entitled to take any other action or determining shareholders for any other purpose. Such record date shall be not more than 70 days prior to the date on which the particular action, requiring such determination of shareholders, is to be taken. The record date for determining shareholders entitled to a distribution (other than a distribution involving a purchase, redemption or other acquisition of the Corporation's shares) or a share dividend is the date on which the Board of Directors authorizes the distribution or share dividend, as the case may be, unless the Board of Directors fixes a different record date.
 
 
After a Meeting Record Date has been fixed, the Corporation shall prepare a list of the names of all of the shareholders entitled to notice of the meeting. The list shall be arranged by class or series of shares, if any, and show the address of, and number of shares held by, each shareholder. Such list shall be available for inspection by any shareholder, beginning two business days after notice of the meeting is given for which the list was prepared and continuing to the date of the meeting, at the Corporation's principal office or at a place identified in the meeting notice in the city where the meeting will be held. A shareholder or his agent may, on written demand, inspect and, subject to the limitations imposed by the Wisconsin Business Corporation Law, copy the list, during regular business hours and at his or her expense, during the period that it is available for inspection pursuant to this Section 7. The Corporation shall make the shareholders' list available at the meeting and any shareholder or his or her agent or attorney may inspect the list at any time during the meeting or any
 
7
 
adjournment thereof. Refusal or failure to prepare or make available the shareholders' list shall not affect the validity of any action taken at a meeting of shareholders.
 
 
 
 
8
 
 
 
The Chairman of the Board, and in his absence, the Vice Chairman of the Board, and in his absence, the President, and in their absence, a Vice President in the order provided under Section 4 of Article IV of these By-laws, and in their absence, any person chosen by the shareholders present shall call any Annual Meeting or Special Meeting to order and shall act as chairman of such meeting, and the Secretary of the Corporation shall act as secretary of all Annual Meetings and Special Meetings, but in the absence of the Secretary, the presiding officer may appoint any other person to act as secretary of the meeting.
 
 
At all meetings of shareholders, a shareholder entitled to vote may vote his or her or its shares in person or by proxy. A shareholder entitled to vote at a meeting of shareholders may authorize another person to act for the shareholder by appointing the person as proxy. Without limiting the manner in which a shareholder may appoint a proxy, a shareholder or the shareholder's authorized officer, director, employee, agent or attorney-in-fact may use any of the following as a valid means to make such an appointment:
 
 
 
An appointment of a proxy is effective when a signed appointment form or an electronic transmission of the appointment is received by the inspector of elections
 
9
 
or the officer or agent of the Corporation authorized to tabulate votes. An appointment is valid for 11 months unless a different period is expressly provided in the appointment. Unless otherwise provided, a proxy may be revoked any time before it is voted, either by appointing a new proxy in accordance with the Wisconsin Business Corporation Law or by oral notice given by the shareholder to the presiding officer during the meeting. The presence of a shareholder who has made an effective proxy appointment shall not itself constitute a revocation. The Board of Directors shall have the power and authority to make rules establishing presumptions as to the validity and sufficiency of proxies.
 
 
 
 
If the name signed on a vote, consent, waiver or proxy appointment corresponds to the name of a shareholder, the Corporation, if acting in good faith, may accept the vote, consent, waiver or proxy appointment and give it effect as the act of a shareholder. If the name signed on a vote, consent, waiver or proxy appointment does not correspond to the name of a shareholder, the Corporation, if acting in good faith, may accept the vote, consent, waiver or proxy appointment and give it effect as the act of the shareholder if any of the following apply:
 
 
 
10
 
 
 
 
 
The Corporation may reject a vote, consent, waiver or proxy appointment if the Secretary or other officer or agent of the Corporation who is authorized to tabulate votes, acting in good faith, has reasonable basis for doubt about the validity of the signature on it or about the signatory's authority to sign for the shareholder.
 
 
A shareholder may waive any notice required by the Wisconsin Business Corporation Law, the Articles of Incorporation of the Corporation or these By-laws before or after the date and time stated in the notice. The waiver shall be in writing and signed by the shareholder entitled to the notice, contain the same information that would have been required in the notice under applicable provisions of the Wisconsin Business Corporation Law (except that the time and place of meeting need not be stated) and be delivered to the Corporation for inclusion in the corporate records. A shareholder's attendance at any Annual Meeting or Special Meeting, in person or by proxy, waives objection to all of the following: (a) lack of notice or defective notice of the meeting, unless the shareholder at the beginning of the meeting or promptly upon arrival objects to holding the meeting or transacting business at the meeting; and (b) consideration of a particular matter at the meeting that is not within the purpose described in the meeting notice, unless the shareholder objects to considering the matter when it is presented.
 
 
 
 
 
11
 
 
 
12
 
 
 
13
 
 
 
14
 
 
 
 
 
1.
 
General Powers
The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by its Board of Directors. The Board shall determine the nature and character of the business to be conducted by the Corporation and the method of doing so; what employees, agents, and officers shall be employed and their compensation; and what purchases or contracts for purchase shall be made. The Board may delegate any of its aforesaid powers to committees or to officers, agents, or employees as it may from time to time determine. The Board of Directors may elect from among the directors a Chairman of the Board of Directors and a Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors.
 
15
 
2.  
Number of Directors
The number of directors of the Corporation shall be 16, divided into three classes: designated Class A, Class B, and Class C. Each class shall consist, as nearly as may be possible, of one-third of the total number of directors constituting the entire Board of Directors.
3.
 
Term
The term of the initial Class A directors shall terminate on the date of the 2007 annual meeting of shareholders; the term of the initial Class B directors shall terminate on the date of the 2008 annual meeting of shareholders; and the term of the Class C directors shall terminate on the date of the 2009 annual meeting of shareholders. At each annual meeting of shareholders beginning in 2007, successors to the class of directors whose term expires at that annual meeting shall be elected for a three-year term and until their successors are elected and qualified. If the number of directors is changed, any increase or decrease in directorships shall be apportioned among the classes so as to maintain the number of directors in each class as nearly equal as possible, and any additional directors of any class elected to fill a vacancy resulting from an increase in such class shall hold office for a term that shall coincide with the remaining term of that class, but in no case will a decrease in the number of directors shorten the term of any incumbent director.
4.
 
Qualifications
No director shall be eligible for re-election after attaining the age of 70 years. Directors need not be shareholders of the Corporation or residents of the State of Wisconsin.
5.
 
Meetings
The Board of Directors shall hold its meetings at such place or places, within or without the State of Wisconsin, as the Board may from time to time determine.
 
 
16
 
6.
 
Notice; Waiver
Notice of each special meeting of the Board of Directors shall be given by written notice delivered or communicated in person, by telegraph, teletype, facsimile or other form of wire or wireless communication, or by mail or private carrier, to each director at his or her business address or at such other address as such director shall have designated in writing filed with the Secretary, in each case not less than 48 hours prior to the meeting. The notice need not prescribe the purpose of the special meeting of the Board of Directors or the business to be transacted at such meeting. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed to be effective when deposited in the United States mail so addressed, with postage thereon prepaid. If notice is given by telegram, such notice shall be deemed to be effective when the telegram is delivered to the telegraph company. If notice is given by private carrier, such notice shall be deemed to be effective when delivered to the private carrier. Whenever any notice whatever is required to be given to any director of the Corporation under the Articles of Incorporation or these By-laws or any provision of the Wisconsin Business Corporation Law, a waiver thereof in writing, signed at any time, whether before or after the date and time of meeting, by the director entitled to such notice shall be deemed equivalent to the giving of such notice. The Corporation shall retain any such waiver as part of the permanent corporate records. A director's attendance at or participation in a meeting waives any required notice to him or her of the meeting unless the director at the beginning of the meeting or promptly upon his or her arrival objects to holding the meeting or transacting business at the meeting and does not thereafter vote for or assent to action taken at the meeting.
7.
 
Quorum
Except as otherwise provided by the Wisconsin Business Corporation Law or by the Articles of Incorporation or these By-laws, a majority of the number of directors specified in Section 2 of Article III of these By-laws shall constitute a
 
17
 
quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting of the Board of Directors. Except as otherwise provided by the Wisconsin Business Corporation Law, the Articles of Incorporation, or these By-laws, a quorum of any committee of the Board of Directors created pursuant to Section 13 hereof shall consist of a majority of the number of directors appointed to serve on the committee. A majority of the directors present (though less than such quorum) may adjourn any meeting of the Board of Directors or any committee thereof, as the case may be, from time to time without further notice.
8.
 
Manner of Acting
The affirmative vote of a majority of the directors present at a meeting of the Board of Directors or a committee thereof at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board of Directors or such committee, as the case may be, unless the Wisconsin Business Corporation Law, the Articles of Incorporation, or these By-laws require the vote of a greater number of directors.
9.
 
Minutes of Meetings
Minutes of any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors shall be prepared and distributed to each director.
10.
 
Vacancies
Vacancies occurring in the Board of Directors shall be filled in the manner provided in Article 5 of the Articles of Incorporation.
11.
 
Compensation
The Board of Directors, irrespective of any personal interest of any of its members, may establish reasonable compensation of all directors for services to the Corporation as directors, officers, or otherwise, or may delegate such authority to an appropriate committee. The Board of Directors also shall have authority to provide for or delegate authority to an appropriate committee to provide for reasonable pensions, disability or death benefits, and other benefits or payments, to directors, officers, and employees and to their estates, families, dependents, or beneficiaries on account of prior services rendered by such directors, officers, and employees to the Corporation.
 
18
 
12.
 
Presumption of Assent
A director who is present and is announced as present at a meeting of the Board of Directors or any committee thereof created in accordance with Section 13 of this Article III, when corporate action is taken, assents to the action taken unless any of the following occurs:
Such right of dissent or abstention shall not apply to a director who votes in favor of the action taken.
13.
 
Committees
The Board of Directors by resolution adopted by the affirmative vote of a majority of all of the directors then in office may create one or more committees, appoint members of the Board of Directors to serve on the committees and designate other members of the Board of Directors to serve as alternates. Each committee shall have at least one member who shall, unless otherwise provided by the Board of Directors, serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. A committee may be authorized to exercise the authority of the Board of Directors, except that a committee may not do any of the following: (a) approve or recommend to shareholders for approval any action or matter expressly required by the Wisconsin Business Corporation Law, Chapter 180 of the Wisconsin Statutes, to be submitted to shareholders for approval; and (b) adopt, amend or repeal any By-Law of the Corporation. Unless otherwise provided by the Board of Directors in creating the committee, a committee may employ counsel, accountants and other consultants to assist it in the exercise of its authority.
 
Except as herein provided and notwithstanding any place set forth in the notice of the meeting or these By-laws, members of the Board of Directors (and any
 
19
 
committees thereof created pursuant to Section 13 of this Article III) may participate in regular or special meetings by, or through the use of, any means of communication by which all participants may simultaneously hear each other, such as by conference telephone. If a meeting is conducted by such means, then at the commencement of such meeting the presiding officer shall inform the participating directors that a meeting is taking place at which official business may be transacted. Any participant in a meeting by such means shall be deemed present in person at such meeting. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no action may be taken at any meeting held by such means on any particular matter which the presiding officer determines, in his or her sole discretion, to be inappropriate under the circumstances for action at a meeting held by such means. Such determination shall be made and announced in advance of such meeting.
15.
 
Action without Meeting
Any action required or permitted by the Wisconsin Business Corporation Law to be taken at a meeting of the Board of Directors or a committee thereof created pursuant to Section 13 of this Article III may be taken without a meeting if the action is taken by all members of the Board or of the committee. The action shall be evidenced by one or more written consents describing the action taken, signed by each director or committee member, and retained by the Corporation. Such action shall be effective when the last director or committee member signs the consent, unless the consent specifies a different effective date.
16.
 
Non-Executive Chairman of the Board
If a Chairman of the Board of Directors shall be elected, he or she shall preside as Chairman of all meetings of the shareholders and of the Board of Directors. He or she shall have such other authority as the Board may from time to time prescribe. If there is no Chairman of the Board, or in the absence of the Chairman, the presiding officer at meetings of the shareholders, and of the Board of Directors shall be the Lead Director, if any, or in the absence of the Lead Director, if any, another officer in the following order of priority: Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, President and Vice Presidents (subject, however, to Section 4 of Article IV). The Chairman shall be neither an officer nor an employee of the Corporation by virtue of his or her election and service as Chairman of the Board; provided, however, the Chairman may be an officer of the Corporation. The Chairman may use the title Chairman or Chairman of the Board interchangeably.
 
20
1.
 
Principal Officers
The principal officers of the Corporation required by statute shall be a President, such number of Vice Presidents as may be elected by the Board of Directors, a Secretary, and a Treasurer. The Board of Directors may elect any principal officer as the Chief Executive Officer and may elect such assistant secretaries and assistant treasurers and other officers as it shall deem necessary, and may prescribe by resolution their respective powers and duties.
2.
 
President
The President shall be elected by the directors. Unless the Board of Directors otherwise prescribes, he or she shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation. In the event that the President is not the Chief Executive Officer, he or she shall have such powers and duties as the Board of Directors may prescribe.
The Chief Executive Officer shall exercise active supervision over the business, property, and affairs of the Corporation.
 
 
21
 
4.
 
Vice Presidents
In the absence of the President or during his or her inability or refusal to act, his or her powers and duties shall temporarily devolve upon such Vice Presidents or other officers as shall be designated by the Board of Directors or, if not designated by the Board, by the Chief Executive Officer or other officer to whom such power may be delegated by the Board;
provided
, that no Vice President or other officer shall act as a member or chairman of any committee of the Board of Directors of which the President is a member or chairman, except at the direction of the Board.
5.
 
Secretary
The Secretary shall attend, and keep the minutes of meetings of the shareholders, of the Board of Directors and, unless otherwise directed by any such committee, of all committees, in books provided for that purpose; shall have custody of the corporate records and seal; shall see that notices are given and records and reports properly kept and filed as required by law or by these
 
22
 
By-laws; and, in general, shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as are incident to the office of Secretary and as may be assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer.
6.
 
Assistant Secretaries
In the absence of the Secretary, or during his or her inability or refusal to act, his or her powers and duties shall temporarily devolve upon such one of the Assistant Secretaries as the President or the Board of Directors may direct. The Assistant Secretaries shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as may be assigned to them by the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, or the Secretary.
7.
 
Treasurer
The Treasurer shall have charge and custody of the funds, securities, and other evidences of value of the Corporation, and shall keep and deposit them as required by the Board of Directors. He or she shall keep proper accounts of all receipts and disbursements and of the financial transactions of the Corporation. He or she shall render statements of such accounts and of money received and disbursed by him or her and of property and money belonging to the Corporation as required by the Board. The Treasurer shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as are incident to the office of Treasurer and as from time to time may be prescribed by the Board or the Chief Executive Officer.
8.
 
Assistant Treasurers
In the absence of the Treasurer, or during his or her inability or refusal to act, his or her powers and duties shall temporarily devolve upon such one of the Assistant Treasurers as the President or the Board of Directors may direct. The Assistant Treasurers shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to them, respectively, by the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, or the Treasurer.
9.
 
Other Assistants and Acting Officers
The Board of Directors shall have the power to appoint any person to act as assistant to any officer, or as agent for the Corporation in his or her stead, or to perform the duties of such officer whenever for any reason it is impracticable for such officer to act personally, and such assistant or acting officer or other agent so appointed by the Board of Directors or an authorized officer shall have the power to perform all the duties of the office to which he or she is so appointed to
 
23
 
be an assistant, or as to which he or she is so appointed to act, except as such power may be otherwise defined or restricted by the Board of Directors.
10.
 
Compensation
The salaries or other compensation of all officers elected as provided under Section 1 of this Article (other than assistant officers) shall be fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors. The salaries or other compensation of all other agents and employees of the Corporation shall be fixed from time to time by the Chief Executive Officer, but only within such limits as to amount, and in accordance with such other conditions as may be prescribed by or under the authority of the Board of Directors.
11.
 
Tenure
Each officer shall hold office until his or her successor shall have been duly elected and qualified, or until his or her death, resignation, disqualification, or removal. Any officer, agent, or employee may be removed, with or without cause, at any time by the Board of Directors notwithstanding the contract rights, if any, of the officer removed. The appointment of an officer does not of itself create contract rights.
12.
 
Resignation
An officer may resign at any time by delivering notice to the Corporation that complies with the Wisconsin Business Corporation Law. The resignation shall be effective when the notice is delivered, unless the notice specifies a later effective date and the Corporation accepts the later effective date.
13.
 
Vacancies
Any vacancy in any office may be filled by the Board of Directors for the unexpired portion of the term. If a resignation of an officer is effective at a later date as contemplated by Section 12 of this Article IV, the Board of Directors may fill the pending vacancy before the effective date if the Board provides that the successor may not take office until the effective date.
14.
 
Reassignment of Duties
In case of the absence or disability of any officer of the Corporation, or for any other reason deemed sufficient by the Board of Directors, the Board may reassign or delegate the powers and duties, or any of them, to any other officer, director, or person it may select.
24
1.
 
Form
Certificates representing shares of the Corporation shall be in such form as shall be determined by the Board of Directors. All certificates for shares shall be consecutively numbered or otherwise identified. The name and address of the person to whom the shares represented thereby are issued, with the number of shares and date of issue, shall be entered on the stock transfer books of the Corporation. All certificates surrendered for the transfer shall be cancelled and no new certificate shall be issued until the former certificate for a like number of shares shall have been surrendered and cancelled, except in case of a lost or destroyed certificate provided for in Section 4 of this Article V or a certificate for shares transferred in compliance with the escheat laws of any state.
2.
 
Signatures
Certificates representing shares of the Corporation shall be signed by the President or a Vice President and by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary; and may be sealed with the seal of the Corporation (which may be a facsimile) and countersigned and registered in such manner, if any, as the Board of Directors may prescribe. Whenever any certificate is manually signed on behalf of a transfer agent, or a registrar, other than the Corporation itself or an employee of the Corporation, the signatures of the President, Vice President, Secretary, or Assistant Secretary, upon such certificate may be facsimiles. In case any officer who has signed, or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon such certificate, ceases to be such officer before such certificate is issued, it may be issued with the same effect as if he or she were such officer at the date of its issue.
3.
 
Restrictions on Transfer
The face or reverse side of each certificate representing shares shall bear a conspicuous notation of any restriction imposed by the Corporation upon the transfer of such shares.
4.
 
Lost, Destroyed, or Stolen Certificates
Where the owner claims that his or her certificate for shares has been lost, destroyed, or wrongfully taken, a new certificate shall be issued in place thereof if the owner:
 
25
 
5.
 
Transfer of Shares
Prior to due presentment of a certificate for shares for registration of transfer the Corporation may treat the registered owner of such shares as the person exclusively entitled to vote, to receive notifications, and otherwise to have and exercise all the rights and powers of an owner. Where a certificate for shares is presented to the Corporation with a request to register for transfer, the Corporation shall not be liable to the owner or any other person suffering loss as a result of such registration of transfer if:
The Corporation may require reasonable assurance that said endorsements are genuine and effective and compliance with such other regulations as may be prescribed by or under the authority of the Board of Directors.
6.
 
Consideration for Shares
The Board of Directors may authorize shares to be issued for consideration consisting of any tangible or intangible property or benefit to the Corporation, including cash, promissory notes, services performed, contracts for services to be performed or other securities of the Corporation. Before the Corporation issues shares, the Board of Directors shall determine that the consideration received or to be received for the shares to be issued is adequate. The determination of the Board of Directors is conclusive insofar as the adequacy of consideration for the issuance of shares relates to whether the shares are validly issued, fully paid, and nonassessable. The Corporation may place in escrow shares issued in whole or in part for a contract for future services or benefits, a promissory note, or otherwise for property to be issued in the future, or make other arrangements to restrict the transfer of the shares, and may credit distributions in respect of the shares against their purchase price, until the
 
26
 
services are performed, the benefits or property are received, or the promissory note is paid. If the services are not performed, the benefits or property are not received, or the promissory note is not paid, the Corporation may cancel, in whole or in part, the shares escrowed or restricted and the distributions credited.
7.
 
Other Rules
The Board of Directors shall have the power and authority to make all such further rules and regulations not inconsistent with the statutes of the State of Wisconsin as it may deem expedient concerning the issue, transfer, and registration of certificates representing shares of the Corporation, including the appointment and designation of Transfer Agents and Registrars.
ARTICLE VI. INDEMNIFICATION OF OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS
1.
 
Mandatory Indemnification
 
 
27
 
The Corporation shall not settle in any manner which would impose any Liabilities or other type of limitation on the Executive without the Executive's written consent. Neither the Corporation nor the Executive shall unreasonably withhold their consent to any proposed settlement.
28
 
2.
 
Advance for Expenses
3.
 
Determination of Right to Indemnification
 
29
 
 
 
30
 
4.
 
Court-Ordered Indemnification and Advance for Expenses
 
 
31
 
 
 
32
 
5.
 
Termination of an Action is Nonconclusive
The adverse termination of any Action against an Executive by judgment, order settlement, conviction, or upon a plea of no contest or its equivalent, shall not, of itself, create a presumption that the Executive has engaged in misconduct which constitutes a Breach of Duty.
6.
 
Partial Indemnification; Reasonableness; Interest
 
 
33
 
7.
 
Insurance; Subrogation
8.
 
Witness Expenses
The Corporation shall advance or reimburse any and all reasonable Expenses incurred by or on behalf of an Executive in connection with his or her appearance as a witness in any Action at a time when he or she has not been formally
 
34
 
named a defendant or respondent to such an Action, within ten days after the receipt of an Executive's written request therefor.
9.
 
Contribution
 
 
35
 
10.
 
Indemnification of Employees
Unless otherwise specifically set forth in this Article VI, the Corporation shall indemnify and hold harmless any person who is or was a party, or is threatened to be made a party to any Action by reason of his or her status as, or the fact that he or she is or was an employee or authorized agent or representative of the Corporation and/or an Affiliate as to acts performed in the course and within the scope of such employee's, agent's, or representative's duties to the Corporation and/or an Affiliate, in accordance with and to the fullest extent permitted by the Statute as it may then be in effect.
11.
 
Severability
If any provision of this Article VI shall be deemed invalid or inoperative, or if a court of competent jurisdiction determines that any of the provisions of this Article VI contravene public policy, this Article VI shall be construed so that the remaining provisions shall not be affected, but shall remain in full force and effect, and any such provisions which are invalid or inoperative or which contravene public policy shall be deemed, without further Action or deed by or on behalf of the Corporation, to be modified, amended, and/or limited, but only to the extent necessary to render the same valid and enforceable, and the Corporation shall indemnify an Executive as to Liabilities and reasonable Expenses with respect to any Action to the full extent permitted by any applicable provision of this Article VI that shall not have been invalidated and to the full extent otherwise permitted by the Statute as it may then be in effect.
12.
 
Nonexclusivity of Article VI
The right to indemnification, contribution, and advancement of Expenses provided to an Executive by this Article VI shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to indemnification, contribution, and/or advancement of Expenses which any Executive or other employee or agent of the Corporation and/or of an Affiliate may be entitled under any charter provision, written agreement, resolution, vote of shareholders or disinterested directors of the Corporation or otherwise, including, without limitation, under the Statute as it may then be in effect, both as to acts in his or her official capacity as such Executive or other employee or agent of the Corporation and/or of an Affiliate or as to acts in any other capacity while holding such office or position, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify, contribute, and/or advance Expenses to the Executive under this Article VI or under the Statute; provided that it is not determined that the Executive or other employee or agent has engaged in misconduct which constitutes a Breach of Duty.
 
36
 
13.
 
Notice to the Corporation; Defense of Actions
 
37
 
14.
 
Continuity of Rights and Obligations
The terms and provisions of this Article VI shall continue as to an Executive subsequent to the Termination Date and such terms and provisions shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, estate, executors, and administrators of such Executive and the successors and assigns of the Corporation, including, without limitation, any successor to the Corporation by way of merger, consolidation, and/or sale or disposition of all or substantially all of the assets or capital stock of the Corporation. Except as provided herein, all rights and obligations of the Corporation and the Executive hereunder shall continue in full force and effect despite the subsequent amendment or modification of the Corporation's Articles of Incorporation, as such are in effect on the date hereof, and such rights and obligations shall not be affected by any such amendment or modification, any resolution of directors or shareholders of the Corporation, or by any other corporate action which conflicts with or purports to amend, modify, limit, or eliminate any of the rights or obligations of the Corporation and/or of the Executive hereunder.
15.
 
Amendment
This Article VI may only be altered, amended, or repealed by the affirmative vote of a majority of the shareholders of the Corporation so entitled to vote; provided, however, that the Board may alter or amend this Article VI without such shareholder approval if any such alteration or amendment:
 
 
38
Any repeal, modification, or amendment of this Article VI shall not adversely affect any rights or protections of an Executive existing under this Article VI immediately prior to the time of such repeal, modification, or amendment and any such repeal, modification, or amendment shall have a prospective effect only.
16.
 
Certain Definitions
The following terms as used in this Article VI shall be defined as follows:
 
39
 
40
Board of Directors
The Board of Directors shall provide a corporate seal which shall be circular in form and shall have inscribed thereon the words "INTEGRYS ENERGY GROUP, INC., CORPORATE SEAL." The continued use for any purpose of any former corporate seal or facsimile thereof shall have the same effect as the use of the corporate seal or facsimile thereof in the form provided by the preceding sentence.
41

Exhibit 3.5
Additions are noted by [  ].
 
The annual meeting of the shareholders ("Annual Meeting") shall be held each year
not later than the fourth Tuesday in May,
at such time or on such day as may be designated by resolution of the Board of Directors. In fixing a meeting date for any Annual Meeting, the Board of Directors may consider such factors as it deems relevant within the good faith exercise of its business judgment.
 
 
At each Annual Meeting, the shareholders shall elect the
number of directors equal to the number of directors in the class whose term expires at the time of such Annual Meeting
[
directors
]
and transact such other business as may properly come before the Annual Meeting in accordance with Section 14 of Article II of these By-laws. If the election of directors shall not be held on the date fixed as herein provided, for any Annual Meeting, or any adjournment thereof, the Board of Directors shall cause the election to be held at a special meeting of shareholders (a "Special Meeting") as soon thereafter as is practicable.
 
 
1.
 
General Powers
The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by its Board of Directors. The Board shall determine the nature and character of the business to be conducted by the Corporation and the method of doing so; what employees, agents, and officers shall be employed and their compensation; and what purchases or contracts for purchase shall be made. The Board may delegate any of its aforesaid powers to committees or to officers, agents, or employees as it may from time to time determine.
 
 
2.
 
Number of Directors
The number of directors of the Corporation shall be
nine, divided into three classes: Class A - 3 members, Class B - 3 members, and Class C - 3 members
[
eight (8)
.]
3.
 
Term
At
the 1988 annual meeting of shareholders, the directors of Class A shall be elected for a term to expire at the first annual meeting of shareholders after their election, and until their successors are elected and qualify, the directors of Class B shall be elected for a term to expire at the second annual meeting of shareholders after their election, and until their successors are elected and qualify, and the directors of Class C shall be elected for a term to expire at the third annual meeting of shareholders after their election and until their successors are elected and qualify. At
each annual meeting of shareholders
after the 1988 annual meeting of shareholders, the successors to the class of directors whose terms shall expire at the time of such annual meeting
,[ the directors
]
shall be elected to hold office until the
third succeeding
[
next
]
annual meeting of shareholders, and until their successors are elected and qualify.
 

Exhibit 3.6
 
1.
 
Principal Office
The principal office of the Corporation in the State of Wisconsin shall be in the City of Green Bay. The Corporation may also have offices at such other places, within and outside of the State of Wisconsin, as the Board of Directors may designate or as the business of the Corporation may require.
2.
 
Registered Office
The Board of Directors shall designate the registered office of the Corporation and may change such registered office by resolution.
 
The annual meeting of the shareholders ("Annual Meeting") shall be held each year at such time or on such day as may be designated by resolution of the Board of Directors. In fixing a meeting date for any Annual Meeting, the Board of Directors may consider such factors as it deems relevant within the good faith exercise of its business judgment.
 
 
At each Annual Meeting, the shareholders shall elect the directors and transact such other business as may properly come before the Annual Meeting in accordance with Section 14 of Article II of these By-laws. If the election of directors shall not be held on the date fixed as herein provided, for any Annual Meeting, or any adjournment thereof, the Board of Directors shall cause the election to be held at a special meeting of shareholders (a "Special Meeting") as soon thereafter as is practicable.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
 
The Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, a President or the Secretary may designate any place, either within or without the State of Wisconsin, as the place of meeting for any Annual Meeting or for any Special Meeting or for any postponement or adjournment thereof. If no designation is made, the place of meeting shall be the principal business office of the Corporation in the State of Wisconsin. Any meeting may be adjourned to reconvene at any place designated by vote of the Board of Directors or by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, a President or the Secretary.
 
 
Written or printed notice stating the date, time and place of any Annual Meeting or Special Meeting shall be delivered not less than ten days (unless a longer period is required by the Wisconsin Business Corporation Law or the Articles of Incorporation of the Corporation) nor more than 70 days before the date of such meeting either personally or by mail, by or at the direction of the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, a President or the Secretary, to each shareholder of record entitled to vote at such meeting and to such other shareholders as required by the Wisconsin Business Corporation Law. In the
 
5
event of any Demand Special Meeting, such notice shall be sent not more than 45 days after the Delivery Date. If mailed, notice pursuant to this Section 5 shall be deemed to be effective when deposited in the United States mail, addressed to the shareholder at his address as it appears on the stock record books of the Corporation, with postage thereon prepaid. Unless otherwise required by the Wisconsin Business Corporation Law or the Articles of Incorporation of the Corporation, a notice of an Annual Meeting need not include a description of the purpose for which the meeting is called. In the case of any Special Meeting, (a) the notice of meeting shall describe any business that the Board of Directors shall have theretofore determined to bring before the meeting and (b) in the case of a Demand Special Meeting, the notice of meeting (i) shall describe any business set forth in the statement of purpose of the demands received by the Corporation in accordance with Section 3 of this Article II and (ii) shall contain all of the information required in the notice received by the Corporation in accordance with Section 14(b) of this Article II. If an Annual Meeting or Special Meeting is adjourned to a different date, time or place, the Corporation shall not be required to give notice of the new date, time or place if the new date, time or place is announced at the meeting before adjournment; provided, however, that if a new Meeting Record Date for an adjourned meeting is or must be fixed, the Corporation shall give notice of the adjourned meeting to persons who are shareholders as of the new Meeting Record Date.
 
 
The Board of Directors may fix in advance a date not less than 10 days and not more than 70 days prior to the date of any Annual Meeting or Special Meeting (other than a Demand Special Meeting) as the record date for the purpose of determining shareholders entitled to notice of, and to vote at, such meeting ("Meeting Record Date"). If a Meeting Record Date is not fixed by the Board of Directors or by the Wisconsin Business Corporation Law for any Annual Meeting or Special Meeting (other than a Demand Special Meeting), the Meeting Record Date shall be the close of business on the day before the first notice is given to Shareholders. In the case of any Demand Special Meeting, (i) the Meeting Record Date shall not be later than the 30
th
day after the Delivery Date and (ii) if the Board of Directors fails to fix the Meeting Record Date within 30 days after the Delivery Date, then the close of business on such 30
th
day shall be the Meeting Record Date. The shareholders of record on the Meeting Record Date shall be the shareholders entitled to notice of, and to vote at, the meeting. Except as provided by the Wisconsin Business Corporation Law for a court-ordered adjournment, a determination of shareholders entitled to notice of, and to vote at, any Annual Meeting or Special Meeting is effective for any adjournment of such meeting unless the Board of Directors fixes a new Meeting Record Date, which it shall do if the meeting is adjourned to a date more than 120 days after the date fixed for the original meeting. The Board of Directors may also fix in advance a date as the record date for the purpose of determining shareholders entitled to take any other action or determining shareholders for any other purpose. Such record date shall be not more than 70 days prior to the
 
6
date on which the particular action, requiring such determination of shareholders, is to be taken. The record date for determining shareholders entitled to a distribution (other than a distribution involving a purchase, redemption or other acquisition of the Corporation's shares) or a share dividend is the date on which the Board of Directors authorizes the distribution or share dividend, as the case may be, unless the Board of Directors fixes a different record date.
 
 
After a Meeting Record Date has been fixed, the Corporation shall prepare a list of the names of all of the shareholders entitled to notice of the meeting. The list shall be arranged by class or series of shares, if any, and show the address of, and number of shares held by, each shareholder. Such list shall be available for inspection by any shareholder, beginning two business days after notice of the meeting is given for which the list was prepared and continuing to the date of the meeting, at the Corporation's principal office or at a place identified in the meeting notice in the city where the meeting will be held. A shareholder or his agent may, on written demand, inspect and, subject to the limitations imposed by the Wisconsin Business Corporation Law, copy the list, during regular business hours and at his or her expense, during the period that it is available for inspection pursuant to this Section 7. The Corporation shall make the shareholders' list available at the meeting and any shareholder or his or her agent or attorney may inspect the list at any time during the meeting or any adjournment thereof. Refusal or failure to prepare or make available the shareholders' list shall not affect the validity of any action taken at a meeting of shareholders.
 
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
The Chairman of the Board, and in his or her absence, the Vice Chairman of the Board, and in his or her absence, the Chief Executive Officer, and in his or her absence, a President, and in their absence, a Vice President in the order provided under Section 5 of Article IV of these By-laws, and in their absence, any person chosen by the shareholders present shall call any Annual Meeting or Special Meeting to order and shall act as chairman of such meeting, and the Secretary of the Corporation shall act as secretary of all Annual Meetings and Special Meetings, but in the absence of the Secretary, the presiding officer may appoint any other person to act as secretary of the meeting.
 
 
At all meetings of shareholders, a shareholder entitled to vote may vote his or her or its shares in person or by proxy. A shareholder entitled to vote at a meeting of shareholders may authorize another person to act for the shareholder by appointing the person as proxy. Without limiting the manner in which a shareholder may appoint a proxy, a shareholder or the shareholder's authorized officer, director, employee, agent or attorney-in-fact may use any of the following as a valid means to make such an appointment:
 
 
8
 
 
An appointment of a proxy is effective when a signed appointment form or an electronic transmission of the appointment is received by the inspector of elections or the officer or agent of the Corporation authorized to tabulate votes. An appointment is valid for 11 months unless a different period is expressly provided in the appointment. Unless otherwise provided, a proxy may be revoked any time before it is voted, either by appointing a new proxy in accordance with the Wisconsin Business Corporation Law or by oral notice given by the shareholder to the presiding officer during the meeting. The presence of a shareholder who has made an effective proxy appointment shall not itself constitute a revocation. The Board of Directors shall have the power and authority to make rules establishing presumptions as to the validity and sufficiency of proxies.
 
 
 
 
If the name signed on a vote, consent, waiver or proxy appointment corresponds to the name of a shareholder, the Corporation, if acting in good faith, may accept the vote, consent, waiver or proxy appointment and give it effect as the act of a shareholder. If the name signed on a vote, consent, waiver or proxy appointment does not correspond to the name of a shareholder, the Corporation,
 
9
if acting in good faith, may accept the vote, consent, waiver or proxy appointment and give it effect as the act of the shareholder if any of the following apply:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Corporation may reject a vote, consent, waiver or proxy appointment if the Secretary or other officer or agent of the Corporation who is authorized to tabulate votes, acting in good faith, has reasonable basis for doubt about the validity of the signature on it or about the signatory's authority to sign for the shareholder.
 
 
A shareholder may waive any notice required by the Wisconsin Business Corporation Law, the Articles of Incorporation of the Corporation or these By-laws before or after the date and time stated in the notice. The waiver shall be in writing and signed by the shareholder entitled to the notice, contain the same information that would have been required in the notice under applicable provisions of the Wisconsin Business Corporation Law (except that the time and place of meeting need not be stated) and be delivered to the Corporation for inclusion in the corporate records. A shareholder's attendance at any Annual Meeting or Special Meeting, in person or by proxy, waives objection to all of the following: (a) lack of notice or defective notice of the meeting, unless the shareholder at the beginning of the meeting or promptly upon arrival objects to holding the meeting or transacting business at the meeting; and (b) consideration of a particular matter at the meeting that is not within the purpose described in
 
10
the meeting notice, unless the shareholder objects to considering the matter when it is presented.
 
 
 
 
 
 
11
 
 
 
 
12
 
 
 
 
13
 
 
 
 
 
1.
 
General Powers
The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by its Board of Directors. The Board shall determine the nature and character of the business to be conducted by the Corporation and the method of doing so; what employees, agents, and officers shall be employed and their compensation; and what purchases or contracts for purchase shall be made. The Board may delegate any of its aforesaid powers to committees or to officers, agents, or employees as it may from time to time determine.
2.
 
Number of Directors
The number of directors of the Corporation shall be eight (8).
14
3.
 
Term
At each annual meeting of shareholders, the directors shall be elected to hold office until the next annual meeting of shareholders, and until their successors are elected and qualify.
4.
 
Qualifications
No director elected to such office for the first time after January 1, 1972 shall be eligible for re-election after attaining the age of 70 years. Directors need not be shareholders of the Corporation or residents of the State of Wisconsin.
5.
 
Meetings
The Board of Directors shall hold its meetings at such place or places, within or without the State of Wisconsin, as the Board may from time to time determine.
15
6.
 
Notice; Waiver
Notice of each special meeting of the Board of Directors shall be given by written notice delivered or communicated in person, by telegraph, teletype, facsimile, or other form of wire or wireless communication, or by mail or private carrier, to each director at his business address or at such other address as such director shall have designated in writing filed with the Secretary, in each case not less than 48 hours prior to the meeting. The notice need not prescribe the purpose of the special meeting of the Board of Directors or the business to be transacted at such meeting. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed to be effective when deposited in the United States mail so addressed, with postage thereon prepaid. If notice is given by telegram, such notice shall be deemed to be effective when the telegram is delivered to the telegraph company. If notice is given by private carrier, such notice shall be deemed to be effective when delivered to the private carrier. Whenever any notice whatever is required to be given to any director of the Corporation under the Articles of Incorporation, these By-laws, or any provision of the Wisconsin Business Corporation Law, a waiver thereof in writing, signed at any time, whether before or after the date and time of meeting, by the director entitled to such notice shall be deemed equivalent to the giving of such notice. The Corporation shall retain any such waiver as part of the permanent corporate records. A director's attendance at or participation in a meeting waives any required notice to him or her of the meeting unless the director at the beginning of the meeting or promptly upon his or her arrival objects to holding the meeting or transacting business at the meeting and does not thereafter vote for or assent to action taken at the meeting.
7.
 
Quorum
Except as otherwise provided by the Wisconsin Business Corporation Law, by the Articles of Incorporation, or these By-laws, a majority of the number of directors specified in Section 2 of Article III of these By-laws shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting of the Board of Directors. Except as otherwise provided by the Wisconsin Business Corporation Law, by the Articles of Incorporation, or by these By-laws, a quorum of any committee of the Board of Directors created pursuant to Section 13 hereof shall consist of a majority of the number of directors appointed to serve on the committee. A majority of the directors present (though less than such quorum) may adjourn any meeting of the Board of Directors or any committee thereof, as the case may be, from time to time without further notice.
8.
 
Manner of Acting
The affirmative vote of a majority of the directors present at a meeting of the Board of Directors or a committee thereof at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board of Directors or such committee, as the case may be, unless the Wisconsin Business Corporation Law, the Articles of Incorporation, or these By-laws require the vote of a greater number of directors.
16
9.
 
Minutes of Meetings
Minutes of any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors shall be prepared and distributed to each director.
10.
 
Vacancies
Vacancies occurring in the Board of Directors shall be filled in the manner provided in Article V of the Articles of Incorporation.
11.
 
Compensation
The Board of Directors, irrespective of any personal interest of any of its members, may establish reasonable compensation of all directors for services to the Corporation as directors, officers, or otherwise, or may delegate such authority to an appropriate committee. The Board of Directors also shall have authority to provide for or delegate authority to an appropriate committee to provide for reasonable pensions, disability, or death benefits, and other benefits or payments, to directors, officers, and employees, and to their estates, families, dependents, or beneficiaries on account of prior services rendered by such directors, officers, and employees to the Corporation.
12.
 
Presumption of Assent
A director who is present and is announced as present at a meeting of the Board of Directors or any committee thereof created in accordance with Section 13 of this Article III, when corporate action is taken, assents to the action taken unless any of the following occurs:
Such right of dissent or abstention shall not apply to a director who votes in favor of the action taken.
17
13.
 
Committees
The Board of Directors by resolution adopted by the affirmative vote of a majority of all of the directors then in office may create one or more committees, appoint members of the Board of Directors to serve on the committees, and designate other members of the Board of Directors to serve as alternates. Each committee shall have two or more members who shall, unless otherwise provided by the Board of Directors, serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. A committee may be authorized to exercise the authority of the Board of Directors, except that a committee may not do any of the following:
Except as herein provided and notwithstanding any place set forth in the notice of the meeting or these By-laws, members of the Board of Directors (and any committees thereof created pursuant to Section 13 of this Article III) may participate in regular or special meetings by, or through the use of, any means of communication by which all participants may simultaneously hear each other, such as by conference telephone. If a meeting is conducted by such means, then at the commencement of such meeting the presiding officer shall inform the
18
participating directors that a meeting is taking place at which official business may be transacted. Any participant in a meeting by such means shall be deemed present in person at such meeting. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no action may be taken at any meeting held by such means on any particular matter which the presiding officer determines, in his or her sole discretion, to be inappropriate under the circumstances for action at a meeting held by such means. Such determination shall be made and announced in advance of such meeting.
15.
 
Action without Meeting
Any action required or permitted by the Wisconsin Business Corporation Law to be taken at a meeting of the Board of Directors or a committee thereof created pursuant to Section 13 of this Article III may be taken without a meeting if the action is taken by all members of the Board or of the committee. The action shall be evidenced by one or more written consents describing the action taken, signed by each director or committee member and retained by the Corporation. Such action shall be effective when the last director or committee member signs the consent, unless the consent specifies a different effective date.
The principal officers of the Corporation required by statute shall be one or more Presidents (as may be elected by the Board of Directors), such number of Vice Presidents as may be elected by the Board of Directors, a Secretary, and a Treasurer. The Board of Directors may elect from among the directors a Chairman of the Board of Directors and a Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors; may designate such Chairman, Vice Chairman, or any principal officer as the Chief Executive Officer; may designate the President or Presidents as a Chief Operating Officer; may elect such Assistant Secretaries and Assistant Treasurers and other officers as it shall deem necessary; and may prescribe by resolution their respective powers and duties.
2.
 
Chairman of the Board of Directors
If a Chairman of the Board of Directors shall be elected, he or she shall preside as Chairman of all meetings of the shareholders and of the Board of Directors. He or she shall have such other authority as the Board may from time to time prescribe. If there is no Chairman of the Board, or in the absence of the Chairman, the presiding officer at meetings of the shareholders, and of the Board of Directors shall be another officer in the following order of priority: Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, Chief Executive Officer, Presidents, and Vice Presidents (subject, however, to Section 5 of this Article).
19
3.
 
Chief Executive Officer
The Chief Executive Officer shall be the principal executive officer of the Corporation and, subject to the control of the Board of Directors, shall in general exercise active supervision over the business, property, and affairs of the Corporation.
4.
 
Presidents
The President or Presidents shall be the principal operating officer(s) of the Corporation, shall assist the Chief Executive Officer in exercising general supervision over the business and affairs of the Corporation, and shall perform such other duties and have such authority as from time to time may be delegated or assigned to him or her by the Chief Executive Officer or by the Board of Directors (including the power to sign, execute and acknowledge all documents and instruments referred to in Section 3 of this Article). In the event there be more than one President, each such President shall be assigned responsibility for a designated group, division or function of the Corporations business, an
20
appropriate descriptive designation shall be added to his or her title and he or she shall have authority over that group, division or function. During the absence or disability of the Chief Executive Officer, or while that office is vacant, the President or Presidents shall exercise all the powers and discharge all of the duties of the Chief Executive Officer
.
5.
 
Vice Presidents
In the absence of any President or during his or her inability or refusal to act, his or her powers and duties shall temporarily devolve upon such Vice Presidents or other officers as shall be designated by the Board of Directors or, if not designated by the Board, by the Chief Executive Officer or other officer to whom such power may be delegated by the Board;
provided
, that no Vice President or other officer shall act as a member or chairman of any committee of the Board of Directors of which a President is a member or chairman, except at the direction of the Board.
6.
 
Secretary
The Secretary shall attend, and keep the minutes of, meetings of the shareholders, the Board of Directors and, unless otherwise directed by any such committee, all committees, in books provided for that purpose; shall have custody of the corporate records and seal; shall see that notices are given and records and reports properly kept and filed as required by law or by these By-laws; and, in general, shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as are incident to the office of Secretary and as may be assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer.
7.
 
Assistant Secretaries
In the absence of the Secretary, or during his or her inability or refusal to act, his or her powers and duties shall temporarily devolve upon such one of the Assistant Secretaries as the Chief Executive Officer or the Board of Directors may direct. The Assistant Secretaries shall have such other powers and perform such other
21
duties as may be assigned to them by the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, or the Secretary.
8.
 
Treasurer
The Treasurer shall have charge and custody of the funds, securities, and other evidences of value of the Corporation, and shall keep and deposit them as required by the Board of Directors. He or she shall keep proper accounts of all receipts and disbursements and of the financial transactions of the Corporation. He or she shall render statements of such accounts and of money received and disbursed by him or her and of property and money belonging to the Corporation as required by the Board. The Treasurer shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as are incident to the office of Treasurer and as from time to time may be prescribed by the Board or the Chief Executive Officer.
9.
 
Assistant Treasurers
In the absence of the Treasurer, or during his or her inability or refusal to act, his or her powers and duties shall temporarily devolve upon such one of the Assistant Treasurers as the Chief Executive Officer or the Board of Directors may direct. The Assistant Treasurers shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to them, respectively, by the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, or the Treasurer.
10.
 
Other Assistants and Acting Officers
The Board of Directors shall have the power to appoint any person to act as assistant to any officer, or as agent for the Corporation in his or her stead, or to perform the duties of such officer whenever for any reason it is impracticable for such officer to act personally, and such assistant or acting officer or other agent so appointed by the Board of Directors or an authorized officer shall have the power to perform all the duties of the office to which he or she is so appointed to be an assistant, or as to which he or she is so appointed to act, except as such power may be otherwise defined or restricted by the Board of Directors.
11.
 
Compensation
The salaries or other compensation of all officers elected as provided under Section 1 of this Article (other than assistant officers) shall be fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors. The salaries or other compensation of all other agents and employees of the Corporation shall be fixed from time to time by the Chief Executive Officer, but only within such limits as to amount, and in accordance with such other conditions as may be prescribed by or under the authority of the Board of Directors.
22
12.
 
Tenure
Each officer shall hold office until his or her successor shall have been duly elected and qualified, or until his or her death, resignation, disqualification, or removal. Any officer, agent, or employee may be removed, with or without cause, at any time by the Board of Directors notwithstanding the contract rights, if any, of the officer removed. The appointment of an officer does not of itself create contract rights.
13.
 
Resignation
An officer may resign at any time by delivering notice to the Corporation that complies with the Wisconsin Business Corporation Law. The resignation shall be effective when the notice is delivered, unless the notice specifies a later effective date, and the Corporation accepts the later effective date.
14.
 
Vacancies
Any vacancy in any office may be filled by the Board of Directors for the unexpired portion of the term. If a resignation of an officer is effective at a later date as contemplated by Section 13 of this Article IV, the Board of Directors may fill the pending vacancy before the effective date if the Board provides that the successor may not take office until the effective date.
15.
 
Reassignment of Duties
In case of the absence or disability of any officer of the Corporation, or for any other reason deemed sufficient by the Board of Directors, the Board may reassign or delegate the powers and duties, or any of them, to any other officer, director, or person it may select.
1.
 
Form
Certificates representing shares of the Corporation shall be in such form as shall be determined by the Board of Directors. All certificates for shares shall be consecutively numbered or otherwise identified. The name and address of the person to whom the shares represented thereby are issued, with the number of shares and date of issue, shall be entered on the stock transfer books of the Corporation. All certificates surrendered for the transfer shall be cancelled, and no new certificate shall be issued until the former certificate for a like number of shares shall have been surrendered and cancelled, except in case of a lost or destroyed certificate provided for in Section 4 of this Article V or a certificate for shares transferred in compliance with the escheat laws of any state.
23
2.
 
Signatures
Certificates representing shares of the Corporation shall be signed by the Chief Executive Officer, a President or a Vice President and by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary; and may be sealed with the seal of the Corporation (which may be a facsimile) and countersigned and registered in such manner, if any, as the Board of Directors may prescribe. Whenever any certificate is manually signed on behalf of a transfer agent or a registrar, other than the Corporation itself or an employee of the Corporation, the signatures of the Chief Executive Officer, President, Vice President, Secretary, or Assistant Secretary, upon such certificate may be facsimiles. In case any officer who has signed, or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon such certificate, ceases to be such officer before such certificate is issued, it may be issued with the same effect as if he or she were such officer at the date of its issue.
3.
 
Restrictions on Transfer
The face or reverse side of each certificate representing shares shall bear a conspicuous notation of any restriction imposed by the Corporation upon the transfer of such shares.
4.
 
Lost, Destroyed, or Stolen Certificates
Where the owner claims that his certificate for shares has been lost, destroyed, or wrongfully taken, a new certificate shall be issued in place thereof if the owner:
5.
 
Transfer of Shares
Prior to due presentment of a certificate for shares for registration of transfer, the Corporation may treat the registered owner of such shares as the person exclusively entitled to vote, to receive notifications, and otherwise to have and exercise all the rights and powers of an owner. Where a certificate for shares is presented to the Corporation with a request to register for transfer, the Corporation shall not be liable to the owner or any other person suffering loss as a result of such registration of transfer if:
24
 
The Corporation may require reasonable assurance that said endorsements are genuine and effective and compliance with such other regulations as may be prescribed by or under the authority of the Board of Directors.
6.
 
Consideration for Shares
The Board of Directors may authorize shares to be issued for consideration consisting of any tangible or intangible property or benefit to the Corporation, including cash, promissory notes, services performed, contracts for services to be performed, or other securities of the Corporation. Before the Corporation issues shares, the Board of Directors shall determine that the consideration received or to be received for the shares to be issued is adequate. The determination of the Board of Directors is conclusive insofar as the adequacy of consideration for the issuance of shares relates to whether the shares are validly issued, fully paid, and nonassessable. The Corporation may place in escrow shares issued in whole or in part for a contract for future services or benefits, a promissory note, or otherwise for property to be issued in the future, or make other arrangements to restrict the transfer of the shares, and may credit distributions in respect of the shares against their purchase price, until the services are performed, the benefits or property are received, or the promissory note is paid. If the services are not performed, the benefits or property are not received or the promissory note is not paid, the Corporation may cancel, in whole or in part, the shares escrowed or restricted and the distributions credited.
7.
 
Other Rules
The Board of Directors shall have the power and authority to make all such further rules and regulations not inconsistent with the statutes of the State of Wisconsin as it may deem expedient concerning the issue, transfer, and registration of certificates representing shares of the Corporation, including the appointment and designation of Transfer Agents and Registrars.
 
 
1.
 
Mandatory Indemnification
25
 
The Corporation shall not settle in any manner which would impose any Liabilities or other type of limitation on the Executive without the Executive's
26
written consent. Neither the Corporation nor the Executive shall unreasonably withhold their consent to any proposed settlement.
2.
 
Advance for Expenses
3.
 
Determination of Right to Indemnification
27
 
28
 
4.
 
Court-Ordered Indemnification and Advance for Expenses
29
 
Such court, after giving any notice it considers necessary, shall order the Corporation to pay such Expenses if it determines that the Executive has complied with the applicable provisions of Section 2 of this Article VI or Section 1b of this Article VI, as the case may be.
5.
 
Termination of an Action is Nonconclusive
The adverse termination of any Action against an Executive by judgment, order settlement, conviction, or upon a plea of no contest or its equivalent, shall not, of itself, create a presumption that the Executive has engaged in misconduct which constitutes a Breach of Duty.
30
6.
 
Partial Indemnification; Reasonableness; Interest
7.
 
Insurance; Subrogation
31
 
8.
 
Witness Expenses
The Corporation shall advance or reimburse any and all reasonable Expenses incurred by or on behalf of an Executive in connection with his or her appearance as a witness in any Action at a time when he or she has not been formally named a defendant or respondent to such an Action, within ten days after the receipt of an Executive's written request therefore.
9.
 
Contribution
32
10.
 
Indemnification of Employees
Unless otherwise specifically set forth in this Article VI, the Corporation shall indemnify and hold harmless any person who is or was a party, or is threatened to be made a party to any Action by reason of his or her status as, or the fact that he or she is or was an employee or authorized agent or representative of the Corporation and/or an Affiliate as to acts performed in the course and within the scope of such employee's, agent's, or representative's duties to the Corporation and/or an Affiliate, in accordance with and to the fullest extent permitted by the Statute as it may then be in effect.
11.
 
Severability
If any provision of this Article VI shall be deemed invalid or inoperative, or if a court of competent jurisdiction determines that any of the provisions of this Article VI contravene public policy, this Article VI shall be construed so that the remaining provisions shall not be affected, but shall remain in full force and effect, and any such provisions which are invalid or inoperative or which contravene public policy shall be deemed, without further Action or deed by or on behalf of the Corporation, to be modified, amended, and/or limited, but only to the extent necessary to render the same valid and enforceable, and the Corporation shall indemnify an Executive as to Liabilities and reasonable Expenses with respect to any Action to the full extent permitted by any applicable provision of this Article VI that shall not have been invalidated and to the full extent otherwise permitted by the Statute as it may then be in effect.
33
12.
 
Nonexclusivity of Article VI
The right to indemnification, contribution, and advancement of Expenses provided to an Executive by this Article VI shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to indemnification, contribution, and/or advancement of Expenses which any Executive or other employee or agent of the Corporation and/or of an Affiliate may be entitled under any charter provision, written agreement, resolution, vote of shareholders, or disinterested directors of the Corporation or otherwise, including, without limitation, under the Statute as it may then be in effect, both as to acts in his or her official capacity as such Executive or other employee or agent of the Corporation and/or of an Affiliate or as to acts in any other capacity while holding such office or position, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify, contribute, and/or advance Expenses to the Executive under this Article VI or under the Statute; provided that it is not determined that the Executive or other employee or agent has engaged in misconduct which constitutes a Breach of Duty.
13.
 
Notice to the Corporation; Defense of Actions
34
 
 
The Corporation shall not be entitled to assume the defense of any Derivative Action or any Action as to which the Executive shall have made the conclusion provided for in clause (2) above.
14.
 
Continuity of Rights and Obligations
The terms and provisions of this Article VI shall continue as to an Executive subsequent to the Termination Date and such terms and provisions shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, estate, executors, and administrators of such Executive and the successors and assigns of the Corporation, including, without limitation, any successor to the Corporation by way of merger, consolidation, and/or sale or disposition of all or substantially all of the assets or capital stock of the Corporation. Except as provided herein, all rights and obligations of the Corporation and the Executive hereunder shall continue in full force and effect despite the subsequent amendment or modification of the Corporation's Articles of Incorporation, as such are in effect on the date hereof, and such rights and obligations shall not be affected by any such amendment or modification, any resolution of directors or shareholders of the Corporation, or by any other corporate action which conflicts with or purports to amend, modify, limit, or eliminate any of the rights or obligations of the Corporation and/or of the Executive hereunder.
15.
 
Amendment
This Article VI may only be altered, amended, or repealed by the affirmative vote of a majority of the shareholders of the Corporation so entitled to vote; provided, however, that the Board may alter or amend this Article VI without such shareholder approval if any such alteration or amendment:
35
 
Any repeal, modification, or amendment of this Article VI shall not adversely affect any rights or protections of an Executive existing under this Article VI immediately prior to the time of such repeal, modification, or amendment and any such repeal, modification, or amendment shall have a prospective effect only.
16.
 
Certain Definitions
The following terms as used in this Article VI shall be defined as follows:
36
37
Board of Directors
The Board of Directors shall provide a corporate seal which shall be circular in form and shall have inscribed thereon the words "WISCONSIN PUBLIC SERVICE CORPORATION, GREEN BAY, WIS., CORPORATE SEAL." The continued use for any purpose of any former corporate seal or facsimile thereof shall have the same effect as the use of the corporate seal or facsimile thereof in the form provided by the preceding sentence.
38

Exhibit 99.1
(Integrys Energy Group, Inc. logo)
 
For Immediate Release
Chicago, February 21, 2007 - Integrys Energy Group, Inc., announced that the merger involving WPS Resources Corporation (NYSE: WPS) and Peoples Energy Corporation (NYSE: PGL) was completed, effective February 21, 2007. The newly combined company is a diversified energy company serving four Midwest states through its regulated utility operations. Integrys Energy Group also operates nonregulated energy-related businesses in various markets in the United States and Canada.
Shareholders of Peoples Energy as of the close of business today, February 21, 2007, will receive 0.825 shares of WPS Resources common stock for each common share of Peoples. Simultaneous with the completion of the merger, WPS Resources changed its name to Integrys Energy Group, Inc., and its ticker symbol will change to
TEG
at the start of trading on February 22, 2007.
We would like to thank our customers, shareholders, employees, and regulators for their support in combining these two companies, stated Larry Weyers, President and CEO of Integrys Energy Group. We look forward to finding opportunities to better serve our customers, to realize best business practices, to provide solid returns to our shareholders, and to act as good corporate citizens in the markets in which we operate.
Our integration teams have worked very hard, and plans are in place to ensure our new customers experience a seamless transition, added Weyers. Integrys Energy Group will be focused on providing excellent customer service and achieving operational excellence across all of its businesses to provide value to all stakeholders.
Integrys Energy Group expects potential annual synergies of $94 million from the merger. These synergies are estimated to be achieved over a five-year time horizon. One-time costs to obtain these synergies are anticipated to be approximately $186 million over the same period.
In connection with the completion of the merger, trading in Peoples Energys common stock will be suspended as of the close of trading today, and Peoples Energy will withdraw the listing of its common stock from the New York Stock Exchange and the Chicago Stock Exchange as soon as practical. Peoples Energy will now be a wholly owned subsidiary of Integrys Energy Group.
In a further development, Weyers announced, Based upon the results of our asset management evaluation announced on July 10, 2006, we have decided to proceed with the
WPS Resources Corporation and Peoples Energy Corporation Merger Completed,
WPS Resources Changes Name to Integrys Energy Group, Inc.
February 21, 2007
Page 2
 
divestiture of Peoples Energy Production Company. The divestiture will allow Integrys Energy Group to focus on our core competencies, reduce or eliminate external financing requirements, and reduce Integrys Energy Groups risk profile. We have selected J. P. Morgan Securities, Inc. as our financial advisor in this divestiture. They will be providing more detailed information to those interested parties who desire to participate in the divestiture process within the next few weeks. We anticipate the divestiture should be completed by the end of 2007.
In accordance with the merger agreement, Integrys Energy Group expanded its board of directors to 16, including the 9 existing WPS Resources board members and 7 former Peoples Energy board members. The former Peoples Energy board members joining the Integrys Energy Group board are:
James R. Boris, Non-executive Chairman of the Board, 62
Pastora San Juan Cafferty, 66
Michael E. Lavin, 60
William J. Brodsky, 62
Keith E. Bailey, 64
Diana S. Ferguson, 43
John W. Higgins, 60
They will be joined by WPS Resources board of directors:
Richard A. Bemis, 65
Albert J. Budney, Jr., 59
Ellen Carnahan, 51
Robert C. Gallagher, 68
Kathryn M. Hasselblad-Pascale, 58
James L. Kemerling, 67
John C. Meng, 62
William F. Protz, Jr. 62
Larry L. Weyers, 61
As previously announced, the members of the management team leading Integrys Energy Group are:
Integrys Energy Group, Inc. (the holding company):
Boris Brevnov, 38, Vice President - Development
Kathy Donofrio, 49, Vice President - Strategic Planning
Peter Kauffman, 60, Corporate Secretary and Chief Governance Officer
Tom Meinz, 60, Executive Vice President, External Affairs
Phil Mikulsky, 59, Executive Vice President and Chief Development Officer
Joe O'Leary, 52, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Jim Schott, 49, Vice President - Regulatory Affairs
Rodrigo Sierra, 46, Vice President - Public Affairs
Bud Treml, 57, Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer
Larry Weyers, 61, President and Chief Executive Officer
WPS Resources Corporation and Peoples Energy Corporation Merger Completed,
WPS Resources Changes Name to Integrys Energy Group, Inc.
February 21, 2007
Page 3
 
Operating Companies:
Regulated Businesses:
Larry Borgard, 45, President and Chief Operating Officer - Integrys Gas Group
Chuck Cloninger, 48, President, Minnesota Energy Resources Corporation
Gary Erickson, 64, President, Michigan Gas Utilities Corporation
Desiree Rogers, 46, President, The Peoples Gas Light and Coke Company; and
President, North Shore Gas Company
Charlie Schrock, 53, President of Wisconsin Public Service Corporation
Nonregulated Businesses:
Steve Nance, 49, President, Peoples Energy Production Company
Mark Radtke, 45, President, Integrys Energy Services, Inc.
Business Support Services:
Tom Nardi, 52, President, Integrys Business Support, LLC
The companies will continue their strong civic, community, and philanthropic presence in their respective markets.
Conference Call
Integrys will hold a conference call to discuss this announcement today, February 21, 2007, at 10 a.m. Central Time (11 a.m. Eastern Time). To listen to the call, please dial 888-690-9634, 15 minutes before the start time; the pass code for the call is WPS Resources. A presentation will accompany the discussion and is available at
www.wpsr.com
, as well as at
www.peoplesenergy.com
. A replay of the call can also be accessed by dialing 800-801-6152. The telephone replay will be available through March 7, 2007.
To listen to the call via web cast or to replay it, visit the Investor Information section of the WPS Resources Corporation website at
www.wpsr.com
. The webcast replay will be available through February 20, 2008.
About Integrys Energy Group, Inc.
Integrys Energy Group, Inc.,
(NYSE: TEG), headquartered in Chicago, Illinois, is a holding company for energy-related subsidiaries which includes regulated utilities and nonregulated subsidiaries.
The six regulated utilities consist of:
 
 
WPS Resources Corporation and Peoples Energy Corporation Merger Completed,
WPS Resources Changes Name to Integrys Energy Group, Inc.
February 21, 2007
Page 4
 
 
The nonregulated subsidiaries include:
More information about Integrys Energy Group, Inc., is available online at
www.integrysgroup.com
.
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. You can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts and often include words such as anticipate, expect, intend, may, could, project, believe and other similar words. Forward-looking statements are beyond the ability of Integrys Energy Group, Inc., to control and, in many cases, Integrys Energy Group cannot predict what factors would cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by forward-looking statements. Please see Integrys Energy Groups periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (including their 10-Ks and 10-Qs) for listings of certain factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements included in this news release are based upon information presently available, and Integrys Energy Group does not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Contact Information:
Joseph P. O'Leary (Investor Relations)
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
(920) 433-1463
 
Donna M. Sheedy (Investor Relations)
Manager Investor Relations
(920) 433-1857
Thomas P. Meinz (Media)
Executive Vice President - External Affairs
(920) 433-1293
WPS Resources Corporation and Peoples Energy Corporation Merger Completed,
WPS Resources Changes Name to Integrys Energy Group, Inc.
February 21, 2007
Page 5
 
Rod Sierra (Media)
Vice President - Public Affairs
(312) 240-4380



