FILE:TEG/TEG-8K-20100402104258.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Date of Report:  
       March 31, 2010          
(Date of earliest event reported)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
3
 
 
4
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
(Integrys Energy Group, Inc. News Release)
 
 
 
Integrys Energy Group, Inc. (NYSE: TEG) today announced that its nonregulated subsidiary, Integrys Energy Services, Inc., has sold substantially all of its wholesale electric marketing and trading business to Macquarie Cook Power, Inc. as part of Integrys Energy Services' strategy to reduce the size and scope of its operations.  Macquarie Cook Power, which was rebranded Macquarie Energy LLC in February 2010, is a subsidiary of Macquarie Group Limited (ASX: MQG).
Chicago 
April 1
, 20
10
The transaction included various power transactions, products and trading positions, including physical forwards, financial transmission rights and derivatives. This portfolio of transactions had an annual average total gross volume in excess of 125 million megawatt-hours over the past three years. The transactions did not directly affect the retail electric or natural gas marketing business operated by Integrys Energy Services.
This transaction will ultimately result in reduced collateral support requirements for Integrys Energy Group of approximately $400 million and completes the divestiture of Integrys Energy Service's wholesale businesses.
J.P. Morgan Securities acted as exclusive financial advisor to Integrys Energy Group and Thorndike Landing acted as lead advisor to Integrys Energy Services for this transaction.
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. You can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts and often include words such as anticipate, expect, intend, and other similar words. Forward-looking statements are beyond the ability of Integrys Energy Group to control and, in many cases, Integrys Energy Group cannot predict what factors would cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by forward-looking statements. Please see Integrys Energy Groups periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (including its 10-K and 10-Qs) for a listing of certain factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements.
(MORE)
 
 
 
 
Integrys Energy Services Announces Sale of Wholesale Electric Marketing and Business
April 1, 2010
Page 2
 
 
 
About Integrys Energy Group, Inc.
Integrys Energy Group is a diversified holding company with regulated utility operations operating through six wholly owned subsidiaries, Wisconsin Public Service Corporation, The Peoples Gas Light and Coke Company, North Shore Gas Company, Upper Peninsula Power Company, Michigan Gas Utilities Corporation, and Minnesota Energy Resources Corporation; nonregulated operations serving competitive energy markets through its wholly owned nonregulated subsidiary, Integrys Energy Services; and also a 34% equity ownership interest in American Transmission Company LLC (an electric transmission company operating in Wisconsin, Michigan, Minnesota, and Illinois).
More information about Integrys Energy Group, Inc. is available online at www.integrysgroup.com
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
Unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2009
On March 31, 2010, pursuant to the terms and conditions of the purchase and sale agreement dated December 23, 2009 (the PSA), between Integrys Energy Services, Inc. (Energy Services), a wholly owned subsidiary of Integrys Energy Group, Inc., and Macquarie Cook Power Inc., which subsequently changed its name to Macquarie Energy LLC (ME), Energy Services completed the sale of substantially all of the commodity contracts comprising its United States wholesale electric marketing and trading business.   In conjunction with the sale, Energy Services entered into derivative contracts with ME to reestablish the economic hedges for the retained retail electric business at the same prices and other terms previously executed through Energy Services United States wholesale electric marketing business being sold to ME.  In connection with this transaction, for a two year period following the closing, Energy Services will retain counterparty payment default risk with approximately 50% of the counterparties to those commodity contracts sold to ME.
The following unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated balance sheet gives effect to the above described sale of Energy Services United States wholesale electric marketing and trading business as if the sale had been consummated on December 31, 2009.  The following unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2009, gives effect as if the sale had occurred on January 1, 2009.  The historical consolidated financial information has been adjusted to give effect to pro forma events that are (a) directly attributable to the sale, (b) factually supportable and (c) with respect to the statement of income, expected to have a continuing impact on the results.  The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements are based on assumptions that Integrys Energy Group believes are reasonable under the circumstances and are intended for informational purposes only.  The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements are not necessarily indicative of the operating results or financial position that would have occurred if the sale had been completed at the dates indicated.  These unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes and Integrys Energy Groups Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009.
 
1
 
 
2
 
 
3
 
The accompanying unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements and related explanatory notes present how the condensed consolidated financial statements of Integrys Energy Group, Inc. may have appeared had the sale of Integrys Energy Services, Inc.s nonregulated United States wholesale electric marketing and trading business (the Sale) occurred as of January 1, 2009 with respect to the unaudited condensed consolidated statement of income, and as of December 31, 2009 with respect to the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheet.  The Sale for which these unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements are presented is explained in the introductory paragraphs in Exhibit 99.2 accompanying the unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial information.
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements and underlying pro forma adjustments are based upon available information and certain estimates and assumptions made by Integrys Energy Group.  The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements for the periods presented do not purport to represent what the unaudited condensed consolidated statement of income or unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheet would have actually been had the Sale occurred on January 1, 2009 and December 31, 2009, respectively.
Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet
Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income
 
 
4
 
 
As referenced in Note 2(e), an estimated pre-tax non-cash loss on the Sale is reflected in the accompanying unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated balance sheet.  Conversely, the accompanying unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statement of income does not give effect to any loss on the Sale, as this is a nonrecurring item that will have no continuing impact on income.
As referenced in Note 2(b) the following table shows the December 31, 2009 carrying values of major classes of assets and liabilities included in the Sale:
In addition to the above recognized assets and liabilities, commodity contracts that are not accounted for as derivatives were also transferred to ME.
In conjunction with the Sale, Integrys Energy Services entered into derivative contracts with ME to reestablish the economic hedges for the retained United States retail electric business at the same prices and other terms previously executed with Integrys Energy Services United States wholesale electric marketing and trading business that was sold.  As referenced in Note 2(c), had these third party derivative contracts been entered into at December 31, 2009, the amount of assets and liabilities from risk management activities would have been as follows:
 
 
5
 
 
 
The aforementioned economic hedges between Integrys Energy Services retail electric business and its wholesale electric marketing and trading business did not meet the United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) definition of derivative instruments, and therefore were not reflected on the historical unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheet. In accordance with GAAP, expected gains or losses related to these nonderivative commodity contracts are not recognized until the contracts are settled.  The gain or loss on the sale of these contracts was recorded in the first quarter of 2010 when the contracts were transferred to ME, as this transfer represented settlement.  The value of these nonderivative commodity contracts is reflected in the estimated proceeds below. Changes in forward electric prices will impact the ultimate gain or loss on the sale and could be different than the estimated pre-tax loss that was computed assuming a December 31, 2009 closing date as follows:
Return of Capital
The Sale will result in an estimated return of working capital of approximately $200 million.  The return of working capital is primarily related to cash collateral that had been posted with brokers and counterparties for Integrys Energy Services nonregulated United States wholesale electric marketing and trading business.  Shortly following the transfer of the related contracts to ME, the cash collateral will be returned to Integrys Energy Services.  No pro forma adjustments related to the estimated return of working capital are reflected in the pro forma results.
 
 
6
 
 



