FILE:TEG/TEG-8K-20110803190601.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Date of Report:  
         August 3, 2011          
(Date of earliest event reported)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
4
 

 
(Integrys Energy Group, Inc. logo)
 
 
 
                       
 
 
 
 
(Integrys Energy Group, Inc. logo)
 
 
For Immediate Release
August 3, 2011
 
 
                 
Integrys Energy Group, Inc. (NYSE: TEG) today reported earnings on a Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) basis and an adjusted basis as follows:
Chicago  August 3, 2011 
Adjusted earnings exclude the effects of certain items that are not comparable from one period to the next.
Higher natural gas utility sales in the second quarter of 2011 had a positive impact on adjusted earnings.  All of the natural gas service territories experienced colder weather this quarter, and natural gas usage per customer, excluding the impact of weather, was also up in aggregate.  The decoupling mechanisms in place do not cover all jurisdictions or customer classes, so some of this increased usage was reflected in quarterly results.
Consolidated operating and maintenance expense increased quarter over quarter.   Wisconsin Public Service Corporations maintenance expense related to the timing of scheduled plant outages was higher, and The Peoples Gas Light and Coke Companys natural gas distribution costs went up due to certain costs related to the natural gas main replacement program and work asset management system maintenance.
Other factors that impacted adjusted earnings included decreased wholesale margins for Integrys Energy Services due to the sales of the wholesale businesses in prior periods, and an
 
____________________
*
 
This news release includes non-GAAP financial measures.  Schedules that provide details on these measures and reconcile these measures to the most comparable GAAP figures are included with this news release.
 
 
 
Integrys Energy Group, Inc. Reports
Second Quarter 2011 Financial Results
August 3, 2011
Page 2
 
 
 
 
overall increase in margins in the retail markets that Integrys Energy Services continues to focus on.
"We remain on track to meet our financial goals, thanks to our continued diligence in execution of our plans and the benefits of having a portfolio of energy-related businesses," said Charles A. Schrock, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Integrys Energy Group.
EARNINGS FORECAST
Integrys Energy Group is narrowing its guidance range for 2011 diluted earnings per share on a GAAP basis to between $3.24 and $3.44.  This guidance assumes operational improvements and rate relief for certain utilities, the availability of generation units, and normal weather conditions for the rest of 2011.
The company is similarly narrowing its guidance range for 2011 diluted earnings per share  adjusted to between $3.30 and $3.50.
SUPPLEMENTAL DATA PACKAGE
A supplemental data package has been posted on Integrys Energy Groups website.  It includes this news release, as well as financial statements, non-GAAP financial information, guidance information for diluted earnings per share, and quarterly financial information by reportable segment.
CONFERENCE CALL
An earnings conference call is scheduled for 8 a.m. Central time on Thursday, August 4, 2011.   To access the call, dial 888-788-9425 15 minutes prior to the scheduled start time.  Callers will be required to supply EARNINGS as the passcode and MR. STEVEN ESCHBACH as the leader.  A replay of the conference call will be available through November  1, 2011, by dialing 888-562-7630.
Investors may also listen to the live conference or a replay on Integrys Energy Groups website at .
http://www.integrysgroup.com/investor/presentations.aspx
PowerPoint slides will be posted on the website and will be referred to within the prepared remarks during the call.  The slides will be available at 6 a.m. Central time on August 4.
 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
Financial results in this news release are unaudited.  In this news release, Integrys Energy Group
 
 
 
Integrys Energy Group, Inc. Reports
Second Quarter 2011 Financial Results
August 3, 2011
Page 3
 
 
 
makes statements concerning expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, goals, strategies, and future events or performance.  Such statements are "forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  Forward-looking statements are subject to assumptions and uncertainties; therefore, actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.  Although Integrys Energy Group believes that these forward-looking statements and the underlying assumptions are reasonable, it cannot provide assurance that such statements will prove correct.
Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements concerning management's expectations and projections regarding earnings, regulatory matters, fuel and natural gas costs, sources of electric energy supply, coal and natural gas deliveries, remediation costs, environmental expenditures, liquidity and capital resources, trends, estimates, completion of construction projects, and other matters.
Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties.  Some risks that could cause results to differ from any forward-looking statement include those described in Item 1A of Integrys Energy Groups Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, as may be amended or supplemented in Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.  Other risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to:
 
 
 
 
Integrys Energy Group, Inc. Reports
Second Quarter 2011 Financial Results
August 3, 2011
Page 4
 
 
 
 
Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Integrys Energy Group undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
 
 
Integrys Energy Group, Inc. Reports
Second Quarter 2011 Financial Results
August 3, 2011
Page 5
 
 
About Integrys Energy Group, Inc.
Integrys Energy Group is a diversified holding company with regulated utility operations operating through six wholly owned subsidiaries: Wisconsin Public Service Corporation, The Peoples Gas Light and Coke Company, North Shore Gas Company, Upper Peninsula Power Company, Michigan Gas Utilities Corporation, and Minnesota Energy Resources Corporation; nonregulated operations through a wholly owned subsidiary, Integrys Energy Services, Inc.; and a 34% equity ownership interest in American Transmission Company LLC (an electric transmission company operating in Wisconsin, Michigan, Minnesota, and Illinois).
More information is available at www.integrysgroup.com.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
n
Non-GAAP Financial Informatio
We prepare financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP).  In addition, we disclose and discuss diluted earnings per share (EPS)  adjusted and adjusted earnings (loss), which are non-GAAP measures.  Management uses these measures in its internal performance reporting and for reports to the Board of Directors.  We disclose these measures in our quarterly earnings releases, on investor conference calls, and during investor conferences and related events.  Management believes that diluted EPS  adjusted and adjusted earnings (loss) are useful measures for providing investors with additional insight into our operating performance.  These measures allow investors to better compare our financial results from period to period, as they eliminate the effects of certain items that are not comparable.  This additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for our results of operations prepared and presented in conformance with GAAP.
Actual Quarter and Year-to-Date Results for Periods Ended June 30, 2011 and 2010
 
 
 
 
 
 
Net income (loss) attributed to common shareholders is adjusted by reportable segment for special items and their financial impact for the quarters ended June 30, 2011 and 2010.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Diluted earnings per share is adjusted by reportable segment for special items and their financial impact on diluted earnings per share for the quarters ended June 30, 2011 and 2010.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Net income (loss) attributed to common shareholders is adjusted by reportable segment for special items and their financial impact for the six months ended June 30, 2011 and 2010.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Diluted earnings per share is adjusted by reportable segment for special items and their financial impact on diluted earnings per share for the six months ended June 30, 2011 and 2010.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Key Assumptions for 2011:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
These tables represent physical sales contracts for natural gas and electric power for delivery or settlement in future periods related to retail natural gas and retail electric businesses that Integrys Energy Services plans on retaining in conjunction with its revised strategy.
 
 
 
 
 
 



