FILE:TEG/TEG-8K-20110504193040.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Date of Report:  
         May 4, 2011          
(Date of earliest event reported)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
4
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
(Integrys Energy Group, Inc. News Release)
 
 
For Immediate Release
May 4, 2011
Contact:    Steven P. Eschbach, CFA
Vice President  Investor Relations
Integrys Energy Group, Inc.
(312) 228-5408
 
 
Integrys Energy Group, Inc. (NYSE: TEG) achieved improved earnings for the first quarter of 2011 compared with the first quarter of 2010 on both a GAAP (generally accepted accounting principles) and adjusted basis.
Chicago  May 4, 2011 
Net income attributed to common shareholders on a GAAP basis was $122.7 million ($1.56 diluted earnings per share) for the quarter ended March 31, 2011, compared with $49.7 million ($0.64 diluted earnings per share) for the quarter ended March 31, 2010.
Excluding the effects of certain items that are not comparable from one period to the next, Integrys Energy Group's adjusted earnings were $123.6 million ($1.57 diluted earnings per share  adjusted) for the quarter ended March 31, 2011, compared with adjusted earnings of $115.5 million ($1.49 diluted earnings per share  adjusted) for the quarter ended March 31, 2010, an increase of $8.1 million quarter over quarter.
"I am pleased with the improved financial results for Integrys Energy Group for the first quarter of 2011, which demonstrates that our portfolio of businesses and investments can improve the quality of our bottom line results," said Charles A. Schrock, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Integrys Energy Group.   Focused efforts on operational excellence and cost control by all of our employees enabled us to maintain our guidance for 2011 diluted earnings per share  adjusted as presented in February 2011.
 
Management believes that adjusted earnings and diluted earnings per share  adjusted are useful measures for providing investors with additional insight into our operating performance. 
Two schedules, which are included at the end of this news release as well as in the supplemental data package on Integrys Energy Groups website, provide details on these non-GAAP measures. These schedules are titled "Diluted Earnings Per Share Information  Non-GAAP Financial Information" and "Non-GAAP Financial Information Reported by Segment."
 
 
 
Integrys Energy Group, Inc. Reports
2011 First Quarter Financial Results
May 4, 2011
Page 2
 
 
 
Significant drivers of the $8.1 million increase in adjusted earnings are described below, by reportable segment.  .
Unless otherwise noted, the discussion below relates to adjusted earnings, and all dollar amounts are reported on an after-tax basis
 
 
 
 
Integrys Energy Group, Inc. Reports
2011 First Quarter Financial Results
May 4, 2011
Page 3
 
 
 
 
EARNINGS FORECAST
Our guidance range for 2011 consolidated diluted earnings per share on a GAAP basis is between $3.27 and $3.60.  This guidance assumes operational improvements and rate relief for certain utilities, the availability of generation units, and normal weather conditions for the rest of 2011.
Our guidance range for 2011 consolidated diluted earnings per share  adjusted remains between $3.24 and $3.57.  This guidance is adjusted for certain items that are not comparable from one period to the next.  Please see the Diluted Earnings Per Share Guidance Information included at the end of this news release and in the supplemental data package on the company's website for more detailed information on earnings guidance.
Integrys Energy Group expects a long-term diluted earnings per share  adjusted growth rate of 4% to 6% on an average annualized basis, using 2011 as the base year, through 2015.
Integrys Energy Groups management will discuss earnings guidance for 2011 during the earnings conference call at 8 a.m. CDT on Thursday, May 5, 2011.
SUPPLEMENTAL DATA PACKAGE
Concurrent with this news release, a supplemental data package has been posted on Integrys Energy Groups corporate website that includes this narrative news release, as well as financial statements, non-GAAP financial information, diluted earnings per share guidance information, and supplemental quarterly financial information by reportable segment.
CONFERENCE CALL
An earnings conference call is scheduled for 8 a.m. CDT on Thursday, May 5, 2011.   Integrys Energy Group will discuss 2011 first quarter financial results, as well as future prospects.  To access the call, which is open to the public, call 888-788-9425 (toll free) 15 minutes prior to the scheduled start time.  Callers will be required to supply EARNINGS as the passcode and MR. STEVEN ESCHBACH as the leader.  Callers will be placed on hold with music until the call begins.  A replay of the conference call will be available through August 2, 2011, by dialing 866-455-0587 (toll free).
 
 
 
Integrys Energy Group, Inc. Reports
2011 First Quarter Financial Results
May 4, 2011
Page 4
 
 
 
Investors may also listen to the conference live on Integrys Energy Groups corporate website at .  An archive of the webcast will be available on the companys website at .
http://www.integrysgroup.com/investor/presentations.aspx
http://www.integrysgroup.com/investor/presentations.aspx
In conjunction with this conference call, Integrys Energy Group will post on its website PowerPoint slides that will be referred to within the prepared remarks during the call.  The slides will be available at 6 a.m. CDT on May 5.
 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
Financial results in this news release are unaudited.  In this news release, Integrys Energy Group and its subsidiaries make statements concerning expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, goals, strategies, and future events or performance.  Such statements are "forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  Forward-looking statements are subject to assumptions and uncertainties; therefore, actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.  Although Integrys Energy Group and its subsidiaries believe that these forward-looking statements and the underlying assumptions are reasonable, they cannot provide assurance that such statements will prove correct.
Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements concerning management's expectations and projections regarding earnings, regulatory matters, fuel and natural gas costs, sources of electric energy supply, coal and natural gas deliveries, remediation costs, environmental expenditures, liquidity and capital resources, trends, estimates, completion of construction projects, and other matters.
Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties.  Some risks that could cause results to differ from any forward-looking statement include those described in Item 1A of Integrys Energy Groups Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, as may be amended or supplemented in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.  Other risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to:
 
 
 
Integrys Energy Group, Inc. Reports
2011 First Quarter Financial Results
May 4, 2011
Page 5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Integrys Energy Group, Inc. Reports
2011 First Quarter Financial Results
May 4, 2011
Page 6
 
 
 
 
Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Integrys Energy Group and its subsidiaries undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
About Integrys Energy Group, Inc.
Integrys Energy Group is a diversified holding company with regulated utility operations operating through six wholly owned subsidiaries: Wisconsin Public Service Corporation, The Peoples Gas Light and Coke Company, North Shore Gas Company, Upper Peninsula Power Company, Michigan Gas Utilities Corporation, and Minnesota Energy Resources Corporation; nonregulated operations through its wholly owned subsidiary, Integrys Energy Services, Inc.; and a 34% equity ownership interest in American Transmission Company LLC (an electric transmission company operating in Wisconsin, Michigan, Minnesota, and Illinois).
More information about Integrys Energy Group, Inc. is available online at www.integrysgroup.com.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
n
Non-GAAP Financial Informatio
Integrys Energy Group prepares financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP).  Along with this information, we disclose and discuss diluted earnings per share (EPS)  adjusted and adjusted earnings (loss), which are non-GAAP measures.  Management uses these measures in its internal performance reporting and for reports to the Board of Directors.  We disclose these measures in our quarterly earnings releases, on investor conference calls, and during investor conferences and related events.  Management believes that diluted EPS  adjusted and adjusted earnings (loss) are useful measures for providing investors with additional insight into our operating performance because they eliminate the effects of certain items that are not comparable from one period to the next.  Therefore, these measures allow investors to better compare our financial results from period to period.  The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for our results of operations prepared and presented in conformance with GAAP.
Actual Quarter Results for Periods Ended March 31, 2011 and 2010
 
 
 
 
 
Net income (loss) attributed to common shareholders is adjusted by reportable segment for special items and their financial impact for the quarters ended March 31, 2011 and 2010.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Diluted earnings per share is adjusted by reportable segment for special items and their financial impact on diluted earnings per share for the quarters ended March 31, 2011 and 2010.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Key Assumptions for 2011:
 
 
 



