FILE:TEG/TEG-8K-20121214181851.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Date of Report:  
        December 13, 2012          
(Date of earliest event reported)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
4
 

[Integrys Energy Group, Inc. News Release]
 
 
 
Integrys Appoints James F. Schott Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Announces Other Management Changes
 
 
  The  board of directors of Integrys Energy Group, Inc. (NYSE: TEG) has named James F. Schott, vice president  external affairs, to serve as vice president and chief financial officer for Integrys effective January 1, 2013.   Schott succeeds Joseph P. OLeary senior vice president and chief financial officer, who announced plans to retire in 2013. OLeary will continue to serve as senior vice president reporting to Charlie Schrock, chairman, president and chief executive officer, and will assist with the leadership transition and other strategic projects until his retirement.
Chicago, IL
,
 
Joes commitment to the company and dedicated service contributed to our success in many ways over his 11-year tenure. I look forward to Joes continued guidance and support on financial and strategic matters until his retirement, said Charlie Schrock.
 
Through our succession planning process, we have in place a highly qualified successor to Joe, Schrock continued. Jim has extensive experience in the financial and utility industry. He started his career working with Arthur Andersen accounting and management firm, specializing in capital intensive industries such as utilities. He later worked for Wisconsin Gas (now a subsidiary of Wisconsin Energy Corporation) where he held several positions including controller, vice president finance and vice president operations. Since joining Integrys in 2003, Jim has contributed significantly to the regulatory and financial strategy for Integrys in his roles as assistant vice president regulatory affairs and later vice president external affairs.  Schott is a Certified Public Accountant and holds a bachelors degree in Business Administration from Georgetown University and an MBA from the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee.
 
In other key announcements,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
These leadership changes are a reflection of an ongoing, long-term talent management process at Integrys. Our focus on creating diverse development opportunities and exposure to key aspects of the business ensures that Integrys has a knowledgeable, flexible executive team that can not only ensure continued successful operations, but also take the company into the future, said Charlie Schrock.
 
 
 
About Integrys Energy Group, Inc.
 
Integrys Energy Group is a diversified energy holding company with regulated natural gas and electric utility operations (serving customers in Illinois, Michigan, Minnesota, and Wisconsin), an approximate 34% equity ownership interest in American Transmission Company (a federally regulated electric transmission company operating in Wisconsin, Michigan, Minnesota, and Illinois), and nonregulated energy operations. More information is available at .
www.integrysgroup.com
 
 
For More Information, Contact:
 
Vice President - Investor Relations
Integrys Energy Group, Inc.
(312) 228-5408
Director Media Relations
Integrys Energy Group, Inc.
(312) 465-0911
 
 
 



