FILE:TEG/TEG-8K-20120502170550.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Date of Report:  
         May 2, 2012          
(Date of earliest event reported)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
4
 

[Integrys Energy Group, Inc. logo]
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[Integrys Energy Group, Inc. News Release letterhead]
 
 
Integrys Energy Group, Inc. Reports First Quarter 2012 Earnings
Integrys Energy Group, Inc. (NYSE: TEG) recognized earnings on a Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) basis and an adjusted basis as follows:
Chicago  May 2, 2012 
Adjusted earnings exclude the effects of certain items that are not comparable from one period to the next.
First Quarter Results
On an adjusted basis, earnings were down slightly this quarter compared with the same quarter last year. Decoupling mechanisms in place at many of the utility companies greatly reduced the negative impact of unseasonably warm weather in 2012.
Integrys Energy Services' adjusted margins were down quarter-over-quarter, driving the decrease in consolidated adjusted earnings. Realized retail electric margins decreased due to the expiration at the end of 2011 of several large, lower margin customer contracts. In addition, energy asset margins decreased due to the expiration of a long-term capacity contract in the fourth quarter of 2011.
 
____________________
*
 
This news release includes non-GAAP financial measures.  Schedules that provide details on these measures and reconcile these measures to the most comparable GAAP figures are included with this news release.
 
 
 
Integrys Energy Group, Inc. Reports
First Quarter 2012 Financial Results
May 2, 2012
Page 2
 
 
 
A slight decrease in electric utility segment margins also contributed to the decrease in adjusted earnings.  Wholesale sales volumes were down due to the loss of several customers and a reduction in sales to one large customer. In addition, a net regulatory asset at Upper Peninsula Power Company was written off following a ruling in a Detroit Edison proceeding that stated the Michigan Public Service Commission did not have the authority to approve electric decoupling mechanisms.
The natural gas utility segment had an increase in adjusted earnings. The rate increase at The Peoples Gas Light and Coke Company had a positive impact. This was more than enough to overcome the impact of lower sales volumes net of decoupling across all the natural gas utilities caused by the unusually warm weather.
"Unseasonably warm winter weather impacted our earnings, but not as much as it might have without the decoupling mechanisms we have in place," said Charles A. Schrock, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Integrys Energy Group. "I am pleased that we are able to maintain our guidance range, although we expect that we may be toward the lower end of the range."
EARNINGS FORECAST
Integrys Energy Groups guidance range for 2012 diluted earnings per share on a GAAP basis is between $3.38 and $3.58. This guidance assumes operational improvements, the availability of generation units, and normal weather conditions for the rest of 2012.
The company's guidance range for 2012 diluted earnings per share  adjusted is between $3.35 and $3.55. Given the unseasonably warm weather in the first quarter of 2012, the lower end of this range is expected. At this time, Integrys Energy Group is not estimating the impact of derivative and inventory accounting activities and is not projecting any other special items for the remainder of 2012.
SUPPLEMENTAL DATA PACKAGE
A supplemental data package has been posted on Integrys Energy Groups website.  It includes this news release, as well as financial statements, non-GAAP financial information, guidance information for diluted earnings per share, and quarterly financial information by reportable segment.
CONFERENCE CALL
An earnings conference call is scheduled for 8 a.m. Central time on Thursday, May 3, 2012.   The call can be accessed 15 minutes prior to the scheduled start time by dialing 888-788-9425.  
 
 
 
Integrys Energy Group, Inc. Reports
First Quarter 2012 Financial Results
May 2, 2012
Page 3
 
 
 
 
Callers will be required to supply EARNINGS as the passcode and MR. STEVEN ESCHBACH as the leader.  A replay of the conference call will be available through August 7, 2012, by dialing 888-562-2788.
Investors may also listen to the live conference or a replay on Integrys Energy Groups website at .
http://www.integrysgroup.com/investor/presentations.aspx
PowerPoint slides will be posted on the website and will be referred to within the prepared remarks during the call.  The slides will be available at 6 a.m. Central time on May 3.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Financial results in this news release are unaudited.  In this news release, Integrys Energy Group makes statements concerning its expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, goals, strategies, and future events or performance.  These statements are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future results and conditions, but rather are subject to numerous management assumptions, risks, and uncertainties. Therefore, actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by these statements. Although Integrys Energy Group believes that these forward-looking statements and the underlying assumptions are reasonable, it cannot provide assurance that such statements will prove correct.
Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Some risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in forward-looking statements include those described in Item 1A of Integrys Energy Groups Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, as may be amended or supplemented in
Part II, Item IA of its subsequently filed Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and those identified below.
 
 
 
Integrys Energy Group, Inc. Reports
First Quarter 2012 Financial Results
May 2, 2012
Page 4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Integrys Energy Group, Inc. Reports
First Quarter 2012 Financial Results
May 2, 2012
Page 5
 
 
 
 
Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Integrys Energy Group undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
About Integrys Energy Group, Inc.
 
Integrys Energy Group is a diversified energy holding company with regulated natural gas and electric utility operations (serving customers in Illinois, Michigan, Minnesota, and Wisconsin), an approximate 34% equity ownership interest in American Transmission Company (a federally regulated electric transmission company operating in Wisconsin, Michigan, Minnesota, and Illinois), and nonregulated energy operations.
 
More information is available at www.integrysgroup.com.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We prepare financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP).  In addition, we disclose and discuss diluted earnings per share (EPS)  adjusted and adjusted earnings (loss), which are non-GAAP measures.  Management uses these measures in its internal performance reporting and for reports to the Board of Directors.  We disclose these measures in our quarterly earnings releases, on investor conference calls, and during investor conferences and related events.  Management believes that diluted EPS  adjusted and adjusted earnings (loss) are useful measures for providing investors with additional insight into our operating performance.  These measures allow investors to better compare our financial results from period to period, as they eliminate the effects of certain items that are not comparable.  This additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for our results of operations prepared and presented in conformance with GAAP.
Actual Quarter Results for Periods Ended March 31, 2012 and 2011
 
 
 
 
 
Net income (loss) attributed to common shareholders is adjusted by reportable segment for the financial impact of special items for the quarters ended March 31, 2012 and 2011.
 
 
 
 
 
Diluted earnings per share is adjusted by reportable segment for the financial impact of special items on diluted earnings per share for the quarters ended March 31, 2012 and 2011.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Information on Special Items:
Diluted earnings per share guidance is adjusted for special items and their financial impact on the diluted earnings per share
 guidance for 2012.
Key Assumptions for 2012:
Not estimating the impact of derivative and inventory accounting activities and not projecting any other special items
for the remainder of 2012.
 
 
 
 
 
Integrys Energy Group, Inc. Financial Supplement
Page 1
 
 
 
 
 
Integrys Energy Group, Inc. Financial Supplement
Page 2
 
 
 
 
  
 
Integrys Energy Group, Inc. Financial Supplement
Page 3
 
 



