FILE:TEG/TEG-8K-20120228170806.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Date of Report:  
         February 28, 2012          
(Date of earliest event reported)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
4
 

[logo]
 
 
 
 
 
 
[logo]
 
Integrys Energy Group, Inc.
 
NEWS RELEASE
 
 
 
Integrys Energy Group, Inc. Reports Improved Fourth Quarter 2011 Adjusted Earnings
Integrys Energy Group, Inc. (NYSE: TEG) recognized earnings on a Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) basis and an adjusted basis as follows:
Chicago  February 28, 2012 
Adjusted earnings exclude the effects of certain items that are not comparable from one period to the next.
Fourth Quarter Results
Favorable results at the electric utility segment and Integrys Energy Services drove the increase in adjusted earnings.
Electric utility segment margins increased due to the electric rate increases effective in January 2011 and fuel window impacts at Wisconsin Public Service. New fuel window rules were effective in 2011. These rules drove changes in the timing of recognition of differences between actual and projected fuel costs, which caused a positive quarter-over-quarter impact.
Integrys Energy Services continued to see positive results following the implementation of the strategy change. Operating expenses were lower quarter-over-quarter. In addition, realized retail electric margins increased due to a revised pricing strategy.
 
_______________
*
 
This news release includes non-GAAP financial measures.  Schedules that provide details on these measures and reconcile these measures to the most comparable GAAP figures are included with this news release.
 
 
 
 
Integrys Energy Group, Inc. Reports
Fourth Quarter 2011 Financial Results
February 28, 2012
Page 2
 
 
 
The natural gas utility segment saw a decrease in adjusted earnings caused by lower sales volumes due to warmer weather, partially offset by decoupling impacts in those jurisdictions that have decoupling.
"I am pleased with our improved adjusted earnings," said Charles A. Schrock, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Integrys Energy Group. "Our fourth quarter 2011 diluted EPS  adjusted results were up 23 percent and our full year 2011 results were up about 8 percent when compared with the same periods in 2010.  This demonstrates that the execution of our business strategy is yielding anticipated financial results."
EARNINGS FORECAST
Integrys Energy Groups guidance range for 2012 diluted earnings per share on a GAAP basis is between $3.35 and $3.55. This guidance assumes operational improvements, the availability of generation units, and normal weather conditions for 2012. At this time, Integrys Energy Group is not estimating the impact of derivative and inventory accounting activities at Integrys Energy Services and is not projecting any other special items for 2012. Diluted earnings per share  adjusted results will be provided as usual each quarter in 2012.
SUPPLEMENTAL DATA PACKAGE
A supplemental data package has been posted on Integrys Energy Groups website.  It includes this news release, as well as financial statements, non-GAAP financial information, guidance information for diluted earnings per share, and quarterly financial information by reportable segment.
CONFERENCE CALL
An earnings conference call is scheduled for 8 a.m. Central time on Wednesday, February 29, 2012.   The call can be accessed 15 minutes prior to the scheduled start time by dialing 888-788-9425.  Callers will be required to supply EARNINGS as the passcode and MR. STEVEN ESCHBACH as the leader.  A replay of the conference call will be available through
May 1, 2012, by dialing 866-479-8681.
Investors may also listen to the live conference or a replay on Integrys Energy Groups website at .
http://www.integrysgroup.com/investor/presentations.aspx
PowerPoint slides will be posted on the website and will be referred to within the prepared remarks during the call.  The slides will be available at 6 a.m. Central time on February 29.
 
 
 
Integrys Energy Group, Inc. Reports
Fourth Quarter 2011 Financial Results
February 28, 2012
Page 3
 
 
 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Financial results in this news release are unaudited.  In this news release, Integrys Energy Group makes statements concerning expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, goals, strategies, and future events or performance.  These statements are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future results and conditions, but rather are subject to numerous management assumptions, risks, and uncertainties. Therefore, actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by these statements. Although Integrys Energy Group believes that these forward-looking statements and the underlying assumptions are reasonable, it cannot provide assurance that such statements will prove correct.
Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Some risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in forward-looking statements include those described in Item 1A of Integrys Energy Groups  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 and those identified below.
 
 
 
Integrys Energy Group, Inc. Reports
Fourth Quarter 2011 Financial Results
February 28, 2012
Page 4
 
 
 
 
 
Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Integrys Energy Group undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
 
 
Integrys Energy Group, Inc. Reports
Fourth Quarter 2011 Financial Results
February 28, 2012
Page 5
 
 
 
About Integrys Energy Group, Inc.
 
Integrys Energy Group is a diversified energy holding company with regulated electric and natural gas utility operations (serving customers in Illinois, Michigan, Minnesota, and Wisconsin), nonregulated energy operations, and an approximate 34% equity ownership interest in American Transmission Company (a federally regulated electric transmission company operating in Wisconsin, Michigan, Minnesota, and Illinois).
 
More information is available at www.integrysgroup.com.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We prepare financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP).  In addition, we disclose and discuss diluted earnings per share (EPS)  adjusted and adjusted earnings (loss), which are non-GAAP measures.  Management uses these measures in its internal performance reporting and for reports to the Board of Directors.  We disclose these measures in our quarterly earnings releases, on investor conference calls, and during investor conferences and related events.  Management believes that diluted EPS  adjusted and adjusted earnings (loss) are useful measures for providing investors with additional insight into our operating performance.  These measures allow investors to better compare our financial results from period to period, as they eliminate the effects of certain items that are not comparable.  This additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for our results of operations prepared and presented in conformance with GAAP.
Actual Quarter and Year-to-Date Results for Periods Ended December 31, 2011 and 2010
 
 
 
 
 
Net income (loss) attributed to common shareholders is adjusted by reportable segment for the financial impact of special items for the quarters ended December 31, 2011 and 2010.
 
 
 
 
 
Diluted earnings per share is adjusted by reportable segment for the financial impact of special items on diluted earnings per share for the quarters ended December 31, 2011 and 2010.
 
 
 
 
 
Net income (loss) attributed to common shareholders is adjusted by reportable segment for the financial impact of special items for the year ended December 31, 2011 and 2010.
 
 
 
 
 
Diluted earnings per share is adjusted by reportable segment for the financial impact of special items on diluted earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2011 and 2010.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Key Assumptions for 2012:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



