FILE:TEG/TEG-8K-20120808170615.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Date of Report:  
         August 8, 2012          
(Date of earliest event reported)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
4
 

 
 
Exhibit 99.1
[Integrys Energy Group, Inc. logo]
 
 
 
 
 
[Integrys Energy Group, Inc. logo]
 
 
 
 
Integrys Energy Group, Inc. (NYSE: TEG) recognized earnings on a Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) basis and an adjusted basis as follows:
Chicago  August 8, 2012 
Adjusted earnings exclude the effects of certain items that are not comparable from one period to the next.
Second Quarter Results
Adjusted earnings were down this quarter compared with the same quarter last year. The main driver of the decrease was the unusually warm weather in 2012. The natural gas utility segment in particular saw lower sales volumes due to weather. In addition, in the second quarter of 2012, The Peoples Gas Light and Coke Company and North Shore Gas Company recorded $7.9 million after tax of reserves against regulatory assets that had been accrued for recovery in the first quarter of 2012 related to decoupling mechanisms. Recovery of these amounts is uncertain after an order from the Illinois Commerce Commission stated that revenues to be collected by Peoples Gas and North Shore Gas under permanent decoupling mechanisms are subject to
 
___________________________________
*
 
This news release includes non-GAAP financial measures.  Schedules that provide details on these measures and reconcile these measures to the most comparable GAAP figures are included with this news release.
 
 
 
Integrys Energy Group, Inc.
Second Quarter 2012 Earnings
August 8, 2012
Page 2
 
 
 
refund, pending the outcome of appeals in the Illinois Appellate Court. Refunds would be required if the Court overturns the decoupling mechanism and orders a refund of any amounts collected. As a result, financial results for this segment are more sensitive to volume fluctuations in 2012 than they were in the past.  The negative impact of weather on earnings quarter over quarter at the natural gas utility segment, including the reserves against decoupling amounts, is estimated to be about $12 million after tax.
Adjusted earnings at the electric utility segment increased. The main driver was lower interest expense at Wisconsin Public Service Corporation due to the repayment of $150 million of long-term debt in August 2011.
Integrys Energy Services' adjusted earnings also increased quarter over quarter. Lower operating expenses more than offset reduced margins. Realized retail electric and natural gas margin decreases were mainly due to competitive pressure on per-unit margins, as well as warmer weather. In addition, energy asset margins were down due to the expiration of a long-term capacity contract in the fourth quarter of 2011.
"Absent the adverse weather impacts this quarter, our core utility earnings remain strong," said Charles A. Schrock, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Integrys Energy Group. "We continue to make good progress on our natural gas infrastructure and electric environmental retrofit projects."
 
EARNINGS FORECAST
Integrys Energy Groups guidance range for 2012 diluted earnings per share on a GAAP basis is between $3.02 and $3.17. This guidance assumes continued operational improvements, the availability of generation units, and normal weather conditions for the rest of 2012. The company's guidance range for 2012 diluted earnings per share  adjusted is between $3.00 and $3.15. At this time, Integrys Energy Group is not estimating the impact of derivative and inventory accounting activities and is not projecting any additional special items for the rest of 2012.
SUPPLEMENTAL DATA PACKAGE
A supplemental data package has been posted on Integrys Energy Groups website.  It includes this news release, as well as financial statements, non-GAAP financial information, guidance information for diluted earnings per share, and quarterly financial information by reportable segment.
 
 
Integrys Energy Group, Inc.
Second Quarter 2012 Earnings
August 8, 2012
Page 3
 
 
CONFERENCE CALL
An earnings conference call is scheduled for 8 a.m. Central time on Thursday, August 9, 2012.   The call can be accessed 15 minutes prior to the scheduled start time by dialing 888-788-9425.  Callers will be required to supply EARNINGS as the passcode and MR. STEVEN ESCHBACH as the leader.  A replay of the conference call will be available through November 2, 2012, by dialing 888-568-0883.
Investors may also listen to the live conference or a replay on Integrys Energy Groups website at .
http://www.integrysgroup.com/investor/presentations.aspx
PowerPoint slides will be posted on the website and will be referred to within the prepared remarks during the call.  The slides will be available at 6 a.m. Central time on August 9.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Financial results in this news release are unaudited.  In this news release, Integrys Energy Group makes statements concerning its expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, goals, strategies, and future events or performance.  These statements are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future results and conditions, but rather are subject to numerous management assumptions, risks, and uncertainties. Therefore, actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by these statements. Although Integrys Energy Group believes that these forward-looking statements and the underlying assumptions are reasonable, it cannot provide assurance that such statements will prove correct.
Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Some risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in forward-looking statements include those described in Item 1A of Integrys Energy Groups Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, as may be amended or supplemented in
Part II, Item IA of its subsequently filed Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and those identified below.
 
 
 
 
Integrys Energy Group, Inc.
Second Quarter 2012 Earnings
August 8, 2012
Page 4
 
 
 
 
 
 
Integrys Energy Group, Inc.
Second Quarter 2012 Earnings
August 8, 2012
Page 5
 
 
 
 
Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Integrys Energy Group undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
About Integrys Energy Group, Inc.
 
Integrys Energy Group is a diversified energy holding company with regulated natural gas and electric utility operations (serving customers in Illinois, Michigan, Minnesota, and Wisconsin), an approximate 34% equity ownership interest in American Transmission Company (a federally regulated electric transmission company operating in Wisconsin, Michigan, Minnesota, and Illinois), and nonregulated energy operations.
 
More information is available at www.integrysgroup.com.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Diluted Earnings Per Share Information (Non-GAAP Information)
We prepare financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP).  In addition, we disclose and discuss diluted earnings per share (EPS)  adjusted and adjusted earnings (loss), which are non-GAAP measures.  Management uses these measures in its internal performance reporting and for reports to the Board of Directors.  We disclose these measures in our quarterly earnings releases, on investor conference calls, and during investor conferences and related events.  Management believes that diluted EPS  adjusted and adjusted earnings (loss) are useful measures for providing investors with additional insight into our operating performance.  These measures allow investors to better compare our financial results from period to period, as they eliminate the effects of certain items that are not comparable.  This additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for our results of operations prepared and presented in conformance with GAAP.
Weather Impacts (Compared to Normal, Net of Decoupling)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Net income (loss) attributed to common shareholders is adjusted by reportable segment for the financial impact of special items for the quarters ended June 30, 2012 and 2011.
 
 
 
 
 
Diluted earnings per share is adjusted by reportable segment for the financial impact of special items on diluted earnings per share for the quarters ended June 30, 2012 and 2011.
 
 
 
 
 
Net income (loss) attributed to common shareholders is adjusted by reportable segment for the financial impact of special items for the six months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011.
 
 
 
 
 
Diluted earnings per share is adjusted by reportable segment for the financial impact of special items on diluted earnings per share for the six months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Information on Special Items:
Diluted earnings per share guidance is adjusted for special items and their financial impact on the diluted earnings per share 
guidance for 2012.
 
 
Key Assumptions for 2012:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Integrys Energy Group, Inc. Financial Supplement
Page 1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Integrys Energy Group, Inc. Financial Supplement
Page 2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Integrys Energy Group, Inc. Financial Supplement
Page 3
 
 


