Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Information required by Item 7 is incorporated by reference from "Managements Discussion and Analysis" on pages A 25 through A 32 of the Appendix. SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT UNDER THE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 Certain statements contained in our Managements Discussion and Analysis are forward looking and involve uncertainties that could significantly impact results. The words "believes," "expects," "estimates," "anticipates," "will be" and similar words or expressions identify forward looking statements made on behalf of Caterpillar. Uncertainties include factors that affect international businesses, as well as matters specific to the Company and the markets it serves. World Economic Factors Our current outlook calls for a recovery in the U.S. economy in 2002. Our outlook assumes that the events of September 11th and the resulting impact on the economy were a one time event and that there will be no further events of this magnitude. If, however, there are other significant economic shocks or sequence of shocks, there could be a more protracted negative impact on consumer spending and housing starts, which would negatively impact company results. U.S. growth is expected to be on track for flat to slightly positive growth in the first quarter, followed by stronger growth in the second, and gaining momentum in the third and fourth quarters of 2002. Should recent interest rate and tax reductions fail to stimulate the U.S. economy as expected, leading to an extended recession, then sales of machines and engines may decline in 2002. The outlook also projects that economic growth is expected to improve in Asia Pacific, Europe, Africa & Middle East and Latin America. If, for any reason, these projected growth rates do not improve, sales would likely be lower than anticipated in the affected region. Recent economic weakness in Japan is leading to lower than expected growth in the Asia Pacific region, particularly Southeast Asia. In general, renewed currency speculation, significant declines in the stock markets, further oil or energy price increases, political disruptions or higher interest rates could result in weaker than anticipated economic growth an d worldwide sales of both machines and engines could be lower than expected as a result. Economic recovery could also be delayed or weakened by growing budget or current account deficits or inappropriate government policies. In particular, our outlook assumes that Europe, the United Kingdom and Canada implement and commit to maintain economic stimulus measures and that the Japanese government remains committed to stimulating their economic recovery with appropriate monetary and fiscal policies. The Japanese economy continues to show weakness, and this is having a negative impact on the outlook for the Asia Pacific region for 2002. The outlook also assumes that the Brazilian government follows through with promised fiscal and structural reforms; and that the Argentina crisis is confined to only Argentina, and does not spill over to negatively impact growth prospects in neighboring countries. If negative spill over effects become amplified, this could result in greater regional economic and financial uncertainty and weaker regional growth. Our outlook also assumes that currency and stock markets remain relatively stable, and that average world oil prices fluctuate Page 9 in a range of $20 to $25 a barrel. If commodity and or currency markets experience a significant increase in volatility, and or stock markets do not recover, uncertainty would increase, both of which would probably result in slower economic growth and lower sales. In addition, an eruption of political violence in the Middle East could lead to oil supply disruptions and resumed upward pressure on oil prices. In this case inflation pressures would move up again and interest rates would be higher than currently projected, leading to slower world economic growth and lower company sales. The Russian economy has improved, but political and economic uncertainty remains high and an unexpected deterioration could impact worldwide stock or currency markets, which in turn could weaken company sales. Commodity Prices The outlook for our sales also depends on commodity prices. Our outlook for an improvement in world economic growth in 2002 suggests that industrial metals prices would start to see a recovery no later than the second half of 2002. Recent declines in industrial production in Europe and Japan have exacerbated the depth and duration of the expected slowdown, and industrial metal prices continue to experience downward pressure. As a result, machine sales to the industrial metals area could come under downward pressure through the first half of 2002. Oil prices declined, as expected, from an average of about $30 to $32 a barrel in 2000 to an average of $25 to $30 a barrel in 2001. We are expecting an average of $20 to $25 a barrel in 2002. Agricultural prices are projected to be up slightly in 2002. Based on this forecast, equipment sales into sectors that are sensitive to crude oil prices (oil, coal and natural gas) are expected to be down only moderately in 2002. Extended weakness in world economic growth could lead to sharp declines in commodity prices and lower than expected sales to the industrial metals and agriculture sectors. Monetary and Fiscal Policies For most companies operating in a global economy, monetary and fiscal policies implemented in the U.S. and abroad could have a significant impact on economic growth, and, accordingly, demand for a product. In the United States, the Federal Reserve moved aggressively to reduce interest rates in 2001. This action, together with federal tax cuts is expected to stimulate a recovery in U.S. growth in 2002. On the other hand, the European Central Bank has not yet lowered interest rates aggressively in response to slower economic growth and a weak agriculture sector in 2001, and machine and engine demand in Europe is likely to be lower in 2002. In general, higher than expected interest rates, reductions in government spending, higher taxes, significant currency devaluations, and uncertainty over key policies are some factors likely to lead to slower economic growth and lower industry demand. The current outlook is for higher year over year U.S. growth in 2002, with flat to slightly positive growth in the first quarter of 2002 followed by stronger growth in the second quarter and gaining momentum in the third and fourth quarters of 2002. If, for whatever reason, the U.S. recession extended into 2002, and or there was a setback leading to negative growth in the second, third or fourth quarters of 2002 then demand for company products could fall in the U.S. and Canada and would also be lower throughout the rest of the world. Political Factors Political factors in the U.S. and abroad have a major impact on global companies. In 2001, the U.S. Congress enacted a tax cut with the first reductions effective in the third and fourth quarters of 2001 and with additional benefits in 2002, which should have a positive impact on the U.S. economy. The Company is one of the largest U.S. exporters as a percentage of sales. International trade and fiscal policies implemented in the U.S. this year could impact the Companys ability to expand its business abroad. U.S. foreign relations with certain countries and any related restrictions imposed could also have a significant impact on foreign sales. There are a number of significant expected political developments in Latin America, Asia, and Europe, Africa and the Middle East which are expected to take place in 2002 that could affect U.S. trade policies and or de stabilize Page 10 local market conditions leading to lower company sales. In particular, renewed political uncertainty in Japan is contributing to a decline in business confidence, asset values and capital investment there. In addition, significant political and economic instability persists in Argentina. Our outlook assumes that the effects of this instability will be confined to Argentina and not spread to other countries in the region. Our outlook also assumes that stability will ultimately be restored in Argentina through democratic means. If, however, the instability persists, worsens or spreads to other countries in the region, it could materially impact company sales into Argentina and other countries in the region. Currency Fluctuations Currency fluctuations are also an unknown for global companies. The Company has facilities in major sales areas throughout the world and significant costs and revenues in most major currencies. This diversification greatly reduces the overall impact of currency movements on results. However, if the U.S. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, the conversion of net non U.S. dollar proceeds to U.S. dollars would adversely impact the Companys results. Further, since the Companys largest manufacturing presence is in the U.S., a sustained overvalued dollar could have an unfavorable impact on our global competitiveness. Dealer Practices A majority of the Companys sales are made through its independent dealer distribution network. Dealer practices, such as changes in inventory levels for both new and rental equipment, are not within the Companys control (primarily because these practices depend upon the dealers assessment of anticipated sales and the appropriate level of inventory) and may have a significant positive or negative impact on our results. In particular, the outlook assumes that dealer inventories of new machines will be slightly lower at the end of 2002 than at the end of 2001. If dealers reduce inventory levels more than anticipated, company sales will be adversely impacted. Other Factors The rate of infrastructure spending, housing starts, commercial construction and mining play a significant role in the Companys results. Our products are an integral component of these activities and as these activities increase or decrease in the U.S. or abroad, demand for our products may be significantly impacted. In 1999, the six year Federal highway bill did not boost U.S. sales as much as anticipated due to delays in getting major capital projects for highways underway. In 2000 and 2001, there was a material increase in the volume of highway construction contracts, which had a positive impact on sales of certain types of equipment, and the company expects a similar positive impact of higher highway construction activity on machine sales in 2002. If funding for highway and airport construction in 2002 is reduced or delayed, or is concentrated on areas where company products do not play a significant role, sales could be negatively impacted. We are projecting further increases in highway/airport pub lic spending in 2002. If these spending plans are reduced by Federal and or state governments, machine sales would be lower than current projections. Pursuant to a Consent Decree Caterpillar entered into with the United States Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA"), the Company is required to meet certain emission standards by October 2002. The Consent Decree provides, however, for the possibility that diesel engine manufacturers may not be able to meet these standards exactly on that date, and allows companies to continue selling non compliant engines if they pay non conformance penalties on those engines. However, EPA is currently in the process of setting new levels for these non conformance penalties. Our outlook assumes that complying with the Consent Decree will not materially impact our results. If, however, Caterpillar must pay non conformance penalties and EPA imposes penalty levels higher than anticipated, our profit could be negatively impacted. Projected cost savings or synergies from alliances with new partners could also be negatively impacted by a variety of factors. These factors could include, among other things, higher than expected wages, energy and or materials costs, and or higher than expected financing costs due to unforeseen changes in central bank interest rate policies. Cost savings could also be negatively impacted by unforeseen changes in tax, trade, Page 11 environmental, labor, safety, payroll or pension policies in any of the jurisdictions where the alliances conduct their operations. Results may be impacted positively or negatively by changes in the sales mix. Our outlook assumes a certain geographic mix of sales as well as a product mix of sales. The Company operates in a highly competitive environment and our outlook depends on a forecast of the Companys share of industry sales. A reduction in that share could result from pricing or product strategies pursued by competitors, unanticipated product or manufacturing difficulties, a failure to price the product competitively, or an unexpected buildup in competitors new machine or dealer owned rental fleets, leading to severe downward pressure on machine rental rates and or used equipment prices. The environment also remains very competitive from a pricing standpoint. Additional price discounting would result in lower than anticipated price realization. This discussion of uncertainties is by no means exhaustive but is designed to highlight important factors that may impact our outlook. Obvious factors such as general economic conditions throughout the world do not warrant further discussion but are noted to further emphasize the myriad of contingencies that may cause the Companys actual results to differ from those currently anticipated. Item 7a. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. Information required by Item 7a is incorporated by reference from the following Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes 1 I and 2 on pages A 9 through A 11 of the Appendix and Notes 16 and 17 on pages A 18 through A 19 of the Appendix and from "Sensitivity" on page A 31 of the Appendix. 
 
