Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Information required by Item 7 is incorporated by reference from pages A 33 to A 54 of the Appendix. SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT UNDER THE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 Certain statements contained in our Managements Discussion and Analysis are forward looking and involve uncertainties that could significantly impact results. The words "believes," "expects," "estimates," "anticipates," "will be", "should" and similar words or expressions identify forward looking statements made on behalf of Caterpillar. Uncertainties include factors that affect international businesses, as well as matters specific to the company and the markets it serves. World Economic Factors A worldwide economic recovery is now underway and further strengthening should occur this year. Economic growth is expected to exceed 3.5 percent in 2004, or about 1 percentage point more than in 2003. Low interest rates initiated economic recoveries and low inflation rates likely will encourage central bankers to be cautious about implementing any interest rate hikes. If, however, central bankers decide to raise interest rates significantly, the recovery would be less robust than assumed, likely weakening machinery and engine sales. Page 16 The U.S. economy ended 2003 on a strong note and the continuation of low interest rates in 2004 should ensure a very good year for the economy. We project U.S. growth of at least 4.5 percent and the Canadian economy should rebound from 2003s slowdown, growing more than 3 percent in 2004. This environment should allow the recovery in Machinery and Engines sales that developed last year to strengthen further this year. Low interest rates, the tax cuts and the favorable impact of a weaker dollar have all helped the economy and our sales. Should any of these factors change substantially, such as a significant increase in interest rates, both economic growth and our sales probably would be weaker than assumed. European economies recovered slowly in the last half of 2003 and current low interest rates should allow further strengthening this year. We expect the European economies will grow 2 percent in 2004, fast enough to allow some improvement in construction activity. Favorable energy prices, plus much higher commodity prices, will promote another year of good economic growth in both Africa/Middle East and the CIS. As a result, we project some improvement in EAME sales in 2004. However, the European recovery is fragile and developments such as a much stronger euro or modest interest rate hikes could cause economic growth to falter. In that case, the modest recovery in sales would be in jeopardy. The Japanese economy has grown for seven consecutive quarters and our outlook assumes that measures employed by the Bank of Japan zero interest rates, the maintenance of high levels of reserves in the banking system and the purchase of long term government bonds will allow this recovery to strengthen. We project economic growth of 3 percent in 2004, up more than 1/2 percentage point from 2003 and the best year since 1996. The economy remains vulnerable to any tightening in financial conditions and should that occur, the recovery could stall. Slower economic growth would further reduce our sales in that country and could have a negative impact on other economies, particularly those in the region. Our outlook assumes that the Asia/Pacific region will again lead the world in economic growth, improving to over 6 percent growth in 2004. We expect Chinas booming economy will slow a bit in response to modest tightening in economic policies, but better growth in most other countries will more than pick up the slack. Strong domestic economies and low local interest rates will boost construction and the regions sizeable mining sector will benefit from higher prices. The principal risks that could disrupt economic growth and our sales are significant policy tightening in China and intensified trade frictions that slow exports from the region. We expect Latin American economic growth to improve to about 3.5 percent in 2004, much better than the 1.5 percent rate experienced in 2003. We expect that the region will benefit from the worldwide economic recovery, reductions in local interest rates and a rebound in foreign direct investment inflows. Better economic growth should boost our sales; however, should the economic recovery not materialize as expected, our sales could continue to decline. Commodity Prices Commodities represent a significant sales opportunity, with prices and production as key drivers. Prices have improved sharply over production the past year and our outlook assumes continued growth in the world economy will cause metals prices to increase further in 2004. Any unexpected weakening in world industrial production, however, could cause prices to drop sharply to the detriment of our results. While coals stocks are high and prices have been soft, our outlook assumes production and prices will improve in 2004. If coal production and prices do not improve, our results could be negatively affected. Oil and natural gas prices have continued fairly high into 2004 due to strong demand and tight inventories. Our outlook assumes that increased production will ease shortages in both oil and natural gas, allowing prices to ease some. We do not yet view higher energy prices as a threat to economies since it is strong demand that is boosting prices. However, should significant supply cuts occur, such as from OPEC production cuts or political unrest in a major producing country, the resulting price spikes likely would slow economies, potentially with a depressing impact on our sales. Page 17 Monetary and Fiscal Policies For most companies operating in a global economy, monetary and fiscal policies implemented in the U.S. and abroad could have a significant impact on economic growth, and accordingly, demand for a product. In general, higher than expected interest rates, reductions in government spending, higher taxes, significant currency devaluations, and uncertainty over key policies are some factors likely to lead to slower economic growth and lower industry demand. While economic data are looking more favorable, central banks in most developed countries are still holding interest rates steady. Two (Reserve Bank of Australia and Bank of England) have implemented modest interest rate increases. Our outlook assumes that central banks will take great care to ensure that economic recoveries continue and that interest rates will remain low throughout 2004. Should central banks raise interest rates too aggressively, both economic growth and our sales could suffer. Budget deficits in many countries have increased, which has limited the ability of governments to boost economies with tax cuts and more spending. Our outlook assumes that governments will not aggressively raise taxes and slash spending to deal with their budget imbalances. Such actions could disrupt growth and negatively affect sales to public construction. Political Factors Political factors in the United States and abroad have a major impact on global companies. Our outlook assumes that there will be no significant military conflict in North Korea or the Middle East in the forecast period. Such a military conflict could severely disrupt sales into countries affected, as well as nearby countries. Our outlook also assumes that there will be no major terrorist attacks. If there is a major terrorist attack, confidence could be undermined, causing a sharp drop in economic activities and our sales. Attacks in major developed economies would be the most disruptive. Our outlook further assumes that efforts by countries to increase their exports will not result in retaliatory countermeasures by other countries to block such exports, particularly in the Asia/Pacific region. Currency Fluctuations The company has costs and revenues in many currencies and is therefore exposed to risks arising from currency fluctuations. Many currency positions are fairly closely balanced, which, along with the diversity of currency positions, helps diminish exchange rate risks. The companys largest manufacturing presence is in the United States. So any unexpected strengthening of the dollar tends to raise the foreign currency value of costs and reduce our global competitiveness. The stronger euro had a favorable impact on translating European sales into U. S. dollars for the full year. The outlook assumes similar benefits in the future. Should the euro collapse, our results could be negatively impacted. Dealer Practices The company sells primarily through an independent dealer network. Dealers carry inventories of both new and rental equipment and adjust those inventories based on their assessments of future needs. Such adjustments can impact our results either positively or negatively. The current outlook assumes dealers will reduce inventories slightly in 2004; more drastic reductions would adversely affect sales. Other Factors The rate of infrastructure spending, housing starts, commercial construction and mining play a significant role in the companys results. Our products are an integral component of these activities and as these activities increase or decrease in the United States or abroad, demand for our products may be significantly impacted. The U.S. government is under pressure by the World Trade Organization to repeal extraterritorial (ETI) income tax benefits. Our outlook assumes that if ETI is repealed, we will not be materially impacted in 2004 due to the transition relief currently included in all bills under consideration by Congress. Page 18 Pursuant to a Consent Decree Caterpillar entered into with the EPA, the company was required to meet certain emission standards by October 2002. The Consent Decree provided for the possibility that diesel engine manufacturers may not be able to meet these standards exactly on that date, and allows companies to continue selling non compliant engines if they pay NCPs on those engines. The company began shipping lower emission on highway engines in October 2002 as a "bridge" until the fully compliant ACERT engines were introduced in 2003. These "bridge" engines required the payment of NCPs. At year end 2003, Caterpillar was in production of all models of its medium heavy duty and heavy duty compliant ACERT engines. Therefore, our outlook for 2004 assumes that we will not pay NCPs beyond 2003. Our outlook is also subject to assumptions regarding price increases and sales volumes. Our net price increase for heavy duty on highway bridge engines was successfully implemented on October 1, 2002; this increase was competitive with price increases implemented by other engine manufacturers on that date. We implemented an additional price increase in 2003 to truck manufacturers that purchase our heavy duty ACERT engines and implemented a price increase on January 1, 2004, for medium heavy duty ACERT engines. These increases are based on the additional value that we expect truck owners to receive from ACERT engines compared to our competitors as a result of better fuel economy, less maintenance and greater durability. The ultimate net price increase we are able to achieve for our ACERT engines is dependent upon marketplace acceptance of these engines versus competitive alternatives. While we estimate volume to the best of our ability, industry volume is an issue out of our control. If our assumptions regarding NCPs, market acceptance of the price increases and or engine volume are not realized, company performance could be negatively impacted. Projected cost savings or synergies from alliances with new partners could also be negatively impacted by a variety of factors. These factors could include, among other things, higher than expected wages, energy and or material costs, and or higher than expected financing costs due to unforeseen changes in tax, trade, environmental, labor, safety, payroll or pension policies in any of the jurisdictions where the alliances conduct their operations. Results may be impacted positively or negatively by changes in the sales mix. Our outlook assumes a certain geographic mix of sales as well as a product mix of sales. If actual results vary from this projected geographic and product mix of sales, our results could be negatively impacted. The company operates in a highly competitive environment and our outlook depends on a forecast of the companys share of industry sales. An unexpected reduction in that share could result from pricing or product strategies pursued by competitors, unanticipated product or manufacturing difficulties, a failure to price the product competitively, or an unexpected buildup in competitors new machine or dealer owned rental fleets, leading to severe downward pressure on machine rental rates and or used equipment prices. The environment also remains very competitive from a pricing standpoint. Additional price discounting would result in lower than anticipated price realization. Inherent in the operation of the Financial Products Division is the credit risk associated with its customers. The creditworthiness of each customer, and the rate of delinquencies, repossessions and net losses on customer obligations are directly impacted by several factors, including, but not limited to, relevant industry and economic conditions, the availability of capital, the experience and expertise of the customers management team, commodity prices, political events, and the sustained value of the underlying collateral. Additionally, interest rate movements create a degree of risk to our operations by affecting the amount of our interest payments and the value of our fixed rate debt. Our match funding policy manages interest rate risk by matching the interest rate profile (fixed rate or floating rate) of our debt portfolio with the interest rate profile of our receivables portfolio within certain parameters. To achieve our match funding objectives, we issue debt with similar interest rate profile to our receivables and also use interest rate swap agreements to manage our interest rate risk exposure to interest rate changes and in some cases to lower our cost of borrowed funds. If interest rates move upward more sharply than anticipated, our financial results could be negatively impacted. With respect to our insurance and investment management operations, changes in the equity and bond markets could cause an impairment of the value of our investment portfolio, thus requiring a negative adjustment to earnings. Page 19 In general, our results are sensitive to changes in economic growth, particularly those originating in construction, mining and energy. Developments reducing such activities also tend to lower our sales. In addition to the factors mentioned above, our results could be negatively impacted by any of the following: Any sudden drop in consumer or business confidence Delays in legislation needed to fund public construction Regulatory or legislative changes that slow activity in key industries; and or Unexpected collapses in stock markets. This discussion of uncertainties is by no means exhaustive but is designed to highlight important factors that may impact our outlook. Obvious factors such as general economic conditions throughout the world do not warrant further discussion, but are noted to further emphasize the myriad of contingencies that may cause the companys actual results to differ from those currently anticipated. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. Information required by Item 7A appears in Note 1 under "Impairment of available for sale securities" on pages A 9 and A 10, Note 2 on pages A 11 and A 12, Note 17 on page A 22 and Note 18 on pages A 22 and A 23 of the Appendix. Other information required by Item 7A is incorporated by reference from page A 50 of the Appendix under "Sensitivity." 
 
