FILE:FLIR/FLIR-8K-20041110165548.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
FLIR Systems, Inc. (the "Company") has entered into a Purchase and Sale Agreement with Mentor Graphics Corporation ("Seller") dated November 5, 2004, to purchase a 99,168 square foot office building and related land located in Wilsonville, Oregon. The purchase price for the property is $10,250,000, payable in cash at closing, which is scheduled to occur January 3, 2005.
 
The agreement contains customary representations of both parties and is subject to customary contingencies, including Seller's completion of a partitioning of the property from the remainder of its office campus. The partitioning requires the creation of utility and access easements to serve the subject property, and is expected to be completed on or before the scheduled closing date.
 
A portion of the subject property is subject to a lease to In Focus Corporation, which expires on December 31, 2004. The Company has the right to negotiate a lease renewal prior to closing.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized on November 10, 2004.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
THIS PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT ("") is made and entered into as of this November 5, 2004, by and between MENTOR GRAPHICS CORPORATION, an Oregon corporation, whose address is 8005 SW Boeckman Road, Wilsonville, Oregon 97070 (""), and FLIR SYSTEMS, INC., an Oregon corporation, whose address is 16505 SW 72
Agreement
Seller
nd
Avenue, Portland, Oregon 97224 ("").
Buyer
 
For valuable consideration, including the covenants, terms and conditions set forth below, Seller and Buyer have agreed as follows:
 
1. . Seller agrees to sell to Buyer, and Buyer agrees to buy, the real property located at 27700 SW Parkway Avenue, in the City of Wilsonville, County of Clackamas, State of Oregon, and more particularly described on attached hereto, including any and all improvements located thereon, all easements, and all other rights of every nature appurtenant to such real property owned by Seller (collectively, the "").
Sale and Purchase of Property
Exhibit "A"
Property
 
2. . The purchase price for the Property and the Personal Property shall be the sum of Ten Million Two Hundred Fifty Thousand and No/100 Dollars ($10,250,000.00) (the ""). Upon full execution of this Agreement, Buyer shall deposit the fully executed Agreement and the amount of Two Hundred Fifty Thousand and No/100 Dollars ($250,000.00) as earnest money with the Title Company designated in Section 4 below (the ""). The date of such deposit shall be the "." After the Approval Date, as hereafter defined, the Title Company shall hold the cash non-refundable earnest money until Closing. The balance of the Purchase Price shall be paid in cash at Closing (as defined in Section 5.1 below).
Price; Earnest Money; Payment
Purchase Price
Earnest Money
Effective Date
 
3. . Within ten (10) days after the Effective Date, Seller shall provide Buyer with copies of the materials listed on , collectively the ""). Buyer shall have until December 15, 2004 (the "") to (i) review the Documents; (ii) review all governmental restrictions applicable to the Property (including zoning restrictions); (iii) at reasonable times after reasonable prior written notice to Seller (and after prior notice to the tenant of the Property if required by the tenant's Lease), inspect the structural, roof, mechanical and electrical components of the Property and have a qualified environmental consultant inspect the Property and report as to the condition thereof; (iv) obtain financing in amounts and terms which are satisfactory to Buyer; and (v) determine that the Property is otherwise satisfactory to Buyer. Buyer hereby indemnifies, protects, holds harmless and defends Seller from all liens, costs, judgments, damages and expenses, including reasonable attorneys' fees and experts' fees, arising from or relating to Buyer's entry and inspection of the Property. The time between the Effective Date and the Approval Date shall be referred to herein as the "Approval Period." Entry and inspection of the Property by Buyer, employees, contractors, agents and persons whom Buyer has otherwise authorized to enter and/or inspect the Property shall be deemed entry and inspection of the Property by Buyer for purposes of this Section 3. This agreement to indemnify, hold harmless and defend Seller shall survive Closing or any termination of this Agreement. Buyer shall obtain, or cause its consultants or agents who enter upon and inspect the Property to obtain, public liability insurance policies with
Buyer's Inspection and Approval Rights
Exhibit "B"
Documents
Approval Date
an insurer and in an amount reasonably satisfactory to Seller insuring against claims arising from or relating to Buyer's entry and inspection of the Property. Buyer shall deliver to Seller insurance certificates (on ACORD Form 25) naming Seller as an additional insured and reflecting the coverage required in this Section 3. Buyer shall conduct all its required Property inspections in a manner that is not disruptive to the tenants or the operation of the Property.
 
During the Approval Period, Seller shall make all of its records pertaining to the ownership and operation of the Property reasonably available to Buyer for its review and inspection. If Buyer is not satisfied, in its sole discretion, with the results of its inspections and determinations, Buyer may terminate this Agreement by written notice to Seller given at any time on or before the Approval Date, and in such event the Earnest Money shall then be returned to Buyer and neither party shall have any further obligation to the other, except as may be otherwise expressly provided hereunder. If Buyer fails to give such notice of termination, all of the conditions set forth in this Section 3 shall be deemed to have been waived by Buyer. Copies of any reports commissioned by Buyer shall be delivered to Seller.
 
4. . Within ten (10) days after full execution of this Agreement, Seller shall furnish to Buyer at Seller's expense a preliminary title report issued by Chicago Title Insurance Company with an address of 888 SW Fifth Avenue, Suite 930, Portland, Oregon 97204 (the "") showing the condition of title to the Property (the ""). The Title Report shall include copies of all title exceptions. Buyer shall have ten (10) days from its receipt of the Title Report to review the Title Report and ten (10) days from receipt of the partition plat to review the partition plat and in each case send Seller written notice rejecting any items reflected in the Title Report or on the partition plat, as the case may be. If Buyer rejects any item, Seller shall have five (5) days thereafter to determine whether it is willing and able to remove the exceptions, and to deliver to Buyer an amended Title Report or other satisfactory written evidence of the removal of such exception from the Title Report or agree to have any item on the partition plat removed. Those exceptions approved by Buyer and all Leases in respect to which Estoppel Certificates consistent with Section 5.2 have been issued are hereinafter referred to as the "." If Seller fails within that period to remove or agree to remove any exception to which Buyer has objected, Buyer may terminate this Agreement by written notice to Seller, and the Earnest Money shall then be returned to Buyer. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Seller shall be obligated to satisfy, on or before the Closing Date (as defined in Section 5.1 below), any exception created, or suffered to be created by Seller that is security for payment of a sum of money (including mortgages, trust deeds, contractor's liens and judgment liens).
Preliminary Title Report
Title Company
Title Report
Permitted Exceptions
 
5. .
Closing
 
5.1 . The Closing of the transaction provided for in this Agreement shall take place in escrow at the Title Company's office in Portland, Oregon on or before January 3, 2005 (the "" or "").
Time and Place of Closing
Closing
Closing Date
 
5.2 . The Property shall be conveyed at Closing by special warranty deed (the ""), free and clear of all liens, encumbrances, restrictions and reservations other than the Permitted Exceptions. In addition, Seller shall deliver to Buyer at Closing (i) assignment of lease(s) assigning to Buyer all of Seller's rights, title and interest in the
Seller's Documents
Deed
 
Leases, (ii) estoppel certificates in the form attached hereto duly executed by the tenants confirming that the Leases are in full force and effect and there exist no events of default thereunder, (iii) a warranty bill of sale conveying the personal property described on attached hereto (the "Personal Property"), and (iv) a certification that Seller is not a "foreign person" under the Internal Revenue Code.
Exhibit "C"
 
5.3 . In addition to the conditions to Closing described above, the obligations of Buyer hereunder shall be subject to the fulfillment of the following conditions on or prior to the Closing Date, each of which shall be continuous conditions until Closing unless waived by Buyer:
Conditions of Closing
 
 
 
 
 
 
If the conditions set forth in this Section 5.3 have not been met or waived in writing by Buyer at or before the Closing Date, the Earnest Money shall then be returned to Buyer and neither party shall have any further obligation to the other, except as may be otherwise expressly provided hereunder.
 
6. . At Closing, Seller shall furnish to Buyer, at Seller's Expense, an ALTA standard coverage owner's policy of title insurance, in the full amount of the Purchase Price, less any amounts allocated to non-fixture personal property (the ""). The Title Policy shall contain only the usual preprinted exceptions and the Permitted Exceptions. Buyer shall be responsible for the costs of any endorsements to the Title Policy required by Buyer.
Title Policy
Title Policy
 
7. . Buyer and Seller shall each pay one-half of the escrow fee, and any transfer, excise or documentary stamp taxes. Seller shall pay the cost of recording the Deed and the cost of the Title Policy required to be delivered by Seller. Buyer shall pay the cost of recording any financing instruments. Each party shall bear its own attorney fees, if any.
Expenses
 
8. . Buyer shall be entitled to exclusive possession of the Property immediately upon Closing, subject to tenancies existing on the Closing Date.
Possession
 
9. . All real property taxes, insurance, rents and other usual items shall be prorated as of the Closing Date. Prior to Closing, Buyer and Seller shall prepare and agree on a closing statement which will list all prorations provided for under this Section.
Prorations
 
10. . Seller shall maintain the Property in the same condition and repair as exists prior to the Effective Date. After the Approval Date, Seller shall not, without the prior written consent of Buyer, make any change or modification in any zoning, use or any similar right with respect to the Property or create any new lease, restriction, encumbrance, lien or assessment thereon, or terminate or modify any existing Leases.
Maintenance Prior to Closing
 
11. . Seller represents and warrants to Buyer as follows:
Seller's Representations and Warranties
 
11.1 . Seller is a corporation authorized to do business in Oregon. Seller has full power to execute, deliver and carry out the terms and provisions of this Agreement and each of the other agreements, instruments and documents herein required to be made or delivered by Seller pursuant hereto, and have taken all necessary action to authorize the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and such other agreements, instruments and documents. The individuals executing this Agreement and all other agreements, instruments and documents herein required to be made or delivered by Seller pursuant hereto on behalf of Seller are and shall be duly authorized to sign the same on Seller's behalf and to bind Seller thereto.
Authority
 
11.2 . This Agreement has been, and each and all of the other agreements, instruments and documents herein required to be made by Seller pursuant hereto have been, or on the Closing Date will have been, executed by Seller or on behalf of Seller, and when so executed, are and shall be legal, valid, and binding obligations of Seller enforceable against Seller in accordance with their respective terms, subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, and other similar laws affecting the rights of creditors generally and, as to enforceability, the general principles of equity (regardless of whether enforcement is sought in a proceeding in equity or at law).
Enforceability
 
11.3 . To Seller's knowledge, the execution and delivery of, and consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement is not prohibited by, and will not conflict with, constitute grounds for termination of, or result in the breach of any of the agreements or instruments to which Seller is now party or by which it is bound, or to Seller's knowledge, any order, rule or regulation of any court or other governmental agency or official.
No Conflict
 
11.4 . Seller has received no written notice from any governmental agency of any violation of any statute, law, ordinance, rule or regulation with respect to the Property.
No Governmental Notice
 
11.5 . To Seller's knowledge, there is no pending or threatened litigation, condemnation proceeding, arbitration, administrative proceeding, annexation proceeding or claims by third parties affecting the Property, and to Seller's knowledge, there are no governmental assessments not disclosed herein or not disclosed in the Title Report or any agreements to convey any portion of the Property, or any rights thereto, to any party other than Buyer, including, without limitation, any government or governmental agency.
No Litigation
 
11.6 . Seller is not a "foreign person" as that term is defined in Section 1445 of the Internal Revenue Code. At Closing, Seller will execute and deliver a certification of non-foreign status on a form required by the Internal Revenue Service.
Non-Foreign Status
 
11.7 . To Seller's knowledge, Seller has not received written notice from any governmental agency that the Property or the building is in violation of any state or federal law or regulation regarding Hazardous Substances. Except as disclosed in the environmental reports listed on and any other environmental reports referred to therein, Seller has no knowledge of the presence of substances on the Property or in the building which Seller has knowledge are classified as Hazardous Substances under state or federal laws and regulations. Many materials contain asbestos and Seller has made no investigation as to whether any materials of which the building is constructed may contain asbestos.
Hazardous Substances
Exhibit "B"
 
All of the representations, warranties and covenants of the Seller contained in this Agreement (i) shall be true and correct as of the date of this Agreement and as of the Closing Date, and (ii) such representations and warranties and covenants shall not be merged into those documents delivered by Seller at Closing.
 
12. . Buyer represents and warrants to Seller as follows:
Buyer's Representations and Warranties
 
12.1 . Buyer is a corporation authorized to do business in Oregon. Buyer and Buyer's assignees have full power to execute, deliver and carry out the terms and provisions of this Agreement and each of the other agreements, instruments and documents herein required to be made or delivered by Buyer pursuant hereto, and have taken all necessary action to authorize the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and such other agreements, instruments and documents. The individuals executing this Agreement and all other agreements, instruments and documents herein required to be made or delivered by Buyer pursuant hereto on behalf of Buyer are and shall be duly authorized to sign the same on Buyer's behalf and to bind Buyer thereto.
Due Authorization
 
12.2 . This Agreement has been, and each and all of the other agreements, instruments and documents herein required to be made by Buyer pursuant hereto have been, or on the Closing Date will have been, executed by Buyer or on behalf of Buyer, and when so executed, are and shall be legal, valid, and binding obligations of Buyer enforceable against Buyer in accordance with their respective terms, subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, and other similar laws affecting the rights of creditors generally and, as to enforceability, the general principles of equity (regardless of whether enforcement is sought in a proceeding in equity or at law).
Enforceability
 
12.3 . To Buyer's knowledge, the execution and delivery of, and consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement is not prohibited by, and will not conflict with, constitute grounds for termination of, or result in the breach of any of the agreements or instruments to which Buyer is now party or by which it is bound, or to Buyer's knowledge, any order, rule or regulation of any court or other governmental agency or official.
No Conflict
 
12.4 . Buyer shall own and operate the Property after Closing in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations.
Operation of Property
 
13. . Except as is otherwise provided in this Agreement, the sale of the Property and the Personal Property as provided for herein is made on a strictly "AS-IS" "WHERE-IS" basis as of the Closing Date. Buyer expressly acknowledges that, in consideration of the agreements of Seller herein, SELLER MAKES NO WARRANTY OR REPRESENTATION, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, OR ARISING BY OPERATION OF LAW, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTY OF QUANTITY, QUALITY, CONDITION, HABITABILITY, MERCHANTABILITY, SUITABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OF THE PROPERTY, ANY IMPROVEMENTS LOCATED THEREON OR ANY SOIL CONDITIONS RELATED THERETO.
AS-IS
 
14. . If, prior to Closing, all or any portion of the Property is damaged by fire or other natural casualty (collectively "Damage"), or is taken or made subject to condemnation, eminent domain or other governmental acquisition proceedings (collectively ""), then:
Destruction, Loss or Diminution of Property
Eminent Domain
 
 
 
 
15. . If the conditions, if any, to Buyer's obligation to close this transaction are satisfied or waived by Buyer and Buyer nonetheless fails, through no fault of the Seller, to close the purchase of the Property on or before the Closing Date, Buyer shall forfeit the Earnest Money to Seller as liquidated damages as Seller's sole remedy, and this Agreement shall thereupon be null and void. If Seller fails to close the sale of the Property on or before the Closing Date, through no fault of Buyer, Buyer may elect to either (a) terminate the Agreement and the Earnest Money shall be returned to Buyer, or (b) seek specific performance. BUYER AND SELLER ACKNOWLEDGE AND AGREE THAT (1) THE AMOUNT OF THE EARNEST MONEY IS A REASONABLE ESTIMATE OF AND BEARS A REASONABLE RELATIONSHIP TO THE DAMAGES THAT WOULD BE SUFFERED AND COSTS INCURRED BY SELLER AS A RESULT OF HAVING WITHDRAWN THE PROPERTY FROM SALE AND THE FAILURE OF CLOSING TO HAVE OCCURRED DUE TO A DEFAULT OF BUYER UNDER THIS AGREEMENT; (2) THE ACTUAL DAMAGES SUFFERED AND COSTS INCURRED BY SELLER AS A RESULT OF SUCH WITHDRAWAL AND FAILURE TO CLOSE DUE TO A DEFAULT OF BUYER UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WOULD BE EXTREMELY DIFFICULT AND IMPRACTICAL TO DETERMINE; (3) BUYER SEEKS TO LIMIT ITS LIABILITY UNDER THIS AGREEMENT TO THE AMOUNT OF THE EARNEST MONEY IN THE EVENT THIS AGREEMENT IS TERMINATED AND THE TRANSACTION CONTEMPLATED BY THIS AGREEMENT DOES NOT CLOSE DUE TO A DEFAULT OF BUYER UNDER THIS AGREEMENT; AND (4) THE AMOUNT OF THE EARNEST MONEY SHALL BE AND CONSTITUTE VALID LIQUIDATED DAMAGES.
Defaults Remedies
 
16. . TIME IS OF THE ESSENCE OF THIS AGREEMENT AND EACH PROVISION HEREOF. If any date for performance or delivery should be on a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday in Oregon, compliance shall be deemed acceptable on the next business day.
Time of the Essence
 
17. . Buyer shall not have the right to assign its right to purchase the Property under this Agreement without Seller's prior written consent, which may be withheld in Seller's unfettered discretion.
Assignment
 
18. . In the event of any action to enforce or interpret this Agreement, or for any reason on account of any breach of this Agreement, the prevailing party in such action shall be entitled to recover from the other party its costs, disbursements and reasonable attorney fees as determined to any the court in such action and in any appeal therefrom.
Attorney Fees
 
19. . All notices and communications in connection with this Agreement shall be given in writing and shall be transmitted by facsimile (with receipt to follow by first class mail), by reputable overnight courier, to the appropriate party at its address set forth at the outset of this Agreement. Any notice so transmitted shall be deemed effective on the date of delivery of a facsimile or the day following deposit by overnight courier. Either party may, by written notice, designate a different address for purposes of this Agreement.
Notice
 
20. . The parties agree to execute and deliver such additional documents, and perform such additional acts, as may be reasonably required to carry out the transaction provided for in this Agreement.
Further Acts
 
21. . At the close of escrow, Seller shall pay from funds accruing to Seller through escrow a brokerage commission owed to the brokerage firm of CRESA Partners ("") pursuant to a separate brokerage agreement. Buyer and Seller represent to each other that no other broker or finder has been engaged by Seller or Buyer in connection with any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. Buyer and Seller each hereby indemnify, protect and defend and hold the other harmless from and against all losses, claims, costs, expenses and damages (including, without limitation, reasonable attorney's fees) resulting from the claims of any broker, finder or other such party, other than Broker, claiming by, through or under the acts or agreements of the indemnifying party. The obligations pursuant to this Section 21 shall survive any termination of this Agreement.
Broker
Broker
 
22. . Whenever the term knowledge of Seller is used in this Agreement, it shall mean within the present conscious awareness of Larry Gardner without any duty to investigate or review his files or any files of Seller.
Knowledge
 
23. . Either party may wish to complete an IRC Section 1031 Exchange in respect to the Property. The parties shall cooperate in such exchange and shall execute all documents reasonably required by the other or its accommodator to effect such exchange. All expenses of drafting exchange documents and other expenses incident to the exchange shall be paid by the party completing the exchange; provided, however, neither shall charge the other for execution or review of the exchange documents.
IRC Section 1031 Exchange
 
24. . Each party agrees to maintain in confidence, the information contained in this Agreement or pertaining to the sale contemplated hereby and the information and data furnished or made available by Seller to Buyer, its agents and representatives in connection with Buyer's investigation of the Property and the transactions contemplated by the Agreement; provided, however, that each party, its agents and representatives may disclose such information and data (a) to such party's accountants, attorneys, prospective lenders, investment bankers, underwriters, ratings agencies, partners, consultants and other advisors in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement (collectively, "") to the extent that such Representatives reasonably need to know such information and data in order to assist, and perform services on behalf of, Seller or Buyer; (b) to the extent required by any applicable statute, law, regulation or governmental authority; and (c) in connection with any litigation that may arise between the parties in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
Confidentiality
Representatives
 
25. . A portion of the Property is currently leased to In Focus. This lease expires on December 31, 2004. Seller is currently negotiating with In Focus to renew the lease. Until this Agreement is closed or terminated, Buyer shall have the right and authority to negotiate with In Focus for renewal of the lease. Buyer shall keep Seller informed of the proposed terms of the lease renewal with In Focus. Prior to Closing and prior to executing such lease renewal, Buyer shall give Seller ten (10) days to review the lease proposal and approve the terms. If Seller does not approve the lease renewal, Buyer may terminate this Agreement and the earnest money shall be refunded to Buyer, or Buyer may elect to continue to negotiate a lease acceptable to Seller. Seller may not unreasonably withhold its approval to any lease renewal with In Focus.
Existing Lease
 
26. . Except with respect to breach of the representations of Seller in Section 11, Buyer hereby expressly waives, releases and relinquishes any and all claims, causes of action, rights and remedies Buyer may now or hereafter have against Seller or its Representatives, whether known or unknown, with respect to any past, present or future presence or existence of hazardous materials on, under or about the Property, and with respect to any past, present or future violations of any rules, regulations or laws, now or hereafter enacted, regulating or governing the use, handling, storage, release or disposal of hazardous materials. The release by Buyer contained herein shall survive the Close of Escrow and the recordation of the Deed and shall not be deemed merged into the Deed upon its recordation.
Buyer's Release of Seller
 
27. . At or before the Closing Date, Buyer shall execute an instrument in recordable form granting the right of first refusal in the Seller to repurchase the Property from the Buyer in the event the Buyer ever decides to sell the Property to an unrelated third party. The right of first refusal provisions, among other things, will provide for sixty (60) days' notice to Seller of Buyer's intent to sell the Property. Such notice shall include a form of Purchase and Sale Agreement. Seller shall have the right during this sixty (60) day period to accept the terms and provisions of the Purchase and Sale Agreement. In the event Seller does not do so, Buyer shall be permitted to sell the property on the terms and provisions set forth in the Purchase and Sale Agreement for the next 180 days without reoffering to the Seller. In the event any offer is made on material terms different than as set forth in the Purchaser and Sale Agreement, Buyer shall reoffer the Property to the Seller at the new terms and the same process shall be followed with respect to that offer as for the original offer.
Right of First Refusal
 
28. . Agreements which grant the easements described in Sections 28.1 and 28.2 shall be negotiated during the Approval Period. If, during the Approval Period, agreement is not reached to Buyer's satisfaction, Buyer may terminate this Agreement.
Easements/Abandoning Communication Conduits
 
28.1 . At Closing, Seller and Buyer shall execute a storm water easement granting Buyer the right to transmit storm water collecting on the Property across storm sewer lines presently located on the Property and extending on to other real property owned by Seller, draining into a storm water collection pond on such other real property. This easement agreement shall obligate Buyer to exercise due care in the operation of such storm drainage system and indemnify, defend and hold Seller harmless from damage to Seller's real property, its drainage system and pond and from any claims, demands, suits or actions arising from Buyer's use of the drainage system, including, without limitation, any environmental contamination of any property from hazardous materials emanated or released on the Property.
Storm Water
 
28.2 . Driveways over Seller's other real property provides access to certain portions of the Property. During the Approval Period, the parties shall negotiate any access easements which are deemed by them to be reasonably necessary, and such easements shall be executed at Closing.
Roadway Access Easements
 
28.3 . There are currently several communication conduits between the building on the Property and the buildings on other real property owned by Seller. Seller shall pull wiring from the conduits, and the outlet at the building on the Property and the outlet on other buildings owned by Seller shall be plugged.
Communication Conduits
 
29. . This written Agreement sets forth the entire understanding of the parties with respect to the purchase and sale of the Property. This Agreement supersedes any and all prior negotiations, discussions, agreements and understandings between the parties. This Agreement may not be modified or amended except by a written agreement executed by both parties.
Entire Agreement
 
30. . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Oregon.
Governing Law
 
31. . The provisions hereof shall be deemed independent and severable, and the invalidity or partial invalidity or enforceability of any one provision shall not affect the validity of enforceability of any other provision hereof.
Partial Invalidity
 
32. . Neither this Agreement nor any memorandum thereof shall be recorded and the act of recording by Buyer shall be deemed a default by Buyer hereunder.
No Recording
 
33. . This Agreement may be executed in multiple counterparts and shall be valid and binding with the same force and effect as if all parties had executed the same Agreement.
Counterparts
 
34. . In construing this Agreement, all headings and titles are for the convenience of the parties only and shall not be considered a part of this Agreement. Whenever required by the context, the singular shall include the plural and the masculine shall include the feminine and vice versa. This Agreement shall not be construed as if prepared by one of the parties, but rather according to its fair meaning as a whole, as if both parties had prepared it. All Exhibits attached hereto are incorporated in this Agreement by reference thereto.
Construction of Agreement
 
35. . This Agreement may not be changed or amended orally, but only by an agreement in writing. No waiver shall be effective hereunder unless given in writing, and waiver shall not be inferred from any conduct of either party.
No Oral Modification or Waiver
 
36. . The provisions of Sections 11, 12, 13, 18, 20, 21, 22, 24, 26 and 27 shall survive the Closing.
Survival
 
37. . This Agreement shall be binding on and shall inure to the benefit of the permitted successors and assigns of the parties to it.
Binding Effect
 
THE PROPERTY DESCRIBED IN THIS INSTRUMENT MAY NOT BE WITHIN A FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT PROTECTING STRUCTURES. THE PROPERTY IS SUBJECT TO LAND USE LAWS AND REGULATIONS, WHICH, IN FARM OR FOREST ZONES, MAY NOT AUTHORIZE CONSTRUCTION OR SITING OF A RESIDENCE AND WHICH LIMIT LAWSUITS AGAINST FARMING OR FOREST PRACTICES AS DEFINED IN ORS 30.930 IN ALL ZONES. BEFORE SIGNING OR ACCEPTING THIS INSTRUMENT, THE PERSON ACQUIRING FEE TITLE TO THE PROPERTY SHOULD CHECK WITH THE APPROPRIATE CITY OR COUNTY PLANNING DEPARTMENT TO VERIFY APPROVED USES AND EXISTENCE OF FIRE PROTECTION FOR STRUCTURES.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Aproximate quantities
The following is confirmation of inventory in Bldg. F:
 
 


