FILE:FLIR/FLIR-8K-20050210172911.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. ENTRY INTO MATERIAL DEFINITIVE AGREEMENT
 
On February 4, 2005, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of FLIR Systems, Inc. (the "Company") approved the following actions with regard to the compensation of executive officers of the Company:
 
. The Compensation Committee approved annual cash bonus awards earned during 2004 and paid in 2005 for the Company's executive officers as follows:
Annual Incentive Compensation
 
 
. The Compensation Committee granted the Company's executive officers options to purchase the Company's common stock as follows:
Stock Option Grants
 
 
All of the option grants described above were made pursuant to the Company's 2002 Stock Incentive Plan, which has been approved by the Company's shareholders. All of the options were granted at an exercise price of $36.11, a 15 percent premium to the closing price of the common stock on the date of grant. All of the options have a term of ten years and were fully vested on the date of grant. The options were granted pursuant to the FLIR Systems, Inc. 2002 Stock Incentive Plan Stock Option Agreement, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized on February 10, 2005.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
Granted to:
Grant Date:
Number of Shares:
Option Price per Share:
 
This Stock Option Agreement is made between FLIR Systems, Inc., an Oregon corporation ("FLIR Systems") and you, an associate of FLIR Systems, Inc. or one of its Subsidiaries ("Employee").
 
FLIR Systems sponsors the 2002 Incentive Stock Option Plan (the "Plan"). A copy of the Plan can be found on the FLIR intranet or may be obtained by contacting FLIR Systems Human Resources. The terms and provisions of the Plan are incorporated herein by reference. When used herein, the terms which are defined in the Plan shall have the meanings given to them in the Plan, as modified herein (if applicable).
 
The failure by the Employee to execute this Stock Option Agreement within 120 days of the Grant Date may result in the cancellation of this Grant.
 
In recognition of the value of your contribution to FLIR Systems, you and FLIR Systems mutually covenant and agree as follows:
 
 
 
 
The unvested portion of these Options expire upon termination of your employment with FLIR Systems and its Subsidiaries.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement to be effective as of the Grant Date stated above.
 


