FILE:FLIR/FLIR-8K-20050504202344.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02
DEPARTURE OF DIRECTORS OR PRINCIPAL OFFICERS; ELECTION OF DIRECTORS; APPOINTMENT OF PRINCIPAL OFFICERS
 
On May 2, 2005, Ms. Tamara L. Adler was elected to the FLIR Systems, Inc. (the "Company") Board of Directors for a term expiring at the Company's 2006 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Ms. Adler has not yet been elected to serve on any committee of the Board of Directors. On May 4, 2005, the Company issued a press release announcing the election of Ms. Adler to the Board of Directors. The press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
 
Item 9.01
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
(c)    Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized on May 4, 2005.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
.  May 4, 2005  , announced today that Tamara L. Adler has been elected to the Board of Directors for a term expiring at the Company's 2006 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Adler has most recently been a Managing Director with JPMorgan Chase, one of the world's leading investment and commercial banks. Prior to joining JPMorgan Chase in 2001, Ms. Adler spent five years with Deutsche Bank, and served as Managing Director and Head of Deutsche Bank's European Securitization Group and a member of the bank's Global Market's Management Committee based in London. Ms. Adler also worked at Goldman, Sachs & Co. and was a partner with the law firm of Hogan & Hartson, LLC, in Washington, DC. Ms. Adler is a member of the Board of Directors of NetBank, Inc., Radian Financial Products Limited, the PEN/Faulkner Foundation and the e-Learning Foundation. She received her B.A. from Wellesley College and her J.D. from Northwestern University School of Law.
PORTLAND, Ore
FLIR Systems, Inc. (NASDAQ: "FLIR")
 
Adler joins FLIR's seven-member Board of Directors, which includes John D. Carter, principal at Imeson & Carter, a strategic planning consulting firm and retired senior executive at Bechtel Group, Inc.; Ronald L. Turner, Chairman, President and CEO of Ceridian Corporation (NYSE: "CEN"); Michael T. Smith, retired Chairman and CEO of Hughes Electronics Corporation; John C. Hart, retired Vice President of Finance, Chief Financial Officer and board member of Louisiana-Pacific Corporation; Steven E. Wynne, President and CEO of SBI International, Ltd., parent company of sports apparel and footwear company Fila; Angus Macdonald, President and founding member of Venture Technology Merchants, Inc., an advisory and merchant banking firm; and Earl R. Lewis, Chairman, President and CEO of FLIR Systems, Inc.
 
"We are very pleased to welcome Tamara to FLIR's Board of Directors; her deep financial background and business experience will further add to the Board's capabilities as it continues to lead this Company during a time of significant growth" said Earl Lewis, President and CEO of FLIR.
 
About FLIR Systems
 
FLIR Systems designs, manufactures and markets infrared imaging systems worldwide for a variety of applications. FLIR's imaging products are used in such diverse applications as public safety, defense, navigation, electronic newsgathering and search and rescue. Thermography products support such applications as condition monitoring, non-destructive testing, medical science, research and development, and manufacturing process control. For more information, please visit their Web site at .
www.flir.com
 
 
#3868
 


