FILE:FLIR/FLIR-8K-20071221122827.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 5.03.    Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
 
On December 18, 2007, the Board of Directors of FLIR Systems, Inc. (the "Company") approved amendments to Article VI of the Company's Second Restated Bylaws to permit the issuance of the Company's stock in uncertificated form in accordance with NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4350(1), which requires that securities listed on the NASDAQ Stock Market be eligible for a Direct Registration Program operated by a clearing agency registered under Section 17A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 on or after January 1, 2008. The foregoing description of the amendment to the Bylaws is qualified in its entirety by the actual terms of the First Amendment to Second Restated Bylaws, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
Item 9.01.    Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
d)        Exhibits.
                3.1        First Amendment to Second Restated Bylaws of FLIR Systems, Inc.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
The following sets forth an amendment to the Second Restated Bylaws of FLIR Systems, Inc., an Oregon corporation, which amendment was adopted and became effective as of December 18, 2007:
The Second Restated Bylaws of FLIR Systems, Inc. are hereby amended by replacing Article VI as follows:
6.1 .
Certificates for Shares
(a) Certificates representing shares of the corporation shall be in any form determined by the Board of Directors consistent with the Oregon Business Corporation Act and these Bylaws; provided that any shares of the corporation may be uncertificated, whether upon original issuance, reissuance or subsequent transfer. Shares represented by certificates shall be signed, either manually or in facsimile, by two officers of the corporation, at least one of whom shall be the President or a Vice President, and may be sealed with the seal of the corporation, if any, or a facsimile thereof. The signatures of officers upon a certificate may be facsimiles if the certificate is countersigned on behalf of a transfer agent or by a registrar other than the corporation itself or an employee of the corporation. All certificates for shares shall be consecutively numbered or otherwise identified. The name and mailing address of the person to whom the shares represented thereby are issued, with the number o f shares and date of issue, shall be entered on the stock transfer books of the corporation. Each shareholder shall have the duty to notify the corporation of his or her mailing address. Except as otherwise provided by law, the rights and obligations of the holders of uncertificated shares and the rights and obligations of certificated shares shall be identical.
(b) Every certificate for shares of stock that are subject to any restriction on transfer pursuant to the Articles of Incorporation, these Bylaws, applicable securities laws, agreements among or between shareholders, or any agreement to which the corporation is a party shall have conspicuously noted on the face or back of the certificate either (i) the full text of the restriction or (ii) a statement of the existence of such restriction and that the corporation retains a copy of the restriction. Every certificate issued when the corporation is authorized to issue more than one class or series of stock shall set forth on its face or back either (i) the full text of the designations, relative rights, preferences, and limitations of the shares of each class and series authorized to be issued and the authority of the Board of Directors to determine variations for future series or (ii) a statement of the existence of such designations, relative rights, preferences, and limit ations and a statement that the corporation will furnish a copy thereof to the holder of such certificate upon written request and without charge.
6.2 . A transfer of shares of the corporation shall be made only on the stock transfer books of the corporation by the holder of record thereof or by the holder's legal representative, who shall furnish proper evidence of authority to transfer, or by the holder's attorney thereunto authorized by power of attorney duly executed and filed with the Secretary of the corporation, or with its transfer agent, if any, and on surrender for cancellation of the certificate for such shares or upon proper instruction from the holder of uncertificated shares. All certificates surrendered to the corporation for transfer shall be canceled, and no new certificate shall be issued until the former certificate for a like number of shares shall have been surrendered and canceled, except that in case of a lost, destroyed, or mutilated certificate a new one may be issued therefor upon such terms and indemnity to the corporation as the Board of Directors prescribes. Upon receipt of proper t ransfer instructions from the holder of uncertificated shares, the corporation shall cancel such uncertificated shares and issue new equivalent uncertificated shares, or, upon such holder's request, certificated shares, to the person entitled thereto, and record the transaction upon its books. The person in whose name shares stand on the books of the corporation shall be deemed by the corporation to be the owner thereof for all purposes.
Transfer of Shares
6.3 . The Board of Directors may from time to time appoint one or more transfer agents and one or more registrars for the shares of the corporation, with such powers and duties as the Board of Directors determines by resolution. The signatures of officers upon a certificate may be facsimiles if the certificate is manually signed on behalf of a transfer agent or by a registrar other than the corporation itself or an employee of the corporation.
Transfer Agent and Registrar
6.4 . If the person who signed a share certificate, either manually or in facsimile, no longer holds office when the certificate is issued, the certificate is nevertheless valid.
Officer Ceasing to Act
 


