FILE:FLIR/FLIR-8K-20091210161058.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 5.02.    Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
(b) Arne Almerfors, Executive Vice President of FLIR Systems, Inc. (the "Company") and President of the Company's Thermography division, has announced his retirement from the Company effective in the first quarter of 2010. It is anticipated that Mr. Almerfors will continue to serve the Company in a consulting capacity for a period of time following his retirement.   A copy of the news release announcing Mr. Almerfors' retirement is being filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
 
 
Item 8.01.    Other Events
 
On December 10, 2009, the Company announced that effective January 1, 2010, it will merge its Commercial Vision Systems and Thermography divisions into one unit, led by Andrew Teich, currently President of the Company's Commercial Vision Systems division. A copy of the news release announcing this merger is being filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

FLIR SYSTEMS, INC.
Company contact:Tony Trunzo FLIR Systems, Inc. (503) 498-3547 www.flir.com
 
PORTLAND, OR, December 10, 2009 - FLIR Systems, Inc (NASDAQ: FLIR) announced today the planned retirement of Arne Almerfors, Executive Vice President and President of the Company's Thermography division, effective in the first quarter of 2010.
Mr. Almerfors began his career at FLIR in 1997, and became president of the Company's Thermography division in 2000. Under his leadership, the Thermography division pioneered a price elastic market strategy, opening new markets and increasing the penetration of infrared technology into applications such as predictive maintenance, building diagnostics, HVAC, medical, R & D, and many others.
FLIR also announced that effective January 1, 2010; the Company will merge its Commercial Vision Systems and Thermography divisions into one unit, led by Andy Teich, currently President of the Commercial Vision Systems division. The new division will continue to focus on the large potential for growth in commercial and industrial markets, and will create value from commonality in distribution, customers and strategic product development focused on uncooled infrared technology.
Earl R. Lewis, Chairman and CEO of FLIR, stated: "Under Arne's stewardship, our Thermography division has enjoyed tremendous growth, and truly changed the direction of the infrared industry by opening up a wide array of uses for our technology, and created enormous value for our shareholders. I would like to personally thank Arne for his superb leadership and outstanding performance over the past decade. All of us at FLIR wish Arne the best and congratulate Andy on his new responsibilities."
 
About FLIR Systems
FLIR Systems, Inc. is a world leader in the design, manufacture and marketing of thermal imaging and stabilized camera systems for a wide variety of thermography and imaging applications including condition monitoring, research and development, manufacturing process control, airborne observation and broadcast, search and rescue, drug interdiction, surveillance and reconnaissance, navigation safety, border and maritime patrol, environmental monitoring and ground-based security. Visit the Company's web site at www.FLIR.com.


