FILE:FLIR/FLIR-8K-20101005191941.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 2.01.    Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
 
On October 4, 2010, FLIR Systems, Inc., an Oregon corporation ("FLIR"), completed its acquisition of all of the outstanding shares of common stock, par value $0.001 per share (the "Shares"), of ICx Technologies, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("ICx"), pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of August 16, 2010 (the "Merger Agreement"), by and among FLIR, Indicator Merger Sub, Inc., a Delaware corporation and wholly owned subsidiary of FLIR (the "Purchaser") and ICx.
FLIR's acquisition of the Shares was structured as a two-step transaction, with a cash tender offer by the Purchaser for the Shares at a price of $7.55 per Share in cash, without interest and less any required withholding taxes, upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Offer to Purchase, dated September 3, 2010, and in the related Letter of Transmittal, each as amended and supplemented from time to time, filed by FLIR and the Purchaser with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 3, 2010 (the "Off er"), followed by the merger of the Purchaser with and into ICx (the "Merger").
The Offer expired at 12:00 midnight, New York City time, on October 1, 2010. Based upon information provided by American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, LLC, the depositary for the Offer (the "Depositary"), a total of 32,683,590 Shares were validly tendered and not validly withdrawn in the Offer, representing approximately 93.4% of the Shares outstanding. In addition, the Depositary has advised FLIR that it has received commitments to tender 469,704 additional Shares under guaranteed delivery procedures. On October 4, 2010, the Purchaser accepted for payment all Shares validly tendered and not validly withdrawn in the Offer.
On October 4, 2010, pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, the Purchaser completed the Merger in accordance with the provisions of Delaware law that authorize the completion of the Merger without a vote or meeting of the stockholders of ICx. ICx was the surviving corporation in the Merger and, as a result of the Merger, has become a wholly owned subsidiary of FLIR. In the Merger, each Share (other than Shares held by ICx as treasury stock or owned, directly or indirectly, by FLIR, the Purchaser, or any of their subsidiaries, and Shares held by holders who properly exercise their appraisal rights under Delaware law) was cancelled and converted into the right to receive $7.55 per Share in cash, without interest and less any required withholding taxes.
In connection with the consummation of the Merger, an application to terminate the registration of the Shares under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, was filed and, effective as of the close of trading on October 4, 2010, the Shares ceased to be traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. The foregoing summary description of the Merger Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the terms of the Merger Agreement, a copy of which was included as Exhibit 2.1 to FLIR's Current Report on For m 8-K, filed August 20, 2010, and which is incorporated herein by reference.
The aggregate consideration paid by FLIR was approximately $268 million. FLIR funded the acquisition from available cash.
 
 
Item 8.01.    Other Events
 
On October 4, 2010, FLIR issued a news release announcing the completion of the Merger. A copy of the news release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
Item 9.01.    Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)        Exhibits.
2.1        Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of August 16, 2010, by and among FLIR Systems, Inc., Indicator Merger Sub, Inc. and ICx Technologies, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to FLIR's Current Report on Form 8-K, filed August 20, 2010).
99.1        News release issued by FLIR Systems, Inc. on October 4, 2010.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

 
PORTLAND, OR, October 4, 2010 (MARKET WIRE) -- FLIR Systems, Inc. (NASDAQ: FLIR) announced today that it has successfully completed its previously announced acquisition of ICx Technologies, Inc. for $7.55 per share, for an aggregate purchase price of $268 million, or an enterprise value of $232 million including ICx's closing cash balance. On August 16, 2010, FLIR announced it had entered into a definitive agreement to acquire ICx through a tender offer and subject to certain conditions. The acquisition was completed via a tender offer by a FLIR subsidiary for all of the outstanding shares of ICx followed by the merger of that purchasing subsidiary with ICx, as a result of which ICx became a wholly-owned subsidiary of FLIR.
The tender offer expired at 12:00 midnight, New York City time, on Friday, October 1, 2010, with 32,683,590 million shares, representing approximately 93.4 percent of ICx's outstanding shares, validly tendered and not validly withdrawn in the offer. FLIR has accepted for payment all validly tendered shares and thereafter completed the acquisition.
ICx is a leading provider of integrated advanced sensing technologies for homeland security, force protection and critical infrastructure applications. ICx has established a technology leadership position across a wide spectrum of CBRNE (chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear and explosives) detection and surveillance technologies, supported by a robust intellectual property portfolio.
"The acquisition of ICx represents an opportunity to expand our business into several attractive adjacent technologies, products, and markets. We believe ICx is a leader in emerging CBRNE sensor technologies and that this business will create substantial value for our shareholders," said Earl R. Lewis, President and CEO of FLIR. "We are excited to add ICx to the global infrastructure of FLIR's Government Systems Division and we are delighted to welcome ICx employees to FLIR."
 
October 4, 2010 Page Two
FLIR Systems Completes Acquisition of ICx Technologies for $268 Million
About FLIR Systems
FLIR Systems, Inc. is a world leader in the design, manufacture and marketing of thermal imaging and stabilized camera systems for a wide variety of thermography and imaging applications including condition monitoring, research and development, manufacturing process control, airborne observation and broadcast, search and rescue, drug interdiction, surveillance and reconnaissance, navigation safety, border and maritime patrol, environmental monitoring and ground-based security. Visit the Company's web site at www.FLIR.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains statements that are forward-looking in nature. Such statements, including those made by Earl Lewis, are based on current expectations of future events, are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or forecasted in such forward-looking statements due to numerous factors, including, but not limited to: the potential that market segment growth will not follow historical patterns; general industry conditions and competition; business and economic conditions, such as interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations; technological advances and patents attained by competitors; domestic and foreign governmental laws and regulations; and other risks discussed from time to time in the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings and reports. Such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which the y are made and the Company does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this release.


