FILE:FLIR/FLIR-8K-20110812123835.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 1.01.    Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
On August 9, 2011, FLIR Systems, Inc. ("FLIR") amended the unsecured $200 million five-year revolving credit agreement dated February 8, 2011("Credit Agreement"), among FLIR, certain subsidiaries as Designated Borrowers, the lenders named therein, Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent; U.S. Bank National Association, as Syndication Agent; JP Morgan Chase Bank N.A, as Documentation Agent; and other Lenders.
The First Amendment to Credit Agreement establishes a $50 million borrowing sublimit for Designated Borrowers, amends the definition of Immaterial Subsidiary and modifies the negative covenant on the incurrence of indebtedness. The foregoing description of the Credit Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of such document, a copy of which is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 10.1.
 
 
Item 9.01.    Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)        Exhibits.
10.1        First Amendment to Credit Agreement by and among FLIR Systems, Inc. and certain subsidiaries of FLIR Systems, Inc., as borrowers, Bank of America, N.A., U.S. Bank National Association, JPMorgan Chase Bank N.A and other Lenders dated August 9, 2011.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

     
This FIRST AMENDMENT TO CREDIT AGREEMENT (this "
Amendment
") is entered into as of August 9, 2011 among FLIR SYSTEMS, INC., an Oregon corporation (the "
Company
"), certain Subsidiaries of the Company party hereto as Designated Borrowers (together with the Company, the "
Borrowers
" and, each a "
Borrower
"), the Lenders party hereto and BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., as Administrative Agent. Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the meanings set forth in the Credit Agreement (as defined below).
     
WHEREAS, the Borrowers, the Lenders and the Administrative Agent are parties to that certain Credit Agreement dated as of February 8, 2011 (as amended, the "
Credit Agreement
");
     
WHEREAS, the Company is requesting that the Lenders agree to modify certain provisions of the Credit Agreement; and
     
WHEREAS, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders have agreed to amend certain terms of the Credit Agreement on the terms, and subject to the condition, set forth below.
     
NOW THEREFORE, for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:
added to Section 1.01 of the Credit Agreement to read as follows:
1
     
2.
Effectiveness; Condition Precedent
. This Amendment shall become effective upon receipt by the Administrative Agent of copies of this Amendment duly executed by the Loan Parties and the Required Lenders.
     
3.
Ratification of Credit Agreement
. The term "Credit Agreement" as used in each of the Loan Documents shall hereafter mean the Credit Agreement as amended and modified by this Amendment. Except as herein specifically agreed, the Credit Agreement, as amended by this Amendment, is hereby ratified and confirmed and shall remain in full force and effect according to its terms. The Loan Parties acknowledge and consent to the modifications set forth herein and agree that this Amendment does not impair, reduce or limit any of their obligations under the Loan Documents (including, without limitation, the indemnity obligations set forth therein) and that, after the date hereof, this Amendment shall constitute a Loan Document. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary and without limiting the foregoing, the Subsidiary Guarantor reaffirms its guaranty obligations set forth in the Credit Agreement.
2
     
5.
Representations
. The Loan Parties represent and warrant to the Lenders that the representations and warranties of the Loan Parties set forth in
Article VI
of the Credit Agreement are true and correct in all material respects as of the date hereof, except to the extent that such representations and warranties specifically refer to an earlier date, in which case they shall be true and correct as of such earlier date.
     
6.
Release
. In consideration of the Lenders entering into this Amendment, the Loan Parties hereby release the Administrative Agent, the Lenders, and the Administrative Agent's and the Lenders' respective officers, employees, representatives, agents, counsel and directors from any and all actions, causes of action, claims, demands, damages and liabilities of whatever kind or nature, in law or in equity, now known or unknown, suspected or unsuspected to the extent that any of the foregoing arises from any action or failure to act on or prior to the date hereof.
     
7.
Counterparts/Telecopy
. This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which when so executed and delivered shall be an original, but all of which shall constitute one and the same instrument. Delivery of executed counterparts of this Amendment by telecopy or .pdf shall be effective as an original.
8.
GOVERNING LAW
.
THIS AMENDMENT AND THE RIGHTS AND
OBLIGATIONS OF THE PARTIES HEREUNDER SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED AND INTERPRETED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
3
     
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the parties hereto has caused a counterpart of this Amendment to be duly executed and delivered and this Amendment shall be effective as of the date first above written.
FLIR SYSTEMS, B.V., a Netherlands company
By: /s/ Andrew C. Teich
Name: Intertrust (Netherlands) B.V. Title: Director B
FLIR SYSTEMS HOLDING AB, a Swedish corporation
FLIR SYSTEMS AKTIEBOLAG, a Swedish corporation
FLIR SYSTEMS LTD., a company incorporated in England and Wales


