Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. This Annual Report on Form 10 K/A contains forward looking statements based on expectations, estimates and projections as of the date of this filing. These statements by their nature are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions and are influenced by various factors. As a consequence, actual results may differ materially from those expressed in the forward looking statements. For more information, see Item 7a. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Cautionary Statement for Purposes of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and Other Federal Securities Laws of this Form 10 K/A. This report contains consolidated financial statements of the Company for the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000. The nature of the restatement adjustments that the Company has made to its financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000 are described in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements set forth in this report. The net impact of the adjustments include the following: Investment in unconsolidated subsidiary and long term debt each increased by approximately $125 million as of December 31, 2001. Income from investment in unconsolidated subsidiary and interest expense each increased by approximately $12 million for each of the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively. There was no impact to reported net income in 2001 or 2000. Net cash provided by operating activities and net cash used in investing activities each decreased by approximately $12 million for each of the years ended December 31, 2001 and December 31, 2000. Generally, no attempt has been made in the following discussion to modify or update other disclosures, except as required to reflect the effects of the above items. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND PRACTICES The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires management of the Company to make a number of estimates and assumptions relating to the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the period. The Companys estimates of crude oil and natural gas reserves are the most significant. All of the reserve data in this Form 10 K/A are estimates. Reservoir engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of crude oil and natural gas. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved natural gas and crude oil reserves. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. As a result, reserve estimates may be different from the quantities of crude oil and natural gas that are ultimately recovered. The Company accounts for its crude oil and natural gas properties under the successful efforts method of accounting. Under this method, costs to acquire mineral interests in crude oil and natural gas properties, to drill and equip exploratory wells that find proved reserves and to drill and equip development wells are capitalized. Capitalized costs of producing crude oil and natural gas properties are amortized to operations by the unit of production method based on proved developed crude oil and natural gas reserves on a property by property basis as estimated by Company engineers. Through December 31, 2002, estimated future restoration and abandonment costs are recorded by charges to depreciation, depletion and amortization (DD&A) expense over the productive lives of the related properties. The Company generally recognizes revenue when the product is delivered to a third party purchaser. The Company follows the entitlements method of accounting for its natural gas imbalances. Natural gas imbalances occur when the Company sells more or less natural gas than it is entitled to under its ownership percentage of total natural gas 13 production. Any excess amount received above the Companys share is treated as a liability. If less than the Companys entitlement is received, the underproduction is recorded as a receivable. The Company, directly or through its subsidiaries, from time to time, uses various derivative arrangements in connection with anticipated crude oil and natural gas sales to minimize the impact of product price fluctuations. Such arrangements include fixed price hedges, costless collars and other contractual arrangements. The Company accounts for its derivative arrangements under Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, and has elected to designate its derivative arrangements as cash flow hedges. Other significant items subject to estimates and assumptions include the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment; valuation allowances for receivables, inventories and deferred income tax assets; environmental liabilities; valuation of derivative instruments; and assets and obligations related to employee benefits. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Management believes it is necessary to understand the Companys significant accounting policies, 
 
