Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Current Conditions in Ecuador. China We have been engaged in exploration and development activities in China since 1996, with production beginning in 2003. We have a 57% working interest in the Cheng Dao Xi (CDX) field, which is located in the shallow water of the southern Bohai Bay. During fourth quarter 2009, we drilled one horizontal well from our existing platform at the CDX field and commenced drilling a second well. The rig will initiate a program to pre drill a number of production and injection wells designed to be connected to a second platform at the field. This is part of the ongoing expansion project with plans to install the second platform and connect the additional wells in late 2010. China accounted for 5% of 2009 consolidated international sales volumes and 4% of international proved reserves at December 31, 2009. At December 31, 2009, we held approximately 4,000 net developed acres and no undeveloped acres. Additional International Locations We hold approximately four million net undeveloped acres in other international locations including Suriname, Nicaragua, and India. Proved Reserves Disclosures Recent SEC Rule Making Activity In December 2008, the SEC announced that it had approved revisions designed to modernize the oil and gas company reserves reporting requirements. The most significant amendments to the requirements included the following: Commodity Prices Economic producibility of reserves and discounted cash flows are now based on a 12 month average commodity price unless contractual arrangements designate the price to be used. Disclosure of Unproved Reserves Probable and possible reserves may be disclosed separately on a voluntary basis. Proved Undeveloped Reserves Guidelines Reserves may be classified as proved undeveloped if there is a high degree of confidence that the quantities will be recovered and they are scheduled to be drilled within the next five years, unless the specific circumstances justify a longer time. Reserves Estimation Using New Technologies Reserves may be estimated through the use of reliable technology in addition to flow tests and production history. Reserves Personnel and Estimation Process Additional disclosure is required regarding the qualifications of the chief technical person who oversees the reserves estimation process. We are also required to provide a general discussion of our internal controls used to assure the objectivity of the reserves estimate. Disclosure by Geographic Area Reserves in foreign countries or continents must be presented separately if they represent more than 15% of our total oil and gas proved reserves. Non Traditional Resources The definition of oil and gas producing activities has expanded and focuses on the marketable product rather than the method of extraction. We adopted the rules effective December 31, 2009. Effect of Adoption Application of the new reserve rules resulted in the use of lower prices at December 31, 2009 for both oil and gas than would have resulted under the previous rules. Use of new 12 month average pricing rules at December 31, 2009 resulted in a decrease in proved reserves of approximately 27 MMBoe. Use of the old year end prices rules would have resulted in an increase in proved reserves of approximately 34 MMBoe at December 31, 2009. Therefore, the total impact of the new price methodology rules resulted in negative reserves revisions of 61 MMBoe. In addition to the new pricing methodology rules, the new proved undeveloped reserves rules, which limit PUDs to those scheduled to be drilled within the next five years, resulted in an additional reduction of proved reserves of approximately 18 MMBoe. 12 Table of Contents Internal Controls Over Reserves Estimates Our policies regarding internal controls over the recording of reserves estimates requires reserves to be in compliance with the SEC definitions and guidance and prepared in accordance with generally accepted petroleum engineering principles. Responsibility for compliance in reserves bookings is delegated to our Corporate Reservoir Engineering group and requires that reserves estimates be made by the regional reservoir engineering staff and reviewed by the regional reservoir engineering supervisor. Qualified petroleum engineers in our Houston, Denver and London offices prepare all reserves estimates for our different geographical regions. These reserves estimates are reviewed and approved by regional management and senior engineering staff with final approval by the Vice President Strategic Planning, Environmental Analysis & Reserves (Vice President Reserves) and certain members of senior management. Our Vice President Reserves is the technical person primarily responsible for overseeing the preparation of our reserves estimates. Our Vice President Reserves has a Bachelor of Science degree in Engineering and over 20 years of industry experience with positions of increasing responsibility in engineering and evaluations. The Vice President Reserves reports directly to our Chief Executive Officer. We engage a third party petroleum consulting firm to audit a significant portion of our reserves. See Third Party Reserves Audit below. Technologies Used in Reserves Estimation The SECs new rules expanded the technologies that a company can use to establish reserves. The SEC now allows use of techniques that have been proved effective by actual production from projects in the same reservoir or an analogous reservoir or by other evidence using reliable technology that establishes reasonable certainty. Reliable technology is a grouping of one or more technologies (including computational methods) that has been field tested and has been demonstrated to provide reasonably certain results with consistency and repeatability in the formation being evaluated or in an analogous formation. We used a combination of production and pressure performance, wireline wellbore measurements, simulation studies, offset analogies, seismic data and interpretation, wireline formation tests, geophysical logs and core data to calculate our reserves estimates, including the material additions to the 2009 reserves estimates. Third Party Reserves Audit In each of the years 2009, 2008 and 2007, we retained Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. (NSAI), independent, third party reserves engineers, to perform reserves audits of proved reserves. The reserves audit for 2009 included a detailed review of 20 of our major international, deepwater Gulf of Mexico and US onshore fields, which covered approximately 78% of US proved reserves and 96% of international proved reserves (86% of total proved reserves). The reserves audit for 2008 included a detailed review of 18 of our major fields and covered approximately 86% of total proved reserves. The reserves audit for 2007 included a detailed review of 16 of our major fields and covered approximately 81% of total proved reserves. In connection with the 2009 reserves audit, NSAI prepared its own estimates of our proved reserves. In order to prepare its estimates of proved reserves, NSAI examined our estimates with respect to reserves quantities, future producing rates, future net revenue, and the present value of such future net revenue. NSAI also examined our estimates with respect to reserves categorization, using the definitions for proved reserves set forth in the recently updated Regulation S X Rule 4 10(a) and subsequent SEC staff interpretations and guidance. In the conduct of the reserves audit, NSAI did not independently verify the accuracy and completeness of information and data furnished by us with respect to ownership interests, oil and gas production, well test data, historical costs of operation and development, product prices, or any agreements relating to current and future operations of the fields and sales of production. However, if in the course of the examination something came to the attention of NSAI which brought into question the validity or sufficiency of any such information or data, NSAI did not rely on such information or data until it had satisfactorily resolved its questions relating thereto or had independently verified such information or data. NSAI determined that our estimates of reserves conform to the guidelines of the SEC, including the criteria of reasonable certainty, as it pertains to expectations about the recoverability of reserves in future years, under existing economic and operating conditions, consistent with the definition in Rule 4 10(a)(2) of Regulation S X. NSAI issued an unqualified audit opinion on our proved reserves at December 31, 2009, based upon its evaluation. The NSAI opinion concluded that our estimates of proved reserves were, in the aggregate, reasonable and have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted petroleum engineering and evaluation principles. NSAIs report is attached as Exhibit 99.2 to this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The fields audited by NSAI are chosen in accordance with company guidelines and result in the audit of a minimum of 80% of our total proved reserves. The fields are chosen by the Vice President Reserves and are reviewed by senior management and the Board of Directors. When compared on a field by field basis, some of our estimates are greater and some are less than the estimates of NSAI. Given the inherent uncertainties and judgments that go into estimating proved reserves, differences between internal and external estimates are to be expected. On a quantity basis, the NSAI field estimates ranged from one MMBoe above to 16 MMBoe below as compared with our estimates. On a percentage basis, the NSAI field estimates ranged from 9% above our estimates to 20% below our estimates. Differences between our estimates and those of NSAI are reviewed for accuracy but are not further analyzed unless the aggregate variance is greater than 10%. Reserves differences at December 31, 2009 were, in the aggregate, approximately 21 MMBoe, or 3%. 13 Table of Contents Proved Undeveloped Reserves (PUDs) As of December 31, 2009, our PUDs totaled 142 MMBbls of crude oil and 769 Bcf of natural gas, for a total of 270 MMBoe. PUD Locations Approximately 70% of our PUDs at year end 2009 were associated with our major development areas in the Wattenberg field (onshore US) and the Alba field (offshore Equatorial Guinea). An additional 17% of PUDs at year end 2009 were associated with major development projects at the Aseng field (offshore Equatorial Guinea) and the Galapagos project (deepwater Gulf of Mexico). All of these projects will have PUDs convert from undeveloped to developed as these projects begin production and or production facilities are expanded or upgraded. Changes in PUDS Changes in PUDs that occurred during the year were due to: conversion of approximately 23 MMBoe PUDs into proved developed reserves; reclassification of approximately 18 MMBoe PUDs that were not scheduled to be developed within five years from proved to probable reserves; and negative revisions of approximately 23 MMBoe in PUDs due to changes in commodity prices. The majority of the reserves reclassified from proved reserves to probable reserves were associated with the Wattenberg field, where we maintain an extensive multi year development program. Development Costs Costs incurred relating to the development of PUDs were approximately $440 million in 2009, $528 million in 2008 and $390 million in 2007. Estimated future development costs relating to the development of PUDs are projected to be approximately $900 million in 2010, $800 million in 2011, and $500 million in 2012. Drilling Plans All PUD drilling locations are scheduled to be drilled prior to the end of 2014. PUDs associated with projects other than drilling (such as compression projects) are also expected to be converted to proved developed reserves prior to the end of 2014. Initial production from these PUDs is expected to begin between 2010 to 2015. We have 7 MMBoe of PUDs associated with an international discovery that has been booked for longer than five years. Development planning is proceeding on this project, and drilling is expected to begin in the next two years. The only other PUDs that have been booked for longer than five years are associated with compression projects. In those cases, the reserves are expected to be recovered from existing wells. For more information see the following: Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Proved Reserves for a discussion of changes in proved reserves; Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Reserves for further discussion of our reserves estimation process; 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations We are an independent energy company engaged in worldwide crude oil, natural gas and NGL exploration and production. We operate primarily in the Rocky Mountains, Mid continent, and deepwater Gulf of Mexico areas in the US, with key international operations offshore Israel and West Africa. The accompanying consolidated financial statements, including the notes thereto, contain detailed information that should be referred to in conjunction with the following discussion. EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW We are a worldwide producer of crude oil and natural gas. Our strategy is to achieve growth in earnings and cash flows through the continued expansion of a high quality portfolio of producing assets that is diversified among US and international projects, crude oil and natural gas, and near, medium and long term opportunities. Strategy We endeavor to continue our strong historic growth trend (7.9% average annual production growth rate from 2000 to 2009) to deliver superior value to our shareholders. We primarily focus on organic growth from exploration and development drilling, and we augment that with a strong, periodic new business development (mergers and acquisition) capability. We concentrate on basins or plays where we have strategic competitive advantage and which we believe offer superior returns. Core operating areas are the onshore US and deepwater Gulf of Mexico and the offshore Eastern Mediterranean and West Africa. We actively manage our portfolio with periodic divestments to high grade the portfolio. As a result of our continued exploration success, we are focused on the development of a significant portfolio of major projects in a number of key operating areas including, among others, Galapagos and Gunflint in the Gulf of Mexico, Tamar in Israel and Aseng and Belinda in West Africa. Our major development projects typically offer long life, sustained cash flows after investment and attractive financial returns. We maintain a balanced portfolio between US and international assets and a balanced geographic and political risk profile. We also maintain a diversity of production mix between oil, US natural gas production and international gas. Financial and Operating Results 2009 was a challenging year in the energy industry due to the prolonged recession, constraint in the credit markets, and commodity price volatility. These conditions resulted in our reduced net income and cash flows from operations. We reduced our capital spending program from our 2008 level as an outcome of the financial crisis. However, we were able to move forward on several major development projects as well as pursue additional exploration opportunities which resulted in important new discoveries, and we maintained our strong balance sheet and ample liquidity levels. Our 2009 financial results included the following: net loss of $131 million as compared with net income of $1.4 billion for 2008; asset impairment charges of $604 million as compared with $294 million for 2008; $110 million loss on commodity derivative instruments (including unrealized mark to market loss of $606 million) as compared with a $440 million gain on commodity derivative instruments (including unrealized mark to market gain of $522 million) for 2008; diluted loss per share of $0.75, as compared with diluted earnings per share of $7.58 for 2008; cash flows provided by operating activities of $1.5 billion, as compared with $2.3 billion in 2008; capital spending of $1.3 billion as compared with $2 billion in 2008; issuance of $1 billion in 10 year unsecured notes; reduction of $225 million principal amount of debt; repatriation of $180 million of earnings from foreign subsidiaries; revenues of $86 million related to deepwater Gulf of Mexico royalties refund and $11 million of associated interest income; year end cash balance of $1 billion, as compared with $1.1 billion at the end of 2008; total liquidity of $2.7 billion at December 31, 2009, consisting of year end cash balance plus funds available under credit facility; and year end ratio of debt to book capital of 25% as compared with 26% at December 31, 2008. 34 Table of Contents Significant operational highlights included the following: Offshore United States discovery at Santa Cruz and sanction of the Galapagos oil development; successful new completion at the Swordfish field in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico; spud Deep Blue and Double Mountain exploration test wells in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico; Ticonderoga, in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, returned to full production of approximately 5,000 Boepd, net in August 2009 after being offline due to Hurricane Ike in 2008; and award of 22 lease blocks from the Central Gulf of Mexico Lease Sale 208. Onshore United States announced DJ Basin asset acquisition which will expand our largest onshore US property at Wattenberg; record Wattenberg field production of 269 MMcfepd, including liquid production of over 20 MBpd; and completion of our first horizontal East Texas Haynesville shale well with an initial thirty day average production rate of over 11 MMcfpd, gross. International sanctioned Aseng field oil development in Block I offshore Equatorial Guinea; successful exploration well and appraisal offshore Israel at Tamar, our largest discovery to date; executed two letters of intent to sell natural gas from the Tamar field offshore Israel with expected gross revenues of over $10 billion; additional natural gas discovery offshore Israel at Dalit; first oil discovery on Block O offshore Equatorial Guinea at the Carmen prospect; realized record natural gas prices in Israel; and completed field optimization efforts at the Dumbarton field and brought on line the first well at Lochranza in the North Sea. In addition, we ended the year with total proved reserves of 820 MMBoe as compared with 864 MMBoe at the end of 2008. See Proved Reserves discussion below. Impact of and Our Responses to the Recession and Current Credit and Commodity Markets Our business in 2009 was negatively impacted by the recession that began in 2008 and continues to impact the US and other world economies, as well as by the constraint in the credit markets and volatile commodity prices. During late 2008 and 2009, we took initiatives to strengthen our liquidity in response to the ongoing uncertainty. As a result of our actions, described below, we believe we are in a strong financial position with approximately $2.7 billion of liquidity, consisting of our cash plus funds available under our credit facility, sufficient to position us to initiate execution of our long term business strategy including development of our major projects and increased exploration activity. Debt In February 2009 we issued $1 billion of 8% senior notes due 2019 and used substantially all of the net proceeds to repay outstanding indebtedness under our credit facility. At December 31, 2009, $1.7 billion was available for borrowing under our credit facility. The credit facility is committed in the amount of $2.1 billion until December 2011, at which time it reduces to $1.8 billion. If not extended, the credit facility matures in December 2012. Should current credit market conditions continue, future extensions of our credit facility may contain terms that are less favorable than those of the current credit facility. See Liquidity and Capital Resources below. Cash We have over $1 billion in cash and cash equivalents invested in money market funds and short term deposits with major financial institutions. During the first half of 2009, in response to the credit market crisis, we shortened the duration of our bank deposits and held over 50% of our cash and cash equivalents in US Treasury securities. We maintained this investment posture well into the third quarter of 2009 before we started to reduce our US Treasury holdings in favor of reinvestment back into money market funds and time deposits with highly rated banks. During first quarter 2009, we repatriated $180 million of accumulated earnings of foreign subsidiaries and used the proceeds for debt repayment and general corporate purposes. We monitor the creditworthiness of the banks and financial institutions with which we invest and review the securities underlying our investment accounts. However, we are unable to predict sudden changes in solvency of our financial institutions. In the event of a bank failure, we could incur a significant loss. Counterparty Credit Risk Counterparty risk related to our commodity derivative contracts and trade credit also increased. All of our commodity derivative instruments are with major financial institutions. Although our open commodity derivative instruments were in a net payable position at December 31, 2009, if one of these financial counterparties does not perform, we may not realize the benefit of some of our derivative instruments under lower commodity prices and we could incur a loss. Commodity Prices Commodity prices continue to be volatile. Prices declined significantly during the last half of 2008 and into 2009. During 2009, the commodities market strengthened, but our average realized prices for 2009 were significantly lower than average realized 2008 prices. Lower commodity prices reduced our cash flows from operations as compared to prior years. To mitigate the impact of lower commodity prices on our cash flows, we entered into crude oil and natural gas commodity contracts for 2009, 2010 and 2011. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 6. Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities. If we experience a double dip recession, a short lived recovery followed by another recession, commodity prices could decline again, which would further reduce our cash flows from operations. This may cause us to alter our business plans including further reduction or delay in our exploration and development program spending and or implement other cost reduction and capital preservation initiatives. See 2010 Budget below. 35 Table of Contents Property Impairments The significant decreases in crude oil and natural gas prices resulted in a reduction of the carrying values of certain of our oil and gas properties. The commodity price decreases that began during the second half of 2008 required us to record asset impairment charges during fourth quarter 2008. Further declines in natural gas prices during first quarter 2009 led us to review those properties that, at year end 2008, were susceptible to impairment should commodity prices decline appreciably. As a result of this review, we determined that additional properties were impaired as of March 31, 2009. We recorded additional impairment charges at December 31, 2009 due to price and or performance issues. Future declines in commodity prices could result in additional impairment of our oil and gas properties, other long lived assets or goodwill. We also recorded an impairment due to a dispute in Ecuador regarding our natural gas to power project. See Item 8. Financial Statements Note 3. Asset Impairments. Operating Costs We are closely monitoring costs and have implemented several cost savings initiatives, including continued reduction of well costs through drilling and completion efficiencies and comprehensive review of oil and gas operating costs. We are also continuing to see reductions in third party drilling costs and operating supplies and services. OPERATING OUTLOOK 2010 Production We expect that we will have a modest increase in crude oil, natural gas and NGL production in 2010 as compared with 2009 as a result of the acquisition of additional US Rocky Mountain assets scheduled to close first quarter 2010, and higher production in Israel and the North Sea. Our expected crude oil, natural gas and NGL production for 2010 may be impacted by several factors including: overall level and timing of capital expenditures which, as discussed below, and dependent upon our drilling success, are expected to maintain our near term production volumes; natural field decline in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, Gulf Coast and Mid continent areas of our US operations and in the North Sea; variations in sales volumes of natural gas from the Alba field in Equatorial Guinea related to potential downtime at the methanol, LPG and or LNG plants; Israeli demand for electricity which affects demand for natural gas as fuel for power generation, market growth and competing deliveries of natural gas from Egypt; successful closing on purchase of additional US Rocky Mountain assets; variations in North Sea sales volumes due to potential FPSO downtime and timing of liftings; seasonal variations in rainfall in Ecuador that affect our natural gas to power project; potential hurricane related volume curtailments in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and Gulf Coast areas as occurred with Hurricanes Gustav and Ike in 2008; potential winter storm related volume curtailments in the Northern region of our US operations; potential pipeline and processing facility capacity constraints in the Rocky Mountain area of our US operations; potential volume curtailments in Ecuador due to unsettled economic and political environment; impact of asset purchases; timing of significant project completion and initial production; and impact of sales of non core operating assets. 2010 Budget Our total capital investment program for 2010 is estimated at $2.5 billion, with 40% going toward major project investments, 20% for exploration activities, and the remaining 40% for ongoing maintenance and near term development opportunities. Approximately 55% of the total is to be spent in the US with the other 45% allocated to international activities. Major project investments are expected to be about $1 billion, with the majority of capital directed toward the development of Galapagos in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, Aseng offshore Equatorial Guinea, and Tamar offshore Israel. Approximately $500 million is slated for exploration activities, representing our largest ever annual exploration program. This program includes participation in seven high impact offshore wells in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, Equatorial Guinea and the Mediterranean Sea. The remainder of our budget is focused on liquid rich and emerging opportunities onshore in the US, as well as near term development projects in Israel, the North Sea and China. Excluded from the capital budget discussed above is the $494 million we expect to pay for the DJ Basin asset acquisition scheduled to close in the first quarter 2010, as well as $235 million of non cash capital expected to be accrued for the Aseng FPSO capital lease. We expect that the 2010 budget will be funded primarily from cash flows from operations, cash on hand, and borrowings under our revolving credit facility and or other financing. We will evaluate the level of capital spending throughout the year based on drilling results, commodity prices, cash flows from operations and property acquisitions and divestitures. 36 Table of Contents Exploration Program We have significant remaining exploration potential, primarily in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and offshore Equatorial Guinea and Israel, and are planning to increase our level of exploratory activity in 2010 over that of 2009. We are currently engaged in drilling operations at two significant test wells in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, one at the Deep Blue prospect and the second at the Double Mountain prospect and plan to drill the Santiago exploratory well later in 2010. In addition, we are planning further exploratory drilling offshore Equatorial Guinea and another exploratory well offshore Israel, pending the outcome of a seismic program. Exploratory activity, particularly offshore, is expensive and requires significant capital investment. We do not always encounter commercially productive reservoirs through our drilling operations and, as a result, could incur significant dry hole cost. Dry hole cost was particularly low in 2009 as compared with prior years, due to our unprecedented exploratory drilling success which resulted in new discoveries in Israel, Equatorial Guinea and the deepwater Gulf of Mexico. This level of exploratory success will be difficult to maintain. We are planning an active exploratory drilling program in 2010. As a result, dry hole cost could be significant. Pending Asset Acquisition On December 31, 2009, we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire substantially all of the US Rocky Mountain assets of Petro Canada Resources (USA) Inc. and Suncor Energy (Natural Gas) America Inc. for $494 million. We estimate total proved reserves to be 53 MMBoe, 45% of which are liquids and 80% within the liquid rich Wattenberg field in the Northern region of our US operations. The acquisition will add approximately 10 MBoepd or 46 MMcf of natural gas and 2.5 MBbls of liquids to our daily production base. The acquisition is expected to close late in the first quarter 2010 and is subject to customary closing conditions. Funding is expected to be provided through our existing credit facility. Major Development Project Inventory Our current inventory of major development projects includes the Aseng oil project and the Galapagos oil project, both of which have been sanctioned, as well as Tamar, Gunflint, the Belinda cycling project, Diega/Carmen and other potential West Africa gas projects. These projects will require significant capital investments. For example, total development costs for the Aseng oil project, excluding costs related to a leased FPSO, are estimated at $1.3 billion ($530 million for our share). Our share of the development costs for the Galapagos oil project is estimated at $360 million. We expect to spend approximately $1 billion per year in 2010 and 2011 for major project development. We plan to fund these projects from cash flows from operations, cash on hand, and borrowings under our revolving credit facility and or other financing such as a public debt offering. We expect first production to occur in 2011 when Galapagos comes on line, followed by Aseng and Tamar in 2012. Once these three projects begin producing, we expect to begin generating sufficient amounts of cash flow to self fund the remaining discovered major projects investments. As operator on the Aseng and Tamar development projects, we pay joint venture expenses and bill our nonoperating partners for their respective shares of joint venture costs. This increases our counterparty credit risk substantially. See Impact of Recession and Current Credit and Commodity Markets Counterparty Credit Risk, above, and Item 1A. Risk Factors Failure to effectively execute our major development projects could result in significant delays and or cost over runs, damage to our reputation, limitations on our growth and negative effects on our operating results. and We are exposed to counterparty credit risk as a result of our receivables, hedging transactions, and cash investments. Growing Israel Natural Gas Realizations During third quarter 2009, we signed a new natural gas sales contract with our primary customer, IEC, under the terms of which they will purchase the majority of our remaining undedicated Mari B field gas at prices expected to be significantly higher than what we have been receiving under the original contract. The actual price received is tied to a blend of liquids prices and a producer price index. In addition, it was agreed that all sales from the Mari B field going forward will be proportionately allocated between the two contracts regardless of the total volume sold. This is a major change from the past arrangement wherein only excess volumes above a threshold level received premium prices. In addition, in fourth quarter 2009, we announced that we had signed an LOI to sell natural gas from the Tamar field, offshore Israel, to Dalia Power Energies (Dalia). Dalia, a privately owned electricity company, has a license to build a natural gas fired power plant in Israel with operations planned to commence in 2013. According to terms of the LOI, we and our partners will deliver natural gas volumes of approximately 200 Bcf to Dalia under a 17 year supply agreement. Total revenues for these volumes are estimated to be at least $1 billion. Sales volumes under the LOI may be increased to 700 Bcf depending upon the final size of the power plant and extent of operations. We also signed an LOI to sell natural gas from the Tamar field to IEC. IEC expects to purchase at least 95 Bcf of natural gas per year with the potential to procure significantly higher quantities for a period of 15 years beginning at the startup of Tamar. Potential Asset Sale We maintain an ongoing portfolio optimization program which may result in the divestiture of non core operating assets in order to maintain a balanced portfolio of high quality, core properties. In 2009, we conducted a market test of our wholly owned subsidiary Noble Energy (Europe) Limited, which holds our interests in the Netherlands and the UK, and received bids. However, we have not committed to a plan to sell these assets. Current Conditions in Ecuador The economic and political environment in Ecuador has become increasingly unsettled. See Item 1A. Risk Factors Our operations and investment in Ecuador may be adversely affected by the countrys unsettled economic and political environment and 
 
