Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Recent Developments in Israel. Other International North Sea We have been conducting business in the North Sea (the Netherlands and the United Kingdom (UK)) since 1996 and currently have interests in 18 licenses with working interests ranging from 7% to 40%. We are the operator of one block. Most of our production is from the Dumbarton and Lochranza fields (30% non operated working interest) in blocks 15/20a and 15/20b in the UK sector of the North Sea. We also produce from the MacCulloch, Hanze, Cook and other fields. The Dumbarton development, which began production in 2007, includes a subsea tie back to the GP III, an FPSO in which we own a 30% interest. Dumbarton has eight horizontal producing wells and two water injection wells. Two additional producing wells from the nearby Lochranza discovery are tied back to the Dumbarton facilities. During 2010 the Dumbarton field was shut in for approximately two months for facility modifications but has since returned to full production. We also participate in the Flyndre (22.5% working interest) and Selkirk (30.5% working interest) projects, both located in the UK sector of the North Sea. We are currently working with our partners on development options. The North Sea accounted for 5% of 2010 total consolidated sales volumes and 2% of total proved reserves at December 31, 2010. At December 31, 2010, we held approximately 7,000 net developed acres and 41,000 net undeveloped acres. Ecuador We own and operate the Machala power plant located in Machala, Ecuador. The power plant is fueled by natural gas from the Amistad natural gas field, offshore Ecuador. The government of Ecuador has terminated our PSC for Block 3 offshore Ecuador. See Termination of Ecuador PSC above. Operations in Ecuador accounted for 2% of 2010 total consolidated sales volumes. Natural gas reserves were an estimated 160 Bcf prior to the termination of our PSC for Block 3. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Supplementary Oil and Gas Information (Unaudited). China We have been engaged in exploration and development activities in China since 1996 under the terms of a 30 year PSC. We have a 57% working interest in the Cheng Dao Xi (CDX) field, which is located in the shallow water of the southern Bohai Bay. During 2010, we continued expansion of production operations under the modified Supplemental Development Plan (SDP). We set the deck of the B platform, drilled four development wells, two of which are horizontal wells, and one injector well. We also recompleted two existing wellbores to uphole zones, one as an injector and one as a producer. In 2011, we plan to complete the commissioning of the newly installed B platform and commence engineering and design of a third platform (C platform). In addition, we plan to drill and complete six development wells, and recomplete two of the existing wells to uphole zones where additional pay has been identified. China accounted for 2% of 2010 total consolidated sales volumes and 1% of total proved reserves at December 31, 2010. At December 31, 2010, we held approximately 4,000 net developed acres and no undeveloped acres. 13 Table of Contents Other International Properties At December 31, 2010, we held undeveloped acreage offshore in other international locations including Nicaragua, India and France. During 2010 we began acquiring 3 D seismic information for Nicaragua and are planning to fund a 2 D seismic survey on the acreage offshore France in the Western Mediterranean Sea in 2011 in return for a working interest in the concession. Proved Reserves Disclosures Implementation of the Securities and Exchange Commissions (SEC) Revisions to Oil and Gas Disclosures Effective December 31, 2009, we implemented the SECs final rules related to the modernization of oil and gas reporting (SECs reserves rules). Although the SECs reserves rules allow probable and possible reserves to be disclosed separately, we have elected not to disclose probable and possible reserves in this report. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Supplemental Oil and Gas Information (Unaudited) for a description of the most significant revisions to oil and gas reporting disclosures. Internal Controls Over Reserves Estimates Our policies regarding internal controls over the recording of reserves estimates require reserves to be in compliance with the SEC definitions and guidance and prepared in accordance with generally accepted petroleum engineering principles. Our internal controls over reserve estimates also include the following: the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors reviews significant reserves changes on an annual basis; each field representing more than 1% of total proved reserves, as well as a rotating group of smaller fields, which combined represent over 80% of our reserves, are audited by Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. (NSAI), a third party petroleum consulting firm, on an annual basis; and NSAI is engaged by and has direct access to the Audit Committee. In addition, our company wide short term incentive plan for 2010 did not include quantitative targets for proved reserves additions. Responsibility for compliance in reserves estimation is delegated to our Corporate Reservoir Engineering group. Qualified petroleum engineers in our Houston and Denver offices prepare all reserves estimates for our different geographical regions. These reserves estimates are reviewed and approved by regional management and senior engineering staff with final approval by the Vice President Strategic Planning, Environmental Analysis & Reserves (Vice President Reserves) and certain members of senior management. Our Vice President Reserves is the technical person primarily responsible for overseeing the preparation of our reserves estimates. Our Vice President Reserves has a Bachelor of Science degree in Engineering and over 20 years of industry experience with positions of increasing responsibility in engineering and evaluations. The Vice President Reserves reports directly to our Chief Executive Officer. We engage NSAI to audit a significant portion of our reserves. See Third Party Reserves Audit below. Technologies Used in Reserves Estimation The SECs updated rules expanded the technologies that a company can use to establish reserves. The SEC now allows use of techniques that have been proved effective by actual production from projects in the same reservoir or an analogous reservoir or by other evidence using reliable technology that establishes reasonable certainty. Reliable technology is a grouping of one or more technologies (including computational methods) that has been field tested and has been demonstrated to provide reasonably certain results with consistency and repeatability in the formation being evaluated or in an analogous formation. We used a combination of production and pressure performance, wireline wellbore measurements, simulation studies, offset analogies, seismic data and interpretation, wireline formation tests, geophysical logs and core data to calculate our reserves estimates, including the material additions to the 2010 reserves estimates. Third Party Reserves Audit In each of the years 2010, 2009, and 2008, we retained NSAI to perform reserves audits of proved reserves. The reserves audit for 2010 included a detailed review of 13 of our major onshore US, deepwater Gulf of Mexico and international fields, which covered approximately 77% of US proved reserves and 97% of international proved reserves (88% of total proved reserves). The reserves audit for 2009 included a detailed review of 20 of our major fields and covered approximately 86% of total proved reserves. The reserves audit for 2008 included a detailed review of 18 of our major fields and covered approximately 86% of total proved reserves. In connection with the 2010 reserves audit, NSAI prepared its own estimates of our proved reserves. In order to prepare its estimates of proved reserves, NSAI examined our estimates with respect to reserves quantities, future producing rates, future net revenue, and the present value of such future net revenue. NSAI also examined our estimates with respect to reserves categorization, using the definitions for proved reserves set forth in Regulation S X Rule 4 10(a) and subsequent SEC staff interpretations and guidance. In the conduct of the reserves audit, NSAI did not independently verify the accuracy and completeness of information and data furnished by us with respect to ownership interests, oil and gas production, well test data, historical costs of operation and development, product prices, or any agreements relating to current and future operations of the fields and sales of production. However, if in the course of the examination something came to the attention of NSAI which brought into question the validity or sufficiency of any such information or data, NSAI did not rely on such information or data until it had satisfactorily resolved its questions relating thereto or had independently verified such information or data. 14 Table of Contents NSAI determined that our estimates of reserves conform to the guidelines of the SEC, including the criteria of reasonable certainty, as it pertains to expectations about the recoverability of reserves in future years, under existing economic and operating conditions, consistent with the definition in Rule 4 10(a)(24) of Regulation S X. NSAI issued an unqualified audit opinion on our proved reserves at December 31, 2010, based upon its evaluation. The NSAI opinion concluded that our estimates of proved reserves were, in the aggregate, reasonable and have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted petroleum engineering and evaluation principles. NSAIs report is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The fields audited by NSAI are chosen in accordance with Company guidelines and result in the audit of a minimum of 80% of our total proved reserves. The fields are chosen by the Vice President Reserves and are reviewed by senior management and the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. Our practice is to select fields for audit based on size. This selection process results in the audit of each field representing more than 1% of total proved reserves. As a result, for each of the years 2008 2010, our 10 largest fields at the current time were audited. The Aseng field was first audited in 2009 and the Tamar and Alen fields were first audited in 2010, as no reserves had been recorded in prior years. When compared on a field by field basis, some of our estimates are greater and some are less than the estimates of NSAI. Given the inherent uncertainties and judgments that go into estimating proved reserves, differences between internal and external estimates are to be expected. On a quantity basis, the NSAI field estimates ranged from 12 MMBoe above to 14 MMBoe below as compared with our estimates. On a percentage basis, the NSAI field estimates ranged from 9% above our estimates to 9% below our estimates. Differences between our estimates and those of NSAI are reviewed for accuracy but are not further analyzed unless the aggregate variance is greater than 10%. Reserves differences at December 31, 2010 were, in the aggregate, approximately 5 MMBoe, or 0.5%. Proved Undeveloped Reserves (PUDs) As of December 31, 2010, our PUDs totaled 182 MMBbls of crude oil, condensate and NGLs and 2,444 Bcf of natural gas, for a total of 590 MMBoe. PUD Locations We have several significant ongoing development projects which are in various stages of completion. PUDs are located as follows at December 31, 2010: 146 MMBoe in the Central DJ Basin, including Wattenberg, where we are projecting reasonable levels of increased activity with projected rig counts in line with past levels of operations; 20 MMBoe in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, 91% of which are related to our Galapagos project, which is expected to be producing in late 2011 or early 2012; 114 MMBoe in Equatorial Guinea, 54% of which are in the Alba field, 23% of which are in the Aseng field and 23% of which are in the Alen field. The Alba field PUDs represent compression reserves that will be recovered from existing wells and will be reclassified to proved developed during the next five years. The Aseng and Alen field PUDs are scheduled to be reclassified to proved developed reserves beginning in 2012 and 2013, respectively; 286 MMBoe (1.7 Tcfe) in the Tamar field, offshore Israel. The Tamar field PUDs are scheduled to be reclassified to proved developed reserves when production begins, currently expected in late 2012 or early 2013; and The above fields represent 96% of total PUDs. The remaining 4% are associated with ongoing developments in other US onshore areas and China. Changes in PUDS Changes in PUDs that occurred during the year were due to: recording of approximately 28 MMBoe PUDS from ongoing onshore US development programs, primarily in Wattenberg; recording of approximately 25 MMBoe PUDS acquired in the Central DJ Basin asset acquisition; recording of approximately 286 MMBoe PUDs due to the sanction of the Tamar project; recording of approximately 27 MMBoe PUDS due to the sanction of the Alen project; conversion of approximately 21 MMBoe PUDs into proved developed reserves; reclassification of approximately 30 MMBoe PUDs, primarily in Wattenberg, that were not scheduled to be developed within five years from proved to probable reserves; negative revision of approximately 7 MMBoe due to a change in the likelihood that the Noa field, offshore Israel, will be pursued for development; and positive revisions of approximately 12 MMBoe in PUDs primarily due to changes in commodity prices. Development Costs Costs incurred to advance the development of PUDs were approximately $1.1 billion in 2010 (including $266 million non cash costs related to an increase in our FPSO lease obligation), $440 million in 2009 (including $29 million non cash costs related to an increase in our FPSO lease obligation), and $528 million in 2008. A significant portion of costs incurred in 2010 related to our major development projects Aseng, Alen, Tamar and Galapagos, which will be converted to proved developed reserves in future years. 15 Table of Contents Estimated future development costs relating to the development of PUDs are projected to be approximately $1.6 billion in 2011, $1.3 billion in 2012, and $900 million in 2013. Estimated future development costs include capital spending on major development projects, some of which will take several years to complete. Proved undeveloped reserves related to major development projects will be reclassified to proved developed reserves when production commences. Drilling Plans All PUD drilling locations are scheduled to be drilled prior to the end of 2015. PUDs associated with projects other than drilling (such as compression projects) are also expected to be converted to proved developed reserves prior to the end of 2015. Initial production from these PUDs is expected to begin during the years 2011 2015. All PUDs are scheduled to be developed within 5 years. For more information see the following: Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Proved Reserves for a discussion of changes in proved reserves; Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Reserves for further discussion of our reserves estimation process; 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations We are a leading independent energy company engaged in worldwide oil and gas exploration and production. The accompanying consolidated financial statements, including the notes thereto, contain detailed information that should be read in conjunction with the following discussion. EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW We are a worldwide producer of crude oil and natural gas. Our strategy is to achieve growth in earnings and cash flows through the continued expansion of a high quality portfolio of producing assets that is balanced and diversified among US and international projects, crude oil and natural gas, and near, medium and long term opportunities. Strategy We seek to achieve growth in earnings and cash flow through exploration success and the development of a high quality, diverse portfolio of assets that is balanced between US and international projects, while maintaining a strong balance sheet and ample liquidity levels. We primarily focus on organic growth from exploration and development drilling, and we augment that with a strong, opportunistic new business development (mergers and acquisition) capability and ongoing portfolio management. We concentrate on basins or plays where we have strategic competitive advantage and which we believe offer superior returns. Key operating areas are the onshore US, deepwater Gulf of Mexico, offshore West Africa and the Eastern Mediterranean. We actively manage our portfolio with periodic divestments to high grade the portfolio. As a result of our continued exploration success, we are focused on the execution of a significant portfolio of major development projects that will deliver visible growth including: among others, the Central DJ Basin, onshore US; Galapagos and Gunflint in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico; Aseng and Alen, offshore West Africa; and Tamar, offshore Israel. Our major development projects typically offer long life, sustained cash flows after investment and attractive financial returns. We maintain a balanced portfolio between US and international assets and strive to maintain a balanced geographic and political risk profile. We also maintain a geographical diversity of production mix among crude oil, US natural gas, and international natural gas. Financial and Operating Results During 2010, the US and other economies resumed growth which had been interrupted by the 2008 global financial crisis and associated recession. Although growth has resumed, it has been modest and at an unsteady rate. Commodity prices were volatile, but crude oil prices showed improvement from increased demand. Higher crude oil prices combined with higher sales volumes resulted in significant increases in our net income and cash flows for 2010. In addition, we increased our capital spending program over our 2009 level, advanced our major development projects, and completed a significant property acquisition, while maintaining a strong balance sheet and ample liquidity levels. Our 2010 financial results included the following: net income of $725 million as compared with a net loss of $131 million for 2009; net gain on asset sales of $113 million as compared with $22 million for 2009; asset impairment charges of $144 million as compared with $604 million for 2009; gain on commodity derivative instruments of $157 million (including unrealized mark to market gain of $70 million) as compared with $110 million loss on commodity derivative instruments (including unrealized mark to market loss of $606 million) for 2009; diluted earnings per share of $4.10, as compared with diluted loss per share of $0.75 for 2009; cash flows provided by operating activities of $1.9 billion, as compared with $1.5 billion in 2009; capital spending of $2.3 billion (including $458 million for the Central DJ Basin asset acquisition) as compared with $1.3 billion in 2009; refocus of our development activities toward more liquids rich areas, as opposed to dry gas areas, in response to depressed US natural gas prices, resulting in an increase in our liquids production as compared with 2009; proceeds from property sales of $564 million as compared with $3 million in 2009; ending cash and cash equivalents balance of $1.1 billion at December 31, 2010, as compared with $1 billion at December 31, 2009; net decrease of $32 million principal amount of debt, excluding $266 increase in FPSO accrual, from December 31, 2009; total liquidity of $2.8 billion at December 31, 2010, consisting of year end cash balance plus funds available under credit facility, as compared with $2.7 billion at December 31, 2009; and year end ratio of debt to book capital of 25% (including FPSO lease accrual), unchanged from December 31, 2009. 42 Table of Contents Significant operational highlights included the following: Overall recorded proved reserves of nearly 1.1 billion Boe at December 31, 2010, a 33% increase from year end 2009; and a 3% increase in total sales volumes as compared with 2009. Onshore United States Central DJ Basin asset acquisition which enhanced our largest onshore US property in Wattenberg; increased Central DJ Basin position to over 830,000 net acres; drilled and completed 21 horizontal wells in the Central DJ Basin Niobrara formation; increased Wattenberg production volumes to a record 54.2 MBoe/d; and closed on the sale of certain Mid Continent and Illinois Basin assets for $552 million. Deepwater Gulf of Mexico successfully adjusted our Gulf of Mexico business plan in response to the Deepwater Moratorium; finalized well completion work at Isabela and Santa Cruz at the Galapagos project in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico; and awarded 11 deepwater lease blocks from the Central Gulf of Mexico lease sale 213. International sanctioned the development plan for the Tamar project, offshore Israel; sanctioned the development plan for the Alen project, offshore Equatorial Guinea; major exploration discovery at Leviathan, offshore Israel; completed two new Mari B wells, offshore Israel, maintaining field deliverability of 600 MMcf/d, gross; and concluded field drilling and initiated completions at Aseng, offshore Equatorial Guinea. Acquisitions and Divestitures On March 1, 2010, we closed the acquisition of substantially all of the US Rockies upstream assets of Petro Canada Resources (USA) Inc. and Suncor Energy (Natural Gas) America Inc. for cash of $458 million, plus liabilities assumed. The transaction increased our presence in Wattenberg and further expanded our opportunity in the Central DJ Basin. The acquisition added approximately 10 MBoe/d to our daily production base and approximately 46 MMBoe of proved reserves, expanding our acreage and development opportunity in the area. A majority of the reserves are within Wattenberg, where our largest onshore US asset is located. On August 12, 2010, we closed the sale of certain non core assets in the Mid Continent and Illinois Basin areas for sales proceeds of $552 million and recorded a pre tax gain of $110 million on the sale. The properties represented approximately 5.7 MBoe/d of production and 32 MMBoe of reserves. The government of Ecuador terminated our PSC for Block 3 (100% working interest) on November 25, 2010. A recently enacted hydrocarbon law required that certain existing PSCs be renegotiated as service contracts by November 23, 2010. A service contract on Block 3 has not been negotiated. We are continuing to work with the government of Ecuador to resolve this matter. The net book value of our investment in Ecuador was approximately $66 million at December 31, 2010. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 3. Acquisitions and Divestitures. Sales Volumes On a BOE basis, total sales volumes were 3% higher in 2010 as compared with 2009. Our mix of sales volumes was 39% global liquids, 30% international natural gas with long term pricing contracts, and 31% US natural gas. In the US, production was higher in the onshore areas due to record production in Wattenberg primarily due to the recent acquisition of producing properties and continued field development. The Deepwater Moratorium had no impact on deepwater Gulf of Mexico production for 2010. However, it is likely to have an impact on future production. See Deepwater Gulf of Mexico, below. In Israel, there was an increase in demand for natural gas to produce electricity due to warmer weather, and a higher percentage of the demand was met by production from our properties. There was also an increase in crude oil volumes lifted in the North Sea. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in crude oil volumes lifted in Equatorial Guinea. Commodity Price Changes and Hedging The liquids (crude oil) market strengthened during 2010, benefiting from the global economic recovery. As a result, 2010 average realized crude oil prices were significantly higher than those we experienced in 2009. However, the domestic natural gas market remains weak primarily due to an abundant supply. Natural gas prices remain volatile and prices are still low compared to prices realized in 2006 2008. See Item 6. Selected Financial Data. We have hedged approximately 50% of our expected global crude oil production and 57% of our expected domestic natural gas production for 2011. We use mark to market accounting for our commodity derivative instruments and recognize all gains and losses on such instruments in earnings in the period in which they occur. Derivative gains and losses included in net income include both pre tax realized gains and losses and pre tax, unrealized, non cash gains or losses which are due to the change in the mark to market value of our commodity contracts related to production in future periods. Unrealized mark to market gains or losses recognized in the current period will be realized in the future when they are cash settled in the month that the related production occurs. The amount of gain or loss actually realized may be more or less than the amo unt of unrealized mark to market gain or loss previously reported. The use of mark to market accounting adds volatility to our net income. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 10. Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities. 43 Table of Contents Asset Impairment Charges During 2010, we recorded asset impairment charges of $144 million related to some of our oil and gas assets. The impairments were due to declines in natural gas prices, recent drilling results, the classification of non core onshore US assets as held for sale, and a change in the intended use of certain assets. Future decreases in forward natural gas prices could result in significant additional impairment charges. See Potential for Future Asset Impairments below and 
 
