Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Risk and Insurance Program. 27 Table of Contents Competition The crude oil and natural gas industry is highly competitive. We encounter competition from other crude oil and natural gas companies in all areas of operations, including the acquisition of seismic and lease rights on crude oil and natural gas properties and for the labor and equipment required for exploration and development of those properties. Our competitors include major integrated crude oil and natural gas companies, state controlled national oil companies, independent crude oil and natural gas companies, service companies engaging in exploration and production activities, drilling partnership programs, private equity, and individuals. Many of our competitors are large, well established companies. Such companies may be able to pay more for seismic and lease rights on crude oil and natural gas properties and exploratory prospects and to define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or human resources permit. Our ability to acquire additional properties and to discover reserves in the future will be dependent upon our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. See Item 1A. Risk Factors We face significant competition and many of our competitors have resources in excess of our available resources. Geographical Data We have operations throughout the world and manage our operations by country. Information is grouped into five components that are all primarily in the business of crude oil, natural gas and NGL exploration, development and production: United States, West Africa, Eastern Mediterranean, North Sea, and Other International and Corporate. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 18. Segment Information. Employees Our total number of employees increased 6%, from 1,772 at December 31, 2010 to 1,876 at December 31, 2011, in support of our major development and exploration projects. The 2011 year end employee count includes 135 foreign nationals working as employees in Ecuador, Israel, the UK, Equatorial Guinea, Cyprus, and Cameroon. We regularly use independent contractors and consultants to perform various field and other services. Offices Our principal corporate office is located at 100 Glenborough Drive, Suite 100, Houston, Texas 77067 3610. We maintain additional offices in Ardmore, Oklahoma; Denver, Colorado; and Canonsburg, Pennsylvania; and in China, Cameroon, Ecuador, Equatorial Guinea, Israel, Cyprus, Nicaragua, and the UK. Title to Properties We believe that our title to the various interests set forth above is satisfactory and consistent with generally accepted industry standards, subject to exceptions that would not materially detract from the value of the interests or materially interfere with their use in our operations. Individual properties may be subject to burdens such as royalty, overriding royalty and other outstanding interests customary in the industry. In addition, interests may be subject to obligations or duties under applicable laws or burdens such as production payments, net profits interest, liens incident to operating agreements and for current taxes, development obligations under crude oil and natural gas leases or capital commitments under PSCs or exploration licenses. On September 7, 2011, an intermediate appellate court (Superior Court) of Pennsylvania issued an opinion in Butler v. Powers regarding the meaning of a deed. As a result, traditional views of how ownership of shale gas is determined in that state have been called into question. The issue is whether shale gas is different from other natural gas and should be considered part of mineral rights, rather than oil and gas rights, because it is contained inside rock. An appeal of the decision has been filed with the Pennsylvania Supreme Court. At this time, no case law or interpretation of existing law has changed, nor has there been an indication that either the Superior Court or the Pennsylvania Supreme Court will seek to change existing law. Based upon our initial review, we believe that any adverse decision in the pending case would have minimal adverse impact upon the assets acquired from CONSOL. Available Information Our website address is www.nobleenergyinc.com. Available on this website under Investors Investors Menu SEC Filings, free of charge, are our annual reports on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K, Forms 3, 4 and 5 filed on behalf of directors and executive officers and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Alternatively, you may access these reports at the SECs website at www.sec.gov. Also posted on our website under About Us Corporate Governance, and available in print upon request made by any stockholder to the Investor Relations Department, are charters for our Audit Committee; Compensation, Benefits and Stock Option Committee; Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee; and Environment, Health and Safety Committee. On October 25, 2011 our Board approved and adopted a revised Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. Copies of the revised Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, and the Code of Ethics for Chief Executive and Senior Financial Officers (the Codes) are posted on our website under the Corporate Governance section. Within the time period required by the SEC and the NYSE, as applicable, we will post on our website any modifications to the Codes and any waivers applicable to senior officers as defined in the applicable Code, as required by the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002. 28 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors Described below are certain risks that we believe are applicable to our business and the oil and gas industry in which we operate. There may be additional risks that are not presently material or known. You should carefully consider each of the following risks and all other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. If any of the events described below occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or access to the capital markets could be materially adversely affected. In addition, the current global economic and political environment intensifies many of these risks. Crude oil and natural gas prices are volatile and a substantial reduction in these prices could adversely affect our results of operations and the price of our common stock. Our revenues, operating results and future rate of growth depend highly upon the prices we receive for our crude oil and natural gas production. Historically, the markets for crude oil and natural gas have been volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. For example, the NYMEX daily average settlement price for the prompt month crude oil contract in 2011 ranged from a high of $113.93 per Bbl to a low of $75.76 per Bbl. The Brent daily average settlement price for the prompt month crude oil contract in 2011 ranged from a high of $126.65 per Bbl to a low of $93.33 per Bbl. The NYMEX monthly settlement price for the prompt month natural gas contract in 2011 ranged from a high of $4.85 per MMBtu to a low of $2.99 per MMBtu. Thus far in 2012, there have been further declines in natural gas futures and spot prices. For example, the NYMEX January 2012 and February 2012 natural gas contracts settled at $3.08 per MMBtu and $2.68 per MMBtu, respectively. In addition, the quantity of natural gas currently being stored is at historically high levels relative to prior years. The markets and prices for crude oil and natural gas depend on factors beyond our control, which factors include, among others: economic factors impacting global gross domestic product growth rates; global demand for crude oil and natural gas; global factors impacting supply quantities of crude oil and natural gas; the potential long term impact of an abundance of natural gas from shale (such as that produced from our Marcellus Shale properties) on the global natural gas supply; the potential expansion of the global LNG market, including potential exports from the US; actions taken by foreign oil and gas producing nations; political conditions and events (including instability or armed conflict) in crude oil or natural gas producing regions; the level of global crude oil and natural gas inventories; the price and level of imported foreign crude oil and natural gas; the price and availability of alternative fuels, including coal, solar, wind, nuclear energy and biofuels; the long term impact of the use of natural gas as an alternative fuel on the crude oil market; the availability of pipeline capacity and infrastructure; the availability of crude oil transportation and refining capacity; weather conditions; demand for electricity as well as natural gas used as fuel for electricity generation; and domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes. Continuance of the current low natural gas price environment, further declines in natural gas prices, lack of natural gas storage, or a significant decline in crude oil prices may have the following effects on our business: reduction of our revenues, operating income and cash flows; curtailment or shut in of our natural gas production due to lack of transportation or storage capacity; reduction in the amount of crude oil and natural gas that we can produce economically; cause certain properties in our portfolio to become economically unviable; cause us to delay or postpone some of our capital projects, including our horizontal Niobrara and Marcellus Shale, deepwater Gulf of Mexico, or international development projects; cause significant reductions in our capital investment programs, resulting in a failure to develop our reserves; limit our financial condition, liquidity, and or ability to finance planned capital expenditures and operations; limit our access to sources of capital, such as equity and long term debt. In addition, lower commodity prices, including significant declines in the forward commodity price curves, may result in the following: asset impairment charges resulting from reductions in the carrying values of our crude oil and or natural gas properties at the date of assessment, such as occurred in 2009, 2010 and 2011; additional counterparty credit risk exposure on commodity hedges; or a reduction in the carrying value of goodwill. 29 Table of Contents Failure to effectively execute our major development projects could result in significant delays and or cost over runs, damage to our reputation, limitations on our growth and negative effects on our operating results, liquidity and financial position. We currently have an extensive inventory of major development projects, some of which will take several years before first production, such as Tamar, Alen, Gunflint, and Leviathan. Some of these projects, such as oil and gas projects offshore West Africa and the Eastern Mediterranean, have a great deal of complexity, including extensive subsea tiebacks to an FPSO or production platform, pressure maintenance systems, gas re injection systems, onshore receiving terminals, or other specialized infrastructure. In addition, we have expanded our horizontal drilling program in the Niobrara formation and entered into an agreement for the joint development of substantial acreage in the Marcellus Shale. This level of development activity will require significant effort from our management and technical personnel as well as place additional requirements on our financial resources and internal financial controls. We may not have the ability to attract and or retain the necessary number of personnel with the skills required to bring complicated projects to successful conclusions. In addition, we have increased dependency on third party technology and service providers and other supply chain participants for these complex projects. Significant delays in delivery of essential items or performance of services, cost overruns, supplier insolvency, or other critical supply failure, could adversely affect development of our projects. We may not be able to compensate for, or fully mitigate, these risks. Concentration of our operations in a few core areas may increase our risk of production loss. Our operations are primarily concentrated in five core areas: the DJ Basin, the Marcellus Shale, and the deepwater Gulf of Mexico in the US, offshore West Africa, and the Eastern Mediterranean. These core areas provide most of our current crude oil and natural gas production, each of our major development projects, and most of our exploration potential. In the past several years, we have made several asset divestitures, including non core, non strategic assets in the Gulf of Mexico shelf and onshore US, to high grade and focus our portfolio. We are currently considering the divestiture of additional, non core onshore US assets from our portfolio. As a result of these portfolio changes, our operations and production are concentrated in fewer areas. Although none of these areas represented more than 28% of our 2011 total sales volumes, disruption of our business in one of these areas, such as from an accident, natural disaster, government intervention, or other event, would result in a greater impact on our production profile, cash flows and overall business plan than if we operated in a larger number of areas. We do not maintain business interruption (loss of production) insurance for all of our assets. Loss of production or limited access to reserves in one of our core operating areas could have a significant negative impact on our cash flows and profitability. Our international operations may be adversely affected by economic and political developments. We have significant international crude oil and natural gas operations compared to companies we consider to be our peers, with approximately 47% of our 2011 total sales volumes coming from international operations, and will be increasing our exposure through our major development projects offshore West Africa and the Eastern Mediterranean. We are also conducting exploration activities in these and other international areas. Our operations may be adversely affected by political and economic developments, including the following: renegotiation, modification or nullification of existing contracts, such as may occur pursuant to future proposals of Israels Interministerial Committee to Examine Government Policy on Israels Natural Gas Economy, or the hydrocarbons law enacted in 2006 by the government of Equatorial Guinea, which can result in an increase in the amount of revenues that the host government receives from production (government take) or otherwise decrease project profitability; changes in taxation policies, such as occurred pursuant to the Oil Profits Taxation Law, 2011, which imposed additional income tax on oil and gas production in Israel, and the Finance Bill 2011, which increased the rate of the Supplementary Charge levied on oil and gas income in the UK; loss of revenue, property and equipment as a result of actions taken by foreign crude oil and natural gas producing nations, such as expropriation or nationalization of assets or termination of contracts, such as the termination of our Block 3 PSC by the Ecuadorian government in 2010 pursuant to changes in Ecuadors hydrocarbon law; disruptions caused by territorial or boundary disputes in certain international regions, including the Eastern Mediterranean, where Lebanon has made claims related to our projects in Israeli waters and where in 2011 the Turkish government objected to exploratory activities conducted offshore the Republic of Cyprus, and in Central America where there is a dispute between Nicaragua and Colombia over the maritime border; changes in drilling or safety regulations in other countries being considered as a result of the Deepwater Horizon Incident or other recent incidents that have occurred such as offshore Brazil and in Chinas Bohai Bay, which could increase costs and development cycle time; laws and policies of the US and foreign jurisdictions affecting foreign investment, taxation, trade and business conduct; foreign exchange restrictions; 30 Table of Contents international monetary fluctuations and changes in the relative value of the US dollar as compared with the currencies of other countries in which we conduct business, such as Israel and the UK; and other hazards arising out of foreign governmental sovereignty over areas in which we conduct operations. Certain of these risks could be intensified by significant new discoveries in the Levant Basin, where we are currently conducting exploration activities, and other developing basins in the Eastern Mediterranean where there is remaining exploration potential. Large discoveries, such as Leviathan and Cyprus Block 12, may have impacts on global natural gas supplies. Such political and economic developments as mentioned above could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows and reduce the fair values of our properties, resulting in impairment charges. Our operations may be adversely affected by civil disturbances, terrorist acts, regime changes, cross border violence, war, piracy, or other conflicts that may occur in regions that encompass our operations. Violent acts resulting in loss of life and destruction of property occur frequently around the world. Many incidents are driven by civil, ethnic, religious or economic strife. In addition, the number of incidents attributed to various terrorist organizations, such as al Qaida, has increased significantly. We operate in regions of the world that have experienced such incidents or are in close proximity to areas where violence has occurred including: US and Europe Within the last decade, violent acts have occurred which specifically targeted citizens and property of the US and other Western nations including the September 11, 2001 World Trade Center attack , the 2004 Madrid train bombing, the 2005 attack on Londons public transportation system, and the 2011 attacks in Oslo, Norway. Attacks on Western citizens and property occur not just on US and European soil, but worldwide. West Africa In the countries of West Africa there have been numerous acts of piracy, kidnapping, civil strife, regional conflict, cross border violence, war, as well as violence associated with corruption, drug trafficking and regime changes. Most recently, in January 2012, Islamist militants in Nigeria killed hundreds of people and destroyed government buildings. Extreme violence in the Democratic Republic of the Congo has been attributed to exploitation and trade of conflict minerals. Middle East Civil unrest, often accompanied by violence, has spread throughout the region. Protestors have demanded economic and political reforms, and to date, there have been several regime changes. Civil unrest could continue to spread throughout the region or grow in intensity, leading to regime changes resulting in governments that are hostile to the US, civil wars, or regional conflict. There have also been rising international tensions over Iran, which was censured by the United Nations over suspicions that it is trying to develop nuclear weapons. Certain countries have considered actions ranging from economic sanctions to pre emptive strikes on suspected nuclear sites, and Iranian officials have threatened retaliation by, among other actions, closing the Strait of Hormuz, through which a significant portion of the global crude oil supply is transported. We monitor the economic and political environments of the countries in which we operate. However, we are unable to predict the occurrence of disturbances such as those noted above. In addition, we have limited ability to mitigate their impact. Civil disturbances, terrorist acts, regime changes, war, or conflicts, or the threats thereof, could have the following results, among others: volatility in global crude oil prices which could negatively impact the global economy, resulting in slower economic growth rates, which could reduce demand for our products; negative impact on the world crude oil supply if transportation avenues are disrupted, leading to further commodity price volatility; capital market reassessment of risk and subsequent redeployment of capital to more stable areas making it more difficult for our partners to obtain financing for potential development projects; difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified personnel to work in areas with potential for conflict; inability of our personnel or supplies to enter or exit the countries where we are conducting operations; disruption of our operations due to evacuation of personnel; unpredictability of sales of our natural gas in Israel due to periodic disruption of Egyptian supply as a result of pipeline attacks; inability to deliver our production due to disruption or closing of transportation routes; reduced ability to export our production due to efforts of countries to conserve domestic resources; damage to or destruction of our wells, production facilities, receiving terminals or other operating assets; damage to or destruction of property belonging to our natural gas purchasers leading to interruption of gas deliveries, claims of force majeure, and or termination of natural gas sales contracts, resulting in a reduction in our revenues; 31 Table of Contents inability of our service and equipment providers to deliver items necessary for us to conduct our operations resulting in a halt or delay in our planned exploration activities, delayed development of major projects, or shut in of producing fields; lack of availability of drilling rig, oilfield equipment or services if third party providers decide to exit the region; and shutdown of a financial system, communications network, or power grid causing a complete disruption of our business activities. Loss of property and or interruption of our business plans resulting from hostile acts could have a significant negative impact on our earnings and cash flow. In addition, we may not have enough insurance to cover any loss of property or other claims resulting from these risks. Our operations could be adversely affected by future changes in laws and regulations which may occur as a result of the Deepwater Horizon Incident and other recent incidents. In recent years, several significant oil spills have highlighted the dangers associated with exploration and production activities in deepwater. In 2010, the drilling rig Deepwater Horizon sank after a blowout and fire. The resulting leak caused a significant oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. In 2011, leaks attributed to exploration and production activities occurred offshore the coast of Brazil and in Chinas Bohai Bay. In the US, the legislative and regulatory response to the Deepwater Horizon Incident is ongoing. In 2010, the US Department of the Interior issued new rules designed to improve drilling and workplace safety, and various Congressional committees began pursuing legislation to regulate drilling activities and increase liability. In January 2011, the Presidents National Commission on the BP Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill and Offshore Drilling released its report, recommending that the federal government require additional regulation and an increase in liability caps. In addition, the European Commission has recommended that new legislation be enacted to enhance the safety of offshore oil and gas activities. Additional regulatory review, slower permitting processes and increased oversight have resulted in longer development cycle time for our deepwater Gulf of Mexico projects. Cycle time is the length of time it takes for a project to progress from first discovery to first production, and longer development cycle times could result in lower rates of return on our investments. Increased regulation impacting our activities in the Gulf of Mexico could result in extensive efforts to ensure compliance and incremental compliance costs. A significant delay or cancellation of our planned Gulf of Mexico deepwater exploratory activities will reduce our longer term ability to replace reserves, resulting in a negative impact on production over time. To the extent current exploration activities are significantly delayed, a gap could occur in our long term production profile with a negative impact on our operating results and cash flows. Additional legislation or regulation is being discussed which could require each company doing business in the Gulf of Mexico to establish and maintain a higher level of financial responsibility under its Certificate of Financial Responsibility (COFR), a certificate required by the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 which evidences a companys financial ability to pay for cleanup and damages caused by oil spills. There have also been discussions regarding the establishment of a new industry mutual fund in which companies would be required to participate and which would be available to pay for consequential damages arising from an oil spill. These and or other legislative or regulatory changes could require us to maintain a certain level of financial strength and may reduce our financial flexibility. Other countries are also considering additional regulation. In the European Union there have been demands for temporary bans on new deepwater drilling and or additional safety regulation. Future legislation or regulation is also likely to result in substantial increases in civil or criminal fines or sanctions. Such fines or sanctions could well exceed the actual cost of containment and cleanup associated with a well incident or spill. We are monitoring legislative and regulatory developments; however, the full legislative and regulatory response to the Deepwater Horizon Incident and other oil spills is not yet known. Further expansion of safety and performance regulations or an increase in liability for drilling activities may have one or more of the following impacts on our business: increase the costs of drilling exploratory and development wells; cause delays in, or preclude, the development of our projects in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico or other locations, resulting in longer development cycle times; result in additional operating costs; divert our cash flows from capital investments in order to maintain minimum financial levels; increase or remove liability caps for claims of damages from oil spills; increase our share of civil or criminal fines or sanctions for actual or alleged violations if a well incident were to occur; and limit our ability to obtain additional insurance coverage, at a level that balances the cost of insurance and our desired rates of return, to protect against any increase in liability. 32 Table of Contents Any of the above operating or financial factors may result in a reduction of our cash flows, profitability, and the fair value of our properties or reduce our financial flexibility. Because we strive to achieve certain levels of return on our projects, an increase in our financial responsibility could result in certain of our planned projects becoming uneconomic. Our entry into the Marcellus Shale through our joint venture with CONSOL will subject us to certain financial, operational and legal obligations and additional risks associated with crude oil and natural gas development activities in that region. On September 30, 2011, we finalized a joint venture arrangement with CONSOL where, among other things, we have agreed to develop significant acreage in the Marcellus Shale. This arrangement represents the entry into a new core area for us in which we have no prior operating experience. Under the arrangement, we purchased a 50% interest in CONSOLs undeveloped acreage and have agreed to act as operator on a portion of the acreage. Additionally, we have committed to make significant capital expenditures, including a $2.1 billion Carried Cost Obligation, and have agreed to other operational and legal obligations. If we do not meet our financial commitments or perform our other obligations on a timely basis, our rights to participate in the joint venture, and our anticipated operations in the Marcellus Shale, could be adversely affected. We plan to drill numerous wells in the Marcellus Shale over a multi year period. These activities will be subject to many risks including, among others: development drilling in emerging resource plays such as the Marcellus Shale may not result in commercially productive quantities of crude oil and natural gas reserves; we have no prior exploration and development experience in the Marcellus Shale and limited information regarding ultimate recoverable reserves and production decline rates; therefore, our estimates of economically recoverable quantities of crude oil and natural gas reserves may vary substantially and actual production, revenue and expenditures with respect to our reserves likely will vary, possibly materially, from estimates; our operations in the Marcellus Shale will require significant additional attention and we may not be able to attract and or retain personnel with the necessary skills to successfully carry out our joint development program; our entry into the Marcellus Shale will place additional burdens on our financial resources and internal financial controls; the high level of current and planned development activity in the Marcellus Shale may result in increased competition for drilling rigs and oilfield services such as hydraulic fracturing, gathering, processing and or transportation, thus hindering our ability to develop our reserves and market our production; significant activism in New York, Pennsylvania and West Virginia against oil and gas development activities, particularly regarding the use of hydraulic fracturing, could, among other things, delay or limit our access to crude oil and natural gas reserves; additional environmental regulation or legislation could result in additional development and or production costs; potential enactment of local impact fees in Pennsylvania, such as recommended by the Marcellus Shale Advisory Committee and supported by the governor of Pennsylvania, and or a severance tax in Pennsylvania, such as has been proposed by various groups in the past, would likely result in a lower rate of return on our development project; and our inability to locate sufficient amounts of water, or dispose of or recycle water used in our operations, could hinder our ability to develop our reserves or increase our development and operating costs. We may not be able to compensate for or fully mitigate these risks. See Items 1. and 2. Business and Properties Entry Into Marcellus Shale Joint Venture. The magnitude of our offshore Eastern Mediterranean discoveries will present financial and technical challenges for us due to the large scale development requirements. In December 2011, we announced a significant natural gas discovery at the Block 12 prospect offshore Cyprus. Combined with previous significant discoveries at Tamar and Leviathan offshore Israel, these natural gas resources will require exporting to maximize economic value. We are currently evaluating potential development scenarios for Leviathan and Cyprus Block 12, some of which include export of surplus natural gas to Europe or Asia through development of LNG terminals or underwater pipelines. Each of these development options would require a multi billion dollar investment and require a number of years to complete. We have a nearly 40% working interest in Leviathan and a 70% working interest in Cyprus Block 12. As a result, we will likely seek partners to provide technical and financial support as well as midstream and downstream expertise. Failure to execute a successful development scenario for Leviathan and Cyprus Block 12 could result in damage to our reputation, limit growth in value and have negative effects on our operating results. 33 Table of Contents Our ability to produce crude oil and natural gas economically and in commercial quantities could be impaired if we are unable to acquire adequate supplies of water for our drilling operations or are unable to dispose of or recycle the water we use economically and in an environmentally safe manner. Drilling activities require the use of fresh water. For example, the hydraulic fracturing process which we employ to produce commercial quantities of crude oil and natural gas from many reservoirs, including the DJ Basin and Marcellus Shale, require the use and disposal of significant quantities of water. In certain areas, there may be insufficient aquifer capacity to provide a local source of water for drilling activities. Water must be obtained from other sources and transported to the drilling site. Our inability to secure sufficient amounts of water, or to dispose of or recycle the water used in our operations, could adversely impact our operations in certain areas. Moreover, the imposition of new environmental initiatives and regulations could include restrictions on our ability to conduct certain operations such as hydraulic fracturing or disposal of waste, including, but not limited to, produced water, drilling fluids and other wastes associated with the exploration, development or production of natural gas. Compliance with environmental regulations and permit requirements governing the withdrawal, storage and use of surface water or groundwater necessary for hydraulic fracturing of wells may increase our operating costs and cause delays, interruptions or termination of our operations, the extent of which cannot be predicted, all of which could have an adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. See Items 1. and 2. Business and Properties Hydraulic Fracturing. The marketability of our DJ Basin, Marcellus Shale, and deepwater Gulf of Mexico production is dependent upon transportation and processing facilities over which we may have no control. The marketability of our production from the DJ Basin, Marcellus Shale, and deepwater Gulf of Mexico depends in part upon the availability, proximity and capacity of pipelines, natural gas gathering systems and processing facilities. We deliver crude oil and natural gas produced from these areas through gathering systems and pipelines, some of which we do not own. The lack of availability of capacity on third party systems and facilities could reduce the price offered for our production or result in the shut in of producing wells or the delay or discontinuance of development plans for properties. Although we have some contractual control over the transportation of our production through firm transportation arrangements, third party systems and facilities may be temporarily unavailable due to market conditions or mechanical or other reasons, including adverse weather conditions. Activist or other efforts may delay or halt the construction of additional pipelines or facilities. Third party systems and facilities may not be available to us in the future at a price that is acceptable to us. Any significant change in market factors or other conditions affecting these infrastructure systems and facilities, as well as any delays in constructing new infrastructure systems and facilities, could delay production, thereby harming our business and, in turn, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our operations require us to comply with a number of US and international laws and regulations, violations of which could result in substantial fines or sanctions and or impair our ability to do business. Our operations require us to comply with a wide variety of US and international laws and regulations, such as those involving anti corruption, competition and antitrust, anti boycott, export control, marketing, environmental and or taxation. For example, the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and similar laws and regulations enacted or promulgated by countries pursuant to the 1997 Organization for Economic Co operation and Development (OECD) Anti Bribery Convention generally prohibit improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business. The scope and enforcement of anti corruption laws and regulations may vary. The UK Bribery Act of 2010, which became effective in 2011, is broader in scope than the FCPA and applies to public and private sector corruption and contains no facilitating payments exception. Violations of any such laws or regulations could result in substantial civil or criminal fines or sanctions. In addition, as we continue to farm in to exploration opportunities with new partners in new geographical locations, the risk of actual or alleged violation increases. Actual or alleged violations could damage our reputation, be expensive to defend, and impair our ability to do business. Mergers of businesses often require the approval of certain government or regulatory agencies and such approval could contain terms, conditions, or restrictions that would be detrimental to our business after a merger. US antitrust laws require waiting periods and even after completion of a merger, governmental authorities could seek to block or challenge a merger as they deem necessary or desirable in the public interest. We have merged with or acquired other companies in the past. Prevention of a merger by antitrust laws could impair our ability to do business. Indebtedness may limit our liquidity and financial flexibility. As of December 31, 2011, we had $4.5 billion of debt, of which $369 million is due within 12 months. Our indebtedness represented 38% of our total book capitalization (sum of debt plus shareholders equity) at December 31, 2011. Our indebtedness affects our operations in several ways, including the following: a portion of our cash flows from operating activities must be used to service our indebtedness and is not available for other purposes; we may be at a competitive disadvantage as compared to similar companies that have less debt; a covenant contained in our Credit Agreement provides that our total debt to capitalization ratio (as defined) will not exceed 65% at any time, which may limit our ability to borrow additional funds, thereby affecting our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in the economy and in our industry; 34 Table of Contents additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate or other purposes may have higher costs and more restrictive covenants; changes in the credit ratings of our debt may negatively affect the cost, terms, conditions and or availability of future financing, and lower ratings will increase the interest rate and fees we pay on our revolving credit facility; and we may be more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions. We may incur additional debt in order to fund our exploration, development and acquisition activities. A higher level of indebtedness increases the risk that our financial flexibility may deteriorate and we may default on our debt obligations. Our ability to meet our debt obligations and service our debt depends on future performance. General economic conditions, crude oil and natural gas prices and financial, business and other factors will affect our operations and our future performance. Many of these factors are beyond our control and we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to pay the interest on our debt, and future working capital, borrowings and equity financing may not be available to pay or refinance such debt. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 12. Long Term Debt. Our operations may be adversely affected by the European debt crisis. During 2011, the long term structural deficits in numerous European nations coupled with the deterioration of the economic outlook led the weaker nations to a liquidity and solvency crisis. Eurozone leaders have made numerous attempts to solve this debt crisis; but, to date a sustainable long term solution has not been implemented and much uncertainty remains. The crisis has had a negative impact on major European banks which historically were significant providers of credit to the energy sector, globally and in the US. On January 13, 2012, nine European nations had their credit ratings downgraded by Standard and Poors by at least one notch. Failure to successfully resolve the debt crisis could lead to significant losses for debt holders including major European banks and investors triggering additional capital requirements. In the worst case, the crisis could lead to the voluntary exit or expulsion of certain countries from the Euro currency block and or a collapse of the Eurozone financial system. A break up of the Eurozone would be a deeply disruptive global economic event. The ongoing crisis continues to have a negative impact on the European economy. A prolonged downturn could disrupt the current US recovery and weaken global trade, hamper key emerging markets such as China and India, and result in another global recession with reduced demand and lower prices for the oil and gas we produce. A Eurozone debt crisis could have the following impacts, among others: disruption of the Euro currency system and or changes in currency regimes; disruption of the payment and settlement system; severe inflation due to currency depreciation; loss of access to energy markets; sovereign and corporate defaults on euro denominated debt; failures of banks or financial systems or reduced ability of banks to lend due to higher funding costs; devaluation of assets; and regional economic recession which could spread globally. The economic developments mentioned above could have a significant negative impact on our earnings, cash flows, access to capital, liquidity and financial position. Offshore development involves significant financial risks. We have ongoing major development projects in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, offshore West Africa and offshore Eastern Mediterranean. In addition, we are conducting offshore exploration activities in these and other international locations. In certain areas or at certain times, there may be limited availability of suitable drilling rigs, drilling equipment, support vessels, and qualified operating personnel. Deepwater drilling rigs are typically subject to long term contracts. In addition, frontier areas may lack the physical and oilfield service infrastructure necessary for production and transportation. As a result, development of an offshore discovery, such as Gunflint, Alen, Tamar, or Leviathan, may be a lengthy process and require substantial capital investment. Difficulty and delays in consistently obtaining drilling rigs and other equipment and services at acceptable rates may lead to project delay, increased costs, inability to meet delivery requirements, and or inability to forecast production, which could prevent the realization of our targeted return on capital or lead to unexpected future losses. Deepwater frontier areas, especially in international locations, may lack the equipment and services necessary for rapid subsea intervention, containment, capture and shut in capacity in the case of a well accident or spill. Spill containment and cleanup activities are costly. In addition, the resulting regulatory costs, civil or criminal fines or sanctions, results of third party lawsuits, as well as associated legal and support expenses, including costs to address negative publicity about us, could well exceed the actual costs of containment and cleanup. As a result, a well spill or accident could result in substantial liabilities for us, and have a significant negative impact on our earnings, cash flows, liquidity and financial position. 35 Table of Contents We are exposed to counterparty credit risk as a result of our receivables, hedging transactions and cash investments. We are exposed to risk of financial loss from trade, joint venture, and other receivables. We sell our crude oil, natural gas and NGLs to a variety of purchasers. In addition, we are the operator on a majority of our large joint venture development projects. As operator of the joint ventures, we pay joint venture expenses and make cash calls on our nonoperating partners for their respective shares of joint venture costs. These projects are capital cost intensive and, in some cases, a nonoperating partner may experience a delay in obtaining financing for its share of the joint venture costs. For example our partners in the Eastern Mediterranean must obtain financing for their share of significant development expenditures at Tamar and Leviathan, which potentially includes an LNG project and or major underwater pipeline, and offshore Cyprus. In addition, some of our purchasers and joint venture partners are not as creditworthy as we are and may experience credit downgrades or liquidity problems that may hinder their ability to obtain financing. Counterparty liquidity problems could result in a delay in our receiving proceeds from commodity sales or reimbursement of joint venture costs. Credit enhancements have been obtained from some parties in the way of parental guarantees or letters of credit, including our largest crude oil purchaser; however, not all of our trade credit is protected through guarantees or credit support. Nonperformance by a trade creditor or joint venture partner could result in significant financial losses. Our hedging transactions expose us to risk of financial loss if a counterparty fails to perform under a derivative contract. During periods of falling commodity prices, our commodity derivative receivable positions increase, which increases our counterparty credit exposure. We conduct our hedging activities with a diverse group of highly rated major banks and market participants, and we monitor and manage our level of financial exposure. We use master agreements which allow us, in the event of default, to elect early termination of all contracts with the defaulting counterparty. If we choose to elect early termination, all asset and liability positions with the defaulting counterparty would be net settled at the time of election. Net settlement refers to a process by which all transactions between counterparties are resolved into a single amount owed by one party to the other. We had almost $1.5 billion in cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2011, a majority of which was invested in money market funds and short term deposits with major financial institutions. We monitor the creditworthiness of the banks and financial institutions with which we invest and review the securities underlying our investment accounts. However, we are unable to predict sudden changes in solvency of our financial institutions. We monitor the creditworthiness of our trade creditors, joint venture partners, hedging counterparties and financial institutions on an ongoing basis. However, if one of them were to experience a sudden change in liquidity, it could impair their ability to perform under the terms of our contracts. We are unable to predict sudden changes in creditworthiness or ability to perform. Even if we do accurately predict sudden changes, our ability to negate the risk may be limited and we could incur significant financial losses. Commodity and interest rate hedging transactions may limit our potential gains. In order to reduce the impact of commodity price uncertainty and increase cash flow predictability relating to the marketing of our crude oil and natural gas, we enter into crude oil and natural gas price hedging arrangements with respect to a portion of our expected production. Our hedges, consisting of a series of derivative instrument contracts, are limited in duration, usually for periods of one to three years. While intended to reduce the effects of volatile crude oil and natural gas prices, such transactions may limit our potential gains if crude oil and natural gas prices rise over the price established by the arrangements. Global commodity prices fluctuated significantly in 2011. Such volatility challenges our ability to forecast and, as a result, it may become more difficult to manage our hedging program. In trying to manage our exposure to commodity price risk, we may end up hedging too much or too little, depending upon how our crude oil or natural gas volumes and our production mix fluctuate in the future. In addition, hedging transactions may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which our production is less than expected; there is a widening of price basis differentials between delivery points for our production and the delivery point assumed in the hedge arrangement; the counterparties to our futures contracts fail to perform under the contracts; or a sudden unexpected event materially impacts crude oil or natural gas prices. We use interest rate derivative instruments to minimize the impact of interest rate fluctuations associated with anticipated debt issuances. Interest rates are also variable and we may also end up hedging too much or too little when we attempt to effectively fix cash flows related to interest payments on an anticipated debt issuance. We cannot assure that our hedging transactions will reduce the risk or minimize the effect of volatility in crude oil or natural gas prices or interest rates. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 10. Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities. 36 Table of Contents The insurance we carry is insufficient to cover all of the risks we face, which could result in significant financial exposure. Exploration for and production of crude oil and natural gas can be hazardous, involving natural disasters and other unfortuitous events such as blowouts, well cratering, fire and explosion and loss of well control which can result in damage to or destruction of wells or production facilities, injury to persons, loss of life, or damage to property and the environment. Exploration and production activities are also subject to risk from political developments such as terrorist acts, piracy, civil disturbances, war, expropriation or nationalization of assets, which can cause loss of or damage to our property. As is customary with industry practices, we maintain insurance against many, but not all, potential perils confronting our operations and in coverage amounts and deductible levels that we believe to be economic. Consistent with that profile, our insurance program is structured to provide us financial protection from unfavorable loss severity resulting from damages to or the loss of physical assets or loss of human life, liability claims of third parties, and business interruption (loss of production) attributed to certain assets and including such occurrences as well blowouts and resulting oil spills, at a level that balances cost of insurance with our assessment of risk and our ability to achieve a reasonable rate of return on our investments. Although we believe the coverages and amounts of insurance carried are adequate and consistent with industry practice, we do not have insurance protection against all the risks we face, because we chose not to insure certain risks, insurance is not available at a level that balances the cost of insurance and our desired rates of return, or actual losses exceed coverage limits. We regularly review our risks of loss and the cost and availability of insurance and revise our insurance program accordingly. We expect the future availability and cost of insurance to be impacted by such events as the 2011 earthquake and subsequent tsunami in Japan and the 2010 Deepwater Horizon Incident. Impacts could include: tighter underwriting standards, limitations on scope and amount of coverage, and higher premiums, and will depend, in part, on future changes in laws and regulations regarding exploration and production activities in the Gulf of Mexico and other areas in which we operate, including possible increases in liability caps for claims of damages from oil spills. We will continue to monitor the legislative and regulatory response to the Deepwater Horizon Incident and its impact on the insurance market and our overall risk profile, and adjust our risk and insurance program to provide protection, at a level that we can afford considering the cost of insurance and our desired rates of return, against disruption to our operations and cash flows. If an event occurs that is not covered by insurance or not fully protected by insured limits, it could have a significant adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. See Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Risk and Insurance Program. Failure to fund continued capital expenditures could adversely affect our properties. Our exploration, development, and acquisition activities require substantial capital expenditures especially in the case of our major development projects, such as the horizontal Niobrara and Marcellus Shale drilling programs, Gunflint, Alen, Tamar, and Leviathan. In addition, our CONSOL Carried Cost Obligation requires us to pay one third of CONSOLs working interest share of certain future drilling and completion costs, up to approximately $2.1 billion, generally during periods in which average Henry Hub natural gas prices are above $4.00 per MMBtu. Major offshore projects have a long development cycle time, which means that development spending occurs for several years before the project begins producing and generating cash flow. Historically, we have funded our capital expenditures through a combination of cash flows from operations, our revolving bank credit facility, debt issuances, and occasional sales of non strategic assets. Future cash flows from operations are subject to a number of variables, such as the level of production from existing wells, prices of crude oil and natural gas, and our success in finding, developing and producing new reserves. If revenues were to decrease as a result of lower crude oil and natural gas prices or decreased production, and or our access to debt or capital were limited, we would have a reduced ability to replace our reserves, resulting in lower production over time. If our cash flows from operations are not sufficient to meet our obligations and fund our capital investment program, we may not be able to access capital markets on an economic basis to meet these requirements. If we are not able to fund our capital expenditures, our ownership interests in some properties might be reduced or forfeited as a result. See Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 2012 Capital Investment Program. Derivatives regulation included in current or proposed financial legislation and rulemaking could impede our ability to manage business and financial risks by restricting our use of derivative instruments as hedges against fluctuating commodity prices and interest rates. The Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd Frank Act), which was passed by Congress and signed into law in July 2010, contains significant derivatives regulation, including a requirement that certain transactions be cleared on exchanges and a requirement to post cash collateral (commonly referred to as margin) for such transactions. The Act provides for a potential exception from these clearing and cash collateral requirements for commercial end users, such as us, and it includes a number of defined terms that will be used in determining how this exception applies to particular derivative transactions and the parties to those transactions. The Act requires the Commodities Futures and Trading Commission (CFTC) to promulgate rules to define these terms, and final definitions will determine which entities will face additional requirements for clearing, trading and posting of margin. However, the process is incomplete and we are unsure what the final definitions will be or how these definitions will apply to us. 37 Table of Contents We use crude oil and natural gas derivative instruments with respect to a portion of our expected production in order to reduce the impact of commodity price uncertainty and enhance the predictability of cash flows relating to the marketing of our production and in support of our capital investment program. We use interest rate derivative instruments to minimize the impact of interest rate fluctuations associated with anticipated debt issuances. As commodity prices increase or interest rates decrease, our derivative liability positions increase; however, given our current investment grade status, none of our current derivative contracts require the posting of margin or similar cash collateral when there are changes in the underlying commodity prices or interest rates that are referred to in these contracts. Depending on the rules and definitions adopted by the CFTC, we could be required to post significant amounts of cash collateral with our dealer counterparties for our derivative transactions. A sudden, unexpected margin call triggered by rising commodity prices or falling interest rates would have an immediate negative impact on our business plan, forcing us to divert capital from exploration, development and production activities. Requirements to post cash collateral could not only cause significant liquidity issues by reducing our flexibility in using our cash and other sources of funds such as our credit facility, but could also cause us to incur additional debt. In addition, a requirement for our counterparties to post cash collateral would likely result in additional costs being passed on to us, thereby decreasing the effectiveness of our hedges and our profitability. In addition, the final CFTC rules may also require the counterparties to our derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivative activities to a separate entity, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparty. Increased banking regulation could result in reduced access to traditional sources of funding and limit our growth. In response to the global economic crisis of 2008, banking regulation has increased. New regulation includes the Basel III rules issued by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and the Final Report of the UKs Independent Commission on Banking (also known as the Vickers Report). These, and other potential regulations being considered by governing bodies in the US and other countries, are expected to impact the amount of capital required to be held by banks and the nature of such capital. As a result, traditional lending practices could change, resulting in more restricted access to funds or reduced availability of funds at rates and terms we consider to be economic. Increased regulation could also negatively impact the project finance market, even for investment grade companies such as we are, and reduce our ability to obtain funding for the capital requirements of future major development projects, such as a potential LNG project. Inability of us and or our partners to obtain financing could result in delay or cancellation of future development projects, thus limiting our growth and future cash flows. Slower global economic growth rates may materially adversely impact our operating results and financial position. The recovery from the global economic crisis of 2008 and resulting recession has been slow and uneven. Market volatility and reduced consumer demand have increased economic uncertainty, and the current global economic growth rate is slower than what was experienced in the years leading up to the crisis. A significant number of developed countries are constrained by long term structural government budget deficits and international financial markets and credit rating agencies are pressing for budgetary reform and discipline. This need for fiscal discipline is balanced by calls for continuing government stimulus and social spending as a result of the impacts of the global economic crisis. As major countries implement government fiscal reform, such measures if they are undertaken too rapidly, could further undermine economic recovery, reducing demand and slowing growth. Impacts of the crisis could spread to China and other emerging markets, which have fueled global economic development in recent years, slowing their growth rates, reducing demand, and resulting in further drag on the global economy. Global economic growth drives demand for energy from all sources, including fossil fuels. A lower future economic growth rate is likely to result in decreased demand growth for our crude oil and natural gas production. A decrease in demand, notwithstanding impacts from other factors, could potentially result in lower commodity prices, which would reduce our cash flows from operations, our profitability and our liquidity and financial position. We face various risks associated with current global populist movements. During 2011, due in part to the upheaval and uncertainty caused by global economic events including the financial crisis and resulting recession that began in 2008, higher unemployment, and government austerity measures, populist movements have appeared worldwide. Populist movements are directed against perceived economic and social inequality. For example, in 2011, the Occupy Movement, originally directed against Wall Street in New York City, spread to other cities in the US and multiple countries. The Occupy Movement generally is anti capitalism and anti business and has targeted global corporations including financial institutions. During 2011, demonstrators picketed at two ports on the US West Coast, shutting down shipping terminals for up to 24 hours in support of union workers. In many situations, social media channels have been used to organize protestors quickly, making it more difficult to fully prepare for protest activities. Populist activities could result in the following: increased regulation of our business; increased regulation of the banking industry; 38 Table of Contents increased corporate income taxes; and reduced access to shipping or other transportation services. Our need to incur costs associated with responding to these initiatives or complying with any resulting new legal or regulatory requirements resulting from these activities that are substantial and not adequately provided for, could increase our costs of doing business, reduce our financial flexibility and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face various risks associated with the trend toward increased anti development activity. Opposition toward oil and gas drilling and development activity has been growing globally and is particularly pronounced in certain countries in the OECD, including the US, the UK and Israel. Companies in the oil and gas industry, such as us, are often the target of activist efforts from both individuals and non governmental organizations regarding safety, human rights, environmental compliance and business practices. Anti development activists are working to, among other things, reduce access to federal and state government lands, delay or cancel certain projects such as offshore drilling, shale development, and pipeline construction, and limit or ban the use of hydraulic fracturing. For example, environmental activists have challenged decisions to grant air quality permits for offshore drilling and have advocated for increased regulations on shale drilling and hydraulic fracturing in the US. In addition, the use of social media channels can be used to cause rapid, widespread reputational harm. Future activist efforts could result in the following: delay or denial of drilling permits; shortening of lease terms or reduction in lease size; restrictions on installation or operation of gathering or processing facilities; restrictions on the use of certain operating practices, such as hydraulic fracturing; reduced access to water supplies or restrictions on water disposal; limited access or damage to or destruction of our property; legal challenges or lawsuits; increased regulation of our business; damaging publicity about us; increased costs of doing business; reduction in demand for our products; and other adverse effects on our ability to develop our properties and expand production. Our need to incur costs associated with responding to these initiatives or complying with any resulting new legal or regulatory requirements resulting from these activities that are substantial and not adequately provided for, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face significant competition and many of our competitors have resources in excess of our available resources. We operate in the highly competitive areas of crude oil and natural gas exploration, exploitation, acquisition and production. We face intense competition from: large multi national, integrated oil companies; state controlled national oil companies; US independent oil and gas companies; service companies engaging in exploration and production activities; and private oil and gas equity funds. We face competition in a number of areas such as: seeking to acquire desirable producing properties or new leases for future exploration; marketing our crude oil and natural gas production; seeking to acquire the equipment and expertise necessary to operate and develop properties; and attracting and retaining employees with certain skills. Many of our competitors have financial and other resources substantially in excess of those available to us. Such companies may be able to pay more for seismic and lease rights on crude oil and natural gas properties and exploratory prospects and to define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or human resources permit. This highly competitive environment could have an adverse impact on our business. 39 Table of Contents Our operations may be adversely affected by changes in the fiscal regimes and government policies and regulation of oil and gas development in the countries in which we operate. Fiscal regimes impact oil and gas companies through laws and regulations governing royalties, taxes, resource access, or level of government participation in oil and gas projects. We operate in the US and other countries whose fiscal regimes may change over time. For example, in 2011 in the UK and Israel, we witnessed higher tax rates applicable to our operations. Changes in fiscal regimes result in an increase or decrease in the amount of government take, and a corresponding decrease or increase in the revenues of an oil and gas company operating in that particular country. Many countries are currently experiencing fiscal problems, sustained structural government budget deficits and lower tax revenues triggered by the lingering effects of the global economic crisis of 2008, associated recession and current slower economic growth rates. Higher unemployment and slower growth rates, coupled with a reduced tax base, have resulted in reduced government revenues, while government expenditures continue to grow due to the costs of entitlements, subsidies and economic stimulus programs. Many countries have generated significant budget deficits and sovereign debt levels with some approaching insolvency. Demands on certain governments to undertake austerity measures in response to the European debt crisis have resulted in increased social unrest. Due to pressures from financial markets, local constituents as well as the OECD to address these negative fiscal situations and initiate deficit reduction measures, many governments are seeking additional revenue sources, including increases in government take from oil and gas projects. For example, the American Jobs Act of 2011 (American Jobs Act), proposed by the President of the United States, contains various measures, including tax increases and other revenue raising proposals, designed to reduce the federal deficit by $3 trillion. If enacted as proposed, these measures would increase the tax expense on oil and gas companies through: the repeal of percentage depletion for oil and natural gas properties, the deferral of expensing intangible drilling and development costs, the inability to expense costs of certain domestic production activities, and a lengthening of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. It is likely that some of these proposals to increase taxes on the oil and gas industry will continue to be reviewed by the US Congress in future years. In Israel, the Interministerial Committee to Examine Government Policy on Israels Natural Gas Economy has been charged with the task of proposing a government policy for developing the natural gas economy in Israel. Objectives include ensuring energy security for the economy, encouraging competition among various sectors in the local economy, and generating economic and political benefits for Israel. Among other things, the Interministerial Committee will examine the best policy for safeguarding reserves to provide for local consumption and for exporting natural gas. The Interministerial Committee is expected to present its recommendations by February 29, 2012. We are monitoring the activities of the Interministerial Committee to assess the possible impact any recommendations could have on our business. Certain change in Israels market, fiscal, and or regulatory regimes occurring as a result of Interministerial Committee recommendations could delay or reduce the profitability of our Tamar and or Leviathan projects and render future exploration and development projects uneconomic. During 2011, the Israeli Antitrust Commissioner initiated review of the Israeli domestic gas market and participation in offshore blocks and leases. The Commissioner has publically expressed concerns regarding ownership concentration on exploration blocks and development projects and its potential impacts on a competitive natural gas price environment and end user electricity costs. We are cooperating with the Commissions review and, at this time, cannot predict the outcome. Restrictions on resource access or controls over pricing could have a negative impact on our business including reduction on future growth rates, profitability and cash flows. Changes in fiscal regimes have long term impacts on our business strategy, and uncertainty makes it more difficult to formulate capital investment programs. The implementation of new, or the modification of existing, laws or regulations impacting the amount of government take could disrupt our business plans and negatively impact our operations in the following ways, among others: restrict resource access or lease holding reduce exploration activities, which could have a long term negative impact on the quantities of proved reserves we record and inhibit future production growth; have a negative impact on the ability of us and or our partners to obtain project financing; cause delay in or cancellation of development plans, which could also have a long term negative impact on the quantities of proved reserves we record and inhibit future production growth; reduce the profitability of our projects, resulting in decreases in net income and cash flows with the potential to make future investments uneconomical; result in current projects becoming uneconomic, to the extent fiscal changes are retroactive, thereby reducing the amount of proved reserves we record and cash flows we receive, and possibly resulting in asset impairment charges; require that valuation allowances be established against deferred tax assets, with offsetting increases in income tax expense, resulting in decreases in net income; restrict our ability to compete with imported volumes of crude oil or natural gas; and or adversely affect the price of our common stock. 40 Table of Contents We are subject to increasing governmental regulations and environmental requirements that may cause us to incur substantial incremental costs. From time to time, in varying degrees, political developments and federal and state laws and regulations affect our operations. In particular, price controls, taxes and other laws relating to the crude oil and natural gas industry, changes in these laws and changes in administrative regulations have affected and in the future could affect crude oil and natural gas production, operations and economics. We cannot predict how agencies or courts will interpret existing laws and regulations or the effect these adoptions and interpretations may have on our business or financial condition. Our business is subject to laws and regulations promulgated by international, federal, state and local authorities relating to the exploration for, and the development, production and marketing of, crude oil and natural gas, as well as safety matters. Legal requirements are frequently changed and subject to interpretation and we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements or their effect on our operations. We may be required to make substantial expenditures to comply with governmental laws and regulations. Our operations are subject to complex international, federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations including, for example, in the case of federal laws, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, as amended, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, as amended, the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act and the Occupational Safety and Health Act. Environmental laws and regulations change frequently and the implementation of new, or the modification of existing, laws or regulations could negatively impact our operations. The discharge of natural gas, crude oil, or other pollutants into the air, soil or water may give rise to substantial liabilities on our part to government agencies and third parties and may require us to incur substantial costs of remediation. In addition, we may incur costs and penalties in addressing regulatory agency procedures involving instances of possible non compliance. See Items 1. and 2. Business and Properties Regulations. Federal or state hydraulic fracturing legislation could increase our costs or restrict our access to oil and gas reserves. Hydraulic fracturing using fluids other than diesel is currently exempt from regulation under the federal Safe Drinking Water Act, but opponents of hydraulic fracturing have called for further study of the techniques environmental effects and, in some cases, a moratorium on the use of the technique. Several proposals have been submitted to Congress that, if implemented, would subject all hydraulic fracturing to regulation under the Safe Drinking Water Act. Further, the EPAs Office of Research and Development (ORD) is conducting a scientific study to investigate the possible relationships between hydraulic fracturing and drinking water. The ORD expects to have the initial study results available by late 2012. Several states are considering legislation to regulate hydraulic fracturing practices, including restrictions on its use in environmentally sensitive areas. Some municipalities have significantly limited or prohibited drilling activities, or are considering doing so. Although it is not possible at this time to predict the final outcome of the ORDs study or the requirements of any additional federal or state legislation or regulation regarding hydraulic fracturing, any new federal or state, or local restrictions on hydraulic fracturing that may be imposed in areas in which we conduct business, such as the DJ Basin or Marcellus Shale areas, could significantly increase our operating, capital and compliance costs as well as delay or halt our ability to develop oil and gas reserves. See Items 1. and 2. Business and Properties Hydraulic Fracturing. The adoption of GHG emission or other environmental legislation could result in additional operating costs, create delays in our obtaining air pollution permits for new or modified facilities, and reduce demand for the crude oil and natural gas we produce. In recent years, each house of Congress has considered legislation to address GHG emissions, such as the American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009, also known as the Waxman Markey Bill, passed by the House of Representatives, and The Clean Energy Jobs and American Power Act, or the Boxer Kerry Bill, introduced to the Senate. Future legislation could include mandatory carbon dioxide emissions goals, measures to encourage use of renewable energy over fossil based fuels, higher penalties and fines for violations of various environmental laws, or other regulations designed to curb GHG emissions. One measure considered frequently has been the establishment of a cap and trade system for restricting GHG emissions in the US. Under such system, certain sources of GHG emissions would be required to obtain GHG emission allowances corresponding to their annual emissions of GHGs. The number of emission allowances issued each year would decline as necessary to meet overall emission reduction goals. As the number of GHG emission allowances declines each year, the cost or value of allowances would be expected to escalate significantly. The EPA issued GHG monitoring and reporting regulations that went into effect January 1, 2010, and, as amended, required reporting by regulated facilities by September 30, 2011 and annually thereafter. Beyond measuring and reporting, the EPA issued an Endangerment Finding under section 202(a) of the Clean Air Act, concluding GHG pollution threatens the public health and welfare of current and future generations. The EPA has issued final regulations requiring petroleum and natural gas operators meeting a certain emissions threshold to report their GHG emissions to the EPA (Subpart W). The EPA has indicated that it will use data collected through the reporting rules to decide whether to promulgate future GHG limits. 41 Table of Contents Since approximately 62% of our total 2011 crude oil and NGL production and 48% of our total 2011 natural gas production derive from the US, any laws or regulations that may be adopted to restrict or reduce emissions of US GHGs could require us to incur additional operating costs, increase our development cycle time, and have an adverse effect on demand for the crude oil and natural gas we produce. In addition, we could be required to make significant capital expenditures to comply with new environmental legislation, which would cause us to divert capital from exploration, development and production activities. A change in US energy policy can have a significant impact on our operations and profitability. US energy policy and laws and regulations could change quickly. Currently, substantial uncertainty exists about the nature of potential rules and regulations that could impact the sources and uses of energy in the US. We design our exploration and development strategy and related capital investment programs years in advance. As a result, we are hindered in our ability to plan, invest and respond to potential changes in our business. This can result in a reduction of our cash flows and profitability to the extent we are unable to respond to sudden or significant changes in our operating environment due to changes in US energy policy. Exploration, development and production risks and natural disasters could result in liability exposure or the loss of production and revenues. Our operations are subject to hazards and risks inherent in the drilling, production and transportation of crude oil and natural gas, including: injuries and or deaths of employees, supplier personnel, or other individuals; pipeline ruptures and spills; fires; explosions, blowouts and well cratering; equipment malfunctions and or mechanical failure on high volume, high impact wells; leaks or spills occurring during the transfer of hydrocarbons from an FPSO to an oil tanker; formations with abnormal pressures and basin subsidence; release of pollutants; surface spillage of, or contamination of groundwater by, fluids used in hydraulic fracturing operations; security breaches, piracy, or terroristic acts; theft of oilfield equipment and supplies, especially in areas of increased activity such as the DJ Basin and Marcellus Shale; hurricanes which could affect our operations in areas such as the Gulf Coast and deepwater Gulf of Mexico, and cyclones, which could affect our operations offshore China; volcanoes which could affect our operations offshore Equatorial Guinea; flooding, such as occurred in Pennsylvania in 2011, which could affect our operations in low lying areas such as the Marcellus Shale; and other natural disasters. Any of these can result in loss of hydrocarbons, environmental pollution and other damage to our properties or the properties of others. A cyber incident could result in information theft, data corruption, operational disruption, and or financial loss. Businesses have become increasingly dependent on digital technologies to conduct day to day operations. At the same time, cyber incidents, including deliberate attacks or unintentional events, have increased. A cyber attack could include gaining unauthorized access to digital systems for purposes of misappropriating assets or sensitive information, corrupting data, or causing operational disruption, or result in denial of service on websites. The oil and gas industry has become increasingly dependent on digital technologies to conduct certain exploration, development and production activities. For example, software programs are used to interpret seismic data, manage drilling rigs, production equipment and gathering and transportation systems, conduct reservoir modeling and reserves estimation, and for compliance reporting. The use of mobile communication devices has increased rapidly. The complexity of the technologies needed to extract oil and gas in increasingly difficult physical environments, such as deepwater, ultra deepwater and shale, and global competition for oil and gas resources make certain information more attractive to thieves. We depend on digital technology, including information systems and related infrastructure, to process and record financial and operating data, communicate with our employees and business partners, analyze seismic and drilling information, estimate quantities of oil and gas reserves and for many other activities related to our business. Our business partners, including vendors, service providers, purchasers of our production and financial institutions, are also dependent on digital technology. Our technologies, systems, networks, and those of our business partners may become the target of cyber attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of proprietary and other information, or other disruption of our business operations. In addition, certain cyber incidents, such as surveillance, may remain undetected for an extended period. 42 Table of Contents A cyber incident involving our information systems and related infrastructure, or that of our business partners, could disrupt our business plans and negatively impact our operations in the following ways, among others: unauthorized access to seismic data, reserves information or other sensitive or proprietary information could have a negative impact on our ability to compete for oil and gas resources; data corruption, communication interruption, or other operational disruption during drilling activities could result in a dry hole cost or even drilling incidents; data corruption or operational disruption of production infrastructure could result in loss of production or accidental discharge; a cyber attack on a vendor or service provider could result in supply chain disruptions which could delay or halt one of our major projects, effectively delaying the start of cash flows from the project; a cyber attack on a third party gathering or pipeline service provider could prevent us from marketing our production, resulting in a loss of revenues; a cyber attack involving commodities exchanges or financial institutions could slow or halt commodities trading, thus preventing us from marketing our production or engaging in hedging activities, resulting in a loss of revenues; a cyber attack which halts activities at a power generation facility or refinery using natural gas as feed stock could have a significant impact on the natural gas market, resulting in reduced demand for our production, lower natural gas prices, and reduced revenues; a cyber attack on a communications network or power grid could cause operational disruption resulting in loss of revenues; and a deliberate corruption of our financial or operational data could result in events of non compliance which could lead to regulatory fines or penalties; significant business interruptions could result in expensive remediation efforts, distraction of management, damage to our reputation, or a negative impact on the price of our common stock. Although to date we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber attacks, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. Estimates of crude oil and natural gas reserves are not precise. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating crude oil and natural gas reserves and their value, including factors that are beyond our control. Reservoir engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of crude oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. In accordance with the SECs revisions to rules for oil and gas reserves reporting, which we implemented effective December 31, 2009, our reserves estimates are based on 12 month average prices; therefore, reserves quantities will change when actual prices increase or decrease. The reserves estimates depend on a number of factors and assumptions that may vary considerably from actual results, including: historical production from the area compared with production from other areas; the assumed effects of regulations by governmental agencies, including the impact of the SECs revisions to oil and gas company reserves reporting requirements; assumptions concerning future crude oil and natural gas prices; anticipated development cycle time; future development costs; future operating costs; severance and excise taxes; and workover and remedial costs. For these reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable quantities of crude oil and natural gas attributable to any particular group of properties, classifications of those reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of the future net cash flows expected from them prepared by different petroleum engineers or by the same petroleum engineers but at different times may vary substantially. Estimation of crude oil and natural gas reserves in emerging areas or areas with limited historical production, such as onshore US shale areas and offshore areas such as ultra deepwater Gulf of Mexico, the Eastern Mediterranean or West Africa, is inherently more difficult, and we may have less experience in such areas. Accordingly, reserves estimates may be subject to positive or negative revisions, and actual production, revenue and expenditures with respect to our reserves likely will vary, possibly materially, from estimates. Additionally, because some of our reserves estimates are calculated using volumetric analysis, those estimates are less reliable than the estimates based on a lengthy production history. Volumetric analysis involves estimating the volume of a reservoir based on the net feet of pay of the structure and an estimation of the area covered by the structure. In addition, realization or recognition of proved undeveloped reserves will depend on our development schedule and plans. A change in future development plans for proved undeveloped reserves could cause the discontinuation of the classification of these reserves as proved. See Items 1. and 2. Business and Properties Proved Reserves Disclosures. 43 Table of Contents Exploratory drilling may not result in the discovery of commercially productive reservoirs. We depend on exploration success to provide growth in production and reserves and are planning an active exploratory drilling program in 2012. Exploratory drilling requires significant capital investment and is not always successful. For example, we incurred dry hole expense in 2011 because the Kora 1 and Bwabe exploratory wells offshore West Africa found noncommercial quantities of hydrocarbons. Exploratory dry holes can occur because seismic data and other technologies we use to determine potential exploratory drilling locations do not allow us to know conclusively prior to drilling a well that crude oil or natural gas is present or may be produced economically. Exploratory drilling activities may be curtailed, delayed or canceled, resulting in significant exploration expense, as a result of a variety of factors, including: title problems; compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; increases in the cost of, or shortages or delays in the availability of, drilling rigs, equipment and qualified personnel; unexpected drilling conditions; pressure or other irregularities in formations; equipment failures or accidents; and adverse weather conditions. In addition, companies seeking new reserves often face more difficult environments, such as oil sands, deepwater, or ultra deepwater, and often need to develop or invest in new technologies. This increases cost as well as drilling risk. For certain capital intensive deepwater Gulf of Mexico or international projects, it may take several years to evaluate the future potential of an exploration well and make a determination of its economic viability, resulting in delays in cash flows from production start up and a lower return on our investment. Due to our level of planned exploration activity, future dry hole cost could be significant and have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows. Development drilling may not result in commercially productive quantities of oil and gas reserves. Our exploration success has provided us with a number of major development projects on which we are moving forward. We depend on these projects to provide long life, sustained cash flows after investment and attractive financial returns. However, development drilling is not always successful and the profitability of development projects may change over time. For example, in new development areas such as the Marcellus Shale, Gunflint, Tamar, Leviathan or Cyprus, available data may not allow us to completely know the extent of the reservoir or choose the best locations for drilling development wells. Therefore, a development well we drill may be a dry hole or result in noncommercial quantities of hydrocarbons. Projects in frontier areas may require the development of special technology for development drilling or well completion and we may not have the knowledge or expertise in applying new technology. Our efforts may result in a dry hole or a well that finds noncommercial quantities of hydrocarbons. Development drilling has the same legal and physical risks as exploratory drilling, described above, which can result in the drilling of a development dry hole or the incurrence of substantial development costs without a corresponding increase in proved reserves. All costs of development drilling and other development activities are capitalized, even if the activities do not result in commercially productive quantities of oil and gas reserves. This puts a property at higher risk for future impairment if commodity prices decrease or operating or development costs increase. Even if development drilling is successful and we find commercial quantities of reserves, we may encounter difficulties or delays in completing development wells. For example, in areas of high activity and demand in which we concentrate, such as the DJ Basin and the Marcellus Shale, we may experience delays in obtaining well completion rigs and services. Frontier areas may not have adequate infrastructure for gathering, processing or transportation, and production may be delayed until they are constructed. This results in a decrease in current cash flows and reduces the return on our investment. Costs of drilling, completing and operating wells are often uncertain, and cost factors can adversely affect the economic viability of a project. Even a development project with significant reserves that is currently economically viable can become uneconomic in the future if commodity prices decrease or operating or development costs increase, resulting in impairment charges and a negative impact on our results of operations. We may be unable to make attractive acquisitions, successfully integrate acquired businesses and or assets, or adjust to the effects of divestitures, causing a disruption to our business. One aspect of our business strategy calls for acquisitions of businesses and assets that complement or expand our current business, such as our Marcellus Shale acquisition in 2011 and our DJ Basin asset acquisition in 2010. This may present greater risks for us than those faced by peer companies that do not consider acquisitions as a part of their business strategy. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to identify attractive acquisition opportunities. Even if we do identify attractive opportunities, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to complete the acquisition due to capital market constraints, even if such capital is available on commercially acceptable terms. If we acquire an additional business, we could have difficulty integrating its operations, systems, management and other personnel and technology with our own, or could assume unidentified or unforeseeable liabilities, resulting in a loss of value. 44 Table of Contents We maintain an ongoing portfolio management program which includes sales of non core, non strategic assets, such as the sales of non core onshore US assets in 2010. These transactions can also result in changes in operations, systems, or management and other personnel. Organizational modifications due to acquisitions, divestitures or other portfolio management actions, or other strategic changes can alter the risk and control environments, disrupt ongoing business, distract management and employees, increase expenses and adversely affect results of operations. Even if these challenges can be dealt with successfully, we cannot provide assurance that the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, divestiture or other strategic change would be realized. We may be unable to dispose of non core, non strategic assets on financially attractive terms, resulting in reduced cash proceeds and or losses. We maintain an ongoing portfolio management program according to which we may divest non core, non strategic assets, such as our sale of certain onshore US assets in 2010. Asset divestitures can generate organizational and operational efficiencies as well as cash for use in our capital investment program or to repay outstanding debt. As a result of the Marcellus Shale acquisition, which effectively focused our US operations in three core areas, we are considering the divestiture of certain onshore US assets from our portfolio. We strive to obtain the most attractive prices for our assets. However, various factors can materially affect our ability to dispose of assets on terms acceptable to us. Such factors include current commodity prices, laws and regulations impacting oil and gas operations in the areas where the assets are located, willingness of the purchaser to assume certain liabilities such as asset retirement obligations, our willingness to indemnify buyers for certain matters, and other factors. Inability to achieve a desired price for the assets, or underestimation of amounts of retained liabilities or indemnification obligations, can result in a reduction of cash proceeds, a loss on sale due to an excess of the assets net book value over proceeds, or liabilities which must be settled in the future at amounts that are higher than we had expected. The unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, other oil field services and personnel could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans on a timely basis and within our budget. Our industry is cyclical and, from time to time, there is a shortage of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies and oilfield services. There may also be a shortage of trained and experienced personnel. During these periods, the costs of such items are substantially greater and their availability may be limited, particularly in areas of high activity and demand in which we concentrate, such as the DJ Basin, Marcellus Shale, deepwater Gulf of Mexico, and in some international locations that typically have limited availability of equipment and personnel, such as West Africa and the Eastern Mediterranean. During periods of increasing levels of industry exploration and production, such as is currently occurring in the DJ Basin and Marcellus Shale, the demand for, and cost of, drilling rigs and oilfield services increases. The recovery of global crude oil prices during 2011 is resulting in increased global exploration and production activity, thus increasing demand pressure for drilling rigs and oilfield services, which could result in sector inflation. In addition, regulatory changes, such as in response to the Deepwater Horizon Incident or related to hydraulic fracturing, may also result in reduced availability and or higher costs for these rigs and services. As a result, drilling rigs and oilfield services may not be available at rates that provide a satisfactory return on our investment. See Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Contractual Obligations. We operate in a litigious environment. We operate in the US and some other countries which have proven to be litigious environments. Most oil and gas companies, such as us, are involved in various legal proceedings, such as title, royalty, or contractual disputes, in the ordinary course of business. We defend ourselves vigorously in all such matters. Because we maintain a diversified portfolio of assets that is balanced between US and international projects, the complexity and types of legal procedures with which we may become involved may vary, and we could incur significant legal and support expenses in different jurisdictions. If we are not able to successfully defend ourselves, there could be a delay or even halt in our exploration, development or production activities or other business plans, resulting in a reduction in reserves, loss of production and reduced cash flows. Legal proceedings could result in a substantial liability. In addition, legal proceedings distract management and other personnel from their primary responsibilities. 45 Table of Contents Provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover of us. Under our Certificate of Incorporation, our Board of Directors is authorized to issue shares of our common or preferred stock without approval of our shareholders. Issuance of these shares could make it more difficult to acquire us without the approval of our Board of Directors as more shares would have to be acquired to gain control. In addition, Delaware law imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. These provisions may deter hostile takeover attempts that could result in an acquisition of us that would have been financially beneficial to our shareholders. Disclosure Regarding Forward Looking Statements This annual report on Form 10 K and the documents incorporated by reference in this report contain forward looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Forward looking statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events. These forward looking statements include, among others, the following: our growth strategies; our ability to successfully and economically explore for and develop crude oil and natural gas resources; anticipated trends in our business; our future results of operations; our liquidity and ability to finance our exploration, development, and acquisition activities; market conditions in the oil and gas industry; our ability to make and integrate acquisitions; the impact of governmental fiscal terms and or regulation, such as that involving the protection of the environment or marketing of production, as well as other regulations; and access to resources. Forward looking statements are typically identified by use of terms such as may, will, expect, believe, anticipate, estimate, intend, and similar words, although some forward looking statements may be expressed differently. These forward looking statements are made based upon managements current plans, expectations, estimates, assumptions and beliefs concerning future events impacting us and therefore involve a number of risks and uncertainties. We caution that forward looking statements are not guarantees and that actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward looking statements. You should consider carefully the statements under Item 1A. Risk Factors and other sections of this report, which describe factors that could cause our actual results to differ from those set forth in the forward looking statements. Item1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 3. Legal Proceedings During 2011, we received two Notices of Alleged Violation (NOAV) from the COGCC regarding the reporting of the presence of hydrogen sulfide to the COGCC and local government designee within certain areas of our Piceance Basin and Grover field operations. At this time, the COGCC has not established a proposed penalty for either NOAV. Given the inherent uncertainty in administrative actions of this nature, we are unable to predict the ultimate outcome of this action at this time. However, we believe that the resolution of these proceedings through settlement or adverse judgment will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 21. Commitments and Contingencies. Item 4. [Removed and Reserved] 46 Table of Contents Executive Officers The following table sets forth certain information, as of February 9, 2012, with respect to our executive officers. Name Age Position Charles D. Davidson (1) 61 Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and Director David L. Stover (2) 54 President, Chief Operating Officer Kenneth M. Fisher (3) 50 Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer Ted D. Brown (4) 56 Senior Vice President, Northern Region Rodney D. Cook (5) 54 Senior Vice President, International Susan M. Cunningham (6) 56 Senior Vice President, Exploration Arnold J. Johnson (7) 56 Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary Andrea Lee Robison (8) 53 Vice President, Human Resources and Administration (1) Charles D. Davidson was elected Chief Executive Officer of Noble Energy in October 2000 and Chairman of the Board in April 2001, also serving as President until April 2009 (at which time Mr. Stover assumed that position). Prior to October 2000, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Vastar Resources, Inc. from March 1997 to September 2000 (Chairman from April 2000) and was a Vastar Director from March 1994 to September 2000. From September 1993 to March 1997, he served as a Senior Vice President of Vastar. From 1972 to October 1993, he held various positions with ARCO. (2) David L. Stover was elected President and Chief Operating Officer of Noble Energy in April 2009. Prior thereto, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Noble Energy from August 2006 to April 2009. He served as Senior Vice President of North America and Business Development from July 2004 through July 2006, and he served as Noble Energys Vice President of Business Development from December 2002 through June 2004. Previous to his employment with Noble Energy, he was employed by BP America, Inc. as Vice President, Gulf of Mexico Shelf from September 2000 to August 2002. Prior to joining BP, Mr. Stover was employed by Vastar, as Area Manager for Gulf of Mexico Shelf from April 1999 to September 2000, and prior thereto, as Area Manager for Oklahoma/Arklatex from January 1994 to April 1999. From 1979 to 1994, he held various positions with ARCO. (3) Kenneth M. Fisher was elected Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Noble Energy in November 2009. Prior to joining Noble Energy, Mr. Fisher served as Executive Vice President of Finance for Upstream Americas for Royal Dutch Shell plc (Shell) from July 2009 to November 2009. Prior to his most recent position with Shell, Mr. Fisher served as Director of Strategy & Business Development for Shell in The Hague from August 2007 to July 2009. He served as Executive Vice President of Strategy & Portfolio for Shells downstream business in London from January 2005 to August 2007. Mr. Fisher joined Shell in August 2002 and served as Chief Financial Officer for Shell Oil Products U.S. until December 2004. As Chief Financial Officer for Shell Oil Products U.S., he was responsible for U.S. oil products finance, information technology and contracting and procurement activities. Prior to joining Shell, he held positions of increasing responsibility with General Electric Company (GE) from 1984 to 2002, including Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Aircraft Engines Services division and Director of Finance & Business Development of GEs Asia Pacific plastics business. (4) Ted D. Brown was elected a Senior Vice President of Noble Energy in April 2008 and is currently responsible for the Northern Region of our North America division. He served as Vice President, responsible for the same region, from August 2006 to April 2008 and as a vice president of that division since joining Noble Energy upon our acquisition of Patina Oil & Gas Corporation (Patina) in May 2005. He served as Senior Vice President of Patina from July 2004 to May 2005. Prior thereto he served as Director, Piceance Basin Asset along with Engineering Manager for Williams and Barrett Resources since 1993 and, before that, in various positions with Union Pacific Resources and Amoco Production Company. (5) Rodney D. Cook was elected a Senior Vice President of Noble Energy in April 2008 and is currently responsible for the International division. He served as Vice President of Noble Energy, responsible for the Southern Region of our North America division, from August 2006 to April 2008 and as a vice president of that division from May 2005 to August 2006. He served as Manager of our West Africa and Middle East Business Unit from 2002 to 2005. Prior thereto he served as Operations Manager of the International division since 1996. From 1980 to 1996 he held various positions with Noble Energy. Prior to joining Noble Energy in 1980, Mr. Cook held various positions with Texas Pacific Oil. 47 Table of Contents (6) Susan M. Cunningham was elected a Senior Vice President of Noble Energy in April 2001 and is currently responsible for our world wide exploration. Prior to joining Noble Energy, Ms. Cunningham was Texacos Vice President of worldwide exploration from April 2000 to March 2001. From 1997 through 1999, she was employed by Statoil, beginning in 1997 as Exploration Manager for deepwater Gulf of Mexico, appointed a Vice President in 1998 and responsible, in 1999, for Statoils West Africa exploration efforts. She joined Amoco Canada in 1980 as a geologist and held various exploration and development positions with Amoco Production Company until 1997. (7) Arnold J. Johnson was elected Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Noble Energy in July 2008. Prior thereto, he served as Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Noble Energy since February 2004. He served as Associate General Counsel and Assistant Secretary of Noble Energy from January 2001 through January 2004. Previous to his employment with Noble Energy, he served as Senior Counsel for BP America, Inc. from October 2000 to January 2001. Mr. Johnson held several positions as an attorney for Vastar and ARCO from March 1989 through September 2000, most recently as Assistant General Counsel and Assistant Secretary of Vastar from 1997 through 2000. From 1980 to March 1989, he held various positions with ARCO. (8) Andrea Lee Robison was elected a Vice President of Noble Energy in November 2007 and is responsible for Human Resources and Administration. Prior thereto, she served as Director of Human Resources from May 2002 through October 2007. Prior to joining us, Ms. Robison was Manager of Human Resources for the Gulf of Mexico Shelf for BP America, Inc. from September 2000 through April 2002. Prior to her employment at BP, she served as HR Director at Vastar from 1997 through September 2000, and Compensation Consultant from January 1994 through 1996. From 1980 through 1993, she held various positions with ARCO. 48 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Common Stock Our common stock, $3.33 1/3 par value, is listed and traded on the NYSE under the symbol NBL. The declaration and payment of dividends are at the discretion of our Board of Directors and the amount thereof will depend on our results of operations, financial condition, contractual restrictions, cash requirements, future prospects and other factors deemed relevant by the Board of Directors. Stock Prices and Dividends by Quarters The high and low sales price per share of our common stock on the NYSE and quarterly dividends paid per share were as follows: High Low Dividends Per Share 2010 First Quarter $ 79.19 $ 68.38 $ 0.18 Second Quarter 81.50 56.23 0.18 Third Quarter 77.63 59.22 0.18 Fourth Quarter 89.00 75.07 0.18 2011 First Quarter $ 98.99 $ 81.27 $ 0.18 Second Quarter 98.72 82.50 0.18 Third Quarter 101.27 69.25 0.22 Fourth Quarter 99.17 65.91 0.22 On January 24, 2012, the Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.22 per common share, which will be paid February 21, 2012 to shareholders of record on February 6, 2012. Transfer Agent and Registrar The transfer agent and registrar for our common stock is Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., 161 North Concord Exchange, South St. Paul, MN, 55075. Stockholders Profile Pursuant to the records of the transfer agent, as of January 13, 2012, the number of holders of record of our common stock was 674. Stock Repurchases The following table summarizes repurchases of our common stock occurring fourth quarter 2011. Period Total Number of Shares Purchased (1) Average Price Paid Per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs Approximate Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs (in thousands) 10/01/11 10/31/11 674 $ 81.58 11/01/11 11/30/11 3,969 95.05 12/01/11 12/31/11 679 93.04 Total 5,322 $ 93.08 (1) Stock repurchases during the period related to stock received by us from employees for the payment of withholding taxes due on shares issued under stock based compensation plans. Equity Compensation Plan Information The following table summarizes information regarding the number of shares of our common stock that are available for issuance under all of our existing equity compensation plans as of December 31, 2011. Plan Category Number of Securities to be Issued Upon Exercise of Outstanding Options, Warrants and Rights Weighted Average Exercise Price of Outstanding Options, Warrants and Rights Number of Securities Remaining Available for Future Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans (Excluding Securities Reflected in Column (a)) (a) (b) (c) Equity Compensation Plans Approved by Security Holders 6,365,816 $ 59.47 9,648,770 Equity Compensation Plans Not Approved by Security Holders Total 6,365,816 $ 59.47 9,648,770 49 Table of Contents Stock Performance Graph This graph shows our cumulative total shareholder return over the five year period from December 31, 2006 to December 31, 2011. The graph also shows the cumulative total returns for the same five year period of the S&P 500 Index, and our peer group of companies. The cumulative total return of the common stock of our peer group of companies includes the cumulative total return of our common stock. At December 31, 2011 our peer group of companies consisted of the following: Anadarko Petroleum Corp. Newfield Exploration Company Apache Corp. Noble Energy, Inc. Cabot Oil & Gas Corp. Pioneer Natural Resources Company Chesapeake Energy Corp. Plains Exploration and Production Company Devon Energy Corp. Range Resources Corp. EOG Resources, Inc. Southwestern Energy Company Forest Oil Corp. Talisman Energy Inc. Murphy Oil Corp. The comparison assumes $100 was invested on December 31, 2006 in our common stock, in the S&P 500 Index and in our peer group of companies and assumes that all of the dividends were reinvested. Year Ended December 31, 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Noble Energy, Inc. $ 100.00 $ 163.17 $ 102.00 $ 149.38 $ 182.30 $ 201.70 S&P 500 100.00 105.49 66.46 84.05 96.71 98.75 Peer Group 100.00 142.74 89.81 133.21 150.62 133.60 50 Table of Contents Item 6. Selected Financial Data Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 (millions, except as noted) Revenues and Income (Loss) Total Revenues $ 3,763 $ 3,022 $ 2,313 $ 3,901 $ 3,272 Net Income (Loss) 453 725 (131 ) 1,350 944 Per Share Data Earnings (Loss) Per Share Basic $ 2.57 $ 4.15 $ (0.75 ) $ 7.83 $ 5.52 Diluted 2.54 4.10 (0.75 ) 7.58 5.45 Cash Dividends Per Share 0.800 0.720 0.720 0.660 0.435 Year End Stock Price Per Share 94.39 86.08 71.22 49.22 80.66 Weighted Average Shares Outstanding Basic 176 175 173 173 171 Diluted 179 177 173 176 173 Cash Flows Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities $ 2,170 $ 1,946 $ 1,508 $ 2,285 $ 2,017 Additions to Property, Plant and Equipment 2,594 1,885 1,268 1,971 1,414 Acquisitions 527 458 292 Proceeds from Divestitures 77 564 3 131 9 Financial Position Cash and Cash Equivalents $ 1,455 $ 1,081 $ 1,014 $ 1,140 $ 660 Commodity Derivative Instruments Current 10 62 13 437 15 Property, Plant, and Equipment, Net 12,782 10,264 8,916 9,004 7,945 Goodwill 696 696 758 759 761 Total Assets 16,444 13,282 11,807 12,384 10,831 Long term Obligations Long Term Debt 4,100 2,272 2,037 2,241 1,851 Deferred Income Taxes 2,059 2,110 2,076 2,174 1,984 Commodity Derivative Instruments 7 51 17 2 83 Asset Retirement Obligations 344 208 181 184 131 Other 401 371 349 300 337 Shareholders Equity 7,265 6,848 6,157 6,309 4,809 Operations Information Consolidated Crude Oil Sales (MBbl/d) 64 64 62 69 77 Average Realized Price ($/Bbl) (1) $ 100.93 $ 76.46 $ 55.76 $ 82.60 $ 60.61 Consolidated Natural Gas Sales (MMcf/d) 811 787 781 767 687 Average Realized Price ($/Mcf) (1) $ 3.04 $ 3.00 $ 2.54 $ 5.04 $ 5.26 Consolidated NGL Sales (MBbl/d) (2) 15 14 10 9 Average Realized Price ($/Bbl) $ 48.35 $ 41.21 $ 27.96 $ 50.15 $ Proved Reserves Crude Oil, Condensate and NGL Reserves (MMBbls) 369 365 336 311 329 Natural Gas Reserves (Bcf) 5,043 4,361 2,904 3,315 3,307 Total Reserves (MMBoe) 1,209 1,092 820 864 880 Number of Employees 1,876 1,772 1,630 1,571 1,398 (1) Prices through 2010 include effects of oil and gas hedging activities. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 10. Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities. (2) Prior to 2008, US NGL sales volumes were included with natural gas volumes. Effective in 2008 we began reporting US NGLs separately where we have the right to take title, which lowered the comparative natural gas sales volumes for 2008. 51 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is intended to provide a narrative about our business from the perspective of our management. Our MD&A is presented in the following major sections: Executive Overview; Operating Outlook; Results of Operations; Proved Reserves; Liquidity and Capital Resources; and Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. The accompanying consolidated financial statements, including the notes thereto, contain detailed information that should be read in conjunction with our MD&A. EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW We are a worldwide producer of crude oil and natural gas. Our strategy is to achieve growth in value and cash flows through the continued expansion of a high quality portfolio of producing assets that is balanced and diversified among US and international projects, crude oil and natural gas, and near, medium and long term opportunities. Strategy We seek to achieve growth in value and cash flows through exploration success and the development of a high quality, diverse portfolio of assets that is balanced between US and international projects, while maintaining a strong balance sheet and ample liquidity levels. We primarily focus on organic growth from exploration and development drilling, and we augment that with a periodic, opportunistic new business development (mergers and acquisition) capability. We manage the portfolio for high returns and to ensure geographic portfolio balance. We actively manage our portfolio with periodic divestments to high grade the portfolio. We focus on basins or plays where we have strategic competitive advantage and which we believe generate superior returns. Core operating areas are the onshore US (DJ Basin and Marcellus Shale), deepwater Gulf of Mexico, offshore West Africa and offshore Eastern Mediterranean. As a result of our continued exploration success, we are focused on the execution of a significant portfolio of major development projects that will deliver visible growth including, among others: the horizontal Niobrara in the DJ Basin and the Marcellus Shale, onshore US; Galapagos and Gunflint in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico; Tamar and Leviathan, offshore Israel; Aseng (which commenced oil production in November 2011), Alen and Diega, offshore West Africa. Our major development projects typically offer long life, sustained cash flows after investment and attractive financial returns. We maintain a balanced portfolio between US and international assets and strive to maintain a balanced geographic and political risk profile. We also maintain a geographical diversity of production mix among crude oil, US natural gas, and international natural gas. Current Business and Industry Environment The global economy continued to gain momentum during 2011 with the US ending in a slightly better position than the previous year. China and other emerging markets continue to maintain solid growth rates and contribute strongly to global commodity demand. However, the European economy remains threatened by the Eurozone debt crisis and its effects on economic growth rates. The global crude oil market has generally been robust driven by increased demand in developing countries coupled with continued threats to the global crude oil supply system and shrinking OPEC spare production capacity supporting oil price levels. The global LNG market has strengthened after the impact of the tsunami on Japans nuclear plants and the announced phase out of German nuclear generation capacity. In the US, the application of horizontal drilling technology significantly changed the natural gas markets, resulting in an oversupply of natural gas and significantly lower Henry Hub spot and forward prices. Horizontal technology has also been applied to liquids (oil and natural gas liquids) plays and has yielded significant growth in onshore US liquids production. Crude oil transportation constraints in the US resulted in a disparity between WTI and Brent pricing, and Brent pricing remains somewhat higher than WTI. Third party service costs face some inflationary pressures in response to robust US drilling activity. 2011 Results Despite the uncertain economic situation, 2011 was another strong year for Noble Energy as we continued to lay the foundation for significant future growth from our major development projects while maintaining our strong balance sheet and financial flexibility. Our strategic entry into the Marcellus Shale Joint Venture strengthens and rebalances our portfolio, providing a new, material growth area which we believe will contribute to future reserves, production, and cash flows. The Marcellus Shale is a low cost natural gas play located near the nations largest natural gas market. The innovative structure of the joint venture, with a carried cost arrangement that is suspended when natural gas prices decline to certain predetermined levels, ensures economic alignment with our partner at low natural gas prices. In the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, we contributed to leading our industry back to work, receiving the first post moratorium drilling permit, and had an exploration success at our Santiago prospect. We are working to strengthen the industry and our company by continuing to enhance safety processes and spill response through the development of a Safety and Environmental Management System (SEMS) in response to new workplace safety rules. We also have a membership in Helix Energy Solutions Group, an oil spill containment response group. 52 Table of Contents In Equatorial Guinea we brought our Aseng major development project online earlier than scheduled and 13% under budget, significantly adding to our liquids production, which is sold at prices linked to Brent. We continued to make progress on our major development project Alen, continued exploration activities offshore Cameroon, and farmed into a significant acreage exploration position in Senegal/Guinea Bissau. In the Eastern Mediterranean, sales volumes increased as we continued to support the Israeli market as it experienced interruptions in Egyptian gas supplies. We made significant progress on our Tamar project, which remains on schedule and on budget with first sales targeted for second quarter 2013. We continued appraisal work at the Leviathan discovery and made another significant natural gas discovery offshore Cyprus. Our 2011 financial results included the following: net income of $453 million as compared with $725 million for 2010; gain on divestitures of $25 million as compared with $113 million for 2010; asset impairment charges of $759 million as compared with $144 million for 2010; gain on commodity derivative instruments of $42 million (including unrealized mark to market loss of $22 million) as compared with $157 million gain on commodity derivative instruments (including unrealized mark to market gain of $70 million) for 2010; diluted earnings per share of $2.54, as compared with $4.10 for 2010; cash flows provided by operating activities of $2.2 billion, as compared with $1.9 billion in 2010; capital spending on a cash basis of $3.2 billion (including $596 million for the Marcellus Shale asset acquisition) as compared with $2.3 billion in 2010 (including $458 million for the DJ Basin acquisition); issuance of $850 million of 30 year unsecured notes and $1 billion of 10 year unsecured notes; new credit agreement providing a $3 billion unsecured revolving credit facility (replacing our $2.1 billion credit facility); ending cash and cash equivalents balance of almost $1.5 billion at December 31, 2011, as compared with $1.1 billion at December 31, 2010; total liquidity of $4.5 billion at December 31, 2011, consisting of year end cash balance plus funds available under our credit facility, as compared with $2.8 billion at December 31, 2010; and year end ratio of debt to book capital of 38%, as compared with 25% at December 31, 2010. Significant operational highlights for 2011 included the following: Overall total sales volumes of 222 MBoe/d, a 3% increase as compared with 2010; and year end proved reserves of 1.2 BBoe, an increase of 11% from year end 2010. Onshore United States closed the Marcellus Shale Joint Venture which produced an average of 74 MMcf/d of natural gas, net to our interest, in the fourth quarter of 2011; increased DJ Basin volumes to 66 MBoe/d in the fourth quarter of 2011 with horizontal production exiting the quarter at 17 MBoe/d; drilled longest ever horizontal Niobrara well in the DJ Basin with over 9,100 foot lateral in the Wattenberg field; and drilled and completed 64 horizontal wells in the DJ Basin Niobrara formation and added a fifth rig to the program. Deepwater Gulf of Mexico announced Santiago discovery and increased the expected initial net production at the Galapagos project to over 10 MBbl/d of crude oil; and received Gunflint drilling permit. International startup of Aseng, which exited the year producing 19 MBbl/d of crude oil, net to our interest; a world class discovery offshore Cyprus; oil discovery at the Carla prospect in Block O, offshore Equatorial Guinea; sanctioned the development plan for the Noa project, offshore Israel, and drilled two development wells; natural gas sales in Israel of 173 MMcf/d, net to our interest; completed transfer of assets and exit from Ecuador; completed seismic acquisition of 3 D data offshore Nicaragua; and successfully appraised the Leviathan discovery offshore Israel. 53 Table of Contents Acquisitions and Divestitures Entry into Marcellus Shale Joint Venture On September 30, 2011, we entered an agreement with CONSOL to jointly develop oil and gas assets in the Marcellus Shale areas of southwest Pennsylvania and northwest West Virginia. The Marcellus Shale Joint Venture strengthens and rebalances our portfolio, providing a new, material growth area, which will contribute to future reserves, production, and cash flows. This transaction complements and further strengthens our US portfolio by adding a high quality asset with substantial growth potential. It significantly increases our inventory of low risk repeatable projects while exposing us to more US unconventional resources. The Marcellus Shale Joint Venture, combined with our other domestic projects in the DJ Basin and the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, provide balance to our rapidly expanding international programs. Under the terms of the agreement, we acquired 50% interests in approximately 628,000 net undeveloped acres, existing Marcellus Shale production, and existing infrastructure for approximately $1.3 billion, including post closing adjustments. Payments will be made in three annual installments, with the first installment made at closing. We will pay an additional $2.1 billion in the form of a carry of CONSOLs drilling and completion costs. The carry, which we expect to extend over approximately eight years or more, is capped at $400 million annually and suspended if average Henry Hub natural gas prices fall and remain below $4.00 per MMBtu for three consecutive months. The carry terms ensure economic alignment with our partner in periods of low natural gas prices. Initially, we will be the designated operator of the wet gas areas (areas with more condensate or liquids) and CONSOL will be the designated operator of the dry gas areas (areas with little or no condensate or liquids). As a result of this transaction, we are now focusing on three core areas within the US: the DJ Basin; the Marcellus Shale; and the deepwater Gulf of Mexico. We are also considering the divestiture of certain non core onshore US properties from our portfolio. Exit from Ecuador In 2010 the government of Ecuador terminated the Block 3 PSC (100% working interest) with our subsidiary, EDC Ecuador Ltd., as we had not negotiated a service contract on Block 3 in accordance with the terms of a newly enacted hydrocarbon law. The hydrocarbon law aimed to change current production sharing arrangements into service contracts and provided for renegotiation of certain contracts by November 23, 2010. It also allows the Ecuadorian government to nationalize oil and gas fields if a private operator does not comply with local laws. In May 2011, we transferred our assets in Ecuador to the Ecuadorian government. We received cash proceeds of $73 million for the transfer of our offshore Amistad field assets, onshore gas processing facilities, and Block 3 PSC, which was terminated by the government of Ecuador on November 25, 2010, and the assignment of the Machala Power electricity concession and its associated assets. Our net book value for the assets had been reduced due to previous impairment charges, resulting in a pre tax gain of $25 million. DJ Basin Asset Acquisition In March 2010, we acquired substantially all of the US Rocky Mountain assets of Petro Canada Resources (USA) Inc. and Suncor Energy (Natural Gas) America Inc. for a total purchase price of $498 million. The acquisition included properties located in the DJ Basin, one of our core operating areas. The acquisition added approximately 46 MMBoe of proved reserves at closing date, and approximately 10 MBoe/d to our daily production base, starting from the closing date, and will provide significant growth potential. Included in the purchase were 323,000 total net acres, nearly 183,000 of which are located in the DJ Basin. Onshore US Sale In August 2010, we closed the sale of non core assets in the Mid Continent and Illinois Basin areas for cash proceeds of $552 million and recorded a gain of $110 million. The sale included approximately 32 MMBoe of proved reserves, at closing date, and approximately 5.7 MBoe/d of production. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 3. Acquisitions and Divestitures and Note 12. Long Term Debt. Sales Volumes On a BOE basis, total sales volumes were 3% higher in 2011 as compared with 2010. Our mix of sales volumes was 39% global liquids, 32% international natural gas with long term pricing contracts, and 29% US natural gas. In the US, production was higher in the onshore areas due to record production in Wattenberg primarily due to continued horizontal Niobrara field development and the addition of the Marcellus Shale production in the fourth quarter of 2011. Additionally, international oil production was higher due to Aseng commencing production in November 2011. In Israel, there was an increase in demand for natural gas to produce electricity due to disruptions with the Egyptian imports during 2011 and warmer weather which led to a higher percentage of the demand being met by production from our properties. Commodity Price Changes and Hedging Historically, oil and gas prices have exhibited significant volatility. The liquids (crude oil) market remained relatively robust during 2011, benefiting from the continued global economic recovery and continued threats to the global oil supply system. However, the domestic natural gas market continued to weaken significantly, primarily due to an abundant supply and above average levels of gas in storage. US natural gas prices remain volatile and prices are still significantly below the prices realized in 2007 2008. See Item 6. Selected Financial Data. 54 Table of Contents To enhance the predictability of our cash flows and support our capital investment program, we have hedged a portion of our expected global crude oil and natural gas production for 2012. We use mark to market accounting for our commodity derivative instruments and recognize all gains and losses on such instruments in earnings in the period in which they occur. Derivative gains and losses included in net income include both pre tax realized gains and losses and pre tax, unrealized, non cash gains or losses which are due to the change in the mark to market value of our commodity contracts related to production in future periods. Unrealized mark to market gains or losses recognized in the current period will be realized in the future when they are cash settled in the month that the related production occurs. The amount of gain or loss actually realized may be more or less than the amount of unrealized mark to market gain or loss previously reported. The use of mark to market accounting adds volatility to our net income. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 10. Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities. Asset Impairment Charges During 2011, we recorded impairment charges of $759 million mainly related to our onshore US assets. The significant decline in spot and five year forward natural gas prices, approximately 17% over the five year forward period, during the fourth quarter of 2011 was the major triggering event for most of these impairments. Field performance issues also contributed to impairments. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 4. Asset Impairments. OPERATING OUTLOOK 2012 Outlook We remain hopeful for a continued recovery of the global economy; however, we continue to monitor the outlook for the global economy and numerous critical factors including the Chinese economic growth rates, the European debt crisis and its potential impacts on global economic growth and the banking and financial sectors, the US federal budget deficit situation, and commodity prices. We expect crude oil prices to remain at or above current levels as long as the global economic recovery continues, OPEC spare production capacity shrinks as a percentage of global oil demand and threats remain to the global crude oil supply system. Disruption to the global oil supply system could trigger volatility and price spikes with resulting economic shocks which ultimately lead to demand destruction and price declines. We also expect US natural gas prices to remain low as long as the US drilling rig count remains near current levels, storage remains at high levels, and production growth continues. Because the global economic outlook and commodity price environment are uncertain, we have built a strong liquidity position to ensure financial flexibility and planned a flexible capital spending program which will support both major project development and exploration activities in a volatile commodity price environment. See 2012 Capital Investment Program below. 2012 Production Our expected crude oil, natural gas and NGL production for 2012 may be impacted by several factors including: overall level and timing of capital expenditures which, as discussed below and dependent upon our drilling success, are expected to maintain our near term production volumes; timing of major development project completion and initial production; ongoing development activity in the Wattenberg area and horizontal drilling in the Niobrara formation in the DJ Basin; ramp up of development activity in the Marcellus Shale; natural field decline in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, Gulf Coast and Mid Continent areas of our US operations, in the North Sea and the Mari B field in Israel (See Items 1. and 2. Business and Properties Delivery Commitments.); variations in sales volumes of natural gas from the Alba field in Equatorial Guinea related to potential downtime at the methanol, LPG and or LNG plants; Israeli demand for electricity which affects demand for natural gas as fuel for power generation, market growth and competing deliveries of natural gas from Egypt and commencement of production from the Noa field and Pinnacles project (if approved by partners as expected) offshore Israel; variations in West Africa and North Sea sales volumes due to potential FPSO downtime and timing of liftings; potential hurricane related volume curtailments in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and Gulf Coast areas; potential winter storm related volume curtailments in the Rocky Mountain and or Marcellus Shale areas of our US operations; potential pipeline and processing facility capacity constraints in the Rocky Mountain and or Marcellus Shale areas of our US operations; potential drilling and or hydraulic fracturing permit delays due to future regulatory changes; potential purchases of producing properties and or divestments of non core operating assets; and potential shut in of US producing properties if storage capacity becomes unavailable. 2012 Capital Investment Program Our total capital investment program for 2012 is estimated at $3.5 billion. The capital investment program allocates approximately 51% to onshore US, 7% for deepwater Gulf of Mexico, 22% to the Eastern Mediterranean, 14% to West Africa and 6% to corporate and other. Exploration and appraisal activity within these geographic areas is expected to receive 16% of total capital. 55 Table of Contents We expect that the 2012 capital investment program will be funded from cash flows from operations, cash on hand, and borrowings under our revolving credit facility and or other financing such as an issuance of long term debt. Funding may also be provided by proceeds from divestment of non core onshore US assets. See Liquidity and Capital Resources Financing Activities. We will evaluate the level of capital spending and remain flexible throughout the year based on the following factors, among others: commodity prices, including price realizations on specific crude oil and natural gas production including the impact of NGLs; cash flows from operations; operating and development costs and possible inflationary pressures; permitting activity in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico; drilling results; property acquisitions and divestitures; availability of financing; potential legislative or regulatory changes regarding the use of hydraulic fracturing; potential changes in the fiscal regimes of the US and other countries in which we operate; and impact of new laws and regulations, including implementation of the Dodd Frank Act, on our business practices. Exploration Program We have significant future exploration potential, primarily in the onshore US, deepwater Gulf of Mexico, offshore West Africa, Eastern Mediterranean and other international areas where we hold acreage positions. As of January 2012, we have returned to drilling at the Leviathan 1 well, which was suspended during 2011, in order to evaluate additional intervals for the existence of other hydrocarbons. Results from the deeper tests, which have a low chance of success, are expected the first half of 2012. We recently resumed appraisal drilling at Gunflint in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico. In addition, we are planning further exploratory drilling in the Gulf of Mexico, offshore West Africa and in the Eastern Mediterranean. Exploration activity, particularly offshore, requires significant capital investment. We do not always encounter commercially productive reservoirs through our drilling operations and, as a result, could incur significant dry hole cost. We are planning an active exploratory drilling program in 2012. As a result, dry hole cost could be significant. Major Development Project Inventory Our current inventory of major development projects includes the horizontal Niobrara, Marcellus Shale, Galapagos, Tamar, Alen, Diega, Gunflint, Leviathan, and other West Africa gas projects. These projects will require significant capital investments. For example, total development costs for the first phase of the Tamar natural gas project are estimated at $3.0 billion ($1.1 billion for our share). As noted above, we expect to spend substantial amounts on our major development projects in 2012. We plan to fund these projects from cash flows from operations, cash on hand, and borrowings under our revolving credit facility and or other financing. We commenced oil production from the first of our major projects, Aseng, in November 2011 and ahead of the original schedule. First production from our remaining major offshore development projects is targeted to occur when Galapagos begins to produce in the second quarter of 2012, and Tamar begins to produce in second quarter 2013. Once these two major projects begin producing along with Aseng, we expect to begin generating sufficient amounts of cash flow to self fund the remaining discovered major projects investments. As operator on the majority of our development projects, we pay gross joint venture expenses and make cash calls on our nonoperating partners for their respective shares of joint venture costs. These projects are capital cost intensive and a nonoperating partner may experience a delay in obtaining financing for its share of the joint venture costs. In addition, some of our joint venture partners, including our partners in our Eastern Mediterranean projects, may not be as creditworthy as we are and may experience liquidity problems. This could result in a delay in our receiving reimbursement of joint venture costs and increases our counterparty credit risk. See Item 1A. Risk Factors Failure to effectively execute our major development projects could result in significant delays and or cost over runs, damage to our reputation, limitations on our growth and negative effects on our operating results, liquidity and financial position and we are exposed to counterparty credit risk as a result of our receivables, hedging transactions, and cash investments. Potential for Future Asset Impairments The US natural gas market remains weak. A further decrease in forward natural gas prices during 2012 could result in impairment charges. Certain of our onshore US properties have significant natural gas reserves and therefore are sensitive to declines in natural gas prices. These assets, which have a combined net book value of approximately $1.0 billion at December 31, 2011, are at risk of impairment if future NYMEX Henry Hub natural gas prices experience further decline. The cash flow model that we use to assess proved properties for impairment includes numerous assumptions, such as managements estimates of future oil and gas production, market outlook on forward commodity prices, operating and development costs, and discount rates. All inputs to the cash flow model must be evaluated at each date of estimate. However, a decrease in forward natural gas prices alone could result in an impairment of properties that are sensitive to declines in natural gas prices. A significant drop in global oil prices may also trigger impairment. See Item 1A. Risk Factors Crude oil and natural gas prices are volatile and a substantial reduction in these prices could adversely affect our results of operations and the price of our common stock. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 4. Asset Impairments. Potential Changes in Fiscal Regimes and Market Regulations Future economic and political changes in the US or other countries in which we operate could result in governments enacting additional taxes and or other market interventions, which could be detrimental to oil and gas companies. Any such changes could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 56 Table of Contents During 2011, fiscal regime changes occurred in both Israel and the UK. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 13. Income Taxes. See also Item 1A. Risk Factors Our operations may be adversely affected by changes in the fiscal regimes and government policies and regulation of oil and gas development in the countries in which we operate for a discussion of the American Jobs Act and the Israeli Interministerial Committee. Climate Change Climate change has become the subject of an important public policy debate. While climate change remains a complex issue, scientific research suggests that an increase in greenhouse gas emissions (GHGs) may pose a risk to society and the environment. During 2011, the United Nations sponsored Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, a scientific body which provides an assessment of the risk of climate change, issued its Special Report on Managing the Risks of Extreme Events and Disasters to Advance Climate Change Adaptation, in which it concluded that it is likely that climate change is fuelling extreme weather and predicted that there will be an escalation of impacts on people and economies. The oil and natural gas exploration and production industry is a source of certain GHGs, namely carbon dioxide and methane, and future restrictions on the combustion of fossil fuels or the venting of natural gas could have a significant impact on our future operations. We are actively monitoring the following climate change related issues: Impact of Legislation and Regulation The commercial risk associated with the exploration and production of fossil fuels lies in the uncertainty of government imposed climate change legislation, including cap and trade schemes, and regulations that may affect us, our suppliers, and our customers. The cost of meeting these requirements may have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and could reduce the demand for our products. Climate change legislation and regulations have been adopted by many foreign countries and states in the US; however, legislation and regulations have not been enacted in all of the foreign countries where we operate or at the federal level in the US. Due to the current global economic environment and debt crisis, many countries are facing pressure to reduce spending or implement austerity measures. This could result in the diverting of attention away from the environmental agenda as well as limited financial resources available for spending on environmental policies. The status of development of many state and federal climate change regulatory initiatives in areas where we operate makes it difficult to predict with certainty the future impact on us, including accurately estimating the related compliance costs that we may incur. The EPA issued regulations requiring monitoring and reporting of GHG emissions from petroleum and natural gas systems. This action does not require control of GHGs. However, the EPA has indicated that it will use data collected through the reporting rules to decide whether to promulgate future GHG limits. These and other US, and other international, regulations may affect our operations by potentially increasing operating costs for maintaining our facilities, compliance costs for managing new GHG regulatory programs and capital costs for installing new GHG emission controls. Impact of International Accords The Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (Protocol) went into effect in February 2005 and required all industrialized nations that ratified the Protocol to reduce or limit GHG emissions to a specified level by 2012. The US did not ratify the Protocol. In December 2011, the annual conference of parties reconvened in Durban, South Africa to continue pursuing the global accord, committing countries to cut GHG emissions. The parties, including both developed and developing countries, renewed the Protocol and committed to work on an agreement that would be legally binding on all parties, to be written by 2015 and to come into force after 2020. While no specific new international climate change accord has been adopted that would affect our operating locations, the current state of development of many initiatives makes it difficult to assess the timing or effect of any pending discussions of future accords or predict with certainty the future costs that we may incur in order to comply with future international treaties or regulations. Indirect Consequences of Regulation or Business Trends We believe there are both risks and opportunities arising from the global response to potential climate change. See Items 1. and 2. Business and Properties Regulations and the following risk factors listed in Item 1A. Risk Factors We are subject to increasing governmental regulations and environmental requirements that may cause us to incur substantial incremental costs; and The adoption of GHG emission or other environmental legislation could result in additional operating costs, create delays in our obtaining air pollution permits for new or modified facilities, and reduce demand for the crude oil and natural gas we produce. 57 Table of Contents In terms of opportunities, the regulation of GHGs and introduction of formal technology incentives, such as enhanced oil recovery, carbon sequestration and low carbon fuel standards, could benefit us in a variety of ways. First, approximately 61% of our 2011 total sales volume were natural gas. GHG emissions regulation could reduce the demand for the crude oil we produce. At the same time, the burning of natural gas produces lower levels of emissions than other readily available fossil fuels such as oil and coal. Therefore, the use of natural gas may increase should the use of other fossil fuels decrease due to GHG emissions regulation. The 2011 incident at the Fukushima nuclear plant in Japan has re opened debate about the future of nuclear power as an alternative to fossil fuels, and public concern about nuclear safety has been heightened. In response, Germany, Japan, and other nations have announced future shutdowns of nuclear plants and or moratoria on future nuclear plant construction, resulting in increased demand for alternate fuel sources, including natural gas, for power generation. Furthermore, should renewable resources, such as wind or solar power become more prevalent, natural gas fired electric plants may provide an alternative backup to maintain consistent electricity supply. Second, market based incentives for the capture and storage of carbon dioxide in underground reservoirs, particularly in oil and natural gas reservoirs, could benefit us through the potential to obtain GHG allowances or offsets from or government incentives for the sequestration of carbon dioxide. Finally, as the EPAs new GHG standards for light duty vehicles became effective in 2011, natural gas may prove to be a more attractive transportation fuel. This may increase the market demand for natural gas. Physical Impacts of Climate Change on our Costs and Operations There has been public discussion that climate change may be associated with extreme weather conditions such as more intense hurricanes, thunderstorms, tornados and snow or ice storms, as well as rising sea levels. Extreme weather conditions limit our production and increase our costs, and damage resulting from extreme weather may not be fully insured. However, at this time, we are unable to determine the extent to which climate change may lead to increased storm or weather hazards affecting our operations, particularly our offshore operations and our onshore US operations in the DJ Basin and Marcellus Shale. See Item 1A. Risk Factors The insurance we carry is insufficient to cover all of the risks we face, which could result in significant financial exposure. Recently Issued Accounting Standards Update See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 1. Summary of Significant Account Policies. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Selected financial information is as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 (millions, except per share) Total Revenues $ 3,763 $ 3,022 $ 2,313 Total Operating Expenses 3,023 2,070 2,371 Operating Income (Loss) 740 952 (58 ) Total Other (Income) Expense 25 (79 ) 206 Income (Loss) Before Income Taxes 715 1,031 (264 ) Net Income (Loss) 453 725 (131 ) Earnings (Loss) Per Share Basic $ 2.57 $ 4.15 $ (0.75 ) Diluted 2.54 4.10 (0.75 ) Factors contributing to the decrease in income before income taxes in 2011 as compared with 2010 included the following: $48 million increase in total production expense; $34 million increase in exploration expense; $82 million increase in DD&A expense; $64 million increase in general and administrative expense; $88 million decrease in net gain on asset sales; $615 million increase in asset impairment charges; and $115 million decrease in gain on commodity derivative instruments; 58 Table of Contents offset by: $741 million increase in total revenues due to higher commodity prices and higher sales volumes. Factors contributing to the increase in income (loss) before income taxes in 2010 as compared with 2009 included the following: $709 million increase in total revenues due primarily to higher commodity prices; $460 million decrease in asset impairment charges; $91 million increase in net gain on asset sales; and $157 million mark to market gain on commodity derivative instruments as opposed to a $110 million mark to market loss in 2009; offset by: $45 million increase in total production expense; $101 million increase in exploration expense; and $67 million increase in DD&A expense. See following discussion for explanation of year to year changes. Revenues Oil, Gas and NGL Sales An analysis of the factors contributing to the changes in revenues from sales of crude oil, natural gas and NGLs is as follows: Crude Oil & Condensate Natural Gas NGLs Total (millions) 2009 Sales Revenues $ 1,261 $ 701 $ 98 $ 2,060 Changes due to Increase in Sales Volumes 48 5 40 93 Increase in Sales Prices Before Hedging 447 129 65 641 Change in Amounts Reclassified from AOCL 39 (1 ) 38 2010 Sales Revenues 1,795 834 203 2,832 Changes due to Increase in Sales Volumes 3 55 21 79 Increase in Sales Prices Before Hedging 556 9 40 605 Change in Amounts Reclassified from AOCL 19 1 20 2011 Sales Revenues $ 2,373 $ 899 $ 264 $ 3,536 59 Table of Contents Average daily sales volumes and average realized sales prices were as follows: Sales Volumes Average Realized Sales Prices Crude Oil & Condensate (MBbl/d) Natural Gas (MMcf/d) NGLs (MBbl/d) Total (MBoe/d) (1) Crude Oil & Condensate (Per Bbl) Natural Gas (Per Mcf) NGLs (Per Bbl) Year Ended December 31, 2011 United States (2) 38 388 15 117 $ 95.19 $ 3.90 $ 48.35 Equatorial Guinea (3) (4) 14 245 56 107.57 0.27 Israel 173 29 4.86 North Sea 8 5 9 112.97 8.11 China 4 4 106.19 Total Consolidated Operations 64 811 15 215 100.93 3.04 48.35 Equity Investees (6) 2 5 7 108.76 72.71 Total 66 811 20 222 $ 101.13 $ 3.04 $ 54.84 Year Ended December 31, 2010 United States (2) 39 400 14 119 $ 75.03 $ 4.17 $ 41.21 Equatorial Guinea (3) (4) 11 226 49 78.44 0.27 Israel 130 22 4.03 North Sea 10 6 11 80.24 5.35 Ecuador (5) 25 4 China 4 4 75.15 Total Consolidated Operations 64 787 14 209 76.46 3.00 41.21 Equity Investees (6) 2 5 7 77.98 53.68 Total 66 787 19 216 $ 76.50 $ 3.00 $ 44.90 Year Ended December 31, 2009 United States (2) 37 397 10 113 $ 55.19 $ 3.61 $ 27.96 Equatorial Guinea (3) (4) 14 239 54 55.94 0.27 Israel 114 19 3.47 North Sea 7 5 8 59.51 5.75 Ecuador 26 4 China 4 4 54.40 Total Consolidated Operations 62 781 10 202 55.76 2.54 27.96 Equity Investees (6) 2 6 8 59.51 36.03 Total 64 781 16 210 $ 55.87 $ 2.54 $ 31.20 (1) Natural gas is converted on the basis of six Mcf of gas per one Bbl of oil equivalent. This ratio reflects an energy content equivalency and not a price or revenue equivalency. Given commodity price disparities, the price for a Bbl of oil equivalent for natural gas is significantly less than the price for a Bbl of oil. (2) Average realized crude oil and condensate prices reflect reductions of $1.32 per Bbl for 2010 and $2.13 per Bbl for 2009 from hedging activities. Average realized natural gas prices reflect a decrease of $0.01 per Mcf for 2010 from hedging activities. The effect of hedging activities on the average realized natural gas price for 2009 was de minimis. The price reductions resulted from hedge gains and losses that had been previously deferred AOCL. All hedge gains or losses relating to US production had been reclassified to revenues by December 31, 2010. (3) Average realized crude oil and condensate prices reflect a reduction of $5.57 per Bbl for 2009 from hedging activities. The price reduction resulted from hedge losses that had been previously deferred in AOCL. All hedge gains or losses relating to Equatorial Guinea production had been reclassified to revenues by December 31, 2009. (4) Natural gas from the Alba field in Equatorial Guinea is sold under contract for $0.25 per MMBtu to a methanol plant, an LPG plant and an LNG plant. The methanol and LPG plants are owned by affiliated entities accounted for under the equity method of accounting. (5) Our Block 3 PSC was terminated by the Ecuadorian government on November 25, 2010. Intercompany natural gas sales for 2010 and 2009 were eliminated for accounting purposes. Electricity sales (through May 2011) are included in other revenues. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 3. Acquisitions and Divestitures. (6) Volumes represent sales of condensate and LPG from the Alba Plant in Equatorial Guinea. See Income from Equity Method Investees below. 60 Table of Contents If the realized gains and losses on commodity derivative instruments, which are included in (gain) loss on commodity derivative instruments in our consolidated statements of operations, had been included in oil and gas revenues, the effect on average realized prices would have been as follows: Commodity Price Increase (Decrease) Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 Crude Oil & Condensate Natural Gas Crude Oil & Condensate Natural Gas Crude Oil & Condensate Natural Gas (Per Bbl) (Per Mcf) (Per Bbl) (Per Mcf) (Per Bbl) (Per Mcf) United States $ (3.22 ) $ 0.77 $ (0.65 ) $ 0.76 $ 12.26 $ 1.73 Equatorial Guinea (3.41 ) 15.36 Total Consolidated Operations (1.89 ) 0.37 (1.00 ) 0.40 10.86 0.91 Total (1.84 ) 0.37 (0.97 ) 0.40 10.55 0.91 Crude Oil and Condensate Sales Revenues from crude oil and condensate sales increased by a net $578 million, or 32%, in 2011 as compared with 2010 due to the following: a 32% increase in total consolidated average realized prices due to increased demand resulting from the global economic recovery; higher sales volumes in the DJ Basin, including a 21% increase in Wattenberg sales volumes, attributable to the continued acceleration of our horizontal Niobrara project; and higher sales volumes in Equatorial Guinea due to a higher number of liftings from our Alba field and due to the commencement of oil production at Aseng which impacted our sales volumes by approximately 9 MBbl/d in the fourth quarter; partially offset by a decrease in onshore US volumes due to the divestment of non core oil assets; a decrease in deepwater Gulf of Mexico volumes due to natural field decline and third party downstream facility constraints; and a decrease in North Sea volumes due to downtime in the Dumbarton field for GP III FPSO maintenance. Revenues from crude oil and condensate sales increased by a net $534 million, or 42%, in 2010 as compared with 2009 due to the following: a 37% increase in total consolidated average realized prices due to increased demand resulting from the global economic recovery; increased production due to ongoing development activity in the DJ Basin, including the horizontal Niobrara drilling program; additional production from the DJ Basin asset acquisition in March 2010; crude oil production from a Swordfish side track oil well that commenced production first quarter 2010; renewed production from Ticonderoga in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico which was off line first quarter 2009 as a result of hurricane damage to third party processing and pipeline facilities; and an increase in North Sea sales volumes primarily as a result of increased deliverability at the Dumbarton complex, which included the addition of two Lochranza wells in 2010; partially offset by a decrease in onshore US volumes due to the divestment of non core crude oil producing assets; a decrease in deepwater Gulf of Mexico volumes due to natural field decline and third party downstream facility constraints; a decrease in onshore US volumes due to natural field decline in the Mid Continent and Gulf Coast areas; and a decrease in Equatorial Guinea sales volumes due to the planned shut down of the Alba field for facilities maintenance and repair during 2010 and the timing of liftings. Revenues from crude oil and condensate sales included deferred losses of $19 million in 2010 and $58 million in 2009 reclassified from AOCL related to commodity derivative instruments previously accounted for as cash flow hedges. As of December 31, 2010, there were no further amounts related to commodity derivative instruments remaining to be reclassified from AOCL to crude oil revenues. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 10. Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities. Natural Gas Sales Revenues from natural gas sales increased by a net $65 million, or 8%, in 2011 as compared with 2010 due to the following: higher natural gas prices in Israel which benefit from strong global liquids markets; an increase in Israel sales volumes due to an increase in demand for our natural gas driven by higher electricity production and lower levels of competitor natural gas imports from Egypt; 61 Table of Contents higher sales volumes in the DJ Basin, including a 10% increase in Wattenberg sales volumes, attributable to the continued acceleration of our vertical and horizontal Niobrara drilling programs in the Wattenberg area; sales volumes from Marcellus Shale producing properties which we acquired September 30, 2011 and which added 19 MMcf/d to our 2011 sales volumes; and higher sales volumes in Equatorial Guinea as compared with 2010, during which time the Alba field experienced a planned shut down for facilities maintenance and repair; partially offset by a decrease in US realized natural gas prices which declined during 2011 primarily due to oversupply; a decrease in onshore US sales volumes due to the sale of certain non core Oklahoma and Illinois Basin assets in 2010; and natural field decline in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, Gulf Coast and Mid Continent areas. Revenues from natural gas sales increased by a net $133 million, or 19%, in 2010 as compared with 2009 due to the following: an increase in total consolidated and US average realized prices due to increased demand resulting from the economic recovery; an increase in Israel average realized prices under the terms of a natural gas sales contract entered into in the third quarter of 2009; increased production due to ongoing development activity in the DJ Basin, including the horizontal Niobrara drilling program; additional production from the DJ Basin asset acquisition in March 2010; and an increase in Israel sales volumes due to an increase in demand for our natural gas driven by increased electricity production due to warmer weather and lower levels of competitor natural gas imports from Egypt; partially offset by a decrease in Equatorial Guinea sales volumes due to the planned shut down of the Alba field for facilities maintenance and repair; and natural field decline in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, Gulf Coast and Mid Continent areas. Revenues from natural gas included a deferred loss of $1 million in 2010 reclassified from AOCL related to commodity derivative instruments previously accounted for as cash flow hedges. The effect of hedging activities for 2009 was de minimis. As of December 31, 2010, there were no further amounts related to commodity derivative instruments remaining to be reclassified from AOCL to natural gas revenues. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 10. Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities. NGL Sales Most of our US NGL production is from the Wattenberg area and deepwater Gulf of Mexico. NGL sales revenues increased $61 million, or 30%, during 2011 as compared with 2010 due to higher realized prices and a slight increase in sales volumes due to ongoing development in the DJ Basin. NGL sales revenues increased $105 million during 2010 as compared with 2009 due to an increase in sales volumes from ongoing development activity in the DJ Basin, including our horizontal Niobrara drilling program, as well as an increase in consolidated average realized prices which benefited from increased demand resulting from the global economic recovery. Income from Equity Method Investees We have a 45% interest in AMPCO, which owns and operates a methanol plant and related facilities, and a 28% interest in Alba Plant, which owns and operates an LPG processing plant. Both plants and related facilities are located onshore Bioko Island in Equatorial Guinea. We also have a 50% interest in CONE Gathering LLC (CONE), which owns and operates natural gas gathering facilities servicing our joint venture properties in the Marcellus Shale. We account for investments in entities that we do not control but over which we exert significant influence using the equity method of accounting. 62 Table of Contents Our share of operations of equity method investees was as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 Net Income (in millions) AMPCO and Affiliates $ 68 $ 29 $ 18 Alba Plant 125 89 66 CONE 2 Dividends (in millions) AMPCO and Affiliates 86 44 29 Alba Plant 139 95 63 Sales Volumes Methanol (MMgal) 155 129 145 Condensate (MBbl/d) 2 2 2 LPG (MBbl/d) 5 5 6 Average Realized Prices Methanol (per gallon) $ 1.05 $ 0.84 $ 0.60 Condensate (per Bbl) 108.76 77.98 59.51 LPG (per Bbl) 72.71 53.68 36.03 AMPCO and Affiliates Net income from AMPCO and affiliates increased in 2011 as compared with 2010 due to increases in average realized methanol prices due to global economic recovery, and increases in methanol sales volumes as compared with 2010 when the plant experienced down time related to a major turnaround. Net income from AMPCO and affiliates increased in 2010 as compared with 2009 due to an increase in average realized methanol prices from increased demand due to the global economic recovery. During fourth quarter 2010, the methanol plant successfully completed a major turnaround in 31 days. Production resumed on October 30, 2010. Alba Plant Net income from Alba Plant increased in 2011 as compared with 2010 due to increases in average realized condensate and LPG prices due to global economic recovery. Net income from Alba Plant increased in 2010 as compared with 2009 due to an increase in average realized condensate and LPG prices from increased demand due to the global economic recovery. CONE Gathering LLC Under the terms of the gathering and marketing agreement that we entered into with CONE, we will pay CONE a minimum annual revenue commitment (MARC). The fee will be adjusted annually based on projected gathering volumes, operating expenses, capital expenditures, and other factors. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 3. Acquisitions and Divestitures. Other Revenues Other revenues were as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 (millions) Other Revenues $ 32 $ 72 $ 169 Other revenues include electricity sales and other revenue items. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 2. Additional Financial Statement Information. Operating Costs and Expenses Operating costs and expenses were as follows: 2011 Inc (Dec) from Prior Year 2010 Inc (Dec) from Prior Year 2009 (millions) Production Expense $ 618 8 % $ 570 9 % $ 525 Exploration Expense 279 14 % 245 70 % 144 Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization 965 9 % 883 8 % 816 General and Administrative 341 23 % 277 17 % 237 Gain on Divestitures (25 ) (78 %) (113 ) 414 % (22 ) Asset Impairments 759 427 % 144 (76 %) 604 Other Operating Expense, Net 86 34 % 64 (4 %) 67 Total $ 3,023 46 % $ 2,070 (13 %) $ 2,371 Changes in operating costs and expenses are discussed below. 63 Table of Contents Production Expense Components of production expense were as follows: Total per BOE Total United States Equatorial Guinea Israel North Sea Other Intl, Corporate(1) (millions, except per unit) Year Ended December 31, 2011 Lease Operating Expense (2) $ 5.07 $ 397 $ 254 $ 53 $ 12 $ 51 $ 27 Production and Ad Valorem Taxes 1.86 146 102 44 Transportation Expense 0.97 75 65 7 3 Total Production Expense (3) $ 7.90 $ 618 $ 421 $ 53 $ 12 $ 58 $ 74 Total Production Expense per BOE $ 7.90 $ 9.85 $ 2.64 $ 1.16 $ 17.17 N/M Year Ended December 31, 2010 Lease Operating Expense (2) $ 4.93 $ 376 $ 258 $ 43 $ 9 $ 47 $ 19 Production and Ad Valorem Taxes 1.64 125 103 22 Transportation Expense 0.91 69 59 8 2 Total Production Expense (3) $ 7.48 $ 570 $ 420 $ 43 $ 9 $ 55 $ 43 Total Production Expense per BOE $ 7.48 $ 9.69 $ 2.38 $ 1.15 $ 13.37 N/M Year Ended December 31, 2009 Lease Operating Expense (2) $ 5.05 $ 372 $ 258 $ 45 $ 9 $ 43 $ 17 Production and Ad Valorem Taxes 1.28 94 81 13 Transportation Expense 0.80 59 52 4 3 Total Production Expense (3) $ 7.13 $ 525 $ 391 $ 45 $ 9 $ 47 $ 33 Total Production Expense per BOE $ 7.13 $ 9.51 $ 2.30 $ 1.36 $ 17.50 N/M N/M Amount is not meaningful. See (1) below. (1) Other international includes China and unallocated expenses incurred at the corporate level. (2) Lease operating expense includes oil and gas operating costs (labor, fuel, repairs, replacements, saltwater disposal and other related lifting costs) and workover and repair expense. (3) Consolidated unit rates exclude sales volumes and costs attributable to equity method investees. Lease Operating Expense Lease operating expense increased in 2011 as compared to 2010 due to the following: higher US sales volumes from the DJ Basin due to ongoing development activities; higher sales volumes in Equatorial Guinea and Israel, as discussed above; higher operating costs associated with the Aseng field which began producing in November 2011; and higher operating costs at the North Sea Dumbarton field related to maintenance at the GP III FPSO; offset by the sale of certain Oklahoma and Illinois Basin assets in 2010, which had higher lease operating costs. Lease operating expense was flat in 2010 as compared with 2009. Changes included following: an increase in US sales volumes due to ongoing development activity in DJ Basin, including horizontal drilling in the Niobrara formation; an increase in US production volumes due to the DJ Basin asset acquisition; and an increase in North Sea lease operating expense due to higher sales volumes; offset by a decrease in Equatorial Guinea lease operating expense due to the planned shut down of the Alba field for facilities maintenance and repair; and the sale of non core assets in the Mid Continent and Illinois Basin areas, which had higher lease operating costs. Production and Ad Valorem Tax Expense In the US, the sale of certain non core Oklahoma and Illinois Basin assets in 2010 and natural field decline in the Mid Continent area resulted in a decrease in production and ad valorem taxes in 2011 as compared with 2010. This decrease was offset by higher production and ad valorem taxes in the DJ Basin due to increased production volumes and higher sales prices. Production and ad valorem tax expense for 2011 increased in China as compared with 2010 due to higher sales prices. Production and ad valorem tax expense for 2010 increased as compared with 2009 due to higher commodity prices. Transportation Expense Transportation expense increased in 2011 as compared with 2010 due to higher sales volumes in the DJ Basin and new production from our Marcellus Shale producing properties acquired on September 30, 2011, offset by lower transportation expense in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico due to declining production. Transportation expense increased in 2010 as compared with 2009 due to an increase in crude oil and condensate production in the DJ Basin and the use of a new interstate crude oil transportation pipeline system to market production. 64 Table of Contents Unit Rate Per BOE The unit rate of total production expense per BOE increased for 2011 as compared with 2010 primarily due to higher production tax rates on certain onshore US and China production, transportation charges related to Marcellus Shale producing properties and the startup of the Aseng field. The unit rate of total production expense per BOE increased for 2010 as compared with 2009 primarily due to increases in production and ad valorem taxes and transportation expense. Oil and Gas Exploration Expense Exploration expense was as follows: Total United States West Africa (1) Eastern Mediter ranean (2) North Sea Other Intl, Corporate (3) (millions) Year Ended December 31, 2011 Dry Hole Expense $ 105 $ 46 $ 59 $ $ $ Seismic 63 33 1 4 25 Staff Expense 96 22 7 2 1 64 Other 15 15 Total Exploration Expense $ 279 $ 116 $ 67 $ 6 $ 1 $ 89 Year Ended December 31, 2010 Dry Hole Expense $ 58 $ 54 $ 3 $ $ $ 1 Seismic 102 51 5 11 35 Staff Expense 69 10 6 2 3 48 Other 16 15 1 Total Exploration Expense $ 245 $ 130 $ 14 $ 13 $ 3 $ 85 Year Ended December 31, 2009 Dry Hole Expense $ 11 $ 8 $ 3 $ $ $ Seismic 62 47 15 Staff Expense 65 13 10 1 2 39 Other 6 6 Total Exploration Expense $ 144 $ 74 $ 13 $ 16 $ 2 $ 39 (1) West Africa includes Equatorial Guinea, Cameroon, and Senegal/Guinea Bissau. (2) Eastern Mediterranean includes Israel and Cyprus. (3) Other international, corporate includes China and various international new ventures such as offshore Nicaragua and offshore France. Oil and gas exploration expense for 2011 increased by $34 million, or 14%, as compared with 2010. US dry hole expense was associated with the Rocky Mountain area and the Redrock exploration well in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, which we decided not to pursue for development due to the significant decline in natural gas prices. Dry hole expense in West Africa related to the Kora 1 exploration well offshore Senegal/Guinea Bissau and the Bwabe exploration well offshore Cameroon, which found noncommercial quantities of hydrocarbons. Seismic expenditures related to acquisition of seismic information for Wattenberg, Rocky Mountain and deepwater Gulf of Mexico areas in the US, offshore Nicaragua, offshore France, and offshore Cyprus. Increases in staff expense were due to new ventures mainly offshore Nicaragua and offshore France. Oil and gas exploration expense for 2010 increased by $101 million, or 70%, as compared with 2009. US dry hole expense was associated with the Double Mountain exploration well in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, which found noncommercial quantities of hydrocarbons. Seismic expenditures related to the Central Gulf of Mexico lease sale, and the acquisition of 3 D seismic information for offshore Israel, Cameroon, Nicaragua, and France. Exploration expense included stock based compensation expense of $11 million in 2011, $10 million in 2010, and $9 million in 2009. 65 Table of Contents Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization Expense Depreciation, depletion and amortization (DD&A) expense was as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 (millions, except unit rate) United States $ 758 $ 719 $ 689 Equatorial Guinea 69 39 38 Israel 25 22 20 North Sea 87 64 34 Other International, Corporate, and Other 26 39 35 Total DD&A Expense (1) $ 965 $ 883 $ 816 Unit Rate per BOE (2) $ 12.32 $ 11.57 $ 11.08 (1) DD&A expense includes accretion of discount on asset retirement obligations of $20 million in 2011, $17 million in 2010, and $14 million in 2009. (2) Consolidated unit rates exclude sales volumes and costs attributable to equity method investees. Total DD&A expense increased for 2011 as compared with 2010 due to the following: higher sales volumes in the DJ Basin of our onshore US operations resulting from ongoing capital spending; higher sales volumes in Equatorial Guinea and the startup of the Aseng field which includes the Aseng FPSO in its depreciation base; higher costs associated with development activities in China; and the impact of negative reserves revisions at December 31, 2011, due to revised performance expectations in the North Sea and China; partially offset by lower sales volumes in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, Gulf Coast, and Mid Continent areas of our US operations resulting from natural field decline. Total DD&A expense increased for 2010 as compared with 2009 due to the following: higher sales volumes in the DJ Basin, Piceance Basin and Western Oklahoma areas of our US operations, which have higher DD&A rates relative to sales volume from Equatorial Guinea and Israel; ongoing development activity in DJ Basin, including horizontal drilling in the Niobrara formation; and higher sales volumes in the North Sea; partially offset by lower DD&A expense in the Mid Continent area which has a reduced net book value resulting from an impairment recorded at the end of 2009; and the cessation of DD&A associated with assets sold or held for sale during the year. General and Administrative Expense General and administrative (G&A) expense was as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 G&A Expense (in millions) $ 341 $ 277 $ 237 Unit Rate per BOE (1) $ 4.35 $ 3.63 $ 3.22 (1) Consolidated unit rates exclude sales volumes and costs attributable to equity method investees. G&A expense increased for 2011 as compared with 2010 primarily due to additional expenses relating to personnel, office costs and information technology costs in support of our major development and exploration projects and increased performance incentive compensation. G&A expense increased for 2010 as compared with 2009 primarily due to additional expenses relating to personnel and office costs in support of our major development projects and increased performance incentive compensation. G&A expense is impacted by the number of stock based awards, the market price of our common stock and price volatility, all of which result in a higher fair value of stock based awards as calculated using the Black Scholes Merton option pricing model. G&A included stock based compensation expense of $42 million in 2011, $39 million in 2010, and $36 million in 2009. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 15. Stock Based Compensation. 66 Table of Contents Gain on Divestitures Gain on divestitures was as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 (millions) Net Gain on Divestitures $ (25 ) $ (113 ) $ (22 ) Gain on divestitures for 2011 includes a $25 million gain on the transfer of assets and the associated PSC and electricity concession to the Ecuadorian government. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 3. Acquisitions and Divestitures. Gain on divestitures for 2010 includes a $110 million gain on the sale of certain non core assets in the Mid Continent and Illinois Basin areas. Net gain on asset sales for 2009 includes a $24 million gain on the sale of our Argentina assets. We sold our Argentina assets in 2008; however, recognition of the gain on the sale was deferred until 2009 when the Argentine government approved the sale. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 3. Acquisitions and Divestitures. Asset Impairments Asset impairment expense was as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 (millions) Asset Impairments $ 759 $ 144 $ 604 For information regarding asset impairment charges, see Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Impairment of Proved Oil and Gas Properties and Other Investments and Impairment of Unproved Oil and Gas Properties, below, and 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is intended to provide a narrative about our business from the perspective of our management. Our MD&A is presented in the following major sections: Executive Overview; Operating Outlook; Results of Operations; Proved Reserves; Liquidity and Capital Resources; and Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. The accompanying consolidated financial statements, including the notes thereto, contain detailed information that should be read in conjunction with our MD&A. EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW We are a worldwide producer of crude oil and natural gas. Our strategy is to achieve growth in value and cash flows through the continued expansion of a high quality portfolio of producing assets that is balanced and diversified among US and international projects, crude oil and natural gas, and near, medium and long term opportunities. Strategy We seek to achieve growth in value and cash flows through exploration success and the development of a high quality, diverse portfolio of assets that is balanced between US and international projects, while maintaining a strong balance sheet and ample liquidity levels. We primarily focus on organic growth from exploration and development drilling, and we augment that with a periodic, opportunistic new business development (mergers and acquisition) capability. We manage the portfolio for high returns and to ensure geographic portfolio balance. We actively manage our portfolio with periodic divestments to high grade the portfolio. We focus on basins or plays where we have strategic competitive advantage and which we believe generate superior returns. Core operating areas are the onshore US (DJ Basin and Marcellus Shale), deepwater Gulf of Mexico, offshore West Africa and offshore Eastern Mediterranean. As a result of our continued exploration success, we are focused on the execution of a significant portfolio of major development projects that will deliver visible growth including, among others: the horizontal Niobrara in the DJ Basin and the Marcellus Shale, onshore US; Galapagos and Gunflint in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico; Tamar and Leviathan, offshore Israel; Aseng (which commenced oil production in November 2011), Alen and Diega, offshore West Africa. Our major development projects typically offer long life, sustained cash flows after investment and attractive financial returns. We maintain a balanced portfolio between US and international assets and strive to maintain a balanced geographic and political risk profile. We also maintain a geographical diversity of production mix among crude oil, US natural gas, and international natural gas. Current Business and Industry Environment The global economy continued to gain momentum during 2011 with the US ending in a slightly better position than the previous year. China and other emerging markets continue to maintain solid growth rates and contribute strongly to global commodity demand. However, the European economy remains threatened by the Eurozone debt crisis and its effects on economic growth rates. The global crude oil market has generally been robust driven by increased demand in developing countries coupled with continued threats to the global crude oil supply system and shrinking OPEC spare production capacity supporting oil price levels. The global LNG market has strengthened after the impact of the tsunami on Japans nuclear plants and the announced phase out of German nuclear generation capacity. In the US, the application of horizontal drilling technology significantly changed the natural gas markets, resulting in an oversupply of natural gas and significantly lower Henry Hub spot and forward prices. Horizontal technology has also been applied to liquids (oil and natural gas liquids) plays and has yielded significant growth in onshore US liquids production. Crude oil transportation constraints in the US resulted in a disparity between WTI and Brent pricing, and Brent pricing remains somewhat higher than WTI. Third party service costs face some inflationary pressures in response to robust US drilling activity. 2011 Results Despite the uncertain economic situation, 2011 was another strong year for Noble Energy as we continued to lay the foundation for significant future growth from our major development projects while maintaining our strong balance sheet and financial flexibility. Our strategic entry into the Marcellus Shale Joint Venture strengthens and rebalances our portfolio, providing a new, material growth area which we believe will contribute to future reserves, production, and cash flows. The Marcellus Shale is a low cost natural gas play located near the nations largest natural gas market. The innovative structure of the joint venture, with a carried cost arrangement that is suspended when natural gas prices decline to certain predetermined levels, ensures economic alignment with our partner at low natural gas prices. In the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, we contributed to leading our industry back to work, receiving the first post moratorium drilling permit, and had an exploration success at our Santiago prospect. We are working to strengthen the industry and our company by continuing to enhance safety processes and spill response through the development of a Safety and Environmental Management System (SEMS) in response to new workplace safety rules. We also have a membership in Helix Energy Solutions Group, an oil spill containment response group. 52 Table of Contents In Equatorial Guinea we brought our Aseng major development project online earlier than scheduled and 13% under budget, significantly adding to our liquids production, which is sold at prices linked to Brent. We continued to make progress on our major development project Alen, continued exploration activities offshore Cameroon, and farmed into a significant acreage exploration position in Senegal/Guinea Bissau. In the Eastern Mediterranean, sales volumes increased as we continued to support the Israeli market as it experienced interruptions in Egyptian gas supplies. We made significant progress on our Tamar project, which remains on schedule and on budget with first sales targeted for second quarter 2013. We continued appraisal work at the Leviathan discovery and made another significant natural gas discovery offshore Cyprus. Our 2011 financial results included the following: net income of $453 million as compared with $725 million for 2010; gain on divestitures of $25 million as compared with $113 million for 2010; asset impairment charges of $759 million as compared with $144 million for 2010; gain on commodity derivative instruments of $42 million (including unrealized mark to market loss of $22 million) as compared with $157 million gain on commodity derivative instruments (including unrealized mark to market gain of $70 million) for 2010; diluted earnings per share of $2.54, as compared with $4.10 for 2010; cash flows provided by operating activities of $2.2 billion, as compared with $1.9 billion in 2010; capital spending on a cash basis of $3.2 billion (including $596 million for the Marcellus Shale asset acquisition) as compared with $2.3 billion in 2010 (including $458 million for the DJ Basin acquisition); issuance of $850 million of 30 year unsecured notes and $1 billion of 10 year unsecured notes; new credit agreement providing a $3 billion unsecured revolving credit facility (replacing our $2.1 billion credit facility); ending cash and cash equivalents balance of almost $1.5 billion at December 31, 2011, as compared with $1.1 billion at December 31, 2010; total liquidity of $4.5 billion at December 31, 2011, consisting of year end cash balance plus funds available under our credit facility, as compared with $2.8 billion at December 31, 2010; and year end ratio of debt to book capital of 38%, as compared with 25% at December 31, 2010. Significant operational highlights for 2011 included the following: Overall total sales volumes of 222 MBoe/d, a 3% increase as compared with 2010; and year end proved reserves of 1.2 BBoe, an increase of 11% from year end 2010. Onshore United States closed the Marcellus Shale Joint Venture which produced an average of 74 MMcf/d of natural gas, net to our interest, in the fourth quarter of 2011; increased DJ Basin volumes to 66 MBoe/d in the fourth quarter of 2011 with horizontal production exiting the quarter at 17 MBoe/d; drilled longest ever horizontal Niobrara well in the DJ Basin with over 9,100 foot lateral in the Wattenberg field; and drilled and completed 64 horizontal wells in the DJ Basin Niobrara formation and added a fifth rig to the program. Deepwater Gulf of Mexico announced Santiago discovery and increased the expected initial net production at the Galapagos project to over 10 MBbl/d of crude oil; and received Gunflint drilling permit. International startup of Aseng, which exited the year producing 19 MBbl/d of crude oil, net to our interest; a world class discovery offshore Cyprus; oil discovery at the Carla prospect in Block O, offshore Equatorial Guinea; sanctioned the development plan for the Noa project, offshore Israel, and drilled two development wells; natural gas sales in Israel of 173 MMcf/d, net to our interest; completed transfer of assets and exit from Ecuador; completed seismic acquisition of 3 D data offshore Nicaragua; and successfully appraised the Leviathan discovery offshore Israel. 53 Table of Contents Acquisitions and Divestitures Entry into Marcellus Shale Joint Venture On September 30, 2011, we entered an agreement with CONSOL to jointly develop oil and gas assets in the Marcellus Shale areas of southwest Pennsylvania and northwest West Virginia. The Marcellus Shale Joint Venture strengthens and rebalances our portfolio, providing a new, material growth area, which will contribute to future reserves, production, and cash flows. This transaction complements and further strengthens our US portfolio by adding a high quality asset with substantial growth potential. It significantly increases our inventory of low risk repeatable projects while exposing us to more US unconventional resources. The Marcellus Shale Joint Venture, combined with our other domestic projects in the DJ Basin and the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, provide balance to our rapidly expanding international programs. Under the terms of the agreement, we acquired 50% interests in approximately 628,000 net undeveloped acres, existing Marcellus Shale production, and existing infrastructure for approximately $1.3 billion, including post closing adjustments. Payments will be made in three annual installments, with the first installment made at closing. We will pay an additional $2.1 billion in the form of a carry of CONSOLs drilling and completion costs. The carry, which we expect to extend over approximately eight years or more, is capped at $400 million annually and suspended if average Henry Hub natural gas prices fall and remain below $4.00 per MMBtu for three consecutive months. The carry terms ensure economic alignment with our partner in periods of low natural gas prices. Initially, we will be the designated operator of the wet gas areas (areas with more condensate or liquids) and CONSOL will be the designated operator of the dry gas areas (areas with little or no condensate or liquids). As a result of this transaction, we are now focusing on three core areas within the US: the DJ Basin; the Marcellus Shale; and the deepwater Gulf of Mexico. We are also considering the divestiture of certain non core onshore US properties from our portfolio. Exit from Ecuador In 2010 the government of Ecuador terminated the Block 3 PSC (100% working interest) with our subsidiary, EDC Ecuador Ltd., as we had not negotiated a service contract on Block 3 in accordance with the terms of a newly enacted hydrocarbon law. The hydrocarbon law aimed to change current production sharing arrangements into service contracts and provided for renegotiation of certain contracts by November 23, 2010. It also allows the Ecuadorian government to nationalize oil and gas fields if a private operator does not comply with local laws. In May 2011, we transferred our assets in Ecuador to the Ecuadorian government. We received cash proceeds of $73 million for the transfer of our offshore Amistad field assets, onshore gas processing facilities, and Block 3 PSC, which was terminated by the government of Ecuador on November 25, 2010, and the assignment of the Machala Power electricity concession and its associated assets. Our net book value for the assets had been reduced due to previous impairment charges, resulting in a pre tax gain of $25 million. DJ Basin Asset Acquisition In March 2010, we acquired substantially all of the US Rocky Mountain assets of Petro Canada Resources (USA) Inc. and Suncor Energy (Natural Gas) America Inc. for a total purchase price of $498 million. The acquisition included properties located in the DJ Basin, one of our core operating areas. The acquisition added approximately 46 MMBoe of proved reserves at closing date, and approximately 10 MBoe/d to our daily production base, starting from the closing date, and will provide significant growth potential. Included in the purchase were 323,000 total net acres, nearly 183,000 of which are located in the DJ Basin. Onshore US Sale In August 2010, we closed the sale of non core assets in the Mid Continent and Illinois Basin areas for cash proceeds of $552 million and recorded a gain of $110 million. The sale included approximately 32 MMBoe of proved reserves, at closing date, and approximately 5.7 MBoe/d of production. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 3. Acquisitions and Divestitures and Note 12. Long Term Debt. Sales Volumes On a BOE basis, total sales volumes were 3% higher in 2011 as compared with 2010. Our mix of sales volumes was 39% global liquids, 32% international natural gas with long term pricing contracts, and 29% US natural gas. In the US, production was higher in the onshore areas due to record production in Wattenberg primarily due to continued horizontal Niobrara field development and the addition of the Marcellus Shale production in the fourth quarter of 2011. Additionally, international oil production was higher due to Aseng commencing production in November 2011. In Israel, there was an increase in demand for natural gas to produce electricity due to disruptions with the Egyptian imports during 2011 and warmer weather which led to a higher percentage of the demand being met by production from our properties. Commodity Price Changes and Hedging Historically, oil and gas prices have exhibited significant volatility. The liquids (crude oil) market remained relatively robust during 2011, benefiting from the continued global economic recovery and continued threats to the global oil supply system. However, the domestic natural gas market continued to weaken significantly, primarily due to an abundant supply and above average levels of gas in storage. US natural gas prices remain volatile and prices are still significantly below the prices realized in 2007 2008. See Item 6. Selected Financial Data. 54 Table of Contents To enhance the predictability of our cash flows and support our capital investment program, we have hedged a portion of our expected global crude oil and natural gas production for 2012. We use mark to market accounting for our commodity derivative instruments and recognize all gains and losses on such instruments in earnings in the period in which they occur. Derivative gains and losses included in net income include both pre tax realized gains and losses and pre tax, unrealized, non cash gains or losses which are due to the change in the mark to market value of our commodity contracts related to production in future periods. Unrealized mark to market gains or losses recognized in the current period will be realized in the future when they are cash settled in the month that the related production occurs. The amount of gain or loss actually realized may be more or less than the amount of unrealized mark to market gain or loss previously reported. The use of mark to market accounting adds volatility to our net income. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 10. Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities. Asset Impairment Charges During 2011, we recorded impairment charges of $759 million mainly related to our onshore US assets. The significant decline in spot and five year forward natural gas prices, approximately 17% over the five year forward period, during the fourth quarter of 2011 was the major triggering event for most of these impairments. Field performance issues also contributed to impairments. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 4. Asset Impairments. OPERATING OUTLOOK 2012 Outlook We remain hopeful for a continued recovery of the global economy; however, we continue to monitor the outlook for the global economy and numerous critical factors including the Chinese economic growth rates, the European debt crisis and its potential impacts on global economic growth and the banking and financial sectors, the US federal budget deficit situation, and commodity prices. We expect crude oil prices to remain at or above current levels as long as the global economic recovery continues, OPEC spare production capacity shrinks as a percentage of global oil demand and threats remain to the global crude oil supply system. Disruption to the global oil supply system could trigger volatility and price spikes with resulting economic shocks which ultimately lead to demand destruction and price declines. We also expect US natural gas prices to remain low as long as the US drilling rig count remains near current levels, storage remains at high levels, and production growth continues. Because the global economic outlook and commodity price environment are uncertain, we have built a strong liquidity position to ensure financial flexibility and planned a flexible capital spending program which will support both major project development and exploration activities in a volatile commodity price environment. See 2012 Capital Investment Program below. 2012 Production Our expected crude oil, natural gas and NGL production for 2012 may be impacted by several factors including: overall level and timing of capital expenditures which, as discussed below and dependent upon our drilling success, are expected to maintain our near term production volumes; timing of major development project completion and initial production; ongoing development activity in the Wattenberg area and horizontal drilling in the Niobrara formation in the DJ Basin; ramp up of development activity in the Marcellus Shale; natural field decline in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, Gulf Coast and Mid Continent areas of our US operations, in the North Sea and the Mari B field in Israel (See Items 1. and 2. Business and Properties Delivery Commitments.); variations in sales volumes of natural gas from the Alba field in Equatorial Guinea related to potential downtime at the methanol, LPG and or LNG plants; Israeli demand for electricity which affects demand for natural gas as fuel for power generation, market growth and competing deliveries of natural gas from Egypt and commencement of production from the Noa field and Pinnacles project (if approved by partners as expected) offshore Israel; variations in West Africa and North Sea sales volumes due to potential FPSO downtime and timing of liftings; potential hurricane related volume curtailments in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and Gulf Coast areas; potential winter storm related volume curtailments in the Rocky Mountain and or Marcellus Shale areas of our US operations; potential pipeline and processing facility capacity constraints in the Rocky Mountain and or Marcellus Shale areas of our US operations; potential drilling and or hydraulic fracturing permit delays due to future regulatory changes; potential purchases of producing properties and or divestments of non core operating assets; and potential shut in of US producing properties if storage capacity becomes unavailable. 2012 Capital Investment Program Our total capital investment program for 2012 is estimated at $3.5 billion. The capital investment program allocates approximately 51% to onshore US, 7% for deepwater Gulf of Mexico, 22% to the Eastern Mediterranean, 14% to West Africa and 6% to corporate and other. Exploration and appraisal activity within these geographic areas is expected to receive 16% of total capital. 55 Table of Contents We expect that the 2012 capital investment program will be funded from cash flows from operations, cash on hand, and borrowings under our revolving credit facility and or other financing such as an issuance of long term debt. Funding may also be provided by proceeds from divestment of non core onshore US assets. See Liquidity and Capital Resources Financing Activities. We will evaluate the level of capital spending and remain flexible throughout the year based on the following factors, among others: commodity prices, including price realizations on specific crude oil and natural gas production including the impact of NGLs; cash flows from operations; operating and development costs and possible inflationary pressures; permitting activity in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico; drilling results; property acquisitions and divestitures; availability of financing; potential legislative or regulatory changes regarding the use of hydraulic fracturing; potential changes in the fiscal regimes of the US and other countries in which we operate; and impact of new laws and regulations, including implementation of the Dodd Frank Act, on our business practices. Exploration Program We have significant future exploration potential, primarily in the onshore US, deepwater Gulf of Mexico, offshore West Africa, Eastern Mediterranean and other international areas where we hold acreage positions. As of January 2012, we have returned to drilling at the Leviathan 1 well, which was suspended during 2011, in order to evaluate additional intervals for the existence of other hydrocarbons. Results from the deeper tests, which have a low chance of success, are expected the first half of 2012. We recently resumed appraisal drilling at Gunflint in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico. In addition, we are planning further exploratory drilling in the Gulf of Mexico, offshore West Africa and in the Eastern Mediterranean. Exploration activity, particularly offshore, requires significant capital investment. We do not always encounter commercially productive reservoirs through our drilling operations and, as a result, could incur significant dry hole cost. We are planning an active exploratory drilling program in 2012. As a result, dry hole cost could be significant. Major Development Project Inventory Our current inventory of major development projects includes the horizontal Niobrara, Marcellus Shale, Galapagos, Tamar, Alen, Diega, Gunflint, Leviathan, and other West Africa gas projects. These projects will require significant capital investments. For example, total development costs for the first phase of the Tamar natural gas project are estimated at $3.0 billion ($1.1 billion for our share). As noted above, we expect to spend substantial amounts on our major development projects in 2012. We plan to fund these projects from cash flows from operations, cash on hand, and borrowings under our revolving credit facility and or other financing. We commenced oil production from the first of our major projects, Aseng, in November 2011 and ahead of the original schedule. First production from our remaining major offshore development projects is targeted to occur when Galapagos begins to produce in the second quarter of 2012, and Tamar begins to produce in second quarter 2013. Once these two major projects begin producing along with Aseng, we expect to begin generating sufficient amounts of cash flow to self fund the remaining discovered major projects investments. As operator on the majority of our development projects, we pay gross joint venture expenses and make cash calls on our nonoperating partners for their respective shares of joint venture costs. These projects are capital cost intensive and a nonoperating partner may experience a delay in obtaining financing for its share of the joint venture costs. In addition, some of our joint venture partners, including our partners in our Eastern Mediterranean projects, may not be as creditworthy as we are and may experience liquidity problems. This could result in a delay in our receiving reimbursement of joint venture costs and increases our counterparty credit risk. See Item 1A. Risk Factors Failure to effectively execute our major development projects could result in significant delays and or cost over runs, damage to our reputation, limitations on our growth and negative effects on our operating results, liquidity and financial position and we are exposed to counterparty credit risk as a result of our receivables, hedging transactions, and cash investments. Potential for Future Asset Impairments The US natural gas market remains weak. A further decrease in forward natural gas prices during 2012 could result in impairment charges. Certain of our onshore US properties have significant natural gas reserves and therefore are sensitive to declines in natural gas prices. These assets, which have a combined net book value of approximately $1.0 billion at December 31, 2011, are at risk of impairment if future NYMEX Henry Hub natural gas prices experience further decline. The cash flow model that we use to assess proved properties for impairment includes numerous assumptions, such as managements estimates of future oil and gas production, market outlook on forward commodity prices, operating and development costs, and discount rates. All inputs to the cash flow model must be evaluated at each date of estimate. However, a decrease in forward natural gas prices alone could result in an impairment of properties that are sensitive to declines in natural gas prices. A significant drop in global oil prices may also trigger impairment. See Item 1A. Risk Factors Crude oil and natural gas prices are volatile and a substantial reduction in these prices could adversely affect our results of operations and the price of our common stock. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 4. Asset Impairments. Potential Changes in Fiscal Regimes and Market Regulations Future economic and political changes in the US or other countries in which we operate could result in governments enacting additional taxes and or other market interventions, which could be detrimental to oil and gas companies. Any such changes could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 56 Table of Contents During 2011, fiscal regime changes occurred in both Israel and the UK. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 13. Income Taxes. See also Item 1A. Risk Factors Our operations may be adversely affected by changes in the fiscal regimes and government policies and regulation of oil and gas development in the countries in which we operate for a discussion of the American Jobs Act and the Israeli Interministerial Committee. Climate Change Climate change has become the subject of an important public policy debate. While climate change remains a complex issue, scientific research suggests that an increase in greenhouse gas emissions (GHGs) may pose a risk to society and the environment. During 2011, the United Nations sponsored Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, a scientific body which provides an assessment of the risk of climate change, issued its Special Report on Managing the Risks of Extreme Events and Disasters to Advance Climate Change Adaptation, in which it concluded that it is likely that climate change is fuelling extreme weather and predicted that there will be an escalation of impacts on people and economies. The oil and natural gas exploration and production industry is a source of certain GHGs, namely carbon dioxide and methane, and future restrictions on the combustion of fossil fuels or the venting of natural gas could have a significant impact on our future operations. We are actively monitoring the following climate change related issues: Impact of Legislation and Regulation The commercial risk associated with the exploration and production of fossil fuels lies in the uncertainty of government imposed climate change legislation, including cap and trade schemes, and regulations that may affect us, our suppliers, and our customers. The cost of meeting these requirements may have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and could reduce the demand for our products. Climate change legislation and regulations have been adopted by many foreign countries and states in the US; however, legislation and regulations have not been enacted in all of the foreign countries where we operate or at the federal level in the US. Due to the current global economic environment and debt crisis, many countries are facing pressure to reduce spending or implement austerity measures. This could result in the diverting of attention away from the environmental agenda as well as limited financial resources available for spending on environmental policies. The status of development of many state and federal climate change regulatory initiatives in areas where we operate makes it difficult to predict with certainty the future impact on us, including accurately estimating the related compliance costs that we may incur. The EPA issued regulations requiring monitoring and reporting of GHG emissions from petroleum and natural gas systems. This action does not require control of GHGs. However, the EPA has indicated that it will use data collected through the reporting rules to decide whether to promulgate future GHG limits. These and other US, and other international, regulations may affect our operations by potentially increasing operating costs for maintaining our facilities, compliance costs for managing new GHG regulatory programs and capital costs for installing new GHG emission controls. Impact of International Accords The Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (Protocol) went into effect in February 2005 and required all industrialized nations that ratified the Protocol to reduce or limit GHG emissions to a specified level by 2012. The US did not ratify the Protocol. In December 2011, the annual conference of parties reconvened in Durban, South Africa to continue pursuing the global accord, committing countries to cut GHG emissions. The parties, including both developed and developing countries, renewed the Protocol and committed to work on an agreement that would be legally binding on all parties, to be written by 2015 and to come into force after 2020. While no specific new international climate change accord has been adopted that would affect our operating locations, the current state of development of many initiatives makes it difficult to assess the timing or effect of any pending discussions of future accords or predict with certainty the future costs that we may incur in order to comply with future international treaties or regulations. Indirect Consequences of Regulation or Business Trends We believe there are both risks and opportunities arising from the global response to potential climate change. See Items 1. and 2. Business and Properties Regulations and the following risk factors listed in Item 1A. Risk Factors We are subject to increasing governmental regulations and environmental requirements that may cause us to incur substantial incremental costs; and The adoption of GHG emission or other environmental legislation could result in additional operating costs, create delays in our obtaining air pollution permits for new or modified facilities, and reduce demand for the crude oil and natural gas we produce. 57 Table of Contents In terms of opportunities, the regulation of GHGs and introduction of formal technology incentives, such as enhanced oil recovery, carbon sequestration and low carbon fuel standards, could benefit us in a variety of ways. First, approximately 61% of our 2011 total sales volume were natural gas. GHG emissions regulation could reduce the demand for the crude oil we produce. At the same time, the burning of natural gas produces lower levels of emissions than other readily available fossil fuels such as oil and coal. Therefore, the use of natural gas may increase should the use of other fossil fuels decrease due to GHG emissions regulation. The 2011 incident at the Fukushima nuclear plant in Japan has re opened debate about the future of nuclear power as an alternative to fossil fuels, and public concern about nuclear safety has been heightened. In response, Germany, Japan, and other nations have announced future shutdowns of nuclear plants and or moratoria on future nuclear plant construction, resulting in increased demand for alternate fuel sources, including natural gas, for power generation. Furthermore, should renewable resources, such as wind or solar power become more prevalent, natural gas fired electric plants may provide an alternative backup to maintain consistent electricity supply. Second, market based incentives for the capture and storage of carbon dioxide in underground reservoirs, particularly in oil and natural gas reservoirs, could benefit us through the potential to obtain GHG allowances or offsets from or government incentives for the sequestration of carbon dioxide. Finally, as the EPAs new GHG standards for light duty vehicles became effective in 2011, natural gas may prove to be a more attractive transportation fuel. This may increase the market demand for natural gas. Physical Impacts of Climate Change on our Costs and Operations There has been public discussion that climate change may be associated with extreme weather conditions such as more intense hurricanes, thunderstorms, tornados and snow or ice storms, as well as rising sea levels. Extreme weather conditions limit our production and increase our costs, and damage resulting from extreme weather may not be fully insured. However, at this time, we are unable to determine the extent to which climate change may lead to increased storm or weather hazards affecting our operations, particularly our offshore operations and our onshore US operations in the DJ Basin and Marcellus Shale. See Item 1A. Risk Factors The insurance we carry is insufficient to cover all of the risks we face, which could result in significant financial exposure. Recently Issued Accounting Standards Update See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 1. Summary of Significant Account Policies. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Selected financial information is as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 (millions, except per share) Total Revenues $ 3,763 $ 3,022 $ 2,313 Total Operating Expenses 3,023 2,070 2,371 Operating Income (Loss) 740 952 (58 ) Total Other (Income) Expense 25 (79 ) 206 Income (Loss) Before Income Taxes 715 1,031 (264 ) Net Income (Loss) 453 725 (131 ) Earnings (Loss) Per Share Basic $ 2.57 $ 4.15 $ (0.75 ) Diluted 2.54 4.10 (0.75 ) Factors contributing to the decrease in income before income taxes in 2011 as compared with 2010 included the following: $48 million increase in total production expense; $34 million increase in exploration expense; $82 million increase in DD&A expense; $64 million increase in general and administrative expense; $88 million decrease in net gain on asset sales; $615 million increase in asset impairment charges; and $115 million decrease in gain on commodity derivative instruments; 58 Table of Contents offset by: $741 million increase in total revenues due to higher commodity prices and higher sales volumes. Factors contributing to the increase in income (loss) before income taxes in 2010 as compared with 2009 included the following: $709 million increase in total revenues due primarily to higher commodity prices; $460 million decrease in asset impairment charges; $91 million increase in net gain on asset sales; and $157 million mark to market gain on commodity derivative instruments as opposed to a $110 million mark to market loss in 2009; offset by: $45 million increase in total production expense; $101 million increase in exploration expense; and $67 million increase in DD&A expense. See following discussion for explanation of year to year changes. Revenues Oil, Gas and NGL Sales An analysis of the factors contributing to the changes in revenues from sales of crude oil, natural gas and NGLs is as follows: Crude Oil & Condensate Natural Gas NGLs Total (millions) 2009 Sales Revenues $ 1,261 $ 701 $ 98 $ 2,060 Changes due to Increase in Sales Volumes 48 5 40 93 Increase in Sales Prices Before Hedging 447 129 65 641 Change in Amounts Reclassified from AOCL 39 (1 ) 38 2010 Sales Revenues 1,795 834 203 2,832 Changes due to Increase in Sales Volumes 3 55 21 79 Increase in Sales Prices Before Hedging 556 9 40 605 Change in Amounts Reclassified from AOCL 19 1 20 2011 Sales Revenues $ 2,373 $ 899 $ 264 $ 3,536 59 Table of Contents Average daily sales volumes and average realized sales prices were as follows: Sales Volumes Average Realized Sales Prices Crude Oil & Condensate (MBbl/d) Natural Gas (MMcf/d) NGLs (MBbl/d) Total (MBoe/d) (1) Crude Oil & Condensate (Per Bbl) Natural Gas (Per Mcf) NGLs (Per Bbl) Year Ended December 31, 2011 United States (2) 38 388 15 117 $ 95.19 $ 3.90 $ 48.35 Equatorial Guinea (3) (4) 14 245 56 107.57 0.27 Israel 173 29 4.86 North Sea 8 5 9 112.97 8.11 China 4 4 106.19 Total Consolidated Operations 64 811 15 215 100.93 3.04 48.35 Equity Investees (6) 2 5 7 108.76 72.71 Total 66 811 20 222 $ 101.13 $ 3.04 $ 54.84 Year Ended December 31, 2010 United States (2) 39 400 14 119 $ 75.03 $ 4.17 $ 41.21 Equatorial Guinea (3) (4) 11 226 49 78.44 0.27 Israel 130 22 4.03 North Sea 10 6 11 80.24 5.35 Ecuador (5) 25 4 China 4 4 75.15 Total Consolidated Operations 64 787 14 209 76.46 3.00 41.21 Equity Investees (6) 2 5 7 77.98 53.68 Total 66 787 19 216 $ 76.50 $ 3.00 $ 44.90 Year Ended December 31, 2009 United States (2) 37 397 10 113 $ 55.19 $ 3.61 $ 27.96 Equatorial Guinea (3) (4) 14 239 54 55.94 0.27 Israel 114 19 3.47 North Sea 7 5 8 59.51 5.75 Ecuador 26 4 China 4 4 54.40 Total Consolidated Operations 62 781 10 202 55.76 2.54 27.96 Equity Investees (6) 2 6 8 59.51 36.03 Total 64 781 16 210 $ 55.87 $ 2.54 $ 31.20 (1) Natural gas is converted on the basis of six Mcf of gas per one Bbl of oil equivalent. This ratio reflects an energy content equivalency and not a price or revenue equivalency. Given commodity price disparities, the price for a Bbl of oil equivalent for natural gas is significantly less than the price for a Bbl of oil. (2) Average realized crude oil and condensate prices reflect reductions of $1.32 per Bbl for 2010 and $2.13 per Bbl for 2009 from hedging activities. Average realized natural gas prices reflect a decrease of $0.01 per Mcf for 2010 from hedging activities. The effect of hedging activities on the average realized natural gas price for 2009 was de minimis. The price reductions resulted from hedge gains and losses that had been previously deferred AOCL. All hedge gains or losses relating to US production had been reclassified to revenues by December 31, 2010. (3) Average realized crude oil and condensate prices reflect a reduction of $5.57 per Bbl for 2009 from hedging activities. The price reduction resulted from hedge losses that had been previously deferred in AOCL. All hedge gains or losses relating to Equatorial Guinea production had been reclassified to revenues by December 31, 2009. (4) Natural gas from the Alba field in Equatorial Guinea is sold under contract for $0.25 per MMBtu to a methanol plant, an LPG plant and an LNG plant. The methanol and LPG plants are owned by affiliated entities accounted for under the equity method of accounting. (5) Our Block 3 PSC was terminated by the Ecuadorian government on November 25, 2010. Intercompany natural gas sales for 2010 and 2009 were eliminated for accounting purposes. Electricity sales (through May 2011) are included in other revenues. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 3. Acquisitions and Divestitures. (6) Volumes represent sales of condensate and LPG from the Alba Plant in Equatorial Guinea. See Income from Equity Method Investees below. 60 Table of Contents If the realized gains and losses on commodity derivative instruments, which are included in (gain) loss on commodity derivative instruments in our consolidated statements of operations, had been included in oil and gas revenues, the effect on average realized prices would have been as follows: Commodity Price Increase (Decrease) Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 Crude Oil & Condensate Natural Gas Crude Oil & Condensate Natural Gas Crude Oil & Condensate Natural Gas (Per Bbl) (Per Mcf) (Per Bbl) (Per Mcf) (Per Bbl) (Per Mcf) United States $ (3.22 ) $ 0.77 $ (0.65 ) $ 0.76 $ 12.26 $ 1.73 Equatorial Guinea (3.41 ) 15.36 Total Consolidated Operations (1.89 ) 0.37 (1.00 ) 0.40 10.86 0.91 Total (1.84 ) 0.37 (0.97 ) 0.40 10.55 0.91 Crude Oil and Condensate Sales Revenues from crude oil and condensate sales increased by a net $578 million, or 32%, in 2011 as compared with 2010 due to the following: a 32% increase in total consolidated average realized prices due to increased demand resulting from the global economic recovery; higher sales volumes in the DJ Basin, including a 21% increase in Wattenberg sales volumes, attributable to the continued acceleration of our horizontal Niobrara project; and higher sales volumes in Equatorial Guinea due to a higher number of liftings from our Alba field and due to the commencement of oil production at Aseng which impacted our sales volumes by approximately 9 MBbl/d in the fourth quarter; partially offset by a decrease in onshore US volumes due to the divestment of non core oil assets; a decrease in deepwater Gulf of Mexico volumes due to natural field decline and third party downstream facility constraints; and a decrease in North Sea volumes due to downtime in the Dumbarton field for GP III FPSO maintenance. Revenues from crude oil and condensate sales increased by a net $534 million, or 42%, in 2010 as compared with 2009 due to the following: a 37% increase in total consolidated average realized prices due to increased demand resulting from the global economic recovery; increased production due to ongoing development activity in the DJ Basin, including the horizontal Niobrara drilling program; additional production from the DJ Basin asset acquisition in March 2010; crude oil production from a Swordfish side track oil well that commenced production first quarter 2010; renewed production from Ticonderoga in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico which was off line first quarter 2009 as a result of hurricane damage to third party processing and pipeline facilities; and an increase in North Sea sales volumes primarily as a result of increased deliverability at the Dumbarton complex, which included the addition of two Lochranza wells in 2010; partially offset by a decrease in onshore US volumes due to the divestment of non core crude oil producing assets; a decrease in deepwater Gulf of Mexico volumes due to natural field decline and third party downstream facility constraints; a decrease in onshore US volumes due to natural field decline in the Mid Continent and Gulf Coast areas; and a decrease in Equatorial Guinea sales volumes due to the planned shut down of the Alba field for facilities maintenance and repair during 2010 and the timing of liftings. Revenues from crude oil and condensate sales included deferred losses of $19 million in 2010 and $58 million in 2009 reclassified from AOCL related to commodity derivative instruments previously accounted for as cash flow hedges. As of December 31, 2010, there were no further amounts related to commodity derivative instruments remaining to be reclassified from AOCL to crude oil revenues. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 10. Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities. Natural Gas Sales Revenues from natural gas sales increased by a net $65 million, or 8%, in 2011 as compared with 2010 due to the following: higher natural gas prices in Israel which benefit from strong global liquids markets; an increase in Israel sales volumes due to an increase in demand for our natural gas driven by higher electricity production and lower levels of competitor natural gas imports from Egypt; 61 Table of Contents higher sales volumes in the DJ Basin, including a 10% increase in Wattenberg sales volumes, attributable to the continued acceleration of our vertical and horizontal Niobrara drilling programs in the Wattenberg area; sales volumes from Marcellus Shale producing properties which we acquired September 30, 2011 and which added 19 MMcf/d to our 2011 sales volumes; and higher sales volumes in Equatorial Guinea as compared with 2010, during which time the Alba field experienced a planned shut down for facilities maintenance and repair; partially offset by a decrease in US realized natural gas prices which declined during 2011 primarily due to oversupply; a decrease in onshore US sales volumes due to the sale of certain non core Oklahoma and Illinois Basin assets in 2010; and natural field decline in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, Gulf Coast and Mid Continent areas. Revenues from natural gas sales increased by a net $133 million, or 19%, in 2010 as compared with 2009 due to the following: an increase in total consolidated and US average realized prices due to increased demand resulting from the economic recovery; an increase in Israel average realized prices under the terms of a natural gas sales contract entered into in the third quarter of 2009; increased production due to ongoing development activity in the DJ Basin, including the horizontal Niobrara drilling program; additional production from the DJ Basin asset acquisition in March 2010; and an increase in Israel sales volumes due to an increase in demand for our natural gas driven by increased electricity production due to warmer weather and lower levels of competitor natural gas imports from Egypt; partially offset by a decrease in Equatorial Guinea sales volumes due to the planned shut down of the Alba field for facilities maintenance and repair; and natural field decline in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, Gulf Coast and Mid Continent areas. Revenues from natural gas included a deferred loss of $1 million in 2010 reclassified from AOCL related to commodity derivative instruments previously accounted for as cash flow hedges. The effect of hedging activities for 2009 was de minimis. As of December 31, 2010, there were no further amounts related to commodity derivative instruments remaining to be reclassified from AOCL to natural gas revenues. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 10. Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities. NGL Sales Most of our US NGL production is from the Wattenberg area and deepwater Gulf of Mexico. NGL sales revenues increased $61 million, or 30%, during 2011 as compared with 2010 due to higher realized prices and a slight increase in sales volumes due to ongoing development in the DJ Basin. NGL sales revenues increased $105 million during 2010 as compared with 2009 due to an increase in sales volumes from ongoing development activity in the DJ Basin, including our horizontal Niobrara drilling program, as well as an increase in consolidated average realized prices which benefited from increased demand resulting from the global economic recovery. Income from Equity Method Investees We have a 45% interest in AMPCO, which owns and operates a methanol plant and related facilities, and a 28% interest in Alba Plant, which owns and operates an LPG processing plant. Both plants and related facilities are located onshore Bioko Island in Equatorial Guinea. We also have a 50% interest in CONE Gathering LLC (CONE), which owns and operates natural gas gathering facilities servicing our joint venture properties in the Marcellus Shale. We account for investments in entities that we do not control but over which we exert significant influence using the equity method of accounting. 62 Table of Contents Our share of operations of equity method investees was as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 Net Income (in millions) AMPCO and Affiliates $ 68 $ 29 $ 18 Alba Plant 125 89 66 CONE 2 Dividends (in millions) AMPCO and Affiliates 86 44 29 Alba Plant 139 95 63 Sales Volumes Methanol (MMgal) 155 129 145 Condensate (MBbl/d) 2 2 2 LPG (MBbl/d) 5 5 6 Average Realized Prices Methanol (per gallon) $ 1.05 $ 0.84 $ 0.60 Condensate (per Bbl) 108.76 77.98 59.51 LPG (per Bbl) 72.71 53.68 36.03 AMPCO and Affiliates Net income from AMPCO and affiliates increased in 2011 as compared with 2010 due to increases in average realized methanol prices due to global economic recovery, and increases in methanol sales volumes as compared with 2010 when the plant experienced down time related to a major turnaround. Net income from AMPCO and affiliates increased in 2010 as compared with 2009 due to an increase in average realized methanol prices from increased demand due to the global economic recovery. During fourth quarter 2010, the methanol plant successfully completed a major turnaround in 31 days. Production resumed on October 30, 2010. Alba Plant Net income from Alba Plant increased in 2011 as compared with 2010 due to increases in average realized condensate and LPG prices due to global economic recovery. Net income from Alba Plant increased in 2010 as compared with 2009 due to an increase in average realized condensate and LPG prices from increased demand due to the global economic recovery. CONE Gathering LLC Under the terms of the gathering and marketing agreement that we entered into with CONE, we will pay CONE a minimum annual revenue commitment (MARC). The fee will be adjusted annually based on projected gathering volumes, operating expenses, capital expenditures, and other factors. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 3. Acquisitions and Divestitures. Other Revenues Other revenues were as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 (millions) Other Revenues $ 32 $ 72 $ 169 Other revenues include electricity sales and other revenue items. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 2. Additional Financial Statement Information. Operating Costs and Expenses Operating costs and expenses were as follows: 2011 Inc (Dec) from Prior Year 2010 Inc (Dec) from Prior Year 2009 (millions) Production Expense $ 618 8 % $ 570 9 % $ 525 Exploration Expense 279 14 % 245 70 % 144 Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization 965 9 % 883 8 % 816 General and Administrative 341 23 % 277 17 % 237 Gain on Divestitures (25 ) (78 %) (113 ) 414 % (22 ) Asset Impairments 759 427 % 144 (76 %) 604 Other Operating Expense, Net 86 34 % 64 (4 %) 67 Total $ 3,023 46 % $ 2,070 (13 %) $ 2,371 Changes in operating costs and expenses are discussed below. 63 Table of Contents Production Expense Components of production expense were as follows: Total per BOE Total United States Equatorial Guinea Israel North Sea Other Intl, Corporate(1) (millions, except per unit) Year Ended December 31, 2011 Lease Operating Expense (2) $ 5.07 $ 397 $ 254 $ 53 $ 12 $ 51 $ 27 Production and Ad Valorem Taxes 1.86 146 102 44 Transportation Expense 0.97 75 65 7 3 Total Production Expense (3) $ 7.90 $ 618 $ 421 $ 53 $ 12 $ 58 $ 74 Total Production Expense per BOE $ 7.90 $ 9.85 $ 2.64 $ 1.16 $ 17.17 N/M Year Ended December 31, 2010 Lease Operating Expense (2) $ 4.93 $ 376 $ 258 $ 43 $ 9 $ 47 $ 19 Production and Ad Valorem Taxes 1.64 125 103 22 Transportation Expense 0.91 69 59 8 2 Total Production Expense (3) $ 7.48 $ 570 $ 420 $ 43 $ 9 $ 55 $ 43 Total Production Expense per BOE $ 7.48 $ 9.69 $ 2.38 $ 1.15 $ 13.37 N/M Year Ended December 31, 2009 Lease Operating Expense (2) $ 5.05 $ 372 $ 258 $ 45 $ 9 $ 43 $ 17 Production and Ad Valorem Taxes 1.28 94 81 13 Transportation Expense 0.80 59 52 4 3 Total Production Expense (3) $ 7.13 $ 525 $ 391 $ 45 $ 9 $ 47 $ 33 Total Production Expense per BOE $ 7.13 $ 9.51 $ 2.30 $ 1.36 $ 17.50 N/M N/M Amount is not meaningful. See (1) below. (1) Other international includes China and unallocated expenses incurred at the corporate level. (2) Lease operating expense includes oil and gas operating costs (labor, fuel, repairs, replacements, saltwater disposal and other related lifting costs) and workover and repair expense. (3) Consolidated unit rates exclude sales volumes and costs attributable to equity method investees. Lease Operating Expense Lease operating expense increased in 2011 as compared to 2010 due to the following: higher US sales volumes from the DJ Basin due to ongoing development activities; higher sales volumes in Equatorial Guinea and Israel, as discussed above; higher operating costs associated with the Aseng field which began producing in November 2011; and higher operating costs at the North Sea Dumbarton field related to maintenance at the GP III FPSO; offset by the sale of certain Oklahoma and Illinois Basin assets in 2010, which had higher lease operating costs. Lease operating expense was flat in 2010 as compared with 2009. Changes included following: an increase in US sales volumes due to ongoing development activity in DJ Basin, including horizontal drilling in the Niobrara formation; an increase in US production volumes due to the DJ Basin asset acquisition; and an increase in North Sea lease operating expense due to higher sales volumes; offset by a decrease in Equatorial Guinea lease operating expense due to the planned shut down of the Alba field for facilities maintenance and repair; and the sale of non core assets in the Mid Continent and Illinois Basin areas, which had higher lease operating costs. Production and Ad Valorem Tax Expense In the US, the sale of certain non core Oklahoma and Illinois Basin assets in 2010 and natural field decline in the Mid Continent area resulted in a decrease in production and ad valorem taxes in 2011 as compared with 2010. This decrease was offset by higher production and ad valorem taxes in the DJ Basin due to increased production volumes and higher sales prices. Production and ad valorem tax expense for 2011 increased in China as compared with 2010 due to higher sales prices. Production and ad valorem tax expense for 2010 increased as compared with 2009 due to higher commodity prices. Transportation Expense Transportation expense increased in 2011 as compared with 2010 due to higher sales volumes in the DJ Basin and new production from our Marcellus Shale producing properties acquired on September 30, 2011, offset by lower transportation expense in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico due to declining production. Transportation expense increased in 2010 as compared with 2009 due to an increase in crude oil and condensate production in the DJ Basin and the use of a new interstate crude oil transportation pipeline system to market production. 64 Table of Contents Unit Rate Per BOE The unit rate of total production expense per BOE increased for 2011 as compared with 2010 primarily due to higher production tax rates on certain onshore US and China production, transportation charges related to Marcellus Shale producing properties and the startup of the Aseng field. The unit rate of total production expense per BOE increased for 2010 as compared with 2009 primarily due to increases in production and ad valorem taxes and transportation expense. Oil and Gas Exploration Expense Exploration expense was as follows: Total United States West Africa (1) Eastern Mediter ranean (2) North Sea Other Intl, Corporate (3) (millions) Year Ended December 31, 2011 Dry Hole Expense $ 105 $ 46 $ 59 $ $ $ Seismic 63 33 1 4 25 Staff Expense 96 22 7 2 1 64 Other 15 15 Total Exploration Expense $ 279 $ 116 $ 67 $ 6 $ 1 $ 89 Year Ended December 31, 2010 Dry Hole Expense $ 58 $ 54 $ 3 $ $ $ 1 Seismic 102 51 5 11 35 Staff Expense 69 10 6 2 3 48 Other 16 15 1 Total Exploration Expense $ 245 $ 130 $ 14 $ 13 $ 3 $ 85 Year Ended December 31, 2009 Dry Hole Expense $ 11 $ 8 $ 3 $ $ $ Seismic 62 47 15 Staff Expense 65 13 10 1 2 39 Other 6 6 Total Exploration Expense $ 144 $ 74 $ 13 $ 16 $ 2 $ 39 (1) West Africa includes Equatorial Guinea, Cameroon, and Senegal/Guinea Bissau. (2) Eastern Mediterranean includes Israel and Cyprus. (3) Other international, corporate includes China and various international new ventures such as offshore Nicaragua and offshore France. Oil and gas exploration expense for 2011 increased by $34 million, or 14%, as compared with 2010. US dry hole expense was associated with the Rocky Mountain area and the Redrock exploration well in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, which we decided not to pursue for development due to the significant decline in natural gas prices. Dry hole expense in West Africa related to the Kora 1 exploration well offshore Senegal/Guinea Bissau and the Bwabe exploration well offshore Cameroon, which found noncommercial quantities of hydrocarbons. Seismic expenditures related to acquisition of seismic information for Wattenberg, Rocky Mountain and deepwater Gulf of Mexico areas in the US, offshore Nicaragua, offshore France, and offshore Cyprus. Increases in staff expense were due to new ventures mainly offshore Nicaragua and offshore France. Oil and gas exploration expense for 2010 increased by $101 million, or 70%, as compared with 2009. US dry hole expense was associated with the Double Mountain exploration well in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, which found noncommercial quantities of hydrocarbons. Seismic expenditures related to the Central Gulf of Mexico lease sale, and the acquisition of 3 D seismic information for offshore Israel, Cameroon, Nicaragua, and France. Exploration expense included stock based compensation expense of $11 million in 2011, $10 million in 2010, and $9 million in 2009. 65 Table of Contents Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization Expense Depreciation, depletion and amortization (DD&A) expense was as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 (millions, except unit rate) United States $ 758 $ 719 $ 689 Equatorial Guinea 69 39 38 Israel 25 22 20 North Sea 87 64 34 Other International, Corporate, and Other 26 39 35 Total DD&A Expense (1) $ 965 $ 883 $ 816 Unit Rate per BOE (2) $ 12.32 $ 11.57 $ 11.08 (1) DD&A expense includes accretion of discount on asset retirement obligations of $20 million in 2011, $17 million in 2010, and $14 million in 2009. (2) Consolidated unit rates exclude sales volumes and costs attributable to equity method investees. Total DD&A expense increased for 2011 as compared with 2010 due to the following: higher sales volumes in the DJ Basin of our onshore US operations resulting from ongoing capital spending; higher sales volumes in Equatorial Guinea and the startup of the Aseng field which includes the Aseng FPSO in its depreciation base; higher costs associated with development activities in China; and the impact of negative reserves revisions at December 31, 2011, due to revised performance expectations in the North Sea and China; partially offset by lower sales volumes in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, Gulf Coast, and Mid Continent areas of our US operations resulting from natural field decline. Total DD&A expense increased for 2010 as compared with 2009 due to the following: higher sales volumes in the DJ Basin, Piceance Basin and Western Oklahoma areas of our US operations, which have higher DD&A rates relative to sales volume from Equatorial Guinea and Israel; ongoing development activity in DJ Basin, including horizontal drilling in the Niobrara formation; and higher sales volumes in the North Sea; partially offset by lower DD&A expense in the Mid Continent area which has a reduced net book value resulting from an impairment recorded at the end of 2009; and the cessation of DD&A associated with assets sold or held for sale during the year. General and Administrative Expense General and administrative (G&A) expense was as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 G&A Expense (in millions) $ 341 $ 277 $ 237 Unit Rate per BOE (1) $ 4.35 $ 3.63 $ 3.22 (1) Consolidated unit rates exclude sales volumes and costs attributable to equity method investees. G&A expense increased for 2011 as compared with 2010 primarily due to additional expenses relating to personnel, office costs and information technology costs in support of our major development and exploration projects and increased performance incentive compensation. G&A expense increased for 2010 as compared with 2009 primarily due to additional expenses relating to personnel and office costs in support of our major development projects and increased performance incentive compensation. G&A expense is impacted by the number of stock based awards, the market price of our common stock and price volatility, all of which result in a higher fair value of stock based awards as calculated using the Black Scholes Merton option pricing model. G&A included stock based compensation expense of $42 million in 2011, $39 million in 2010, and $36 million in 2009. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 15. Stock Based Compensation. 66 Table of Contents Gain on Divestitures Gain on divestitures was as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 (millions) Net Gain on Divestitures $ (25 ) $ (113 ) $ (22 ) Gain on divestitures for 2011 includes a $25 million gain on the transfer of assets and the associated PSC and electricity concession to the Ecuadorian government. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 3. Acquisitions and Divestitures. Gain on divestitures for 2010 includes a $110 million gain on the sale of certain non core assets in the Mid Continent and Illinois Basin areas. Net gain on asset sales for 2009 includes a $24 million gain on the sale of our Argentina assets. We sold our Argentina assets in 2008; however, recognition of the gain on the sale was deferred until 2009 when the Argentine government approved the sale. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 3. Acquisitions and Divestitures. Asset Impairments Asset impairment expense was as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 (millions) Asset Impairments $ 759 $ 144 $ 604 For information regarding asset impairment charges, see Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Impairment of Proved Oil and Gas Properties and Other Investments and Impairment of Unproved Oil and Gas Properties, below, and 
 
