FILE:CTL/CTL-8K-20061220104028.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
On December 17, 2006, we entered into a stock purchase agreement with Madison River Communications Corp. (MRCC) and its owner, Madison River Telephone Company, LLC. Under this agreement, we agreed to purchase all of the capital stock of MRCC in exchange for $830 million cash
less
MRCCs net indebtedness on the transactions closing date (which was approximately $494 million at September 30, 2006), subject to adjustment at closing for changes in MRCCs working capital between September 30, 2006 and closing.
Consummation of the transaction is subject to (i) the receipt of various governmental approvals, including approvals from the Federal Communications Commission and the public utility commissions of Alabama, Georgia, Illinois, North Carolina, Florida and Louisiana, (ii) compliance with the notification and waiting period requirements under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, and (iii) various other customary closing conditions. We currently expect the transaction to be completed in the second quarter of 2007.
The parties to the stock purchase agreement have made customary representations, warranties and covenants, including commitments of MRCC and its owner not to solicit or pursue alternative transactions and provisions that permit the parties to terminate the agreement under certain limited circumstances.
For additional information, see Item 8.01 below and the exhibits referred to therein.
 
On December 18, 2006, (i) we announced that we had entered into the stock purchase agreement described above by press release, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, and (ii) we made a presentation to investors and analysts using materials posted to our website on such date, copies of which are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2. Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 are both incorporated by reference herein in their entirety, including various cautionary statements that modify our forward-looking statements made or incorporated herein.
 
 
(d)
 
Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
CenturyTel to Acquire Madison River for $830 million
MONROE, LA. - CenturyTel, Inc. (CenturyTel or the Company) (NYSE Symbol: CTL) announced today that it has entered into a definitive agreement to acquire all of the outstanding stock of Madison River Communications Corp. (Madison River) for $830 million
in a combination of cash and the assumption of debt.
The acquisition is expected to close in the second quarter of 2007, subject to the satisfaction of certain customary conditions, including necessary approvals from federal and state regulators. The final purchase price is subject to certain customary adjustments which are not expected to be material.
CenturyTel intends to finance the acquisition with debt and cash generated from operations. The Company also expects to complete the remainder of its current $1 billion share repurchase program by mid-year 2007.
CenturyTels balance sheet will remain strong following the transaction, with a pro forma net debt to last twelve months ended September 30, 2006 (LTM) EBITDA ratio of approximately 2.6x, before anticipated synergies. On a pro forma basis, the Company will have approximately 2.3 million access lines and 390,000 high-speed Internet subscribers.
Strategic Rationale
 
With this acquisition, CenturyTel adds attractive markets with good demographics and growth prospects in Alabama, Georgia, Illinois and North Carolina. Madison Rivers high-quality network is 99% broadband-enabled and includes a 2,400 route mile fiber network that is complementary to CenturyTels existing operations.
Once this acquisition is fully integrated, CenturyTel estimates it will achieve annual cost synergies of approximately $17 million.
We are pleased to announce the acquisition of Madison River. Under Stephen Vanderwoudes and Paul Sunus leadership, Madison River has built a great communications company. Through efficient investment in their network and a grass-roots approach to their customer base, they have achieved virtually ubiquitous broadband enablement and strong high-speed Internet penetration, said Glen F. Post, III, chairman and chief executive officer of CenturyTel. This transaction fits CenturyTels acquisition strategy and permits us to continue our share repurchase initiative while maintaining operational, financial and strategic flexibility.
Financial Summary
 
Madison River generated $189 million of revenue, $99 million of EBITDA and $35 million of leveraged free cash flow, before anticipated synergies, in the twelve months ended September 30, 2006. The purchase price represents 9.6x and 7.4x Madison Rivers LTM free cash flow before and after anticipated synergies, respectively, and 8.4x and 7.2x LTM EBITDA before and after anticipated synergies, respectively.
CenturyTel estimates the transaction will be approximately
4%
accretive to free cash flow per share, before synergies. After synergies, the transaction is estimated to be approximately 6% accretive to free cash flow per share.
Additional Information
 
Lehman Brothers Inc. acted as exclusive financial advisor to CenturyTel on the transaction. Goldman Sachs & Co. and Merrill Lynch & Co. acted as financial advisors to Madison River.
This release includes certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures discussed above or that may be discussed during the conference call described below will be available in the Investor Relations portion of CenturyTels Web site at
www.centurytel.com
. Investors are urged to consider these non-GAAP measures in addition to, and not in substitution for, measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Conference Call Information
 
CenturyTel will host a conference call today at 9:30 a.m. Central Time. Interested parties can access the call by dialing 866.847.7860. A live, listen-only webcast will also be accessible through the Investor Relations portion of CenturyTels Web site at http://www.centurytel.com.
If you are unable to participate during the live webcast, the call will be archived on the Investor Relations portion of CenturyTels Web site through January 8, 2007. A replay of the conference call will be accessible through December 27, 2006, by calling 888.266.2081 and entering the access code: 1016606.
In addition to historical information, this release includes certain forward-looking statements, estimates and projections that are based on current expectations only, and are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions, many of which are beyond the control of the Company. Actual events and results may differ materially from those anticipated, estimated or projected if one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or if underlying assumptions prove incorrect. Factors that could affect actual results include but are not limited to: the Companys ability to effectively manage its expansion opportunities, including its ability to integrate
Madison Rivers
business into the Companys operations and systems,
to realize the synergies expected from this transaction,
and to retain and hire key personnel; higher than anticipated interest rates; the inability to receive regulatory approvals related to this transaction in a timely manner or at all; the timing, success and overall effects of competition from a wide variety of competitive providers; the risks inherent in rapid technological change; the effects of ongoing changes in the regulation of the communications industry; the Companys ability to effectively manage its expansion opportunities, including retaining and hiring key personnel; possible changes in the demand for, or pricing of, the Companys products and services; the Companys ability to successfully introduce new product or service offerings on a timely and cost-effective basis; the Companys ability to collect its receivables from financially troubled communications companies; the Companys ability to successfully
negotiate collective bargaining agreements on reasonable terms without work stoppages; the effect of adverse weather; other risks referenced from time to time in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC); and the effects of more general factors such as changes in interest rates, in tax rates, in accounting policies or practices, in operating, medical or administrative costs, in general market, labor or economic conditions, or in legislation, regulation or public policy. These and other uncertainties related to the Companys business are described in greater detail in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, as updated by the Companys subsequent SEC reports. You should be aware that new factors may emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to identify all such factors, nor can it predict the impact of each such factor on the business or the extent to which any one or more factors may cause actual results to differ from those reflected in any forward-looking statements. You are further cautioned not to place undue reliance on these
forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this release. The information contained in this release is as of December 18, 2006. The Company undertakes no obligation to update any of its forward-looking statements for any reason.
About CenturyTel
 
CenturyTel (NYSE: CTL) is a leading provider of communications, high-speed Internet and entertainment services in small-to-mid-size cities through our broadband and fiber transport networks. Included in the S&P 500 Index, CenturyTel delivers advanced communications with a personal touch to customers in 25 states. Visit us at
www.centurytel.com
.
About Madison River
 
Madison River operates established rural telephone companies providing communications services to business and residential customers in Alabama, Georgia, Illinois and North Carolina. Its service offerings include local and long distance voice, high speed broadband and dial-up Internet access services. As of September 30, 2006, Madison River served approximately 238,000 voice and broadband connections. Madison River is owned by affiliates of Madison Dearborn Partners Inc., Goldman, Sachs & Co., Providence Equity Partners and others.
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
3
 
 
4
 
 
5
 
 
6
 
 
7
 
 
8



