FILE:CTL/CTL-8K-20090430104847.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
   
 
 
The following information, except for any forward-looking statements (including our forecasts for the upcoming quarter and full year 2009) and except for our references to non-GAAP financial measures (as defined in Regulation G promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission), shall be deemed incorporated by reference into any registration statement heretofore and hereafter filed by us under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except to the extent that such incorporated information is superceded by information as of a subsequent date that is included in or incorporated by reference into any such registration statement. None of the following information shall be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.
 
 
On April 30, 2009, we issued a press release announcing our first quarter 2009 consolidated operating results. More complete information on our operating results will be included in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2009, which we expect to file shortly with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The complete press release is included as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
Item 9.01.    Financial Statements and Exhibits.
  
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

                                                                                                    
EXHIBIT 99.1
 
                                                                                                     NEWS RELEASE
 
CenturyTel Reports First Quarter Earnings
MONROE, La CenturyTel, Inc. (NYSE: CTL) announces operating results for first quarter 2009.
 
 
 
 
        
CenturyTel achieved solid operating results and generated free cash flow of $170 million during the first quarter, Glen F. Post, III, chairman and chief executive officer, said. Broadband demand was strong as we added 24,000 high-speed Internet customers during the quarter, an 81% improvement over fourth quarter 2008.
 
, excluding nonrecurring items, decreased 2.0% to $635.4 million in first quarter 2009 from $648.6 million in first quarter 2008. Revenue increases during the quarter of approximately $23 million resulted primarily from growth in high-speed Internet customers and growth in fiber transport revenues. These increases were more than offset by revenue declines of approximately $36 million, primarily attributable to access line declines and lower access revenues.
Operating revenues
, excluding nonrecurring items, decreased 1.7% to $457.4 million in first quarter 2009 from $465.1 million in first quarter 2008 primarily due to lower depreciation expense associated with fully depreciated assets which was partially offset by increased expenses due to growth in high-speed Internet customers, higher bad debt expense and higher personnel-related costs.
Operating expenses
, excluding nonrecurring items, decreased 4.3% to $305.5 million in first quarter 2009 from $319.2 million in first quarter 2008. CenturyTel achieved an operating cash flow margin of 48.1% during the quarter.
Operating cash flow
We have made solid progress toward completing the EMBARQ merger as both companies shareholders overwhelmingly approved the merger in late January and to date, we have received approval from 10 of the 15 states which require formal approval, said Post. We continue to expect to receive all necessary state and federal regulatory approvals and to complete the merger during the second quarter. This strategic combination of CenturyTel and EMBARQ creates a larger and financially stronger company, and I am confident we will be well positioned to drive long-term shareholder value and deliver the reliable, high-quality communications services our customers and communities want and need.
, excluding nonrecurring items, decreased 5.0% to $81.9 million in first quarter 2009 from $86.2 million in first quarter 2008. Diluted earnings per share, excluding nonrecurring items, increased 2.5% to $.82 in first quarter 2009 from $.80 in first quarter 2008. First quarter 2009 diluted earnings per share was favorably impacted by the 7.1% fewer average diluted shares outstanding due to share repurchases during the twelve months ended March 31, 2009.
Net income attributable to CenturyTel
, the Company reported net income attributable to CenturyTel of $67.2 million and diluted earnings per share of $.67 in first quarter 2009 compared to $88.8 million and $.82, respectively, in first quarter 2008. Net income and diluted earnings per share in first quarter 2009 include an aggregate after-tax charge of $10.9 million associated with the discontinuance of our supplemental executive retirement plan; a $5.0 million after-tax cost associated with our October 2008 bridge credit facility related to the EMBARQ acquisition; and a $4.7 million after-tax charge related to integration costs associated with our pending acquisition of EMBARQ.  Such factors were partially offset by a $5.8 million tax benefit associated with the reduction of a deferred tax asset valuation allowance.
Under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP)
FSP EITF 03-6-1.  SFAS 160 requires that noncontrolling interests be recognized as equity on the balance sheet and net income attributable to noncontrolling interests be included in consolidated net income.  FSP EITF 03-6-1 requires that outstanding non-vested restricted stock be considered a participating security and therefore included in the earnings allocation in computing earnings per share under the two-class method.  Both pronouncements require prior periods to be recast using the current applicable guidance; therefore, our first quarter 2008 results of operations included in this press release reflect the retroactive application of these new accounting pronouncements.
 
New accounting pronouncements effective first quarter 2009
.
First quarter 2009 results include the effects of two new accounting pronouncements, SFAS 160 and
 
, CenturyTel expects total revenues of $628 to $638 million and diluted earnings per share of $.77 to $.81. The seasonal impact of outside plant maintenance activities, along with annual wage adjustments effective in the second quarter, will result in higher cash expenses compared to the first quarter of 2009.
For second quarter 2009
These outlook figures, along with previously announced guidance for full year 2009, exclude the effects of nonrecurring items, the pending EMBARQ acquisition and any changes in operating or capital plans related thereto, the pending conversion to price cap regulation recently approved by the Federal Communications Commission, and any future mergers, acquisitions, divestitures or other similar business transactions.
We expect to update our outlook after completing the EMBARQ acquisition. We currently expect to close the transaction during second quarter 2009, subject to the receipt of regulatory approvals and satisfaction of other conditions.
 
This release includes certain non-GAAP financial measures, including but not limited to operating cash flow, free cash flow and adjustments to GAAP measures to exclude the effect of nonrecurring items. In addition to providing key metrics for management to evaluate the Companys performance, we believe these measurements assist readers in their understanding of period-to-period operating performance and in identifying historical and prospective trends. Reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are included in the attached financial schedules. Reconciliation of additional non-GAAP financial measures that may be discussed during the earnings call described below will be available on the Companys Web site at www.centurytel.com. Investors are urged to consider these non-GAAP measures in addition to, and not in substitution for, measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Reconciliation to GAAP
.
 
As previously announced, CenturyTels management will host a conference call at 10:30 a.m. Central Time today. Interested parties can access the call by dialing 866.206.6509. The call will be accessible for replay through May 6, 2009, by calling 888.266.2081 and entering the conference ID number 1346640. Investors can also listen to CenturyTels earnings conference call and replay by accessing the Investor Relations portion of the Companys Web site at www.centurytel.com through May 20, 2009.
Investor Call
.
Certain non-historical statements made in this release and future oral or written statements or press releases by us or our management, in each case as they relate to CenturyTel or EMBARQ, the operations of either such company or our pending merger with EMBARQ, are intended to be forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations only, and are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions, many of which are beyond our control.  Actual results or performance by CenturyTel or EMBARQ, and issues relating to our pending merger with EMBARQ, may differ materially from those anticipated, estimated or projected if one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or if underlying assumptions prove incorrect.  Factors that could impact actual results of CenturyTel or EMBARQ, the combined company or the pending merger include but are not limited to:  the timing, success and overall effects of competition from a wide variety of competitive providers; the risks inherent in rapid technological change; the effects of ongoing changes in the regulation of the communications industry (including the Federal Communication Commissions proposed rules regarding inter-carrier compensation and the Universal Service Fund described in our recent SEC reports); our ability to effectively adjust to changes in the communications industry; our ability to successfully complete our pending merger with EMBARQ, including timely receiving all regulatory approvals; the possibility that the anticipated benefits from the merger cannot be fully realized in a timely manner or at all, or that integrating EMBARQs operations into ours will be more difficult, disruptive or costly than anticipated; our ability to effectively manage our expansion opportunities, including successfully integrating newly-acquired or newly-developed businesses into our operations and retaining and  hiring key personnel; possible changes in the demand for, or pricing of, our products and services; our ability to successfully introduce new product or service offerings on a timely and cost-effective basis; our continued access to credit markets on favorable terms; our ability to collect our receivables from financially troubled communications companies; our ability to pay a $2.80 per common share dividend annually, which may be affected by changes in our cash requirements, capital spending plans, cash flows or financial position; our ability to successfully negotiate collective bargaining agreements on reasonable terms without work stoppages; the effects of adverse weather; other risks referenced from time to time in this prospectus or other of our filings with the SEC; and the effects of more general factors such as changes in interest rates, in tax rates, in accounting policies or practices, in operating, medical or administrative costs, in general market, labor or economic conditions, or in legislation, regulation or public policy. These and other uncertainties related to the business and our plans are described in greater detail in Item 1A to our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, as updated and supplemented by our subsequent SEC reports.  You should be aware that new factors may emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to identify all such factors nor can we predict the impact of each such factor on the business or the extent to which any one or more factors may cause actual results to differ from those reflected in any forward-looking statements.  You are further cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof.  We undertake no obligation to update any of our forward-looking statements for any reason, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
       CenturyTel (NYSE:CTL) is a leading provider of communications, high-speed Internet and entertainment services in small-to-mid-size cities through our broadband and fiber transport networks. Included in the S&P 500 Index, CenturyTel delivers advanced communications with a personal touch to customers in 25 states. Visit us at www.centurytel.com.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


