FILE:CTL/CTL-8K-20090831143724.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                    
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[  ]    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[  ]    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[  ]    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b)           On August 25, 2009, Steven A. Davis voluntarily tendered his resignation from the Board of CenturyTel, Inc., effective September 30, 2009.  A press release announcing his resignation is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
On August 24, 2009, the Board (i) adopted changes to its Corporate Governance Guidelines, revising the standards for assessing director independence, and (ii) affirmatively determined that each of its non-employee directors qualified as an independent director under such guidelines.  A copy of the guidelines, as amended, is attached as Exhibit 99.2.
 
 
 
 
(d)           The exhibits to this current report on Form 8-K are listed in the Exhibit Index, which appears at the end of this report and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this current report on Form 8-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated:  August 31, 2009
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
announced today that Steve Davis, chairman and chief executive officer of Bob Evans Farms, Inc., has voluntarily resigned as a member of s board of directors effective Sept. 30, 2009.
MONROE, La. CenturyLink (CenturyTel, Inc., NYSE: CTL)
CenturyLink
We have benefited greatly from Steves service as a director, said CenturyLink Chairman Bill Owens. His common-sense approach and marketing know-how will be missed, but we fully understand his need to dedicate more time to his family and his business responsibilities.
Davis joined the CenturyLink board in connection with the companys July 2009 merger with EMBARQ.  He had previously served on the EMBARQ board of directors since May 1, 2006.  CenturyLink does not intend to fill the vacancy created by Davis departure.
I am very proud to have been associated with EMBARQ and CenturyLink, said Davis.  I believe CenturyLink has the team in place to succeed and I wish them the very best as they enter this exciting phase of the companys history.
CenturyLink is a leading provider of high-quality voice, broadband and video services over its advanced communications networks to consumers and businesses in 33 states. CenturyLink, headquartered in Monroe, La., is an S&P 500 Company and expects to be listed in the Fortune 500 list of America's largest corporations. For more information on CenturyLink, visit .
http://www.centurylink.com/
www.centurylink.com
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
CenturyTel, Inc.
 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE GUIDELINES
(as amended through August 24, 2009)
 
 
 
The Board will have a majority of independent directors.  The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee is responsible for reviewing with the Board, on an annual basis, the requisite skills and characteristics of new Board members as well as the composition of the Board as a whole.  This assessment will include members independence qualifications, as well as consideration of diversity, character, judgment, skills and experience in the context of the needs of the Board at that time.  All directors must meet any additional qualifications established under the Companys organizational documents.  It is the general sense of the Board that no more than two management directors should serve on the Board.
Nominees for directorship will be selected in accordance with the qualifications, criteria and procedures described in these guidelines and the Companys bylaws, as well as the policies and principles in the Committees charter and any selection guidelines or criteria adopted thereunder.  The invitation to join the Board should be extended on behalf of the full Board by the Chairman of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and the Chairman of the Board.
The Board expects directors who change the job or responsibility they held when they were elected to the Board to volunteer to resign from the Board.  It is not the sense of the Board that in every such instance the director should necessarily leave the Board.  There should, however, be an opportunity for the Board, following a review by the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, to determine the continued appropriateness of Board membership under the circumstances.
No director may serve on more than two other unaffiliated public company boards, unless this prohibition is waived by the Board.  No director may serve on the board of a company or organization that competes with the Company or is otherwise likely to raise a significant conflict of interest, unless such service is approved by the Board.  Directors should advise the Chairman of the Board and the Chairman of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee in advance of accepting an invitation to serve on another public company board.  No director may be appointed or nominated to a new term if he or she would be age 75 or older at the time of the election or appointment.
The Board does not believe it should establish term limits.  While term limits could help insure that there are fresh ideas and viewpoints available to the Board, they hold the disadvantage of losing the contribution of directors who have been able to develop, over a period of time, increasing insight into the Company and its operations and, therefore, provide an increasing contribution to the Board as a whole.  As an alternative to term limits, the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee will review each directors continuation on the Board at least once every three years.  This will allow each director the opportunity to conveniently confirm his or her desire to continue as a member of the Board.
Annually, the Board will determine affirmatively which of its directors are independent for purposes of complying with these guidelines and the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange (the NYSE).  A director will not be independent for these purposes unless the Board affirmatively determines that the director does not, either directly or indirectly through the directors affiliates or associates, have a material commercial, banking, consulting, legal, accounting, charitable, familial or other relationship with the Company or its affiliates, other than as a director.  In making these determinations, the Board will consider all relevant facts and circumstances of both the director and the directors affiliates and associates, and the extent to which any such relationship could reasonably be expected to interfere with the exercise of independent judgment by the director.  In no event, however, will a director be determined to be independent if any of the disqualifying events or conditions specified in Rule 303A.02(b) of the NYSE Listed Company Manual (as such rule may from time to time be amended, restated, supplemented or re-promulgated) apply to the director.  A member of the Audit Committee of the Board will not be deemed to be independent unless such member meets the standards set forth both  in this paragraph and Rule 10A-3(b) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (as such rule may from time to time be amended, restated, supplemented or re-promulgated).  For purposes of this paragraph, the terms affiliates and associates will have the meanings ascribed to them in Rule 405 promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (as such rule may from time to time be amended, restated, supplemented or re-promulgated).
 
The basic responsibility of the directors is to exercise their business judgment to act in what they reasonably believe to be in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders.  In discharging that obligation, directors should be entitled to rely on the honesty and integrity of the Companys senior executives and its outside advisors and auditors.  The directors shall also be entitled to have the Company purchase reasonable directors and officers liability insurance on their behalf, to the benefits of indemnification to the extent permitted by law and the Companys by-laws and any indemnification agreements, and to exculpation as provided by state law and the Companys articles of incorporation.
Directors are expected to (i) attend the annual shareholders meeting, (ii) attend Board meetings and meetings of committees on which they serve, and (iii) spend the time needed and meet as frequently as necessary to properly discharge their responsibilities.  Information and data that are important to the Boards understanding of the business to be conducted at a Board or committee meeting should generally be distributed in writing to the directors before the meeting, and directors should review these materials in advance of the meeting.
Each Board member is free to suggest the inclusion of items on the agenda.  Each Board member is free to raise at any Board meeting subjects that are not on the agenda for that meeting.  The Board will review the Companys long-term strategic plans and the principal issues that the Company will face in the future at least once a year, preferably in an off-site planning session dedicated primarily to such issues.
The Board believes that management speaks for the Company.  Individual Board members may, from time to time, meet or otherwise communicate with various constituencies that are involved with the Company.  However, it is expected that Board members would do this with the knowledge of the management and, absent unusual circumstances or as contemplated by the committee charters, only at the request of management.
If a director wishes to resign, retire or not to stand for reelection at the end of his or her current term, the director will notify the Chair of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee in writing, with a copy to the Secretary.  Unless otherwise determined by the Board, when a management director retires or ceases to be an active employee for any other reason, that director will be considered to have resigned concurrently from the Board.
 
 
The Board will have at all times an Audit Committee, a Compensation Committee and a Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee.  All of the members of these committees will be independent directors, as defined in Section 1 above.
Committee members will be appointed by the Board upon recommendation of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee with consideration of the desires of individual directors.  It is the sense of the Board that consideration should be given to rotating committee members periodically, but the Board does not believe that rotation should be mandated as a policy.  Any appointments or removals of committee members will be made by the Board in accordance with the Companys bylaws.
Each key committee will have its own charter.  The charters will set forth the purposes, goals and responsibilities of the committees as well as qualifications for committee membership, procedures for committee member appointment and removal, committee structure and operations and committee reporting to the Board.  The charters will also provide that each key committee will annually evaluate its performance.
The Chair of each committee, in consultation with the committee members, will determine the frequency and length of the committee meetings consistent with any requirements set forth in the committees charter.  The Chair of each committee, in consultation with members of the committee and others specified in the committees charter, will develop the committees agenda.
The Board and each committee have the power to hire independent legal, financial or other advisors as they may deem necessary, without consulting or obtaining the approval of any officer of the Company in advance.
Each committee may meet in executive session as often as it deems appropriate, and shall have the power to obtain and review any information that the committee deems necessary to perform the functions described in its charter.
The Board may, from time to time, establish or maintain additional committees as necessary or appropriate.
 
 
The Board shall elect from among its members a Chairman.  The Chairman may be a director who also has executive responsibilities, including the CEO (an Executive Chair), or may be one of the Companys independent directors (a Non-Executive Chair).  The Board believes it is in the best interests of the Company for the Board to remain flexible with respect to whether to elect an Executive Chair or a Non-Executive Chair so that the Board may provide for succession planning and respond effectively to changes in circumstances.
The Chairmans responsibilities include:
(a)           presiding at meetings of the Board;
(b)           overseeing the management, development and functioning of the Board;
(c)           in consultation with the CEO (if different), planning and organizing the activities of the Board and the schedule for Board meetings; and
(d)           in consultation with the CEO (if different), establishing the agendas for Board meetings.
The non-management directors will meet in executive session at least quarterly in conjunction with regularly-scheduled Board meetings and will, subject to the other terms of this paragraph, elect from among the independent directors a lead outside director at least annually.  The lead outside director may call additional meetings of the non-management directors at any time.  At all times during which the Chairman is a Non-Executive Chair, all of the functions and responsibilities of the lead outside director shall be performed by the Non-Executive Chair.
The lead outside directors responsibilities include:
 
(a)           coordinating, developing an agenda for, and presiding at each meeting of the non-management directors; and
(b)           providing direction to the CEO on the quality, quantity, and timeliness of the flow of information from management that is necessary for the non-management directors to perform their duties effectively and responsibly, with the understanding that the non-management directors will receive any information requested on their behalf by the lead outside director.
 
Directors have full and free access to officers and employees of the Company.  Any meetings or contacts that a director wishes to initiate may be arranged through the CEO or the Secretary or directly by the director.  The directors will use their judgment to ensure that any such contact is not disruptive to the business operations of the Company and will, to the extent not inappropriate, copy the CEO on any written communications between a director and an officer or employee of the Company.
                The Board welcomes regular attendance at each Board meeting of the executive officers of the Company and such other Company personnel as the Board or the CEO may designate.
 
The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee shall review annually director compensation and benefits, and recommend any proposed changes to the Board for approval, subject to the terms, conditions and exceptions set forth in the committees charter.  The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee will consider whether directors independence may be jeopardized if director compensation and perquisites exceed customary levels, or if the Company makes substantial charitable contributions to organizations with which a director (or one of the directors immediate family members) is affiliated.
 
The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee shall maintain an Orientation Program for new directors.  All new directors must participate in the Companys Orientation Program, which should be conducted as soon as practicable after new directors are elected or appointed.  This orientation may include presentations by senior management to familiarize new directors with the Companys strategic plans, its significant financial, accounting and risk management issues, its corporate compliance programs (which include its code of business conduct and ethics), its principal officers, and its internal and independent auditors.  All other directors are also invited to attend the Orientation Program.
The Company will also maintain a Continuing Education Program for directors, pursuant to which it will endeavor to periodically update directors on industry, technological and regulatory developments, and to provide adequate resources to support directors in understanding the Companys business and matters to be acted upon at board and committee meetings.
 
The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee will conduct an annual review of the CEOs performance.  The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee will provide a report of its findings to the Board of Directors (with appropriate recusals of the CEO and other management directors, as necessary) to enable the Board to ensure that the CEO is providing the best leadership for the Company in the long- and short-term.
The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee should report periodically to the Board on succession planning.  The entire Board will consult periodically with the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee regarding potential successors to the CEO.  The CEO should at all times make available his or her recommendations and evaluations of potential successors, along with a review of any development plans recommended for such individuals.
 
The Board of Directors will conduct an annual self-evaluation to determine whether it and its committees are functioning effectively.  The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee will receive comments from all directors and report annually to the Board with an assessment of the Boards performance, which will be discussed with the full Board.  The assessment will focus on the Boards contribution to the Company and specifically focus on areas in which the Board or management believes that the Board could improve.  The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee will also, no less than annually, review these guidelines and recommend any proposed changes to the Board for approval.
 
In addition to any other remedies available to the Company and subject to applicable law, if the Board or any committee of the Board determines that any bonus, incentive payment, commission, equity award or other compensation awarded to or received by an executive officer was based on any financial or operating result that was impacted by the executive officers knowing or intentional fraudulent or illegal conduct, the Board or a Board committee may recover from the executive officer the compensation it considers appropriate under the circumstances.  The Board has sole discretion to make any and all determinations under this paragraph.
 
All of the Companys directors, officers and employees are required to abide by the Companys long-standing Corporate Compliance Program, which includes standards of business conduct and ethics.  The Companys program and related procedures cover all areas of professional conduct, including employment policy, conflicts of interests, protection of confidential information, as well as strict adherence to all laws and regulations applicable to the conduct of the Companys business.
Any waiver of the Companys policies, principles or guidelines relating to business conduct or ethics for executive officers or directors may be made only by the Audit Committee, and will be promptly disclosed as required by applicable law or stock exchange regulations.
* * * * * * * * * *
 
 
 
 


