FILE:CTL/CTL-8K-20090805171503.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[  ]    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[  ]    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[  ]    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Explanatory Note:
 
On July 1, 2009, we filed a Form 8-K to report that we had closed our merger with Embarq Corporation.  In response to part (b) of Item 9.01 of such Form 8-K, we stated that we would file the required pro forma financial information by amendment, as permitted by the forms rules.  We are filing this Amendment No. 1 on Form 8-K to provide the pro forma financial information required by Item 9.01(b) of the form.
 
 
 
 
The required unaudited pro forma financial information reflecting our merger with Embarq Corporation is attached as Exhibit 99.5 to this Amendment No. 1 on Form 8-K.
 
 
See the Exhibit Index appearing at the end of this report for a list of the exhibits filed herewith.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this current report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
_______________
* Exhibits filed with the Form 8-K dated July 1, 2009.
** Filed herewith.

Exhibit 99.5
 
On July 1, 2009, CenturyTel, Inc. (CenturyTel) acquired Embarq Corporation (Embarq) in a stock-for-stock transaction.  Under the terms of the merger agreement, Embarq stockholders received 1.37 shares of CenturyTel common stock for each share of Embarq common stock owned at closing.  Based on the number of CenturyTel common shares issued to consummate the merger (196.1 million) and the closing stock price of CenturyTel common stock as of June 30, 2009 ($30.70), the aggregate consideration approximated $6.0 billion.
The following pro forma information was prepared in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, and using the guidance of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141 (revised 2007), Business Combinations (SFAS 141(R)).
For purposes of the pro forma information, adjustments for estimated transaction and integration costs have been excluded.  In addition to expenses incurred by CenturyTel and Embarq prior to the closing, we expect to incur approximately $50 million in additional closing costs, including investment banker and legal fees, in connection with consummation of the merger.  In addition, the combined company will incur integration costs related to system and customer conversions (including hardware and software costs), certain employee-related severance costs and branding costs associated with changing the company name to CenturyLink.  The specific details of these integration plans will continue to be refined. Based on current plans and information, we estimate that the aggregate non-recurring post-closing costs of the integration activities will be approximately $370 million (of which $60 million represents capital expenditures).  Such transaction and integration costs will be expensed or capitalized based on the nature of the specific action.
As a result of the merger, the previous Embarq shareholders were issued approximately 66% of the combined common shares outstanding.  However, after consideration of all applicable factors pursuant to the guidance of SFAS 141(R), CenturyTel is considered the accounting acquirer primarily because CenturyTel issued its common stock to acquire Embarq (at a premium), the board of directors of the combined company is composed of eight former CenturyTel directors and seven former Embarq directors and the executive management team of the combined company will be led by former CenturyTel executives, including its Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer.
The results of operations of Embarq will be included in CenturyTels consolidated financial statements beginning July 1, 2009.
The following unaudited pro forma combined condensed balance sheet as of March 31, 2009 and the unaudited pro forma combined condensed statements of income for the year ended December 31, 2008 and the three months ended March 31, 2009 are based on the historical consolidated results of operations and financial condition of CenturyTel and its subsidiaries and the historical consolidated results of operations and financial condition of Embarq and its subsidiaries, as adjusted for the effects of CenturyTel acquiring Embarq, as further described below.
The pro forma financial information for the year ended December 31, 2008 reflects the effects of two new accounting pronouncements, Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements (SFAS 160) and FSP EITF 03-6-1, Determining Whether Instruments Granted in Share-Based Payment Transactions Are Participating Securities (FSP EITF 03-6-1).  Such pronouncements are effective for periods subsequent to January 1, 2009 but require retrospective application to prior periods.  SFAS 160 requires that net income attributable to noncontrolling interests be included in consolidated net income.  FSP EITF 03-6-1 requires that outstanding non-vested restricted stock that contain a nonforfeitable right to receive dividends be considered a participating security and therefore included in the earnings allocation in computing earnings per share under the two-class method.  The impact to diluted earnings per share and weighted average diluted common shares outstanding upon the application of FSP EITF 03-6-1 to CenturyTels and Embarqs year ended December 31, 2008 results were as follows:
* Each of these figures are based on the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements of Embarq filed as Exhibit 99.4 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed July 1, 2009, which have been retrospectively reclassified to reflect Embarqs logistics business as discontinued operations.
 
The pro forma financial information reflects an aggregate consideration of approximately $6.0 billion, as calculated below (in millions, except price per share):
    *  Price determined based on the closing price of CenturyTels common stock on June 30, 2009.
 
 
Pro forma adjustments, and the assumptions on which they are based, are described in the accompanying Notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Financial Information (the Notes).
The pro forma financial information related to the Embarq acquisition was prepared using the acquisition method of accounting and is based on the assumption that the purchase of Embarq took place as of March 31, 2009 for purposes of the pro forma balance sheet and as of January 1, 2008 for purposes of the pro forma statements of income.  In accordance with the acquisition method of accounting, the actual consolidated financial statements of CenturyTel will reflect the Embarq acquisition only from and after the date of acquisition.  CenturyTel has not finalized the purchase price allocation related to the Embarq acquisition, and the final allocations could differ significantly from the preliminary allocations reflected below.  See the Notes below for additional information.
The unaudited pro forma combined condensed financial information included herein does not give effect to any potential revenue enhancements, cost reductions or other operating efficiencies that could result from the Embarq acquisition, including, but not limited to (i) the reduction of corporate overhead and operating costs, (ii) the elimination of duplicate functions, (iii) enhanced revenue opportunities and (iv) increased operational efficiencies through the adoption of best practices and capabilities from each company.  As mentioned above, the pro forma information included herein also excludes estimated transaction and integration costs that have been or will be incurred subsequent to March 31, 2009.
The pro forma information is presented for illustrative purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of the combined operating results or financial position that would have occurred if such transaction had been consummated on the dates and in accordance with the assumptions described herein, nor is it necessarily indicative of future operating results or financial position.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following preliminary allocation of the purchase price of Embarq is based on CenturyTels preliminary best estimates of the fair value of the currently identified tangible and intangible assets and liabilities of Embarq.  The final determination of the allocation of the purchase price will be based on the fair value of such assets and liabilities as of July 1, 2009, the consummation date of the acquisition, and is expected to be completed late in 2009.  Such final identification and determination of all the intangible assets acquired and the purchase price allocation may be significantly different than that used in this pro forma financial information.
The purchase price of Embarq (calculated as shown above) is allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on the following preliminary basis (amounts in millions):
 
 
The following pro forma adjustments have been reflected in the unaudited pro forma combined condensed financial information.  All adjustments are based on current assumptions and are subject to change upon completion of the final purchase price allocation based on the identified tangible and intangible assets and liabilities acquired from Embarq at the merger closing date.
Balance Sheet Adjustments
 
 
 
Income Statement Adjustments
The fair value of Embarqs property, plant and equipment was preliminarily estimated to approximate the carrying value on the date of acquisition.  Such estimate is subject to change upon finalization of the purchase price allocation.  To the extent that the final purchase price allocation causes our depreciation and amortization expense to differ from that presented in the accompanying pro forma statements of income, annual earnings per share will be affected by $.01 per share for every $4.9 million difference in annual pro forma depreciation and amortization expense.  Thus, for example, if CenturyTel ultimately allocates an additional $725.1 million of the aggregate purchase price to property, plant and equipment (representing a 10% increase in the amount that was preliminarily allocated to such assets above), the annual depreciation and amortization would increase by approximately $108.8 million (assuming a composite annual depreciation rate of 15%) and the annual earnings per share would decrease by $.22 per share for 2008 (assuming an effective tax rate of 37.4%) from the amounts presented in the accompanying pro forma information.
                The pro forma weighted average basic and diluted shares outstanding for the year ended December 31, 2008 and the three months ended March 31, 2009 reflects the exchange of 1.37 shares of CenturyTel common stock for each share of Embarq stock.  In order to calculate basic and diluted earnings per share on a pro forma combined basis under FSP EITF 03-6-1 for the year ended December 31, 2008 and the three months ended March 31, 2009, $4,240,000 and $870,000, respectively (which represents the after-tax earnings applicable to participating securities) must be subtracted from net income prior to dividing by average shares outstanding


