FILE:CTL/CTL-8K-20110517124248.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In this current report on Form 8-K, references to CenturyLink, we, us and our refer to CenturyLink, Inc.
 
 
 
We have filed this current report on Form 8-K to update the historical and pro forma financial information that we filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 6, 2011, following our acquisition of Qwest Communications International Inc. on April 1, 2011.  The unaudited pro forma financial information reflecting our acquisition of Qwest filed herewith (i) is based on additional and more complete information that we have developed since April 6, 2011, (ii) includes pro forma financial information as of and for the three months ended March 31, 2011 and (iii) is intended to supplement and supersede the pro forma financial information as of and for the year ended December 31, 2010 that we filed on April 6, 2011.
 
 
 
 
The unaudited consolidated balance sheets of Qwest Communications International Inc. as of March 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 and the unaudited consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, cash flow and changes in stockholders deficit for the three months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, and the notes related thereto, which were included in Qwests Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2011 (filed May 6, 2011), are filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this current report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
Unaudited pro forma financial information reflecting our merger with Qwest is attached as Exhibit 99.2 to this current report on Form 8-K.
 
 
The exhibits to this current report on Form 8-K are listed in the Exhibit Index, which appears at the end of this report and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this current report on form 8-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned officer hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Exhibit 99.2
 
Introduction
 
On April 1, 2011, CenturyLink, Inc. (CenturyLink) acquired Qwest Communications International Inc. (Qwest) in a stock-for-stock transaction.  Under the terms of the merger agreement, Qwest stockholders received 0.1664 shares of CenturyLink common stock for each share of Qwest common stock owned at closing.  The aggregate consideration approximated $12.282 billion, based on (i) the number of CenturyLink common shares issued to consummate the merger (294 million), (ii) the closing stock price of CenturyLink common stock as of March 31, 2011 ($41.55), (iii) the pre-combination portion of Qwests share-based compensation awards assumed by CenturyLink ($61 million) and (iv) cash paid in lieu of the issuance of fractional shares ($5 million).
The following unaudited pro forma combined condensed financial information combines the historical consolidated financial statements of CenturyLink and Qwest as if the merger had previously occurred on the dates specified below.
 
As a result of the merger, CenturyLink shareholders owned approximately 51% and the former Qwest stockholders owned approximately 49% of the CenturyLink common shares outstanding immediately after consummation of the merger.  After consideration of all applicable factors pursuant to the business combination accounting rules, the parties considered CenturyLink to be the accounting acquirer for purposes of the preparation of the pro forma financial information included below because CenturyLink issued its common stock to acquire Qwest (at a premium), the board of directors of the combined company will be composed principally of former CenturyLink directors and the executive management team of the combined company will be led by current CenturyLink executives, including, but not limited to, its Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer.
 
The results of operations of Qwest will be included in CenturyLinks consolidated financial statements beginning April 1, 2011.
 
Pro forma information
 
The following unaudited pro forma combined condensed balance sheet as of March 31, 2011 and the unaudited pro forma combined condensed statements of income for the year ended December 31, 2010 and the three months ended March 31, 2011 are based on (i) the historical consolidated results of operations and financial condition of CenturyLink and its subsidiaries; and (ii) the historical consolidated results of operations and financial condition of Qwest and its subsidiaries.  Such pro forma information also reflects certain effects of CenturyLinks acquisition of Qwest, as further described below.
 
The pro forma financial information reflects an aggregate consideration of approximately $12.282 billion for the Qwest acquisition, as calculated below (in millions, except the exchange ratio and price per share):
 
*  Price determined based on the closing price of CenturyLinks common stock on March 31, 2011.
 
 
 
Pro forma adjustments, and the assumptions on which they are based, are described in the accompanying Notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Financial Information, which are referred to herein as the Notes.
 
The pro forma financial information related to the Qwest acquisition was prepared using the acquisition method of accounting and is based on the assumption that the acquisition of Qwest took place as of March 31, 2011 for purposes of the pro forma balance sheet and as of January 1, 2010 for purposes of the pro forma statements of income.  In accordance with the acquisition method of accounting, the actual consolidated financial statements of CenturyLink will reflect the Qwest acquisition only from and after the date of acquisition.  CenturyLink has not yet finalized a detailed analysis of the fair value of Qwests assets and liabilities, and is not expected to complete this analysis until up to one year after the April 1, 2011 closing date.  The final fair value assignments could differ materially from the preliminary assignments reflected herein and result in our actual results differing materially from those presented in the pro forma statements of income.  See the Notes below for additional information.
 
For purposes of the pro forma information, adjustments for estimated transaction costs (primarily investment banker advisory fees and legal fees) and integration costs for the Qwest acquisition have been excluded.  The combined company will incur integration costs related to system and customer conversions (including hardware and software costs), branding initiatives, and certain employee-related severance costs.  The specific details of these integration plans will continue to be refined over the next couple of years and the related costs could vary significantly from the estimates provided herein. Based on current plans and information, CenturyLink estimates that it will incur approximately $800 million to $1.0 billion of non-recurring operating expenses associated with transaction and integration costs and approximately $200 million of non-recurring capital costs associated with integration activities.
 
In addition, all remaining integration costs associated with our July 1, 2009 acquisition of Embarq Corporation (Embarq) have been excluded. Based on current plans and information, we estimate that we will incur approximately $50-60 million of operating expenses subsequent to March 31, 2011 related to the remaining Embarq integration activities.
 
The unaudited pro forma combined condensed financial information included herein does not give effect to any potential cost reductions or other operating efficiencies that could result from the Qwest acquisition, including but not limited to those associated with potential (i) reductions of corporate overhead, (ii) eliminations of duplicate functions and (iii) increased operational efficiencies through the adoption of best practices and capabilities from each company.
 
The pro forma information has been prepared in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission.  The pro forma information is presented for illustrative purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of the combined operating results or financial position that would have occurred if such transaction had been consummated on the dates and in accordance with the assumptions described herein, nor is it necessarily indicative of future operating results or financial position.
 
Both CenturyLinks and Qwests results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2010 and the three months ended March 31, 2011 were impacted by various one-time charges which are described in more detail in their respective Annual Reports on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011.  You are urged to read the pro forma information below together with CenturyLinks and Qwests publicly-available historical consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
See accompanying notes to unaudited pro forma combined condensed financial information.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
See accompanying notes to unaudited pro forma combined condensed financial information.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following preliminary allocation of the Qwest purchase price is based on CenturyLinks preliminary estimates of the fair value of the tangible and intangible assets and liabilities of Qwest as of the date of this report.  The final determination of the allocation of the purchase price will be based on the fair value of such assets and liabilities as of April 1, 2011, the consummation date of the acquisition, and is expected to be completed within one year after the closing date.  The final determination of the purchase price allocation may be significantly different than the preliminary estimates used in these pro forma financial statements.
 
The estimated purchase price of Qwest (as calculated in the manner described above) is allocated to the assets to be acquired and liabilities to be assumed based on the following preliminary basis applying currently available information (amounts in millions):
 
 
 
The following pro forma adjustments have been reflected in the unaudited pro forma combined condensed financial information.  These adjustments give effect to pro forma events that are (i) directly attributable to the Qwest merger, (ii) factually supportable and (iii) with respect to the statement of income, expected to have a continuing impact on the combined company.  All adjustments are based on current assumptions and are subject to change upon completion of the final purchase price allocation based on the tangible and intangible assets and liabilities acquired from Qwest at the merger closing date.
 
Balance Sheet Adjustments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Income Statement Adjustments
 
Pro forma income statement adjustments include the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For purposes of preparing these pro forma financial statements, the fair value of Qwests property, plant and equipment was estimated to approximate its carrying value on the date of acquisition. To the extent that the final purchase price allocation causes CenturyLinks depreciation and amortization expense to differ from that presented in the accompanying pro forma statement of income information, annual earnings per common share will be affected by $.01 per share for every $9 million difference in annual depreciation and amortization expense.  Thus, for example, if CenturyLink ultimately allocates an additional $1.167 billion of the aggregate purchase price to property, plant and equipment (representing a 10% increase in the amount that has been preliminarily allocated to such assets as described above), the annual depreciation and amortization would increase by approximately $175 million (assuming a composite annual depreciation rate of 15%) and the annual earnings per share would decrease by $.18 per share for 2010 from the amounts presented in the accompanying pro forma information.  In contrast, a 10% reduction in the amount that has been preliminarily allocated to property, plant and equipment would decrease depreciation and amortization by $175 million (assuming a composite annual depreciation rate of 15%) and increase annual earnings per share by $.18 per share for 2010 from the amounts presented herein.
 
In calculating basic and diluted earnings per common share on a pro forma combined basis for the year ended December 31, 2010, $8.525 million (which represents the earnings applicable to unvested restricted stock grants on such date) was subtracted from net income prior to dividing such figure by average basic and diluted common shares outstanding.  A similar adjustment of $1.389 million was made in calculating pro forma basic and diluted earnings per common share for the three months ended March 31, 2011.
 
 
 
 


