FILE:CTL/CTL-8K-20110215104236.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02.       Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
 
The following information, except for any forward-looking statements (including our forecasts for the upcoming quarter and full year 2011) and except for our references to non-GAAP financial measures (as defined in Regulation G promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission), shall be deemed incorporated by reference into any registration statement heretofore and hereafter filed by us under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except to the extent that such incorporated information is superceded by information as of a subsequent date that is included in or incorporated by reference into any such registration statement. None of the following information shall be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.
 
 
On February 15, 2011, we issued a press release announcing our fourth quarter 2010 consolidated operating results. More complete information on our operating results will be included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2010, which we expect to file shortly with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The complete press release is included as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
Item 9.01.       Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CenturyLink Reports Fourth Quarter 2010 Earnings
MONROE, La. . . . CenturyLink, Inc. (NYSE: CTL) announces operating results for fourth quarter 2010.
 
 
 
, excluding nonrecurring items, for fourth quarter 2010 were $1.72 billion compared to $1.84 billion in fourth quarter 2009. This anticipated revenue decline was primarily due to the impact of access line losses and lower access revenues, including the anticipated impact of lower universal service fund receipts and wireless and long distance traffic migration. These decreases more than offset revenue increases driven by growth in high-speed Internet customers, data services demand from business customers and data transport demand from wireless providers.
Operating revenues
, excluding nonrecurring items, decreased to $1.22 billion from $1.25 billion in fourth quarter 2009, primarily due to lower access expenses and transport costs due to the migration of legacy Embarq long distance traffic to our internal IP network, and lower personnel costs. Such increases were partially offset by higher plant operations costs.
Operating expenses
, excluding nonrecurring items,decreased to $864.3 million from $943.6 million in fourth quarter 2009.  For fourth quarter 2010, CenturyLink achieved an operating cash flow margin, excluding non-recurring items, of 50.2% versus 51.3% in fourth quarter 2009.
Operating cash flow
 
CenturyLink is well positioned to meet the growing demand for broadband and IP-based services across all customer segments. We added 29,000 high-speed Internet subscribers during the fourth quarter and 158,000 subscriber additions for full year 2010, representing 7.1% annual subscriber growth. Post said. We expect strategic revenues to increase in the months ahead driven by continued growth in high-speed Internet subscribers, consumer demand for broadband services such as IPTV, and business customer demand for high-bandwidth data services and data transport services.
,excluding nonrecurring items, was $232.3 million in fourth quarter 2010 compared to $286.7 million in fourth quarter 2009. Diluted earnings per share, excluding nonrecurring items, was $.76 for fourth quarter 2010, a 20.0% decrease from the $.95 reported in fourth quarter 2009.
Net income
 
,operating revenues, excluding nonrecurring items, increased 41.6% to $7.04 billion from $4.97 billion for the same period in 2009. Operating cash flow, excluding nonrecurring items, was $3.62 billion for 2010 compared to $2.48 billion in 2009. Net income, excluding nonrecurring items, was $1.03 billion compared to $720.9 million in 2009. Diluted earnings per share, excluding nonrecurring items, was $3.39 compared to $3.60 in 2009. The 2010 results reflect the impact of the Embarq acquisition for the full year, whereas the 2009 results reflect the impact of the Embarq acquisition for the 6 months following the July 1, 2009 completion of the transaction.
For the year 2010
 
, net income for fourth quarter 2010 was $225.2 million compared to $230.2 million for fourth quarter 2009, and diluted earnings per share for fourth quarter 2010 was $.74 compared to $.77 for fourth quarter 2009.
Under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP)
Fourth quarter 2010 net income and diluted earnings per share reflect after-tax integration and severance-related costs associated with the Embarq acquisition of $16.9 million ($.056 per share) and $6.9 million ($.023 per share) of after-tax costs related to transaction and integration costs associated with the pending Qwest acquisition.  Such amounts were partially offset by an after-tax curtailment gain associated with freezing certain future defined benefit pension accruals of $13.0 million ($.04 per share) and a net income tax benefit due to an increase in the net deferred tax asset related to state net operating loss carry forwards and other tax adjustments, of $3.7 million ($.01 per share).
Fourth quarter 2009 net income and diluted earnings per share reflect after-tax costs of $37.8 million ($.13 per share) associated with debt extinguishments, $19.8 million ($.07 per share) related to integration costs associated with the Embarq acquisition, $5.0 million ($.02 per share) related to a litigation settlement, and $4.4 million ($.015 per share) associated with severance related costs and the accelerated recognition of share-based compensation and pension expense. These after-tax costs more than offset a $10.7 million ($.04 per share) net tax benefit related to the recognition of previously unrecognized tax benefits and an adjustment to deferred tax liabilities related to the Embarq acquisition.
Net income under GAAP for full year 2010 was $947.7 million compared to $647.2 million for full year 2009 and diluted earnings per share for full year 2010 was $3.13 compared to $3.23 for full year 2009. See the accompanying financial schedules for detail of the Companys nonrecurring items for full year 2010 and 2009.
For full year 2011, CenturyLink expects operating revenues (excluding the effects of the pending Qwest transaction and any nonrecurring items that may occur ) to be 4% to 5% lower than 2010 operating revenues, as compared to the 6.5% decline in 2010 operating revenues compared to pro forma 2009 operating revenues. In addition, due to (i) anticipated revenue growth associated with the expansion of CenturyLinks Prism TV service, (ii) the revenue impact of the expected continued improvement in the rate of access line loss and (iii) the effects of additional fiber investment, the Company expects its year-over-year rate of revenue decline (excluding the pending Qwest transaction and any nonrecurring items that may occur) to be 2% to 3% by fourth quarter 2011.
Outlook for 2011
.
The Company currently expects 2011 capital expenditures, excluding any capital related to the integration of the pending Qwest transaction, to be approximately $1 billion, or 16% higher than 2010 capital expenditures of $864 million.  This increase is primarily due to the Companys planned incremental fiber to the tower investment for 2011.
Due to the anticipated close of the pending Qwest transaction, CenturyLink is not currently providing full year 2011 free cash flow or diluted earnings per share guidance. However, the Company is providing guidance regarding several items that collectively are anticipated to negatively impact 2011 diluted earnings per share in the range of $.49 to $.55, excluding the effects of the pending Qwest transaction and any nonrecurring items that may occur.
The following items are expected to have a positive impact on 2011 diluted earnings per share (excluding any positive impacts related to the Qwest acquisition):
The following items are expected to negatively impact 2011 diluted earnings per share:
For first quarter 2011, CenturyLink expects total revenues of $1.68 to $1.70 billion and diluted earnings per share of $.66 to $.70.
Additionally, CenturyLink is providing the following information regarding the estimated impact that the accounting rules related to business combinations are expected to have on the combined companys annual financial results in order to assist the investment community to better understand the combined company. None of these items will impact cash flow:
All of the assets and liabilities of Qwest will be assigned a fair value pursuant to business combination accounting rules upon the consummation of the merger. The actual fair values assigned to the above items may change significantly from those estimates provided herein. The above estimates also assume the associated income statement impacts occur for a full year. The actual results of the fair value adjustments to reflect the business combination accounting rules will only occur subsequent to the merger date.
All 2011 outlook figures included in this release exclude the effects of nonrecurring items, future changes in regulation, integration expenses associated with the Embarq acquisition, transaction or integration expenses associated with the pending Qwest transaction, any changes in operating or capital plans, and any future mergers, acquisitions, divestitures or other similar business transactions.
During fourth quarter 2010, CenturyLink incurred pre-tax costs of $27.2 million related to the Embarq acquisition and $7.1 million related to the Qwest transaction. The Company also incurred approximately $9.1 million of integration-related capital expenditures during the fourth quarter associated with the Embarq integration.
Integration Update.  
CenturyLink achieved more than $85 million in total operating cost synergies during fourth quarter 2010 and exited 2010 at an annualized synergy run rate of more than $340 million.
On April 21, 2010, CenturyLink and Qwest Communications International Inc. (NYSE: Q) entered into a definitive agreement under which CenturyLink will acquire Qwest in a tax-free, stock-for-stock transaction. Qwest shareholders will receive 0.1664 CenturyLink shares for each share of Qwest common stock they own at closing. Upon closing of the transaction, CenturyLink shareholders are expected to own approximately 50.5% and Qwest shareholders are expected to own approximately 49.5% of the combined company.
Qwest Transaction
.  
The transaction requires approval from regulatory commissions in 21 states and the District of Columbia, as well as the Federal Communications Commission (FCC).  Eighteen of those state regulatory approvals have been received to date.  While the actual closing date depends upon the timing of receipt of FCC and remaining state regulatory approvals, we are currently planning toward an April 1 closing date.
st
CenturyLink returned approximately $221 million to shareholders in the fourth quarter through cash dividends paid on December 20, 2010, to shareholders of record as of December 7, 2010.  In accordance with their definitive merger agreement, CenturyLink and Qwest coordinated the record dates and payment dates for the two companies respective first quarter dividend. On January 24, both CenturyLink and Qwest issued separate public announcements indicating their first quarter dividend would be paid on February 25, 2011 to holders of record on February 18, 2011. This represents a deviation from CenturyLinks historical dividend record and payments dates for the first quarter. Following the Qwest closing, CenturyLinks future quarterly dividends are not expected to deviate from historical dates.
Shareholder Returns.
This release includes certain non-GAAP financial measures, including but not limited to operating cash flow, free cash flow, adjustments to GAAP measures to exclude the effect of nonrecurring items and certain pro forma combined operating results. In addition to providing key metrics for management to evaluate the Companys performance, we believe these measurements assist investors in their understanding of period-to-period operating performance and in identifying historical and prospective trends. Reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are included in the attached financial schedules. Reconciliation of additional non-GAAP financial measures that may be discussed during the earnings call described below will be available in the Investor Relations portion of the Companys Web site at www.centurylink.com. Investors are urged to consider these non-GAAP measures in addition to, and not in substitution for, measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Reconciliation to GAAP.
 
As previously announced, CenturyLinks management will host a conference call at 10:30 a.m. Central Time today. Interested parties can access the call by dialing 866.818.1393. The call will be accessible for replay through February 21, 2011, by calling 888.266.2081 and entering the conference ID number 1508167. Investors can also listen to CenturyLinks earnings conference call and replay by accessing the Investor Relations portion of the Companys Web site at www.centurylink.com through March 7, 2011.
Investor Call.
 
Forward Looking Statements
Certain non-historical statements made in this release and future oral or written statements or press releases by us or our management are intended to be forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations only, and are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions, many of which are beyond our control.  Actual events and results may differ materially from those anticipated, estimated or projected if one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or if underlying assumptions prove incorrect.  Factors that could affect actual results include but are not limited to:  the timing, success and overall effects of competition from a wide variety of competitive providers; the risks inherent in rapid technological change; the effects of ongoing changes in the regulation of the communications industry (including those arising out of the Federal Communication Commissions National Broadband Plan released in the first quarter of 2010); our ability to effectively adjust to changes in the communications industry; and changes in the composition of our markets and product mix caused by our recent acquisitions;  our ability to successfully integrate Embarq into our operations, including the possibility that the anticipated benefits from the Embarq merger cannot be fully realized in a timely manner or at all, or that integrating Embarqs operations into ours will be more difficult, disruptive or costly than anticipated; our ability to successfully complete our pending acquisition of Qwest, including timely receiving all regulatory approvals and realizing the anticipated benefits of the transaction; our ability to effectively manage our expansion opportunities, including retaining and hiring key personnel; possible changes in the demand for, or pricing of, our products and services; our ability to successfully introduce new product or service offerings on a timely and cost-effective basis; our continued access to credit markets on favorable terms; our ability to collect our receivables from financially troubled communications companies; our ability to pay a $2.90 per common share dividend annually, which may be affected by changes in our cash requirements, capital spending plans, cash flows or financial position; unanticipated increases or other changes in our capital expenditures; our ability to successfully negotiate collective bargaining agreements on reasonable terms without work stoppages; the effects of adverse weather; other risks referenced from time to time in this release or our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC); and the effects of more general factors such as changes in interest rates, in tax rates, in accounting policies or practices, in operating, medical, pension or administrative costs, in general market, labor or economic conditions, or in legislation, regulation or public policy. These and other uncertainties related to our business and our recently completed or pending acquisitions are described in greater detail in Item 1A to our most recent Form 10-K, as updated and supplemented by our subsequent SEC reports. You should be aware that new factors may emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to identify all such factors nor can we predict the impact of each such factor on the business or the extent to which any one or more factors may cause actual results to differ from those reflected in any forward-looking statements.  You are further cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this release
CenturyLink is a leading provider of high-quality broadband, entertainment and voice services over its advanced communications networks to consumers and businesses in 33 states. CenturyLink, headquartered in Monroe, La., is an S&P 500 company and is included among the Fortune 500 list of Americas largest corporations. For more information on CenturyLink, visit www.centurylink.com.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


