FILE:CTL/CTL-8K-20121107165244.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02.                       Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On November 7, 2012, CenturyLink, Inc. ("CenturyLink" or "we" or "us" or "our") issued a press release announcing operating results for the third quarter of 2012.  The press release is included as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Forward Looking Statements
 
Certain non-historical statements made in this report and future oral or written statements or press releases by us or our management are intended to be forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations only, and are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions, many of which are beyond our control. Actual events and results may differ materially from those anticipated, estimated or projected if one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or if underlying assumptions prove incorrect. Factors that could affect actual results include but are not limited to: the timing, success and overall effects of competition from a wide variety of competitive providers; the risks inherent in rapid technological change; the effects of ongoing changes in the regulation of the communications industry (including those arising out of the Federal Communications Commission's October 27, 2011 order regarding intercarrier compensation and the Universal Service Fund, among other things); our ability to successfully negotiate collective bargaining agreements on reasonable terms without work stoppage; our ability to effectively adjust to changes in the communications industry and changes in the composition of our markets and product mix caused by our recent acquisitions; our ability to successfully integrate recently-acquired operations into our incumbent operations, including the possibility that the anticipated benefits from our recent acquisitions cannot be fully realized in a timely manner or at all, or that integrating the acquired operations will be more difficult, disruptive or costly than anticipated; our ability to use the net operating loss carryovers of Qwest in projected amounts; our ability to effectively manage our expansion opportunities, including retaining and hiring key personnel; possible changes in the demand for, or pricing of, our products and services; our ability to successfully introduce new product or service offerings on a timely and cost-effective basis; our continued access to credit markets on favorable terms; our ability to collect our receivables from financially troubled communications companies; any adverse developments in legal proceedings involving us; our ability to pay a $2.90 per common share dividend annually, which may be affected by changes in our cash requirements, capital spending plans, cash flows or financial position; unanticipated increases or other changes in our future cash requirements, whether caused by unanticipated increases in capital expenditures, increases in pension funding requirements or otherwise; our ability to successfully negotiate collective bargaining agreements on reasonable terms without work stoppages; the effects of adverse weather; other risks referenced from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"); and the effects of more general factors such as changes in interest rates, in tax rates, in accounting policies or practices, in operating, medical, pension or administrative costs, in general market, labor or economic conditions, or in legislation, regulation or public policy. These and other uncertainties related to our business, and our recent acquisitions are described in greater detail in Item 1A to our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, as updated and supplemented by our subsequent SEC reports. You should be aware that new factors may emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to identify all such factors nor can we predict the impact of each such factor on the business or the extent to which any one or more factors may cause actual results to differ from those reflected in any forward-looking statements. You are further cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this release. We undertake no obligation to update any of our forward-looking statements for any reason.
 
Item 9.01.                       Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
(d) Exhibits
 
The exhibit to this current report on Form 8-K is listed in the Exhibit Index, which appears at the end of this report and is incorporated by reference herein.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, CenturyLink has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
MONROE, La. 
CenturyLink, Inc. (NYSE: CTL) today reported strong operating revenues, operating cash flow and free cash flow forthird quarter 2012.
 
"CenturyLink's third quarter results reflect our continued progress toward top line revenue stabilization, successful integration of the Qwest and Savvis operations and alignment of our operating costs with our revenue and growth opportunities," said Glen F. Post, III, chief executive officer and president.
 
"Our Enterprise Markets-Network team achieved recurring revenue growth for the third straight quarter driven by solid customer retention and the increasing revenue contribution from enterprise customers added earlier this year. We continue to see strong demand for network services from enterprise customers as we recorded solid quarterly bookings and exited the quarter with a strong sales funnel.
 
"Our strategic revenues continued to increase in our Regional Markets and Enterprise Markets operations; however, as previously discussed, we did experience modest strategic Wholesale
 
(1)  See the attached pro forma statements of income for more information about our pro forma results discussed in this release.
(2)  See attachments for non-GAAP reconciliations.
 
Markets revenue compression as wireless carriers continue to migrate from copper-based to fiber-based connections.
"We are pleased with the continued progress we made during the third quarter toward stabilizing top-line revenue and we believe our continued investment in our key strategic opportunities will help drive enhanced shareholder value," Post said.
 
Third Quarter Highlights
 
 
Consolidated Third Quarter Financial Results
 
Operating revenues
for third quarter 2012 were $4.57 billion compared to $4.60 billion in third quarter 2011. This decrease was driven by lower legacy services revenues primarily due to the impact of access line losses and lower access revenues partially offset by $58 million of incremental revenue contributions from the Savvis acquisition completed July 15, 2011 and increases in strategic revenues, primarily resulting from business customer demand for high-bandwidth data services and growth in high-speed Internet and Prism
TM
 TV subscribers.
 
Comparing pro forma 2011 to third quarter 2012, operating revenues declined 1.3% from $4.63 billion a year ago to $4.57 billion this quarter, due to the decline in legacy revenues more than offsetting the increase in strategic revenues as discussed above.
 
Operating expenses
, excluding special items, decreased to $3.86 billion from $3.94 billion in third quarter 2011, primarily due to lower personnel-related costs, operating taxes and depreciation and amortization expense, partially offset by $50 million of incremental operating costs associated with the Savvis acquisition included in the current quarter.
 
(3)  Effective second quarter 2012, CenturyLink modified its high-speed Internet reporting to include consumer, business and wholesale subscribers instead of only consumer and small business subscribers.
(4)  We define a "data center" as any facility where we market, sell and deliver either colocation services or multi-tenant managed services, or both.
 
Comparing pro forma 2011 to third quarter 2012, operating expenses, excluding special items, decreased to $3.86 billion in third quarter 2012 from pro forma third quarter 2011 operating expenses of $3.98 billion.
 
Operating cash flow
(as defined in our attached supplemental schedules)
, excluding special items, increased slightly to $1.90 billion from $1.88 billion in third quarter 2011, primarily due to lower personnel-related costs and the Savvis acquisition contribution to operating cash flow, which was partially offset by the decline in legacy revenues. For third quarter 2012, CenturyLink achieved an operating cash flow margin, excluding special items, of 41.5% versus 41.0% in third quarter 2011.
 
Third quarter 2012 operating cash flow of $1.90 billion, excluding special items, was flat from pro forma third quarter 2011. Operating cash flow margin, excluding special items, was 41.5% in third quarter 2012 compared to 40.9% in pro forma third quarter 2011.
 
Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share (Adjusted Diluted EPS)
 
Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Diluted EPS exclude the after-tax impact of special items, the non-cash after-tax impact of the amortization of intangibles, and the non-cash after-tax impact to interest expense of the assignment of fair value to debt outstanding related to the Embarq, Qwest and Savvis transactions.
 
Excluding the items outlined above, CenturyLink's Adjusted Net Income for third quarter 2012 was $413 million compared to pro forma Adjusted Net Income of $377 million in third quarter 2011. Third quarter 2012 Adjusted Diluted EPS was $0.66 compared to pro forma Adjusted Diluted EPS of $0.61 in the year-ago period. See the attached schedules for additional information.
 
GAAP Results  Third Quarter
 
Under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), net income for third quarter 2012 was $270 million compared to $138 million for third quarter 2011, and diluted earnings per share for third quarter 2012 was $0.43 compared to $0.22 for third quarter 2011. Third quarter 2012 net income and diluted earnings per share reflect $33 million ($0.05 per share) due to a favorable out-of-period adjustment to depreciation expense related to the fair value previously assigned to Embarq plant assets, an income tax benefit from the reversal of a valuation allowance and a gain on the sale of a non-operating investment, which were partially offset by severance, integration and retention costs associated with the Embarq, Qwest and Savvis acquisitions and severance associated with recent expense reduction initiatives.
 
Third quarter 2011 net income and diluted earnings per share reflect after-tax integration, severance, and retention costs associated with the Embarq, Qwest and Savvis acquisitions of $70 million ($0.12 per share).
 
Segment Results / Highlights
 
Regional Markets
 
The Regional Markets segment continued to improve revenue and access line trends in local markets by leveraging CenturyLink's local operating model.
 
                 
Strategic revenues were $912 million in the quarter, a 7.9% increase over pro forma third quarter 2011. Excluding the impact of private line services, the adjusted growth rate was more than 9%.
                 
Generated $2.47 billion in total revenues, a decrease of 2.1% from pro forma third quarter 2011, reflecting the continued decline in traditional legacy services tempered by Access Recovery Charges implemented effective July 1, 2012 in accordance with the CAF Order(5).
                 
Achieved strong business strategic data and network managed services growth.
                 
Added more than 10,000 Prism
TM
 TV subscribers during third quarter with over 90% attachment rate of broadband services.
 
Wholesale Markets
 
The Wholesale Markets segment strategic revenues declined modestly from pro forma third quarter 2011 primarily due to wireless carrier migration from private line to Ethernet services. The Company is progressing well in its fiber-to-the-tower builds and currently expects to complete 4,000 to 4,500 fiber builds in 2012.
 
                 
Strategic revenues were $568 million in the quarter, slightly lower than pro forma third quarter 2011, driven by wireless carrier bandwidth expansion and higher Ethernet sales offset by declines in copper-based revenue.
                 
Generated $908 million in total revenues, a decrease of 7.6% from pro forma third quarter 2011, reflecting the implementation of the CAF Order rate reduction and continued decline in legacy services primarily driven by lower long distance and switched access minutes of use associated with access line loss and displacement of access minutes by alternative forms of communication.
                 
Completed approximately 1,335 fiber builds during the third quarter and more than 3,300 year-to-date, ending the quarter with approximately 13,500 fiber-connected towers.
 
Enterprise Markets  Network
 
The Enterprise Markets  Network segment achieved solid growth in recurring revenue sales in the third quarter.
 
                 
Strategic revenues were $341 million in the quarter, a 7.2% increase over pro forma third quarter 2011 driven by strength in high-bandwidth offerings such as MPLS(6) and Ethernet services. Excluding the impact of private line services, the adjusted growth rate was more than 13%.
                 
Generated $658 million in total revenues, an increase of 5.6% from pro forma third quarter 2011, reflecting growth in high-bandwidth offerings and data integration revenues partially offset by declines in legacy services revenues.
                 
Achieved a third straight quarter of sequential recurring revenue growth.
 
(5)  Federal Communications Commission's Connect America and Intercarrier Compensation Reform Order (the CAF Order) adopted on October 27, 2011
(6)  Multiprotocol Label Switching
 
Enterprise Markets  Data Hosting
 
The Enterprise Markets  Data Hosting segment (primarily Savvis operations) grew managed hosting (including cloud) and colocation services revenue, with strength in core managed hosting products and in the financial and media verticals.
 
                 
Operating revenues were $280 million in the quarter, an 8.1% increase from pro forma third quarter 2011. Colocation revenues were $113 million, a 7.6% increase from pro forma third quarter 2011, and managed hosting revenues were $107 million, representing a 9.2% increase over the same period a year ago.
                 
Continued to expand global geographic reach in key markets with opening of new data center in Singapore and expansion of data center in New York/New Jersey market.
                 
Closed acquisition of certain assets of Ciber's IT Outsourcing (ITO) business in mid-October, which enhances and expands CenturyLink's capabilities in areas such as application-management services and help-desk support.
                 
Announced in October forthcoming launch of savvisdirect(7), expanding CenturyLink's portfolio of cloud services to businesses of all sizes.
 
Integration Update
 
During third quarter 2012, CenturyLink incurred pre-tax integration, severance and retention costs of $17 million ($10 million net after-tax) related to the Embarq, Qwest and Savvis acquisitions.
 
CenturyLink ended third quarter 2012 with an annualized operating expense synergy run rate of approximately $450 million from the Qwest acquisition. CenturyLink currently expects to exit 2012 with approximately $480 million in annual run-rate synergies related to the Qwest acquisition as operating expense savings are being achieved earlier than anticipated.
 
Guidance  Fourth Quarter 2012 and Full Year 2012
 
The Company expects fourth quarter 2012 operating cash flow to increase compared to third quarter 2012 due to anticipated continued growth in strategic revenues and lower outside plant maintenance and utility costs.
 
 
 
(7)  savvisdirect is CenturyLink's highly scalable and easy-to-use cloud services platform designed for business of all sizes that is immediately accessible to business users, IT administrators and developers through an intuitive, user-friendly Web portal
 
2013 Outlook
 
CenturyLink's operating and capital investment in its key strategic initiatives is driving strategic revenue growth and the Company expects to continue to invest in these key initiatives in the future.
 
CenturyLink anticipates further improvement in top line revenues in 2013, currently expecting the annual rate of revenue decline for full year 2013 compared to full year 2012 to be in the - 0.5% to 1.5% range. Additionally, the Company expects to reach top line revenue stabilization in 2014.  Similar to what the Company anticipates experiencing in 2012, operating and free cash flows are anticipated to be lower in 2013 primarily due to the Company's continued shift in its legacy and strategic revenue mix, and investment in key strategic initiatives. In addition, the Company expects a lower level of incremental synergies in 2013 compared to the level of incremental synergies anticipated to be achieved in 2012.
 
CenturyLink expects to provide 2013 guidance in mid-February when it reports fourth quarter and full year 2012 results.
 
All 2012 guidance figures and 2013 outlook statements included in this release (i) speak as of November 7, 2012 only, (ii) include the impact of the Ciber ITO assets acquired on October 15, 2012, and (iii) exclude the effects of special items, future changes in regulation or accounting rules, integration expenses associated with the Qwest, Savvis and Ciber acquisitions, any changes in operating or capital plans and any future mergers, acquisitions, divestitures, buybacks or other similar business transactions. See "Forward-Looking Statements" below.
 
Investor Call
 
As previously announced, CenturyLink's management will host a conference call at 4:00 p.m. Central Time today, November 7, 2012. Interested parties can access the call by dialing 866-244-4518. The call will be accessible for replay through November 14, 2012, by calling 888-266-2081 and entering the access code 1592908. Investors can also listen to CenturyLink's earnings conference call and replay by accessing the Investor Relations portion of the Company's Web site at www.centurylink.com through November 28, 2012.
 
Reconciliation to GAAP
 
This release includes certain non-GAAP financial measures, including but not limited to operating cash flow, free cash flow, adjustments to GAAP measures to exclude the effect of special items and certain pro forma combined operating results. In addition to providing key metrics for management to evaluate the Company's performance, we believe these measurements assist investors in their understanding of period-to-period operating performance and in identifying historical and prospective trends. Reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are included in the attached financial schedules. Reconciliation of
 
(8)  Excludes approximately $65 million of integration-related capital expenditures
additional non-GAAP financial measures that may be discussed during the earnings call described below will be available in the Investor Relations portion of the Company's Web site at www.centurylink.com. Investors are urged to consider these non-GAAP measures in addition to, and not in substitution for, measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
About CenturyLink
 
CenturyLink is the third largest telecommunications company in the United States and is recognized as a leader in the network services market by technology industry analyst firms. The Company is a global leader in cloud infrastructure and hosted IT solutions for enterprise customers. CenturyLink provides data, voice and managed services in local, national and select international markets through its high-quality advanced fiber optic network and multiple data centers for businesses and consumers. The company also offers advanced entertainment services under the CenturyLink
TM
 Prism
TM
 TV and DIRECTV brands. Headquartered in Monroe, La., CenturyLink is an S&P 500 company and is included among the Fortune 500 list of America's largest corporations. For more information, visit www.centurylink.com.
 
Forward Looking Statements
 
Certain non-historical statements made in this release and future oral or written statements or press releases by us or our management are intended to be forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations only, and are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions, many of which are beyond our control. Actual events and results may differ materially from those anticipated, estimated or projected if one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or if underlying assumptions prove incorrect. Factors that could affect actual results include but are not limited to: the timing, success and overall effects of competition from a wide variety of competitive providers; the risks inherent in rapid technological change; the effects of ongoing changes in the regulation of the communications industry (including recent reforms and changes by the Federal Communications Commission regarding intercarrier compensation and the Universal Service Fund, among other things); our ability to successfully negotiate collective bargaining agreements on reasonable terms without work stoppages; our ability to effectively adjust to changes in the communications industry and changes in the composition of our markets and product mix caused by our recent acquisitions; our ability to successfully integrate recently acquired operations into our incumbent operations, including the possibility that the anticipated benefits from our recent acquisitions cannot be fully realized in a timely manner or at all, or that integrating the acquired operations will be more difficult, disruptive or costly than anticipated; our ability to use the net operating loss carryovers of Qwest in projected amounts; our ability to effectively manage our expansion opportunities, including retaining and hiring key personnel; possible changes in the demand for, or pricing of, our products and services; our ability to successfully introduce new product or service offerings on a timely and cost-effective basis; our continued access to credit markets on favorable terms; our ability to collect our receivables from financially troubled communications companies; any adverse developments in legal proceedings involving us; our ability to pay a $2.90 per common share dividend annually, which may be affected by changes in our cash requirements, capital spending plans, cash flows or financial position; unanticipated increases or other changes in our future cash requirements, whether caused by unanticipated increases in capital expenditures, increases in pension funding requirements or otherwise; the effects of adverse weather; other risks referenced from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"); and the effects of more general factors such as changes in interest rates, in tax rates, in accounting policies or practices, in operating, medical, pension or administrative costs, in general
market, labor or economic conditions, or in legislation, regulation or public policy. These and other uncertainties related to our business and our recent acquisitions are described in greater detail in Item 1A to our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, as updated and supplemented by our subsequent SEC reports. You should be aware that new factors may emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to identify all such factors nor can we predict the impact of each such factor on the business or the extent to which any one or more factors may cause actual results to differ from those reflected in any forward-looking statements. You are further cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this release. We undertake no obligation to update any of our forward-looking statements for any reason.
 
 
 
SPECIAL ITEMS
 
 
 
 
SPECIAL ITEMS
(1) -
             
Includes severance costs associated with recent reduction in force initiatives ($68 million), integration, severance, and retention costs associated with our acquisition of Qwest ($62 million) and integration, severance, and retention costs associated with our acquisition of Savvis ($9 million); partially offset with a $3 million credit related to tax incentives for the Embarq integration.
(2) -
             
Out-of-period depreciation adjustment ($30 million) to correct an overstatement of depreciation in prior quarters.
(3) -
             
Net loss associated with early retirement of debt ($194 million), partially offset by a gain on the sale of a non-operating investment $11 million.
(4) -
             
Income tax benefit of Items (1) through (3) and benefit from the reversal of a valuation allowance ($11 million).
(5) -
             
Includes integration, severance, and retention costs associated with our acquisition of Qwest, along with restructuring charges ($316 million); integration and severance costs associated with our acquisition of Embarq ($79 million); transaction and other costs associated with our acquisition of Savvis ($22 million); net of a favorable settlement of an operating tax issue $13 million.
(6) -
             
Reflects the interest component of a favorable settlement of an operating tax issue.
(7) -
             
Expense associated with terminating a bridge credit facility related to the Savvis acquisition.
(8) -
             
Income tax benefit of Items (5) through (7) and a benefit from the reduction of an NOL valuation allowance ($14 million).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
During the second quarter of 2012, we restructured our four operating segments to more effectively leverage the strategic assets from our recent acquisitions of Embarq, Qwest and Savvis.  We also revised our methodology for how we allocate our expenses to our segments to better align segment expenses with related revenues.  In addition, we now allocate certain expenses from our enterprise markets-data hosting segment to our other three segments.  We have restated prior periods to reflect these changes in our methodology.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The above schedule presents adjusted net income and adjusted earnings per share (both excluding special items) by adding back to net income and earnings per share certain non-cash expense items that arise as a result of the application of business combination accounting rules to recent acquisitions.  Such presentation is not in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles but management believes the presentation is useful to analysts and investors to understand the impacts of growing our business through acquisitions.
 
*The pro forma information presented above reflects the operations of CenturyLink (which includes Qwest for the entire third quarter 2011) and Savvis assuming Savvis' results of operations had been combined as of January 1, 2010.  Pro forma adjustments include (i) the amortization of the fair value assigned to intangible assets (primarily customer relationship); (ii) adjustments to depreciation to reflect the fair value assigned to property, plant and equipment; and (iii) the related income tax effects.  The above pro forma information (i) has not been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, (ii) is for illustrative purposes only, and (iii) is not necessarily indicative of the combined operating results that would have occurred if the Savvis merger had been consummated as of January 1, 2010.
 
**See preceding schedule for a summary description of special items.
 
 
 
 
During the second quarter of 2012, we restructured our four operating segments to more effectively leverage the strategic assets from our recent acquisitions of Embarq, Qwest and Savvis.  We also revised our methodology for how we allocate our expenses to our segments to better align segment expenses with related revenues.  In addition, we now allocate certain expenses from our enterprise markets-data hosting segment to our other three segments.  We have restated prior periods to reflect these changes in our methodology.  The pro forma segment data for 2010 has not been restated as it is deemed impracticable to do so.
 
*The pro forma information presented above reflects the operations of CenturyLink (which includes Qwest for the entire third quarter 2011) and Savvis assuming Savvis' results of operations had been combined as of January 1, 2010.  Pro forma adjustments include (i) the amortization of the fair value assigned to intangible assets (primarily customer relationship); (ii) adjustments to depreciation to reflect the fair value assigned to property, plant and equipment; and (iii) the related income tax effects.  The above pro forma information (i) has not been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, (ii) is for illustrative purposes only, and (iii) is not necessarily indicative of the combined operating results that would have occurred if the Savvis merger had been consummated as of January 1, 2010.  For additional information regarding this pro forma information, including related pro forma adjustments, please see the preceding supplemental schedule.
 
** See preceding schedule for a summary description of special items.
 
 
 
 
*The pro forma information presented above reflects certain selected revenue of Savvis assuming CenturyLink owned Savvis as of
January 1, 2010.    As noted more fully on the prior schedules, the above pro forma information has not been prepared in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles and is for illustrative purposes only.
 


