Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results and Financial Condition CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS EQUITY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS PART III SCHEDULE 1 SUMMARY OF INVESTMENTS OTHER THAN INVESTMENTS IN RELATED PARTIES SCHEDULE II CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT BALANCE SHEETS Lincoln National Corporation (Parent Company Only) SCHEDULE II CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT (Continued) STATEMENTS OF INCOME Lincoln National Corporation (Parent Company Only) STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS Lincoln National Corporation (Parent Company Only) SCHEDULE III SUPPLEMENTARY INSURANCE INFORMATION SCHEDULE IV REINSURANCE SCHEDULE V VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS EXHIBIT INDEX FOR THE ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10 K For the Year Ended December 31, 2002 SIGNATURE PAGE CERTIFICATION CERTIFICATION Agreement, Waiver and General Release Historical Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges List of Subsidiaries of LNC Consent of Ernst & Young LLP Table of Contents Lincoln National Corporation Table of Contents Item Page PART I 1. Business A. Business Overview 2 B. Description of Business Segments: 1. Lincoln Retirement 5 2. Life Insurance 8 3. Investment Management 10 4. Lincoln UK 11 C. Other Matters: 1. Regulatory 12 2. Miscellaneous 12 3. Available Information 13 2. Properties 13 3. Legal Proceedings 13 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 14 PART II 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters 14 6. Selected Financial Data 14 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis 15 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 73 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 82 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosures 149 PART III 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant 149 11. Executive Compensation 150 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management 150 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions 151 14. Controls and Procedures 151 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8 K 151 Index to Exhibits 164 Signatures 166 Certifications 168 1 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Business Overview Lincoln National Corporation (LNC) is a holding company. Through subsidiary companies, LNC operates multiple insurance and investment management businesses. The collective group of companies uses Lincoln Financial Group as its marketing identity. Based on assets, LNC is the 39th largest U.S. Corporation (2002 Fortune 500, Largest U.S. Corporations, April 2002). Based on revenues, LNC is the 8th largest U.S. stockholder owned company within the Fortune 500 Life/ Health Insurance Industry Ranking (2002 Fortune 500 by Industry Rankings, April 2002). Operations are divided into four business segments: 1) Lincoln Retirement (formerly known as the Annuities segment), 2) Life Insurance, 3) Investment Management and 4) Lincoln UK. Over the past five years, segments have been redefined as follows. During the first quarter of 2000, changes to the structure of LNCs internal organization resulted in the creation of a separate Annuities segment (now known as the Lincoln Retirement segment) and a separate Life Insurance segment. At the end of 2000, LNC established a new wholesaling distribution organization, Lincoln Financial Distributors (LFD), to focus on the changing business needs of financial intermediaries. Beginning with the first quarter of 2001, LFDs results were reported within Other Operations. Previously, LNCs wholesaling efforts were conducted separately within the Lincoln Retirement, Life Insurance and Investment Management segments. Prior to the fourth quarter of 2001, LNC had a Reinsurance segment. LNCs reinsurance operations were acquired by Swiss Re on December 7, 2001 and the related segment information prior to the close of this transaction was moved to Other Operations. Revenues, pre tax income and assets for LNCs major business segments and other operations are shown in this Form 10 K report as part of the consolidated financial statements (see Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements). The LNC Other Operations category includes the financial data for operations that are not directly related to the business segments, unallocated corporate items (such as, corporate investment income and interest expense on short term and long term borrowings), the operations of Lincoln Financial Advisors (LFA) and LFD, and the historical results of the former Reinsurance segment along with the ongoing amortization of deferred gain on the indemnity reinsurance portion of the transaction with Swiss Re (for further discussion of the transaction with Swiss Re, refer to Acquisitions, Divestitures and Discontinued Lines of Business below). Although one of the subsidiaries held by LNC was formed in 1905, LNC itself was formed in 1968. LNC is an Indiana corporation that maintains its principal offices at 1500 Market Street, Suite 3900, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19102 2112. As of December 31, 2002, there were 60 persons engaged in the governance of the LNC holding company. Total employment of Lincoln National Corporation at December 31, 2002 on a consolidated basis was 5,830. Of this total, approximately 2,140 employees are included in Other Operations related primarily to the operations of LFA and LFD. The primary operating subsidiaries that comprise LNC are Lincoln National Life Insurance Company (LNL); First Penn Pacific Life Insurance Company (First Penn); Lincoln Life & Annuity Company of New York (Lincoln Life New York), Delaware Management Holdings, Inc. (Delaware), Lincoln National (UK) plc, LFA and LFD. LNL is an Indiana corporation with its annuities operations headquartered in Fort Wayne, Indiana and its life insurance operations headquartered in Hartford, Connecticut. The primary operations of LNL are reported in the Lincoln Retirement and Life Insurance segments. LNL also has operations that are reported in the Investment Management segment and the results of LNLs reinsurance operations acquired by Swiss Re via an indemnity reinsurance transaction are reported in Other Operations. First Penn is an Indiana corporation headquartered in Schaumburg, Illinois. First Penn offers universal life, term life and deferred fixed annuity products for distribution in most states of the United States. Through the end of 2000, all of the operations of First Penn were reported in the Life Insurance segment. Beginning in 2 Table of Contents the first quarter of 2001, the reporting of First Penns annuities business was moved from the Life Insurance segment into the Lincoln Retirement segment. Lincoln Life New York is a New York company headquartered in Syracuse, New York. Lincoln Life New York offers fixed annuities, variable annuities, universal life, variable universal life, term life and other individual life insurance products within the state of New York utilizing the distribution networks described below under Distribution. The operations of Lincoln Life New York are primarily reported in the Lincoln Retirement and Life Insurance segments. Acquisitions, Divestitures and Discontinued Lines of Business Over the last several years, LNC has undertaken a variety of acquisitions and divestitures, and has exited certain businesses. These actions have been conducted with the goal of strengthening shareholder value by providing more consistent sources of earnings and by focusing on financial products that have the potential for significantly growing earnings. To this end, the following transactions have occurred during the three years covered by this Form 10 K: On August 30, 2002, LNC acquired The Administrative Management Group, Inc. (AMG), an employee benefits record keeping firm for $21.6 million in cash. Contingent payments up to an additional $14 million will be paid over a period of 4 years (2003 2006) if certain criteria are met. Any such contingent payments will be expensed as incurred. AMG, a strategic partner of LNCs Retirement segment for several years, provides record keeping services for the Lincoln Alliance Program along with approximately 400 other clients nationwide. As of December 31, 2002, the application of purchase accounting to this acquisition resulted in goodwill of $20.2 million. On December 7, 2001, Swiss Re acquired LNCs reinsurance operation for $2.0 billion. In addition, LNC retained the capital supporting the reinsurance operation. After giving effect to the increased levels of capital needed within the Life Insurance and Lincoln Retirement segments that result from the change in the ongoing mix of business under LNCs internal capital allocation models, the disposition of LNCs reinsurance operation freed up approximately $100 million of retained capital. The transaction structure involved a series of indemnity reinsurance transactions combined with the sale of certain stock companies that comprised LNCs reinsurance operation. At the time of closing, an immediate gain of $15.0 million after tax was recognized on the sale of the stock companies. A gain of $723.1 million after tax ($1.1 billion pre tax) relating to the indemnity reinsurance agreements was reported at the time of closing. This gain was recorded as a deferred gain on LNCs consolidated balance sheet, in accordance with the requirements of FAS 113, and is being amortized into earnings at the rate that earnings on the reinsured business are expected to emerge, over a period of 15 years. On October 29, 2002 LNC and Swiss Re settled disputed matters totaling about $770 million that had arisen in connection with the final closing balance sheets associated with Swiss Res acquisition of LNCs reinsurance operations. The settlement provided for a payment by LNC of $195 million to Swiss Re, which was recorded by LNC as a reduction in deferred gain. As a result of additional information made available to LNC following the settlement with Swiss Re in the fourth quarter of 2002, LNC recorded a further reduction in the deferred gain of $51.6 million after tax ($79.4 million pre tax), as well as a $9.4 million after tax ($8.3 million pre tax) reduction in the gain on the sale of subsidiaries. As part of the dispute settlement, LNC also paid $100 million to Swiss Re in satisfaction of LNCs $100 million indemnification obligation with respect to personal accident business. As a result of this payment, LNC has no further underwriting risk with respect to the reinsurance business sold. However, because LNC has not been relieved of it legal liabilities to the underlying ceding companies with respect to the portion of the business indemnity reinsured by Swiss Re, under FAS 113 the reserves for the underlying reinsurance contracts as well as a corresponding reinsurance recoverable from Swiss Re will continue to be carried on LNCs balance sheet during the run off period of the underlying reinsurance business. This is particularly relevant in the case of the exited personal accident and disability income reinsurance lines of business where the underlying reserves are based upon various estimates that are subject to considerable uncertainty. 3 Table of Contents Also during 2002, LNC exercised a contractual right to put its interest in a subsidiary company containing LNCs disability income reinsurance business to Swiss Re for $10 million. The $10 million sale price was approximately equal to LNCs book basis in the subsidiary. During 2000, LNC transferred Lincoln UKs sales force to Inter Alliance Group PLC. Concurrent with the announcement of this transfer, LNC also ceased writing new business in the United Kingdom (UK) through direct distribution. These actions followed a strategic review of the Lincoln UK segment in late 1999, where LNC concluded that trends in the UK insurance market including the unfavorable regulatory environment raised significant concerns regarding the ongoing fit of the Lincoln UK segment within LNCs overall strategic plans. While these actions have changed the focus of Lincoln UKs business to maintaining the in force policies, it is not closed to new business and continues to sell some new products. Distribution of Products LNC has an extensive distribution network for the sale of fixed annuities, variable annuities, universal life insurance, variable universal life insurance, term life insurance, other individual insurance coverages, retail mutual funds, 529 college savings plans, 401(k) products and managed account products. LNCs distribution strategy reflects a marketplace where consumers increasingly want to do business on their own terms. LNCs network consists of internally owned wholesaling and retailing business units: LFD and LFA, respectively, as well as distribution for annuities through a third party alliance with American Funds Distributors (AFD). In 2003, LNC and AFD agreed to transition the wholesaling of the American Legacy Variable Annuity product line to LFD. For further discussion, see the Lincoln Retirement Distribution section. LFD, headquartered in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, consists of approximately 250 internal and external wholesalers organized to penetrate multiple channels including the Wirehouse/ Regional channel, the Independent Financial Planner channel, the Marketing General Agent channel and the Financial Institutions channel. Through its relationships with a large number of financial intermediaries, LFD has access to approximately 200,000 financial consultants, intermediaries and advisors. LFA is a retail broker/dealer and financial planning firm that offers a full range of financial and estate planning services. LFA and its consolidated affiliate, Sagemark, offer access to annuities, 401(k) plans, pensions, universal and variable universal life insurance and other wealth accumulation and protection products and services, and is a preferred distributor of LNC retail products. LFA and Sagemark are headquartered in Hartford, Connecticut and consist of nearly 2,100 planners in 39 offices across the United States. Institutional investment products managed in the Investment Management segment including large case 401(k) plans which are marketed by a separate sales force in conjunction with pension consultants. These products are offered primarily to defined benefit and defined contribution plan sponsors, endowments, foundations and insurance companies. National Branding Campaign During 2002, Lincoln Financial Group (LFG), the marketing name for LNC and its affiliates, continued building its brand on a national basis through an integrated package of national magazine, television and Internet advertising, sponsorships of major sporting events, educational partnerships, public relations and promotional events. In 2002, much of the advertising effort was focused on an advertising plan designed to secure brand awareness and familiarity with financial intermediaries, the No. 1 target audience. Since introducing trade advertising with the LFDs Hero campaign in March 2001, LFGs aided awareness has grown to 91% among intermediaries. Familiarity also is climbing and reached a high of 72% in 2002. A new consumer advertising campaign was launched in July 2002 depicting Abraham Lincoln guiding customers through dangerous waters and on challenging putting greens. These ads continue the brand promise of providing Clear solutions in a complex world. This new campaign was tested in independent research and was viewed as significantly more likeable and unique than a base of 818 financial competitor ads. In June 2002, Lincoln Financial Group announced a major new partnership with the Philadelphia Eagles football team to name its new state of the art stadium Lincoln Financial Field. The new facility is nearing completion and is scheduled to open its gates to the public in August 2003. Based on evidence from other 4 Table of Contents major markets and sports teams, stadium entitlements are a proven way to build strong brand awareness. The announcement has already resulted in significant new visibility for the Lincoln Financial Group brand nationwide. Description of Business Segments 1. Lincoln Retirement The Lincoln Retirement segment (formerly the Annuities segment), headquartered in Fort Wayne, Indiana, with additional operations in Portland, Maine and the Chicago, Illinois metro area, provides tax deferred investment growth and lifetime income opportunities for its clients through the manufacture and sale of fixed and variable annuities. There are two lines of business within this segment, individual annuities and employer sponsored markets. Both lines of business offer fixed annuity and variable annuity products. The individual annuities line of business markets non qualified and qualified fixed and variable annuities to individuals. Annuities are attractive, because they provide tax deferred growth in the underlying principal, thereby deferring the tax consequences of the growth in value until withdrawals are made from the accumulation values, often at lower tax rates occurring during retirement. In addition to favorable tax treatment, annuities are unique in that retirees can select a variety of payout alternatives to help provide an income flow during life. The individual annuities market is a growth market that has seen an increase in competition along with new product types and promotion. The employer sponsored retirement line of business markets fixed and variable annuities along with a turnkey retirement program (investments, record keeping, employee education and compliance) to targeted markets. The key segments of the employer sponsored retirement markets are: healthcare, public/governmental, education, corporate and not for profit. Within these segments, LNC targets those markets that offer the most favorable demographics, distribution synergies and current and potential market share. Products In general, an annuity is a contract between an insurance company and an individual or group in which the insurance company, after receipt of one or more contributions, agrees to pay an amount of money either in one lump sum or on a periodic basis (i.e., annually, semi annually, quarterly or monthly), beginning on a certain date and continuing for a period of time as specified in the contract. Such payments can begin the month after the deposit is received (referred to as an immediate annuity) or at a future date in time (referred to as a deferred annuity). This retirement vehicle helps protect an individual from outliving his money and can be either a fixed annuity or a variable annuity. Fixed Annuity: A fixed deferred annuity preserves the principal value of the contract while guaranteeing a minimum interest rate to be credited to the accumulation value. LNC offers both single and flexible premium fixed deferred annuities to the individual annuities market. Single premium fixed deferred annuities are contracts that allow only a single contribution to be made. Flexible premium fixed deferred annuities are contracts that allow multiple contributions on either a scheduled or non scheduled basis. With fixed deferred annuities, the contractholder has the right to surrender the contract and receive the current accumulation value less any applicable surrender charge and, if applicable, market value adjustment. Also, certain fixed annuity products, such as the popular Step Five Fixed Annuity, allow for a window period between the end of the fixed guarantee period and the start of the subsequent guarantee period during which the account holder can withdraw their funds without incurring a surrender charge. Fixed annuity contributions are invested in LNCs general account. LNC bears the investment risk for fixed annuity contracts. To protect itself from premature withdrawals, LNC imposes surrender charges. Surrender charges are typically applicable during the early years of the annuity contract, with a declining level of surrender charges over time. LNC expects to earn a spread between what it earns on the underlying general account investments supporting the fixed annuity product line and what it credits to its fixed annuity contractholders accounts. 5 Table of Contents Throughout 2001 and 2002, even with the historically low interest rate environment, fixed annuities have taken on increased importance due to the sustained volatility of the equity markets that began in the second quarter of 2000. LNC primarily distributes fixed annuities through the Financial Institutions channel and to a lesser extent in the Independent Financial Planner and Wirehouse/ Regional channels. LNCs fixed annuity sales in 2001 through 2002 were bolstered by product offerings that were introduced in 2001 including the Lincoln Select and ChoicePlus Fixed Annuities and the StepFive Fixed Annuity. The guarantees of the StepFive Fixed Annuity have been especially well received in the Financial Institutions channel. New product offerings launched in 2002 in the Financial Institutions channel included the AccelaRate and ChoiceGuarantee Fixed Annuities. The market value adjusted (MVA) feature of the Lincoln Select and ChoicePlus Fixed Annuities is expected to be more attractive in the Wirehouse/ Regional channel during a volatile interest rate environment. This feature increases or decreases the cash surrender value of the annuity based on a decrease or increase in interest rates. Contractholders participate in gains when the contract is surrendered in a falling interest rate market, and LNC is protected from losses up to a cap when the contract is surrendered in a rising interest rate market. A new version of Lincoln Select that provides the individual with a higher interest rate but a larger potential penalty for early withdrawal or surrender is being considered. Variable Annuity: A variable annuity provides the contractholder the ability to direct the investment of deposits into one or more sub accounts offered by the product. The value of the contractholders account varies with the performance of the underlying sub accounts chosen by the contractholder. The underlying assets of the sub accounts are managed within a special insurance series of mutual funds. Because the contractholders return is tied to the performance of the segregated assets underlying the variable annuity, the contractholder bears the investment risk associated with these investments. LNC charges the contractholder insurance and administrative fees based upon the value of the variable contract. The separate account choices for LNCs variable annuities cover diverse asset classes with varying levels of risk and include both equity funds and fixed income funds. The Individual and Group Multi Fund Variable Annuity product line offers 36 fund choices from 13 well known advisors: AIM, Alliance Capital, American Fund Insurance Seriessm, Baron Capital Funds, Delaware Investmentssm, Deutsche Asset Management, Fidelity Investments, Janus, MFS Investment Management, Neuberger Berman Management Inc., Putnam Investments, Inc., Scudder Investments and Wells Fargo. LNCs Lincoln Choice Plussm Variable Annuity, an individual multi manager product line, has 44 fund offerings from AIM, Alliance Capital, American Funds Insurance Seriessm, Delaware Investmentssm, Fidelity Investments, Franklin, Janus, MFS Investment Management, Neuberger Berman Management, Inc., Putnam Investments, Inc., and Scudder Investments. LNCs American Legacy Variable Annuity, a premier single manager individual and group variable annuity product line, offers 13 mutual fund choices from American Funds Insurance Seriessm. American Funds is the 3rd largest mutual fund company for 2002 based on assets under management. LNCs Alliance Program, which is for the employer sponsored market, has over 2000 mutual fund choices plus a fixed account. This product is customized for each employer. Most of LNCs variable annuity products also offer the choice of a fixed option that provides for guaranteed interest credited to the account value. In addition, many of LNCs individual variable annuities feature minimum guaranteed death benefits. These minimum guaranteed death benefits include either guaranteed return of premium, the highest account value attained on any policy anniversary through attained age 80 (i.e., high water mark), or a 5% annual step up (i.e., roll up) of the account value depending on the specific terms of the contract. LNC earns mortality assessments and expense assessments on variable annuity accounts to cover insurance and administrative charges. These expenses are built into accumulation unit values, which when multiplied by the number of units owned for any sub account equals the contractholders account value for that sub account. Some products feature decreasing fee schedules based on account value break points. The fees that LNC earns from these policies are classified as insurance fees on the income statement. In addition, for some contracts, LNC collects surrender charges when contractholders surrender their contracts during the early years of a contract. For other contracts, LNC collects surrender charges when contractholders surrender 6 Table of Contents their contracts during a number of years subsequent to each deposit. LNCs individual variable annuity products have a maximum surrender period of ten years. The assets that support variable annuities are included in the assets held in separate accounts balance and the related liabilities for the current account values are included in the liabilities related to separate accounts balance. In 2002, LNC continued to grow variable annuity incremental deposits (i.e., gross deposits reduced by transfers from other Lincoln Retirement products). These sales were the result of the product momentum which started in the year 2000 when LNC introduced more new variable annuity products than it did in the preceding five years and continued through 2002. In 2002, a new low cost variable annuity product, Multi Fund 5 was launched. In addition, the ChoicePlus and American Legacy product offerings in New York were expanded to include bonus, L share and A share (American Legacy only) contracts. LNC now offers through most of its variable annuity product lines, A share, B share, C share, L share and bonus variable annuities. The differences in A, B, C and L shares relate to the sales charge and fee structure associated with the contract. An A share has a front end sales charge. A B share has a contingent deferred sales charge that is only paid if the account is surrendered or withdrawals are in excess of contractual free withdrawals within the contracts specified surrender charge period. A C share has no front end sales charge or back end surrender charge. Like a B share, an L share has a contingent deferred sales charge that is only paid if the account is surrendered or withdrawals are in excess of contractual free withdrawals within the contracts specified surrender charge period. The differences between the L share and B share are the length of the surrender charge period and the fee structure. L shares have a shorter surrender charge period, so for the added liquidity, mortality and expense assessments are higher. A bonus annuity is a variable annuity contract, which offers a bonus credit to a contract based on a specified percentage (typically ranging from 2% to 5%) of each deposit. Bonus products, in general have come under increased scrutiny due to concerns with whether they have been properly designed and sold with the contractholders interests in mind. The concern is that the higher expenses and extended surrender charge periods that are often associated with bonus annuities may not be adequately understood by contractholders. In developing bonus annuity products for its Lincoln ChoicePlus and American Legacy variable annuities, LNC has attempted to address these concerns, while at the same time designing products that are competitive in the marketplace. A key competitive feature of LNCs bonus annuity that is attractive to long term contractholders is the persistency credit. This feature rewards a contractholder with a bonus credit of 20 basis points per annum after maintaining an account for 14 years. In addition, a 30 basis point per annum persistency credit is offered on LNCs L share products after a contractholder maintains an account for eight years. LNC offers other innovative product features including the Income4Life Solution, Income4Life Advantage and when sold in conjunction with Income4Life, the Accumulated Benefit Enhancement (ABE) rider. The Income4Life Solution and Income4Life Advantage features allow variable annuity contractholders access and control during the income distribution phase of their contract. This added flexibility allows the contractholder to access the account value for transfers, additional withdrawals and other service features like portfolio rebalancing. The ABE rider which was first introduced in 2002 lets clients transfer their balances to LNC variable annuity products and retain the death benefit of their prior variable annuity. Unlike bonus products, which require longer surrender penalties and increased mortality and expense assessments, this rider is available only in conjunction with Income4Life on all share classes of most LNC variable annuity product lines with no additional charge. According to Variable Annuity Research and Data Services (VARDS), LNCs American Legacy III Variable Annuity ranked number 3 out of 122 variable annuities for asset weighted performance for the five year period ended December 31, 2002. The American Legacy I Variable Annuity ranked number 1 on this basis. Challenging equity markets like those experienced in 2001 and 2002 may prompt contactholders of competitors variable annuities to consider better performing LNC variable annuities. Looking forward, so called living benefits that provide equity market performance guarantees, are becoming more prevalent in the industry. LNC is looking at various product approaches and designs in this 7 Table of Contents area that will provide a competitive benefit while still falling within its risk tolerance levels for such guarantees. Distribution Fixed annuity products as well as most individual variable annuity product lines are distributed by LFD. Recently, LNC and American Funds Distributors (AFD) have agreed to transition the wholesaling of the American Legacy Variable Annuity product line to LFD. Currently, AFD uses wholesalers who focus on both American Funds mutual funds, as well as the American Legacy Variable Annuity products. Segment management believes that the change to a dedicated team focused on key broker/dealer relationships developed in conjunction with AFD, should lead to renewed growth in American Legacy Variable Annuity sales. Lincoln Financial Advisors (LFA), LNCs retail broker/dealer and financial planning firm, as a client of AFD and LFD, sells the American Legacy Variable Annuity and the ChoicePlus Variable Annuity. LFA also sells LNCs MultiFund Variable Annuity product line in both the individual and employer sponsored retirement markets and the Alliance Program in the employer sponsored retirement market. Group fixed and variable annuity products are also distributed through the Lincoln Retirement Fringe Benefit Divisions dedicated sales force to the employer sponsored retirement market. Market Position Capitalizing on a broad product portfolio and a strong and diverse distribution network, LNC is a leader in both the individual and employer sponsored annuity markets. According to VARDS, LNC ranks 4th in assets as of December 31, 2002 and 10th in variable annuity sales for the year ended December 31, 2002 in the United States. LNC ranked 10th in fixed annuity sales through financial institutions for 2002 (Kenneth Kehrer Associates Fixed Annuity Sales Through Financial Institutions Rankings for 2002). LNC was an early entrant into the fixed and variable annuity business and as such has a mature book of business with many contracts that are out of the surrender charge period. As a result, LNC, as well as other seasoned industry participants, have been vulnerable to what are referred to as Section 1035 exchanges, named after the Internal Revenue Code Section that governs these exchanges. In 1035 exchanges, contractholders surrender their annuity and make a non taxable transfer to another insurance companys non qualified annuity. Over the last three years LNCs lapse rate went from approximately 12% in 2000 to 9.7% in 2001 and back up to 10.5% in 2002, which was better than pricing in all three years. LNCs strong persistency and new sales growth have contributed to the maintenance of overall positive net flows throughout 2002. LNC first achieved overall positive net flows in the third quarter of 2001 after over three years of net outflows. Over the last few years, a contributing factor to the strong persistency experienced by LNCs variable annuities has been the weak equity markets. Contractholders whose variable annuity contracts have guaranteed minimum death benefits that are in the money due to equity market declines are less likely to transfer from these contracts. In the future, however, given the ongoing volatility of the equity markets, living benefit guarantees offered by some competitors may provide contractholders with an inducement to do a 1035 exchange. Approximately 1,420 employees are involved in this business segment. 2. Life Insurance The Life Insurance segment, headquartered in Hartford, Connecticut, focuses on the creation and protection of wealth for its clients through the manufacture and sale of life insurance products. The Life Insurance segment offers both single and survivorship versions of universal life (UL), variable universal life (VUL), and interest sensitive whole life (ISWL), as well as corporate owned life insurance (COLI) and term insurance. The segment also offers a linked benefit product which is a universal life insurance policy linked with an accelerated benefits rider that provides a benefit for long term care needs. This operation targets the affluent market, defined as households with at least $500,000 of investable net worth. Two key measures of the effectiveness of meeting the needs of this market include average face amount of policies sold, which was $1.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, and average premiums paid per policy sold, which were approximately $28,000 for the same period. 8 Table of Contents Products The Life Insurance segments book of business includes interest/market sensitive products (UL, VUL, ISWL, COLI) and traditional life products (term and guaranteed cost whole life). Profitability is driven by mortality margins (defined below), investment margins (spreads/fees), expenses and surrender fees. Mortality margins represent the difference between amounts charged the customer to cover the mortality risk and the cost of reinsurance and death benefits paid. Mortality charges are either specifically deducted from the contractholders fund (i.e. cost of insurance assessments or COIs) or embedded in the premiums charged to the customer. In either case, these amounts are a function of the rates priced into the product and level of insurance in force (less reserves previously set aside to fund benefits). Insurance in force, in turn, is driven by sales, persistency and mortality experience. Similar to the annuity product classifications described above, life products can be classified as fixed and variable contracts. This classification describes whether the policyholder or LNC bears the investment risk of the assets supporting the policy. This also determines the manner in which LNC earns investment margin profits from these products, either as investment spreads for fixed products or as fees charged for variable products. Fixed Life Insurance (primarily UL and ISWL): Premiums net of expense loads and charges received on fixed products are invested in LNCs general account investment portfolio, so LNC bears the risk on investment performance. LNC manages investment margins, (i.e. the difference between the rate the portfolio earns compared to the rate that is credited to the customer) by seeking to maximize current yields, in line with asset/liability and risk management targets, while crediting a competitive rate to the customer. Crediting rates are typically subject to guaranteed minimums specified in the underlying life insurance contract. Variable Universal Life Insurance (VUL): Premiums net of expense loads and charges received on VUL products are invested in separate accounts which offer several investment options for the customers selection. The investment choices are the same, in most cases, as the investment choices offered in LNCs variable annuity contracts. In addition, VUL products offer a fixed account option which is managed by LNC. Investment risk is borne by the customer on all but the fixed account option. LNC charges fees for mortality costs and administrative expenses, as well as investment management fees. Corporate Owned Life Insurance (COLI): COLI is typically purchased by corporations funding non qualified benefit plans. These include 401(k) excess voluntary deferrals of executive salary and or bonus in excess of 401(k) limits and Supplemental Executive Retirement Plans (SERPs) in a variety of forms, paid for with corporate funds. LNC offers a portfolio of both fixed UL and variable UL COLI products sold primarily through specialty brokers. Term Life Insurance: Term life insurance provides a death benefit without a cash accumulation balance. Policy premiums are generally paid annually. Distribution Distribution of the Life Insurance segments products occurs primarily through LNCs internally owned wholesaling arm, LFD, and its retail sales arm, LFA. Both channels have an industry wide reputation of being highly skilled in the development of financial and estate planning solutions for the affluent market. During August of 2002, the Life Insurance segment entered into a marketing agreement with M Group Financial (M Group) to sell LNCs life insurance products. LNC became one of five core carriers providing life insurance and annuity products to the member firms of M Group. M Group is the largest Independent Producer Group in the nation. It is represented by over 100 firms. M Group firm members provide an opportunity to further broaden the distribution of LNCs products to the affluent market. 9 Table of Contents Market Position LNC is a leading provider of life insurance products designed specifically for the high net worth and affluent markets. Product breadth, design innovation, competitiveness and speed to market all contribute to the strength of LNCs life insurance operations. Averaging close to 10 major product upgrades and or new features per year since 1998, including 14 significant VUL, UL, Term and COLI product enhancements and new riders in 2002, the Life Insurance segment is successful at meeting changing needs when market trends shift. LNCs current market leadership position is a result of the breadth and quality of its product portfolio along with its commitment to exceptional customer service, its extensive distribution network and the growth opportunity offered by its target market, the affluent. Approximately 790 employees are involved in this business segment. 3. Investment Management The Investment Management segment, which is headquartered in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania with offices in Fort Wayne, London, and Denver, provides investment products and services to both individual and institutional investors. The primary companies within this business segment include Lincoln National Investments, Inc. (LNI), Lincoln National Investment Companies, Inc. (LNIC), and Delaware Management Holdings, Inc. (Delaware). LNI and LNIC are intermediate level holding companies that own the operating companies within this segment. The Investment Management segment also includes the 401(k) operations of LNL. The operating subsidiaries within Delaware offer a broad line of mutual funds, retirement plan services and other investment products including managed accounts, and 529 college savings plans to retail investors and also offer investment advisory services and products to institutional clients, which primarily include pension funds, foundations, endowment funds and trusts. Delaware currently serves as investment advisor to approximately 275 institutional accounts; acts as investment manager and or shareholder services agent for approximately 100 open end funds; and serves as investment manager for 10 closed end funds. The Investment Management segment also provides investment advisory services for LNCs corporate portfolios. Products The Investment Management segment provides an array of products for a range of investors. Products include domestic and international equity and fixed income retail mutual funds, separate accounts, institutional mutual funds, managed accounts, 529 college savings plans, and retirement plans and services as well as administration services for these products. For the individual investor, Delaware offers various products including mutual funds and managed accounts. Delaware also provides investment management and account administration services for variable annuity products. Delaware offers alternative pricing schemes for mutual funds including traditional front end load funds, back end load funds, and level load funds. Variable annuity products provide the contractholder the ability to direct the investment of deposits into one or more funds offered by the product. The Institutional Class shares of the mutual funds are also available to institutional clients and retirement plan participants (such as defined contribution plans). Delaware also provides investment services to high net worth and small institutional investor markets through managed accounts. A managed account is provided to individual investors through relationships with broker dealer sponsored programs. Delaware offers various retirement plans and services, including 401(k) plans. A 401(k) plan allows employees to divert a portion of their salary to a company sponsored tax sheltered account, thus deferring taxes until retirement. These plans generally offer several investment options such as equity and fixed income products. In 2002, Delaware entered the 529 college savings plan market with the roll out of 529 programs for the state of Hawaii and the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. The persistence of poor equity markets, combined with a more crowded 529 marketplace, resulted in lower than anticipated sales in 2002. 10 Table of Contents These programs, however, provide Delaware with an opportunity to attract significant long term assets under management. Delaware provides a broad range of institutional investment advisory services to corporate and public retirement plans, endowments and foundations, nuclear decommissioning trusts, socially responsible investors, sub advisory clients and Taft Hartley plans, among others. Most clients utilize individually managed separate accounts, which means clients have the opportunity to customize the management of their portfolio by including or excluding certain types of securities, sectors or segments within a given asset class. Because of their individually managed nature, these separate accounts are best suited for larger investment mandates. Currently, Delawares minimum account size is typically $10 million for U.S. investments and $100 million for non U.S. investments. The funds included in the Delaware Pooled Trust product offering are no load mutual funds designed for the institutional investor and high net worth individual. Delaware Pooled Trust is a series of SEC registered mutual funds managed in styles that are similar to institutional separate account offerings and best suited for smaller to medium sized institutional investment mandates. Delawares minimum account size for these vehicles is typically $1 million. Market Position Diversity of investment styles, as well as diversity of clients served are prudent ways to diversify risk in varying market environments. Delaware, historically known primarily for a conservative, value equity investment style, has evolved over the last few years into an investment manager with strong and diversified offerings across multiple asset classes including value and growth equity investment styles; high grade, high yield and municipal fixed income investment styles; balanced and quantitative investment styles; and international and global equity and fixed income investment styles. Delawares investment performance, which began to improve in 2000 with the implementation of various targeted initiatives, has been strong over the last two years. Positive investment performance has been the key driver of the overall positive net flows that have been achieved throughout 2002. The segment experienced positive net flows of $2.9 billion in 2002, an improvement of $3.5 billion from the prior year. The key contributors to this improvement were higher retail and institutional sales and improved retention of institutional assets, primarily in response to the improved investment performance relative to peers. Overall retail sales increased $2.0 billion and institutional inflows increased $1.4 billion. In addition, retail equity sales increased $1.7 billion in what was a difficult sales environment given the further weakening of the equity markets in 2002. The retail sales growth was primarily attributable to increased sales of managed accounts. A portion of these sales was bolstered by external events affecting key competitors. While the Investment Management segment has made measurable progress on the initiatives of investment performance, sales growth and institutional asset retention, its focus in 2003 is not only to sustain and improve upon those results, but also to improve overall profitability. Distribution The businesses in the Investment Management segment deliver their broad range of products through multiple distribution channels, enabling them to reach an expanding community of retail and institutional investors. Delaware distributes retail mutual funds, managed accounts, 529 college savings plans and retirement products through the LFD distribution network, LFA, and Delawares direct retirement sales force. Institutional products are marketed primarily by Delawares institutional marketing group working closely with manager selection consultants. These products are also offered primarily to defined benefit and defined contribution plan sponsors, endowments, foundations and insurance companies. Approximately 1,270 employees are involved in this business segment. 4. Lincoln UK Lincoln UK is headquartered in Barnwood, Gloucester, England, and is licensed to do business throughout the United Kingdom (UK). Although Lincoln UK transferred its sales force to Inter Alliance Group PLC in the third quarter of 2000, it continues to manage, administer and accept new deposits on its 11 Table of Contents current block of business and, accept new business for certain products. Lincoln UKs product portfolio principally consists of unit linked life and pension products, which are similar to U.S. produced variable life and annuity products. In the third quarter of 2002, Lincoln UK agreed to outsource its customer service and policy administration function to the Capita Group, plc (Capita). The agreement involved the transfer of approximately 500 employees to Capita. The number of employees noted below reflects the actual level of staffing for the current business structure. Approximately 210 employees are involved in this business segment. Other Matters 1. Regulatory LNCs Retirement, Life Insurance and Lincoln UK business segments, in common with those of other insurance companies, are subject to regulation and supervision by the states, territories and countries in which they are licensed to do business. The laws of these jurisdictions generally establish supervisory agencies with broad administrative powers relative to granting and revoking licenses to transact business, regulating trade practices, licensing agents, prescribing and approving policy forms, regulating premium rates for some lines of business, establishing reserve requirements, regulating competitive matters, prescribing the form and content of financial statements and reports, regulating the type and amount of investments permitted and prescribing minimum levels of capital. The ability to continue an insurance business is dependent upon the maintenance of the licenses in the various jurisdictions. In addition, variable annuities and variable life insurance businesses and products are subject to regulation and supervision by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the National Association of Securities Dealers (NASD). LNCs Investment Management segment, in common with other investment management groups, is subject to regulation and supervision by the SEC, NASD, Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (MSRB), Financial Services Authority (FSA) in London, the Pennsylvania Department of Banking and jurisdictions of the states, territories and foreign countries in which they are licensed to do business. LFA is subject to regulation and supervision by the SEC and NASD on broker dealer and registered investment advisor issues. 2. Miscellaneous LNCs insurance subsidiaries protect themselves against losses greater than the amount they are willing to retain on any one risk or event by purchasing reinsurance from unaffiliated insurance companies (see Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements). All businesses LNC is involved in are highly competitive due to the market structure and the large number of competitors. At the end of 2001, the latest year for which data is available, there were approximately 1,225 life insurance companies in the United States. As noted previously, based on revenues, LNC is the 8th largest U.S. stockholder owned company within the Fortune 500 Life/ Health Insurance industry ranking (2002 Fortune 500 by Industry Rankings, April 2002). LNCs investment management companies were the 51st largest U.S. investment management group at the end of 2001 (2001 Institutional Investor 300 Money Managers, July 2002). Also, many of the products offered by LNCs operating companies are similar to products offered by non insurance financial services companies, such as banks. The Financial Services Modernization Act was passed in November 1999 and repealed the Glass Steagall Act of 1933 and expands the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956. This act allows, among other things, cross ownership by banks, securities firms and insurance companies. In 2002, there were some cross ownership activities in the financial services industry; however, there was minimal impact on LNCs operations. Because of the nature of the insurance and investment management businesses, there is no single customer or group of customers upon whom the business is dependent. Although LNC does not have any significant concentration of customers, LNCs Retirement segment has a long standing distribution relation 12 Table of Contents ship with American Funds Distributors (AFD) that is significant to this segment. In 2002, the American Legacy Variable Annuity product line sold through AFD accounted for about 15% of LNCs total gross annuity deposits. In addition, the American Legacy Variable Annuity product line represents approximately 31% of LNCs total gross annuity account values at December 31, 2002. Recently, LNC and AFD have agreed to transition the wholesaling of American Legacy to LFD. Currently, AFD uses wholesalers who focus on both American Funds mutual funds as well as the American Legacy Variable Annuity products. Segment management believes that this change to a dedicated team focused on key broker/dealer relationships developed in conjunction with AFD should renew growth in American Legacy Variable Annuity sales. LNC does not have a separate unit that conducts market research. Research activities related to new products or services, or the improvement of existing products or services, are conducted within the business segments. Expenses related to such activities are not material. Also, sales are not dependent upon select geographic areas. LNC has foreign operations that are significant in relationship to the consolidated group (see Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements). 3. Available Information LNC files annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act). The public may read and copy any materials that LNC files with the SEC at the SECs Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, NW, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1 800 SEC 0330. Also, the SEC maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including LNC, that file electronically with the SEC. The public can obtain any documents that LNC files with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. LNC also makes available free of charge on or through its Internet website (http://www.lfg.com) LNCs Annual Report on Form 10 K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10 Q, Current Reports on Form 8 K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after LNC electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC. Item 2. Properties LNC and the various operating businesses own or lease approximately 2.9 million square feet of office space. The governance group for LNC and the Investment Management segment lease 0.4 million square feet of office space in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The operating units in the Fort Wayne, Indiana area own or lease 1.0 million square feet. Also, businesses operating in the Chicago, Illinois metro area; Hartford, Connecticut and the United Kingdom own or lease another 0.6 million square feet of office space. An additional 0.9 million square feet of office space is owned or leased in other U.S. cities and foreign countries for branch offices and other operations. As shown in the notes to the consolidated financial statements (see Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements), the rental expense on operating leases for office space and equipment totaled $67.0 million for 2002. Office space rent expense accounts for $56.6 million of this total. This discussion regarding properties does not include information on investment properties. Item 3. Legal Proceedings LNC and its subsidiaries are involved in various pending or threatened legal proceedings, including purported class actions, arising from the conduct of business. In some instances, these proceedings include claims for unspecified or substantial punitive damages and similar types of relief in addition to amounts for alleged contractual liability or requests for equitable relief. After consultation with legal counsel and a review of available facts, it is managements opinion that these proceedings ultimately will be resolved without materially affecting the consolidated financial position of LNC. (See Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements). 13 Table of Contents Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders During the fourth quarter of 2002, no matters were submitted to security holders for a vote. PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters Stock Market and Dividend Information The dividend on LNCs common stock is declared each quarter by LNCs Board of Directors. In determining dividends, the Board takes into consideration items such as LNCs financial condition, including current and expected earnings, projected cash flows and anticipated financing needs. The range of market prices and cash dividends declared by calendar quarter for the past two years are as follows: Common Stock Data: (per share) 1st Qtr 2nd Qtr 3rd Qtr 4th Qtr 2002 High $ 53.650 $ 52.540 $ 42.080 $ 35.950 Low $ 47.200 $ 40.750 $ 29.120 $ 25.150 Dividend Declared $ 0.320 $ 0.320 $ 0.320 $ 0.335 2001 High $ 48.250 $ 52.300 $ 52.750 $ 49.450 Low 38.000 41.280 41.000 40.000 Dividend Declared $ 0.305 $ 0.305 $ 0.305 $ 0.320 Note: At December 31, 2002, the number of shareholders of record of LNCs common stock was 10,381. Exchanges: New York, Chicago and Pacific. Stock Exchange Symbol: LNC Item 6. Selected Financial Data Year Ended December 31 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 (millions of dollars, except per share data) Total revenue $ 4,635.5 $ 6,378.0 $ 6,847.1 $ 6,803.7 $ 6,087.1 Income before cumulative effect of accounting changes 91.6 605.8 621.4 460.4 509.8 Cumulative Effect of Accounting Changes (15.6 ) Net income $ 91.6 $ 590.2 $ 621.4 $ 460.4 $ 509.8 Per Share Data:(1) Net Income Diluted $ 0.49 $ 3.05 $ 3.19 $ 2.30 $ 2.51 Net Income Basic $ 0.50 $ 3.13 $ 3.25 $ 2.33 $ 2.54 Common stock dividends $ 1.295 $ 1.235 $ 1.175 $ 1.115 $ 1.055 14 Table of Contents December 31 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 (millions of dollars, except per share data) Assets $ 93,133.4 $ 98,001.3 $ 99,844.1 $ 103,095.7 $ 93,836.3 Long term debt 1,119,2 861.8 712.2 712.0 712.2 Company obligated mandatorily redeemable preferred securities of subsidiary trusts holding solely junior subordinated debentures 392.7 474.7 745.0 745.0 745.0 Shareholders equity 5,296.3 5,263.5 4,954.1 4,263.9 5,387.9 Per Share Data:(1) Shareholders equity (Including accumulated other comprehensive income) $ 29.82 $ 28.10 $ 25.92 $ 21.76 $ 26.59 Shareholders equity (Excluding accumulated other comprehensive income) $ 25.97 $ 27.13 $ 25.85 $ 24.14 $ 23.86 Market value of common stock $ 31.58 $ 48.57 $ 47.31 $ 40.00 $ 40.91 (1) Per share amounts were affected by the retirement of 12,088,100; 11,278,022; 6,222,581; 7,675,000 and 1,246,562 shares of common stock in 2002, 2001, 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively. In addition, 4,630,318 shares of common stock were issued in 2001 related to the settlement of purchase contracts issued in conjunction with FELINE PRIDES financing. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results and Financial Condition Introduction Lincoln National Corporation (LNC) is a holding company. Through subsidiary companies, LNC operates multiple insurance and investment management businesses. The collective group of companies uses, Lincoln Financial Group as its marketing identity. LNC is the 39th largest (based on assets) United States Corporation (2001 Fortune 500, Largest U.S. Corporations, April 2002). Operations are divided into four business segments: 1) Lincoln Retirement (formerly known as the Annuities segment), 2) Life Insurance, 3) Investment Management and 4) Lincoln UK. LNC reports operations not directly related to the business segments and unallocated corporate items (i.e., corporate investment income, interest expense on corporate debt, unallocated overhead expenses, and the operations of Lincoln Financial Advisors (LFA) and Lincoln Financial Distributors (LFD) and the amortization of the deferred gain on the sale of Lincoln Re) in Other Operations. Prior to the fourth quarter of 2001, LNC had a Reinsurance segment. Total employment of LNC at December 31, 2002 on a consolidated basis was 5,830. Forward Looking Statements Cautionary Language The pages that follow review results of operations of LNC Consolidated, LNCs four business segments and Other Operations; LNCs consolidated investments; and consolidated financial condition including liquidity, cash flows and capital resources. Historical financial information is presented and analyzed. Where appropriate, factors that may affect future financial performance are identified and discussed. Certain statements made in this report are forward looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the Act). Forward looking statements include, without limitation, any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate or imply future results, performance or achievements, and may contain words like: believe, anticipate, expect, estimate, project, will, shall and other words or phrases with similar meaning. Forward looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the results contained in the forward looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, among others, subsequent significant changes in: the Company (e.g., acquisitions and divestitures of legal 15 Table of Contents entities and blocks of business directly or by means of reinsurance transactions); financial markets (e.g., interest rates and securities markets); competitors and competing products and services; LNCs ability to operate its businesses in a relatively normal manner; legislation (e.g., corporate, individual, estate and product taxation); the price of LNCs stock; accounting principles generally accepted in the United States; regulations (e.g., insurance and securities regulations); and debt and claims paying ratings issued by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations. Other risks and uncertainties include: the risk that significant accounting, fraud or corporate governance issues may adversely affect the value of certain investments; whether necessary regulatory approvals are obtained (e.g., insurance department, Hart Scott Rodino, etc.) and, if obtained, whether they are obtained on a timely basis; whether proceeds from divestitures of legal entities and blocks of business can be used as planned; litigation, arbitration and other actions (e.g., (a) adverse decisions in significant actions including, but not limited to extra contractual and class action damage cases, (b) new decisions which change the law, (c) unexpected trial court rulings, (d) unavailability of witnesses and (e) newly discovered evidence); acts of God (e.g., hurricanes, earthquakes and storms); whether there will be any significant charges or benefits resulting from the contingencies described in the footnotes to LNCs consolidated financial statements; acts of terrorism or war; the stability of governments in countries in which LNCs subsidiaries do business; and other insurance risks (e.g., policyholder mortality and morbidity). The risks included here are not exhaustive. Other sections of this report, and LNCs quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission include additional factors which could impact LNCs business and financial performance. Moreover, LNC operates in a rapidly changing and competitive environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors. Further, it is not possible to assess the impact of all risk factors on LNCs business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undo reliance on forward looking statements as a prediction of actual results. In addition, LNC disclaims any obligation to update any forward looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of this report. Critical Accounting Policies Given the nature of LNCs business, the Companys accounting policies require the use of judgments relating to a variety of assumptions and estimates. Because of the inherent uncertainty in the assumptions and estimates underlying these accounting policies, under different conditions or assumptions the amounts reported in LNCs financial statements could be materially different. Throughout Managements Discussion and Analysis, the application of these various critical accounting policies is addressed along with the effect of changes in estimates and assumptions. To provide an overall perspective on these critical accounting policies, and guidance as to the specific areas within Managements Discussion and Analysis where these critical accounting policies are discussed in detail, a summary of critical accounting policies and the disclosure location is presented below. Accounting for intangible assets requires numerous assumptions, such as estimates of expected future profitability for various LNC operations and LNCs ability to retain its existing blocks of life and annuity business in force. LNCs accounting policies for the intangible assets of deferred acquisition costs (DAC) and the present value of acquired blocks of in force policies (PVIF) are discussed within the Lincoln Retirement, Life Insurance and Lincoln UK segments. LNCs overall accounting policy for other identified intangibles and goodwill is discussed within Results of Consolidated Operations. A key assumption affecting the accounting for DAC and PVIF is the performance of equity markets. Sensitivity to changes in equity market performance upon LNCs net income is discussed under the heading First Quarter 2003 Guidance for the Effects of Equity Market Volatility on Fee Income, DAC and GMDB found within LNCs discussion of Consolidated Operating results. Additionally, LNC has goodwill resulting from various acquisitions. Refer to the Accounting for Business Combinations and Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets section for discussion of the evaluation of goodwill for impairment. Within the Investment Management segment, LNC has an 16 Table of Contents intangible asset for Deferred Dealer Commissions. A significant decrease in the equity markets could affect the carrying value of this asset. Refer to the Investment Management Results of Operations section for future discussion of this asset. Determining whether a decline in current fair values for invested assets is other than a temporary decline in value can frequently involve a variety of assumptions and estimates, particularly for investments that are not actively traded on established markets. For instance, assessing the value of some investments requires an analysis of expected future cash flows. Some investment structures, such as collateralized debt obligations, often represent selected levels, or tranches of underlying investments in a wide variety of underlying issuers. LNCs accounting policies for its invested assets are discussed within Results of Consolidated Operations and Consolidated Investments. Specific discussion of LNCs accounting policy for write downs for securities that were determined to have declines in fair value that were other than temporary along with analysis of securities available for sale in an unrealized loss position can be found within Consolidated Investments. To protect itself from a variety of equity market and interest rate risks that are inherent in many of LNCs life insurance and annuity products, LNC uses various derivative instruments. Assessing the effectiveness of these hedging programs and evaluating the carrying values of the related derivatives often involves a variety of assumptions and estimates. LNCs accounting policies for derivatives are discussed within Results of Consolidated Operations, Consolidated Investments and within the discussion of Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. In addition, discussion of the potential impact on interest rate risk in a falling rate environment is included in the Interest Rate Risk Falling Rates section within LNCs discussion of Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. Establishing adequate liabilities for LNCs obligations to its policyholders requires assumptions to be made regarding mortality and morbidity. The effect of variances in these assumptions is discussed within the Lincoln Retirement and Life Insurance segments. In addition, refer to the discussion of personal accident and disability income reserves included within the Acquisition and Divestiture discussion of the disposition of LNCs former Reinsurance segment within Other Operations. As discussed within the Lincoln Retirement segment, one of the liabilities is the reserve for Guaranteed Minimum Death Benefits (GMDB). A key assumption affecting the accounting for GMDB is the performance of equity markets. Sensitivity to changes in equity market performance upon GMDB and LNCs net income is discussed under the heading First Quarter 2003 Guidance for the Effects of Equity Market Volatility found within LNCs discussion of Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. Pursuant to the accounting rules for LNCs obligations to employees under its various retirement and welfare benefit plans, LNC is required to make a large number of assumptions, such as the future performance of financial markets and the composition of LNCs employee workforce in the future. LNCs accounting for its employee plans is discussed in detail within Note 6 Employee Benefit Plans, which is included in the notes to consolidated financial statements. Establishing reserves for litigation and compliance related regulatory actions inherently involve a variety of estimates of potential future outcomes. These matters are discussed within Results of Consolidated Operations and in the Lincoln UK segment, with additional detail provided within Note 7 Restrictions, Commitments and Contingencies, which is included in the notes to consolidated financial statements. As LNC responds to an ever changing business environment and continues to adapt its organizational and operational structures, the frequency of necessary restructuring activities increases. Establishing reserves for the expected costs of these restructurings requires a variety of estimates and assumptions. The accounting for LNCs restructurings is discussed within Results of Consolidated Operations and within Results of Operations for each affected business segment, as well as within Note 12 Restructuring Charges included in the notes to consolidated financial statements. Continued access to capital markets and maintenance of favorable debt and claims paying ratings are critical to LNCs future success. LNCs accounting, in a wide variety of areas, is inherently dependant upon continued access to capital and maintaining adequate ratings. Detailed discussion of LNCs access to capital markets, liquidity status and ratings are contained within Review of Consolidated Financial Condition. 17 Table of Contents Finally, it is LNCs policy to provide disclosure of commitments or guarantees so that its financial statements present as complete a picture of LNCs financial condition as possible. The vast majority of these commitments or guarantees relate to LNCs life insurance and retirement businesses and, as such, are reflected on LNCs balance sheet. Any off balance sheet commitments or guarantees that LNC is subject to are disclosed within Review of Consolidated Financial Condition and Note 7 Restrictions, Commitments and Contingencies which is included in the notes to consolidated financial statements. On pages 19 through 56, the results of operations of LNC consolidated, LNCs four business segments and Other Operations are presented and discussed. Pages 56 through 68 discuss LNCs consolidated investments. Pages 68 through 73 discuss LNCs consolidated financial condition including liquidity and cash flow, and capital resources. Pages 73 through 81 provide LNCs quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. Please note that all amounts stated in this Managements Discussion and Analysis are on an after tax basis except where specifically identified as pre tax. This Managements Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes presented on pages 83 through 147. 18 Table of Contents Overview: Results of Consolidated Operations Summary Information Increase Year Ended December 31 (Decrease) 2002 2001 2000 2002 2001 (in millions) Life insurance and annuity premiums $ 295.6 $ 1,363.4 $ 1,403.3 (78 %) (3 %) Health insurance premiums 20.3 340.6 409.8 (94 %) (17 %) Insurance fees 1,434.4 1,544.0 1,661.4 (7 %) (7 %) Investment advisory fees 183.3 197.2 213.2 (7 %) (8 %) Net investment income 2,608.3 2,679.6 2,747.1 (3 %) (2 %) Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates (0.6 ) 5.7 (0.4 ) Realized gain (loss) on investments and derivative instruments (271.5 ) (114.5 ) (28.3 ) Gain (loss) on sale of subsidiaries (8.3 ) 12.8 Other revenue and fees 373.9 349.2 441.0 7 % (21 %) Total Revenue 4,635.4 6,378.0 6,847.1 (27 %) (7 %) Life insurance and annuity benefits 2,504.4 3,107.6 3,108.2 (19 %) Health benefits 355.1 302.1 449.0 18 % (33 %) Underwriting, acquisition, insurance and other expenses 1,677.7 2,083.2 2,314.1 (19 %) (10 %) Interest and debt expenses 96.6 121.0 139.5 (20 %) (13 %) Federal income taxes (90.0 ) 158.3 214.9 Income before cumulative effect of accounting changes 91.6 605.8 621.4 Cumulative effect of accounting changes (15.6 ) Net Income $ 91.6 $ 590.2 $ 621.4 (84 %) (5 %) Items Included in Net income: Realized Gain (Loss) on Investments and Derivative Instruments (after tax) $ (176.4 ) $ (73.6 ) $ (17.5 ) Gain (Loss) on Sale of Subsidiaries (after tax) (9.4 ) 15.0 Restructuring Charges (after tax) 2.0 (24.7 ) (80.2 ) FAS 113 Reserve Development on Business Sold through Indemnity Reinsurance (after tax) (199.1 ) Cumulative Effect of Accounting Changes (after tax) (15.6 ) Goodwill Amortization (after tax) 43.4 45.1 Summary Comparison of 2002 to 2001 Net income decreased $498.6 million or 84%. The decrease in net income included an increase in realized losses on investments and derivatives of $102.8 million and expenses totaling $199.1 million recorded in 2002 related to increases in reserves for the business sold through indemnity reinsurance to Swiss Re. The realized losses on investments resulted from declines in value and the sale and write downs of fixed maturity securities. See the Consolidated Investment section for further discussion of this matter. 19 Table of Contents A significant contributor to the decrease in net income was the poor performance of the equity markets impact on fee income, DAC and PVIF amortization and GMDB reserves and benefits. The equity market impact is discussed in more detail within the discussion of results of operations by segment. Consolidated revenue decreased primarily due to the reduction of revenue of $1,699.4 million (pre tax), excluding realized losses on investments, from the former Reinsurance segment in 2001. Another contributor to the decline in revenue was the increase in realized losses on investments noted above. Included in 2002 revenue was $74.4 million (pre tax) for the amortization of the deferred gain on indemnity reinsurance compared to $20.4 million in 2001. The Lincoln Retirement and Lincoln UK segments experienced decreased fee income due to the negative impact that 2001 and 2002 equity market declines had on average variable annuity (Retirement) and unit linked (Lincoln UK) account values. The Investment Management segment had decreased investment advisory fees and other revenue and fees as a result of lower retail and institutional assets under management during 2002. The decrease in assets under management was primarily a result of the declining equity markets. Consolidated expenses (excluding goodwill amortization, restructuring charges, reserve increases on business sold through reinsurance and federal income taxes) decreased by $1,202.0 million or 22% largely due to the sale of LNCs reinsurance business to Swiss Re in the fourth quarter of 2001. Expenses for the operations of the former Reinsurance segment, excluding goodwill amortization, were $1,503.7 million in 2001. Expenses were negatively affected by the decline in the equity markets which resulted in negative unlocking of DAC and PVIF in the Lincoln Retirement, Life Insurance and Lincoln UK business segments, and increased reserves and payments for GMDB in the Lincoln Retirement segment. For 2002, LNC reported a tax benefit of $90.0 million on $1.6 million of pre tax earnings. This unusual relationship between tax benefit and pre tax earnings results from the fact that LNC has tax preferred investment income that does not change proportionately with the change in consolidated pre tax earnings. LNCs tax preferred investment income is primarily the result of dividend received deductions attributable to LNCs allocable share of dividend income generated by equity securities held within the Lincoln Retirement segments separate accounts. See note 4, Federal Income Taxes, to the consolidated financial statements for more details. Comparison of 2001 to 2000 Net income for 2001 was $590.2 million compared to $621.4 million for 2000, a $31.2 million or 5% decrease. Restructuring charges, net of the release of liabilities, included in net income in 2001 and 2000 were $24.7 million and $80.2 million, respectively. Contributing to the decrease in 2001 were realized losses on investments and derivative instruments of $73.6 million in 2001 compared to $17.5 million in 2000. These investment losses were due primarily to losses of $41.8 million (pre tax) taken on Enron and Argentina securities in the fourth quarter of 2001 in addition to increased write downs of other securities throughout 2001 due to credit deterioration. Partially offsetting the additional losses in 2001 was the gain on sale of certain reinsurance stock companies to Swiss Re of $15.0 million. The remaining $30.1 million decrease in Net Income between years was primarily the result of decreased earnings from the Lincoln Retirement and Investment Management segments, as well as LNCs distributors, LFA and LFD, which are reported in Other Operations. These negative variances were partially offset by improved earnings from the Life Insurance segment and the former Reinsurance segment, included within Other Operations. In addition, included in net income for 2001 was one months amortization of the deferred gain on the business transferred to Swiss Re via indemnity reinsurance. There was also a decrease in the net loss from LNC Financing and Other Corporate within Other Operations. Total revenue, excluding realized gains and losses on investments and derivative instruments and gain on sale of subsidiaries, decreased by $395.7 million or 6% in 2001 due primarily to lower fee income in the Lincoln Retirement segment and lower investment advisory fees in the Investment Management segment resulting from the depressed equity markets in 2001 and to a lesser extent to net outflows in annuities and investment products. In addition, Lincoln UK had a decrease in operating revenue due to lower business volume along with lower fee income resulting from a downturn in the United Kingdom equity markets over 20 Table of Contents the last half of 2001. The former Reinsurance segments operating revenue was down in 2001 as its results only included eleven months of activity. Finally, LFA and LFD included in Other Operations had lower sales revenue largely attributable to the volatile equity markets. Partially offsetting these negative variances, the Life Insurance segment had increased operating revenue due to growth in life insurance in force. Total expenses, exclusive of restructuring charges and Federal income taxes, decreased by $329.9 million or 6% in 2001 due primarily to decreased expenses in the Lincoln UK segment as a result of the decrease in business volume along with effective expense management. The former Reinsurance segment had a decrease due to only eleven months of expenses being reported for its operations. However, included in 2001 expenses for the former Reinsurance segment were losses recorded for the events of September 11. The Lincoln Retirement segment had a decrease in expenses due primarily to less amortization of deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets partially offset by increased operating and administrative expenses and benefits expenses. The Investment Management segment also experienced decreased expenses due to effective expense management and lower amortization of other intangibles assets. Partially offsetting these positive variances were increases in expenses in the Life Insurance segment, as well as LFD and LFA. Expenses increased in the Life Insurance segment primarily as a result of the growth in in force, which drove interest credited to policyholders higher. LFD had higher expenses primarily as a result of its investment in new wholesalers during 2001 and LFA experienced an increase in general and administrative expenses partially offset by a decrease in commissions and other volume related expenses. These expenses fell as a direct result of lower sales volume in 2001. For further discussion of the results of operations, see the discussion of the results of operations by segment. LNCs domestic consolidated product deposits and net flows were as follows: Year Ended December 31 2002 2001 2000 (in billions) Deposits (1): Lincoln Retirement Segment $ 6.4 $ 6.4 $ 5.2 Life Insurance Segment 2.1 1.9 1.9 Investment Management Segment (including both retail and institutional deposits) 10.9 7.5 8.4 Consolidating Adjustments (2) (1.4 ) (1.0 ) (0.4 ) Total Deposits $ 18.0 $ 14.8 $ 15.1 Net Flows (1): Lincoln Retirement Segment $ 0.5 $ 0.1 $ (2.9 ) Life Insurance Segment 1.3 1.2 1.2 Investment Management Segment (including both retail and institutional net flows) 2.9 (0.6 ) (7.2 ) Consolidating Adjustments (2) (0.2 ) 1.4 Total Net Flows $ 4.7 $ 0.5 $ (7.5 ) (1) For additional detail of deposit and net flow information see the discussion of the Results of Operations by Segment. (2) Consolidating adjustments represent the elimination of deposits and net flows on products affecting more than one segment. First Quarter 2003 Guidance for the Estimated Effect of Equity Market Volatility In prior periods, Lincoln National Corporation (LNC) provided guidance on the estimated effect of equity market volatility on its 2002 results. The following guidance is being provided for purposes of modeling the expected effects of equity market volatility for the first quarter of 2003. As will be explained in greater 21 Table of Contents detail below, the effects on LNCs results of significant volatility in equity markets are complex and are not expected to be proportional for market increases and market decreases. The first quarter 2003 information provided below is based upon market conditions and LNCs mix of business as of the beginning of the year. This guidance can be expected to change as actual circumstances change. Although LNC believes this guidance provides reasonable estimates based upon conditions as of January 1, 2003, LNC claims no responsibility for updating this forward looking information. This guidance is intended to provide a general indication of the expected effect of equity market volatility on LNCs fee income; deferred acquisition costs (DAC) and present value of in force (PVIF) intangible assets; and guaranteed minimum death benefit (GMDB) reserves. Excluded from this guidance is the effect that equity market changes may have upon LNCs realized and unrealized gains and losses on investments and intangible assets, other than DAC and PVIF. For example, write downs for impairment of goodwill and deferred dealer commission assets may be necessary under certain market conditions. These matters are not included within the guidance provided in this document. In measuring the estimated effects of changes in equity markets on its Retirement segment, LNC uses the S&P 500 index. LNC has generally found that the S&P 500 index is reasonably correlated to the effect of overall equity markets performance on this segments account values. Because LNCs fee income earned on its variable annuity business is determined daily, the change in the S&P 500 on a daily average basis relative to the level of the S&P 500 at the beginning of each quarter provides a reasonable indication of the impact quarterly changes in equity markets have on the Retirement segments fee income. Because end of period account values are used for computing DAC unlocking and for incurred GMDB costs, the end of period change in the S&P 500 is used in measuring the estimated market impact of DAC unlocking and for the impact associated with incurred GMDB costs. In addition, because DAC and GMDB calculations have an assumed 9% positive annual equity market return, or a 2.25% quarterly assumption, variances in actual market performance relative to these calculation assumptions will generate positive or negative DAC unlocking and GMDB adjustments. It is important to understand that the actual effect on fee income of market changes in the current quarter of an equity market change and the effect in the immediately following quarter will not be equal to a pro rata 25% of the estimated annualized effect of the market change. This is due to the fact that the actual change in fee income in the immediate quarter during which the market changes is measured by the change in actual variable account values from the beginning of the quarter compared to the average balance of variable account values for the quarter. The change in fee income due to the change from average account values to ending account values does not occur in the immediate quarter of the market change; rather, that change in fee income will occur in the quarter following the market change. LNC estimates that this lagging effect for the fourth quarter 2002 equity markets change will create a decrease of $0.5 million in fee income in the first quarter of 2003, because average account values for the fourth quarter of 2002 exceeded the level of ending account values at December 31, 2002. LNC also uses the S&P 500 index when describing the general effects of changes in equity markets for the Life Insurance segment. For the Lincoln UK segment, the FTSE 100 index provides a reasonable measure for approximating the effect of equity markets performance on earnings. LNC estimates that the lagging effect for the fourth quarter 2002 equity markets change will create a decrease of $0.1 million in fee income for Lincoln UK in the first quarter of 2003, because average account values for the fourth quarter of 2002 exceeded the level of ending account values at December 31, 2002. Additional market indices are used in measuring the effects of the market on the results of LNCs Investment Management segment. All of the relevant equity market indices (S&P, NASDAQ and MSCI EAFE) declined during the third quarter, ranging from a 19.9% NASDAQ decline to a 19.7% decline in the MSCI EAFE index. The fourth quarter increases were a 13.9% increase in the NASDAQ and a 6.5% increase in the MSCI EAFE index. The ongoing effect of the fourth quarter equity markets increase is expected to be a $0.1 million increase in the first quarter of 2003. The following discussion concerning the estimated effects of ongoing equity market volatility on LNCs earnings is intended to be illustrative. Actual effects may vary depending on a variety of factors, many of which 22 Table of Contents are outside of LNCs control, such as changing customer behaviors that might result in changes in the mix of LNCs business between variable or fixed annuity contracts, switching between investment alternatives available within variable products, or changes in policy lapsation rates. The relative effects shown in the illustrative scenarios presented below should not be considered to be indicative of the proportional effects on earnings that more significant changes in equity markets may generate. Such non proportional effects include those discussed earlier, such as incurred GMDB costs and DAC unlocking. Since the effect of continued equity market volatility is complex and subject to a variety of estimates and assumptions, such as assumed rates of long term equity market performance, it is difficult to provide information that can be reliably applied to predict earnings effects over a broad range of equity markets performance alternatives. But in an effort to provide some insight into these matters, LNC has provided below illustrative examples of the effects that equity market volatility might be expected to have on LNCs earnings. The underlying assumptions regarding these illustrations are as follows: 1) The first scenario assumes that equity markets remain unchanged from their respective levels at December 31, 2002 through the first quarter of 2003. 2) The second scenario assumes that from December 31, 2002 through the end of the first quarter of 2003 equity markets increase smoothly by 2.5%. 3) The third scenario assumes that from December 31, 2002 through the end of the first quarter of 2003 equity markets decline smoothly by 2.5%. As the above assumptions indicate, actual equity market changes that may have occurred since December 31, 2002 up to the date of issuance of this guidance are not being considered; rather, the examples that follow are provided to illustrate the effects of a hypothetical change in equity markets from December 31, 2002. The following tables are examples of the estimated effects on earnings that might be expected for each of these scenarios. Scenario #1: No change in equity markets from December 31, 2002 through March 31, 2003. Estimated Effect on First Quarter of 2003 Results (Million $): Market Effects Ongoing Effects of Reported in Market Changes Fourth from 4Q02 on Current Effects in Total Effect in Segment Quarter 2002 1Q03 First Quarter 2003 First Quarter 2003 Retirement Fees Q1 Effect* $ $ $ $ Fees Q4 Effect* $ 2.8 $ (0.5 ) $ $ (0.5 ) Total Fee Income $ 2.8 $ (0.5 ) $ $ (0.5 ) Other $ $ $ $ GMDB $ 2.5 $ $ (5.9 ) $ (5.9 ) DAC $ 0.6 $ $ $ Retirement Total Effect $ 5.9 $ (0.5 ) $ (5.9 ) $ (6.4 ) Life Insurance Total Effect $ 0.6 $ $ (0.2 ) $ (0.2 ) Investment Management Total Effect $ 1.4 $ 0.1 $ $ 0.1 Lincoln UK Fee Income* $ 0.5 $ (0.1 ) $ $ (0.1 ) DAC/ PVIF $ 1.4 $ $ (0.9 ) $ (0.9 ) Lincoln UK Total Effect $ 1.9 $ (0.1 ) $ (0.9 ) $ (1.0 ) LNC Total Total Effect $ 9.8 $ (0.5 ) $ (7.0 ) $ (7.5 ) * Differences exist in the market change effect on fee income for the current quarter, as compared to the ongoing quarterly effect, because the change in fee income in the immediate quarter is determined by the change in beginning variable account balances to average variable account balances for the current quarter. The change in fee income in the next subsequent quarter is determined by the change in average account values to ending variable account values that occurred due to the market changing in the preceding quarter. 23 Table of Contents However, in all following quarters, the ongoing effect of changes in the market occurring in the current quarter will be determined by the difference in beginning of quarter to end of quarter variable account balances. For purposes of this guidance, the change in account values is assumed to correlate with the change in the relevant index. Scenario #2: 2.5% increase in equity markets from December 31, 2002 to March 31, 2003 occurs smoothly during the quarter. Estimated Effect on First Quarter of 2003 Results (Million $): Market Effects Ongoing Effects of Reported in Market Changes Current Effects Total Effect Fourth from 4Q02 in in Segment Quarter 2002 on 1Q03 First Quarter 2003 First Quarter 2003 Retirement Fees Q1 Effect* $ $ $ 0.6 $ 0.6 Fees Q4 Effect* $ 2.8 $ (0.5 ) $ $ (0.5 ) Total Fee Income $ 2.8 $ (0.5 ) $ 0.6 $ 0.1 Other $ $ $ $ GMDB $ 2.5 $ $ (3.9 ) $ (3.9 ) DAC $ 0.6 $ $ $ Retirement Total Effect $ 5.9 $ (0.5 ) $ (3.3 ) $ (3.8 ) Life Insurance Total Effect $ 0.6 $ $ $ Investment Management Total Effect $ 1.4 $ 0.1 $ 0.4 $ 0.5 Lincoln UK Fee Income* $ 0.5 $ (0.1 ) $ 0.1 $ DAC/PVIF $ 1.4 $ $ 0.1 $ 0.1 Lincoln UK Total Effect $ 1.9 $ (0.1 ) $ 0.2 $ 0.1 LNC Total Total Effect $ 9.8 $ (0.5 ) $ (2.7 ) $ (3.2 ) * See * under Scenario #1 for explanation. Scenario #3: 2.5% decline in equity markets from December 31, 2002 to March 31, 2003 occurs smoothly during the quarter. Estimated Effect on First Quarter of 2003 Results (Million $): Market Effects Ongoing Effects of Reported in Market Changes Current Effects Total Effect Fourth from 4Q02 in in Segment Quarter 2002 on 1Q03 First Quarter 2003 First Quarter 2003 Retirement Fees Q1 Effect* $ $ $ (0.6 ) $ (0.6 ) Fees Q4 Effect* $ 2.8 $ (0.5 ) $ $ (0.5 ) Total Fee Income $ 2.8 $ (0.5 ) $ (0.6 ) $ (1.1 ) Other $ $ $ (0.6 ) $ (0.6 ) GMDB $ 2.5 $ $ (10.7 ) $ (10.7 ) DAC $ 0.6 $ $ (2.4 ) $ (2.4 ) Retirement Total Effect $ 5.9 $ (0.5 ) $ (14.3 ) $ (14.8 ) Life Insurance Total Effect $ 0.6 $ $ (0.5 ) $ (0.5 ) Investment Management Total Effect** $ 1.4 $ 0.1 $ (0.4 ) $ (0.3 ) 24 Table of Contents Market Effects Ongoing Effects of Reported in Market Changes Current Effects Total Effect Fourth from 4Q02 in in Segment Quarter 2002 on 1Q03 First Quarter 2003 First Quarter 2003 Lincoln UK Fee Income* $ 0.5 $ (0.1 ) $ (0.1 ) $ (0.2 ) DAC/PVIF $ 1.4 $ $ (1.9 ) $ (1.9 ) Lincoln UK Total Effect $ 1.9 $ (0.1 ) $ (2.0 ) $ (2.1 ) LNC Total Total Effect $ 9.8 $ (0.5 ) $ (17.2 ) $ (17.7 ) * See * under Scenario #1 for explanation. ** The above table excludes the impact of an impairment of the deferred dealer commission asset within the Investment Management segment. For instance, a review of the deferred dealer commission asset was performed as of March 10, 2003. Based on information currently available, it is estimated that a decline of approximately 3% in the equity markets from March 10, 2003 levels may trigger a loss, which would range from approximately $7.4 million to $11.4 million after tax with the application of assumed discount rates ranging between 10% to 18% for purposes of measuring the fair value of the deferred dealer commission asset. The estimated balance of the deferred dealer commission asset as of March 10, 2003 was approximately $50 million. The above examples are based upon the estimated annual effect on earnings for each one percentage point change in relevant equity market indices. Taking one fourth of this annual estimate would generate the expected effect of the equity market change on quarterly results, with the exception of DAC unlocking and GMDB incurred cost calculations where the effect is fully reflected in one quarter. The estimated annual effect in millions of dollars per one percentage change and the changes in each of the relevant market indices used in the above examples, are listed in the following table. 2.50% increase in 2.50% decline in Segment and Effect Relevant Measure No Change in Market First Quarter 2003 First Quarter 2003 Retirement Fee Income Ave Daily Change in S&P 500 $2.0 M 0.0 $2.0 M 1.25 $2.0 M (1.25) Retirement Other Items Actual Change in S&P 500 vs. Expected $0.5 M 0.0 $0.5 M 0.25 $0.5 M (4.75) Retirement GMDB Incurred Costs Actual Change in S&P 500 vs. Expected ($5.9M) ($5.9M) + $0.8M 2.5 ($5.9M) + ($1.9 M) (2.5) Retirement DAC Actual Change in S&P 500 vs. Expected $0.0 M 0.0 $0.0 M 0.25 $0.5 M (4.75) Life Insurance DAC Actual Change in S&P 500 vs. Expected $0.11 M (2.25) $0.11 M 0.25 $0.11 M (4.75) Investment Management Total* Blend of Market Indices $0.6 M 0.0 $0.6 M 2.5 $0.6 M (2.5)* Lincoln UK Fee Income Ave Daily Change in FTSE 100 $0.2 M 0.0 $0.2 M 1.25 $0.2 M (1.25) Lincoln UK DAC/PVIF Actual Change in FTSE 100 vs. Expected Change $0.4 M (2.25) $0.3 M 0.25 $0.4 M (4.75) * The above table excludes the impact of an impairment of the deferred dealer commission asset within the Investment Management segment. For instance, a review of the deferred dealer commission asset was performed as of March 10, 2003. Based on information currently available, it is estimated that a decline of approximately 3% in the equity markets from March 10, 2003 levels may trigger a loss, which would range from approximately $7.4 million to $11.4 million after tax with the application of assumed discount rates ranging between 10% to 18% for purposes of measuring the fair value of the deferred dealer commission asset. The estimated balance of the deferred dealer commission asset as of March 10, 2003 was approximately $50 million. As the above table indicates, the annual effect of a one percent change in equity markets varies depending upon the severity of the change. Presented below are estimated one million dollar effects for various market changes that are currently used by LNC in modeling the Lincoln Retirement segment. These estimated 25 Table of Contents effects are subject to ongoing modification, as they are particularly sensitive to the mix of business and to the actual level of variable account balances. The following table provides the annual effect for changes in equity markets for the Lincoln Retirement segment related to fee income and other: 20% + 11 20% 6 10% 1 to 5% 1 to 5% 6 10% Decline Decline Decline Decline No Change Increase Increase 11% + ($ Millions for each 1% Change in Relevant Market Index) Fee Income (1.6) (1.8) (1.9) (2.0) 2.0 2.1 2.2 Other (0.5) (0.5) (0.5) (0.5) 0.5 0.5 0.5 The estimated annual effects indicated in the table above are applicable for the first quarter of 2003. For example, assume an estimate is being computed for the quarterly effect on Lincoln Retirements fee income due to a 2.5% increase in the markets occurring in the first quarter of 2003. In this example, the expected quarterly effect of a first quarter 2.5% increase is estimated as: ($2.0*1.25/4) $0.625 million. The table provided below contains information for use in estimating the first quarter 2003 effect for changes in equity markets for the Lincoln Retirement segment related to GMDB and DAC. For GMDB, quarterly results will include a reserve adjustment. This is due to the fact that LNC has established the GMDB reserves net of anticipated future GMDB fee revenues. As a result, an adjustment will be required to increase GMDB reserves during periods where a GMDB Net Amount At Risk exists. Based upon the Net Amount At Risk for GMDB at December 31, 2002, the first quarter 2003 GMDB reserve adjustment is estimated at $5.9 million (included in the no change column in the table below). 20% + 11 20% 6 10% 1 to 5% 1 to 5% 6 10% Decline Decline Decline Decline No Change Increase Increase 11% + ($ Millions for each 1% Change in Relevant Market Index) GMDB (2.7) (2.3) (2.1) (1.9) (5.9 ) 0.8 1.0 1.3 DAC (0.9) (0.6) (0.6) (0.5) 0.3 0.4 The estimated quarterly effects indicated in the table above are applicable for the first quarter of 2003. For example, assume an estimate is being computed for the quarterly effect on Lincoln Retirements GMDB reserve due to a 2.5% increase in the equity markets occurring in the first quarter of 2003. The estimated quarterly effect is calculated as follows: $(5.9) + 0.8*2.5 $(3.9) million. Accounting for Business Combinations and Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statements of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141, Business Combinations (FAS 141), and No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (FAS 142). FAS 141 is effective for all business combinations initiated after June 30, 2001, and FAS 142 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001. Under the new rules, goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets are no longer amortized, but are subject to impairment tests conducted at least annually in accordance with the new standards. Intangible assets that do not have indefinite lives continue to be amortized over their estimated useful lives. LNC adopted FAS 142 on January 1, 2002. After consideration of the provisions of the new standards regarding proper classification of goodwill and other intangible assets on the consolidated balance sheet, LNC did not reclassify any goodwill or other intangible balances held as of January 1, 2002. In compliance with the transition provision of FAS 142, LNC completed the first step of the transitional goodwill impairment test during the second quarter of 2002. The valuation techniques used by LNC to estimate the fair value of the group of assets comprising the different reporting units varied based on the characteristics of each reporting units business and operations. A number of valuation approaches, including discounted cash flow modeling, were used to assess the goodwill of the reporting units within LNCs Lincoln Retirement, Life Insurance and Lincoln UK segments. Valuation approaches combining multiples of revenues, earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) and assets under management were used to estimate the fair value of the reporting units within LNCs Investment Manage 26 Table of Contents ment segment. The results of the first step of the tests indicated that LNC did not have impaired goodwill. LNC has chosen October 1 as its annual review date. As such, LNC performed another valuation review during the fourth quarter of 2002. The results of the first step of the tests performed as of October 1, 2002 indicated that LNC did not have impaired goodwill. The valuation techniques used by LNC for each reporting unit were consistent with those used during the transitional testing. As a result of the application of the non amortization provisions of the new standards, LNC had an increase in net income of $41.7 million ($0.22 per common share on a fully diluted basis) for the year ended December 31, 2002. Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long lived Assets In August 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets (FAS 144), which supersedes Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 121, and the accounting and reporting provisions of APB Opinion No. 30. FAS 144 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001. LNC adopted FAS 144 on January 1, 2002 and the adoption of the Statement did not have a material impact on the consolidated financial position and results of operations of LNC. Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities In June 2002, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities (FAS 146), which addresses financial accounting and reporting for costs associated with exit or disposal activities and nullifies Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 94 3, Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity (including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring) (Issue 94 3). The principal difference between FAS 146 and Issue 94 3 is that FAS 146 requires that a liability for a cost associated with an exit or disposal activity be recognized when the liability is incurred, rather than at the date of an entitys commitment to an exit plan. FAS 146 is effective for exit or disposal activities after December 31, 2002. Adoption of FAS 146 by LNC will result in a change in timing of when expense is recognized for restructuring activities after December 31, 2002. Accounting for Stock Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure. On December 31, 2002, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 148, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure (FAS 148), which provides alternative methods of transition for entities that change to the fair value method of accounting for stock based employee compensation. In addition, FAS 148 amends the disclosure provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, to require expanded and more prominent disclosure of the effects of an entitys accounting policy with respect to stock based employee compensation on reported net income and earnings per share in annual and interim financial statements. The three transition methods provided under FAS 148 are the prospective, the modified prospective and the retroactive restatement methods. LNC will adopt the retroactive restatement method, which requires that companies restate all periods presented to reflect stock based employee compensation cost under the fair value accounting method in FAS 123 for all employee awards granted, modified or settled in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 1994. FAS 148s amendment of the transition and annual disclosure requirements of FAS 123 is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2002. LNC will adopt the fair value method of accounting under FAS 123, as amended by FAS 148, as of January 1, 2003 and will present restated financial statements for the years 2002, 2001 and 2000 in its first quarter 2003 filing on Form 10 Q (see Note 1 for pro forma net income and pro forma basic and diluted earnings per share amounts for 2002, 2001 and 2000 and Note 6 for discussion of stock based employee compensation cost.). Effective January 1, 2003, LNCs stock option employee compensation plan and long term cash incentive compensation plan were revised and combined to provide for performance vesting, and to provide for awards that may be paid out in a combination of stock options, performance shares of LNC stock and cash. The 27 Table of Contents performance measures for the initial grant under the new plan will be calculated over a three year period from grant date and will compare LNCs performance relative to a selected group of peer companies. Comparative performance measures will include relative growth in earnings per share, return on equity and total share performance. Certain participants in the new plans will select from seven different combinations of stock options, performance shares and cash in determining the form of their award. Other participants will have their award paid in performance shares. This plan will replace the current LNC stock option plan; however, the separate stock option incentive plans established by Delaware Investments U.S., Inc. (DIUS) and DIAL Holding Company, Inc. (DIAL), both wholly owned subsidiaries of Delaware Management Holdings, Inc., will continue. The revised long term incentive plan for 2003 is expected to result in about the same amount of total expense as would have been reported in 2002 for the stock option employee compensation plan, if stock options had been expensed, combined with previously expensed accrual for the long term cash incentive plan. This estimated 2003 expense is subject to uncertainty given that several assumptions are required to be made regarding LNCs performance. Accounting for Variable Interest Entities In January 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities (Interpretation 46), which requires the consolidation of variable interest entities (VIE) by an enterprise if that enterprise has a variable interest that will absorb a majority of the VIEs expected losses if they occur, receive a majority of the entitys expected residual returns if they occur, or both. If one enterprise will absorb a majority of a VIEs expected losses and another enterprise will receive a majority of that VIEs expected residual returns, the enterprise absorbing a majority of the losses shall consolidate the VIE. VIE refers to an entity in which equity investors do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest or do not have sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support from other parties. This Interpretation applies in the third quarter of 2003 to VIEs in which an enterprise holds a variable interest that is acquired before February 1, 2003. This Interpretation may be applied prospectively with a cumulative effect adjustment as of the date on which it is first applied or by restating previously issued financial statements for one or more years with a cumulative effect adjustment as of the beginning of the first year restated. Among the matters that LNC is currently reviewing in connection with the third quarter 2003 effective date of Interpretation No. 46 to existing VIEs is the potential application to Collateralized Debt Obligation (CDO) pools that are managed by LNC. If the fees earned by LNC for managing these CDOs are required to be included in the analysis of expected residual returns, it is possible that such CDO pools would fall under the consolidation requirements of Interpretation No. 46. While LNC does not currently have access to all information necessary to determine the ultimate effects of such a required consolidation (because LNC is not the trustee or the administrator to the CDOs), based upon currently available information LNC estimates that the effect of consolidation would result in recording additional assets and liabilities on LNCs consolidated balance sheet of about $1.3 billion. If such liabilities are required to be recorded, LNC would disclose that such liabilities are without recourse to LNC, as LNCs role of investment manager for such CDO pools does not expose LNC to risk of loss. Although LNC and the industry continue to review the new rules, at the present time LNC does not believe there are other significant VIEs that would result in consolidation with LNC, beyond the managed CDOs discussed above. Accounting for Modified Coinsurance Currently, there are ongoing discussions surrounding the implementation and interpretation of SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, by the Financial Accounting Standards Boards (FASB) Derivative Implementation Group regarding receivables and payables that are indexed to a pool of assets; and specific to LNC, modified coinsurance agreements and coinsurance with funds withheld reinsurance agreements that reference a pool of securities. An exposure draft for this issue has been issued by the FASB. It is not expected to be finalized by the FASB until sometime in the second quarter of 28 Table of Contents 2003. If the definition of derivative instruments is altered, this may impact LNCs prospective reported consolidated net income and consolidated financial position. Until the FASB finalizes the Statement 133 Implementation Issue, LNC is unable to determine what, if any, impact it will have on LNCs consolidated financial statements. Restructuring Charges During 1998, LNC implemented a restructuring plan relating to the integration of existing life and annuity operations with the new business operations acquired from CIGNA Corporation (CIGNA) and a second restructuring plan relating to the streamlining of LNCs corporate center operations. The aggregate charges associated with these two unrelated restructuring plans totaled $34.3 million after tax ($52.8 million pre tax) and were included in Underwriting, Acquisition, Insurance and Other Expenses on the Consolidated Statement of Income for the year ended December 31, 1998. These aggregate pre tax costs include $19.6 million for employee severance and termination benefits, $9.9 million for asset impairments and $23.3 million for costs relating to exiting business activities. The CIGNA restructuring plan was completed in the first quarter of 2000. During the fourth quarter of 2000, $0.5 million (pre tax) of the original charge to downsize LNCs corporate center operations was reversed. This plan was completed in the third quarter of 2002 due to the termination of the lease, which resulted from LNCs purchase and ultimate sale of the abandoned building. The remaining $0.2 million related to the terminated lease was reversed as a reduction in restructuring costs during the third quarter of 2002. Total pre tax costs of $56.2 million were expended or written off under these restructuring plans. During 1999, LNC implemented restructuring plans relating to 1) the downsizing and consolidation of the operations of Lynch & Mayer, Inc. (Lynch & Mayer); 2) the discontinuance of HMO excess of loss reinsurance programs and 3) the streamlining of Lincoln UKs operations. The aggregate charges associated with these three unrelated restructuring plans totaled $21.8 million after tax ($31.8 million pre tax) and were included in Underwriting, Acquisition, Insurance and Other Expenses on the Consolidated Statement of Income for the year ended December 31, 1999. During the fourth quarter of 1999, $3.0 million (pre tax) of the original charge recorded for the Lynch & Mayer restructuring plan was reversed as a reduction of restructuring costs due primarily to a change in estimate for space costs. In addition, during the fourth quarter of 1999, $1.5 million (pre tax) associated with lease terminations was released into income. During the fourth quarter of 2000, the Lynch & Mayer restructuring plan was completed and $0.3 million (pre tax) of the original charge recorded was reversed as Lynch & Mayer was able to successfully exit certain contracts without any further obligations or penalties. Also, during the fourth quarter of 2000, $1.0 million (pre tax) of the original charge for the discontinuance of HMO excess of loss reinsurance programs was reversed. During the fourth quarter of 2001, the remaining restructuring reserve of $0.2 million relating to the HMO excess of loss reinsurance programs was transferred to Swiss Re as part of its acquisition of LNCs reinsurance operations. Actual pre tax costs totaling $24.8 million have been expended or written off for all three plans through December 31, 2002. As of December 31, 2002, a balance of $2.5 million remains in the restructuring reserve for the Lincoln UK plan and is expected to be utilized in the completion of this plan. Additional details of each of the three restructuring plans are discussed in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements. During 2000, LNC implemented restructuring plans relating to 1) the downsizing and consolidation of the operations of Vantage Global Advisors, Inc. (Vantage); 2) the exit of all direct sales and sales support operations of Lincoln UK and the consolidation of its Uxbridge home office with its Barnwood home office, and 3) the downsizing and consolidation of the investment management operations of Lincoln Investment Management. The Vantage restructuring charge was recorded in the second quarter, the Lincoln UK restructuring charge was recorded in the third and fourth quarters, and the Lincoln Investment Management restructuring was recorded in the fourth quarter of 2000. The aggregate charges associated with all restructuring plans entered into during 2000 totaled $81.8 million after tax ($107.4 million pre tax). These charges were included in Underwriting, Acquisition, Insurance and Other Expenses on the Consolidated Statement of Income for the year ended December 31, 2000. The component elements of these aggregate pre tax costs include employee severance and termination benefits of $33.8 million, write off of impaired assets of $40.9 million and other exit costs of $32.7 million. During the fourth quarter of 2000, $0.6 million (pre tax) of 29 Table of Contents the original charge recorded for the Vantage restructuring plan was reversed as a reduction of restructuring costs due primarily to changes in estimates associated with severance and abandoned leased office space costs. All expenditures and write offs for the Lincoln Investment Management restructuring plan were completed in the third quarter of 2002 and $0.4 million of the original reserve was released. The release of the reserve was primarily due to LNCs purchase and ultimate sale of the vacant office space on terms, which were favorable to what was included in the original restructuring plan for rent on this office space. In the fourth quarter of 2002, $1.7 million of the Lincoln UK restructuring reserve was released as a result of new tenants being contracted for several of the abandoned office facilities on terms that were better than originally expected. Actual pre tax costs totaling $95.0 million have been expended or written off for these plans through December 31, 2002. As of December 31, 2002, a balance of $9.7 million remains in the restructuring reserve for the Lincoln UK plan and is expected to be utilized in the completion of the plan. Additional details of each of the three restructuring plans are discussed in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements. During 2001, LNC implemented restructuring plans relating to 1) the consolidation of the Syracuse operations of Lincoln Life & Annuity Company of New York into the Lincoln Retirement segments operations in Fort Wayne, Indiana and Portland, Maine; 2) the elimination of duplicative functions in the Schaumburg, Illinois operations of First Penn Pacific, and the absorption of these functions into the Lincoln Retirement and Life Insurance segments operations in Fort Wayne, Indiana and Hartford, Connecticut; 3) the reorganization of the life wholesaling function within the independent planner distribution channel, consolidation of retirement wholesaling territories, and streamlining of the marketing and communications functions in LFD; 4) the reorganization and consolidation of the life insurance operations in Hartford, Connecticut related to the streamlining of underwriting and new business processes and the completion of outsourcing of administration of certain closed blocks of business; 5) the consolidation of the Boston, Massachusetts investment and marketing office with the Philadelphia, Pennsylvania investment and marketing operations in order to eliminate redundant facilities and functions within the Investment Management segment 6) the combination of LFD channel oversight, positioning of LFD to take better advantage of ongoing marketplace consolidation and expansion of the customer base of wholesalers in certain territories and 7) the consolidation of operations and space in LNCs Fort Wayne, Indiana operations. The Syracuse restructuring charge was recorded in the first quarter of 2001, the Schaumburg, Illinois restructuring charge was recorded in the second quarter of 2001, the LFD restructuring charges were recorded in the second and fourth quarters of 2001, and the remaining restructuring charges were all recorded in the fourth quarter of 2001. The aggregate charges associated with all restructuring plans entered into during 2001 totaled $24.6 million after tax ($38.0 million pre tax). The component elements of these aggregate pre tax costs include employee severance and termination benefits of $12.2 million, write off of impaired assets of $3.3 million and other exit costs of $22.5 million primarily related to the termination of equipment leases ($1.4 million) and rent on abandoned office space ($20.0 million). The Syracuse restructuring plan was completed in the first quarter of 2002 with expenditures and write offs totaling $1.3 million. The total amount expended exceeded the original charge by $0.3 million. The LFD restructuring plan that was initiated in the second quarter of 2001 was completed in the fourth quarter of 2002. Actual pre tax costs totaling $1.8 million were expended or written off, which was equal to the original reserve. The Life Insurance segment restructuring plan that was initiated in the fourth quarter of 2001 was completed in the fourth quarter of 2002. Actual pre tax costs totaling $2.3 million dollars were expended or written off. The amount expended for this plan was in excess of the original reserve by less than $0.1 million. In addition, $0.1 million of excess reserve on the FPP restructuring plan was released during the second quarter of 2002 and $1.5 million of excess reserve on the Fort Wayne restructuring plan was released during the third quarter of 2002. The release of the reserve on the Fort Wayne restructuring plan was due to LNCs purchase and ultimate sale of the vacant building on terms which were favorable to what was included in the original restructuring plan for rent on this abandoned office space. Actual pre tax costs totaling $34.0 million have been expended or written off for the four remaining plans through December 31, 2002. As of December 31, 2002, a balance of $1.4 million remains in the restructuring reserves for these plans and is expected to be utilized in the completion of the plans. Additional details of each of these restructuring plans are discussed in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements. 30 Table of Contents During the second quarter of 2002, Lincoln Retirement completed a review of its entire internal information technology organization. As a result of that review, Lincoln Retirement decided in the second quarter of 2002 to reorganize its IT organization in order to better align the activities and functions conducted within its own organization and its IT service providers. This change was made in order to focus Lincoln Retirement on its goal of achieving a common administrative platform for its annuities products, to better position the organization and its service providers to respond to changing market conditions, and to reduce overall costs in response to increased competitive pressures. The restructuring plan implemented to achieve these objectives included aggregate pre tax costs of $1.6 million, composed of $1.4 million for employee severance and $0.2 million for employee outplacement. Actual pre tax costs expended through December 31, 2002 were $0.9 million. As of December 31, 2002, a balance of $0.7 million remains in the restructuring reserve for this plan and is expected to be utilized in the completion of the plan. Additional details of this restructuring plan are discussed in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements. In January 2003, the Life Insurance segment announced that it was realigning its operations in Hartford, Connecticut and Schaumburg, Illinois to enhance productivity, efficiency and scalability while positioning the segment for future growth. The financial impact of the realignment will result in the Life Insurance segment incurring costs of approximately $15 $17 million after tax during 2003. While some savings may materialize in the second half of 2003, the majority of the savings will be realized in 2004, at which time the run rate for operating and administrative expenses should be reduced by $15 $20 million pre tax. In February 2003, Lincoln Retirement announced plans to consolidate its fixed annuity operations in Schaumburg, Illinois into Fort Wayne, Indiana. Restructuring costs under the plan are expected to be $3 $5 million after tax and are expected to be incurred during 2003. The consolidation is expected to result in pre tax savings of approximately $4 $6 million annually beginning in the third quarter of 2003. Acquisition and Divestiture On August 30, 2002, LNC acquired The Administrative Management Group, Inc. (AMG), an employee benefits record keeping firm for $21.6 million in cash. Contingent payments up to an additional $14 million will be paid over a period of 4 years (2003 2006) if certain criteria are met. Any such contingent payments will be expensed as incurred. AMG, a strategic partner of the Lincoln Retirement segment for several years, provides record keeping services for the Lincoln Alliance Program along with approximately 400 other clients nationwide. As of December 31, 2002, the application of purchase accounting to this acquisition resulted in goodwill of $20.2 million. On December 7, 2001, Swiss Re acquired LNCs reinsurance operation for $2.0 billion. In addition, LNC retained the capital supporting the reinsurance operation. After giving effect to the increased levels of capital needed within the Life Insurance and Lincoln Retirement segments that result from the change in the ongoing mix of business under LNCs internal capital allocation models, the disposition of LNCs reinsurance operation freed up approximately $100 million of retained capital. The transaction structure involved a series of indemnity reinsurance transactions combined with the sale of certain stock companies that comprised LNCs reinsurance operation. At closing, an immediate gain of $15.0 million after tax was recognized on the sale of the stock companies. A gain of $723.1 million after tax ($1.1 billion pre tax) relating to the indemnity reinsurance agreements was reported at the time of closing. This gain was recorded as a deferred gain on LNCs consolidated balance sheet, in accordance with the requirements of FAS 113, and is being amortized into earnings at the rate that earnings on the reinsured business are expected to emerge, over a period of 15 years. Effective with the closing of the transaction, the former Reinsurance segments historical results were moved into Other Operations. During December 2001 LNC recognized in Other Operations $5.0 million ($7.9 million pre tax) of deferred gain amortization. In addition, in December 2001, LNC recognized $7.9 million ($12.5 million pre tax) of accelerated deferred gain amortization relating to the fact that certain Canadian indemnity reinsurance contracts were novated after the sale, but prior to December 31, 2001. 31 Table of Contents On October 29, 2002 LNC and Swiss Re settled disputed matters totaling about $770 million that had arisen in connection with the final closing balance sheets associated with Swiss Res acquisition of LNCs reinsurance operations. The settlement provided for a payment by LNC of $195 million to Swiss Re, which was recorded by LNC as a reduction in deferred gain. As a result of additional information made available to LNC following the settlement with Swiss Re in the fourth quarter of 2002, LNC recorded a further reduction in the deferred gain of $51.6 million after tax ($79.4 million pre tax), as well as a $9.4 million after tax ($8.3 million pre tax) reduction in the gain on the sale of subsidiaries. As part of the dispute settlement, LNC also paid $100 million to Swiss Re in satisfaction of LNCs $100 million indemnification obligation with respect to personal accident business. As a result of this payment, LNC has no further underwriting risk with respect to the reinsurance business sold. However, because LNC has not been relieved of its legal liabilities to the underlying ceding companies with respect to the portion of the business reinsured by Swiss Re, under FAS 113 the reserves for the underlying reinsurance contracts as well as a corresponding reinsurance recoverable from Swiss Re will continue to be carried on LNCs balance sheet during the run off period of the underlying reinsurance business. This is particularly relevant in the case of the exited personal accident and disability income reinsurance lines of business where the underlying reserves are based upon various estimates that are subject to considerable uncertainty. As a result of developments and information obtained during 2002 relating to personal accident and disability income matters, LNC increased these exited business reserves by $198.5 million after tax ($305.4 million pre tax). After giving effect to LNCs $100 million indemnification obligation, LNC recorded a $133.5 after tax ($205.4 million pre tax) increase in reinsurance recoverable from Swiss Re with a corresponding increase in the deferred gain. The combined effects of the 2002 settlement of disputed matters and exited business reserve increases reduced the $723.1 million after tax ($1.1 billion pre tax) deferred gain reported at closing by $44.9 million after tax ($69 million pre tax). During 2002, LNC amortized $47 million after tax ($72.3 million pre tax) of deferred gain. This includes the amortization of deferred gain from the sale of the direct disability income business in 1999. An additional $1.3 million after tax ($2 million pre tax) of deferred gain was recognized due to a novation of certain Canadian business during 2002. Also during 2002, LNC exercised a contractual right to put its interest in a subsidiary company containing LNCs disability income reinsurance business to Swiss Re for $10 million. The $10 million sale price was approximately equal to LNCs book basis in the subsidiary. Through December 31, 2002, of the original $2 billion in proceeds received by LNC, approximately $0.56 billion was paid for taxes and deal expenses and approximately $1.0 billion was used to repurchase stock, reduce debt, and support holding company cash flow needs. LNC also paid $195 million to Swiss Re to settle the closing balance sheet disputed matters and $100 million to satisfy LNCs personal accident business indemnification obligations. The remaining proceeds have been dedicated to the ongoing capital needs of the Lincoln National Life Insurance Company. Critical Accounting Policy Personal Accident and Disability Income Reserves Because of ongoing uncertainty related to personal accident and disability income businesses, the reserves related to these exited business lines carried on LNCs balance sheet at December 31, 2002 may ultimately prove to be either excessive or deficient. For instance, in the event that future developments indicate that these reserves should be increased, under FAS 113 LNC would record a current period non cash charge to record the increase in reserves. Because Swiss Re is responsible for paying the underlying claims to the ceding companies, LNC would record a corresponding increase in reinsurance recoverable from Swiss Re. However, FAS 113 does not permit LNC to take the full benefit in earnings for the recording of the increase in the reinsurance recoverable in the period of the change. Rather, LNC would increase the deferred gain recognized upon the closing of the indemnity reinsurance transaction with Swiss Re and would report a cumulative amortization catch up adjustment to the deferred gain balance as increased earnings recognized in the period of change. Any amount of additional increase to the deferred gain above the cumulative amortization catch up adjustment must continue to be deferred and will be amortized into income in future periods over 32 Table of Contents the remaining period of expected run off of the underlying business. No cash would be transferred between LNC and Swiss Re as a result of these developments Accordingly, even though LNC has no continuing underwriting risk, and no cash would be transferred between LNC and Swiss Re, in the event that future developments indicate LNCs December 31, 2002 personal accident or disability income reserves are deficient or redundant, FAS 113 requires LNC to adjust earnings in the period of change, with only a partial offset to earnings for the cumulative deferred gain amortization adjustment in the period of change. The remaining amount of increased gain would be amortized into earnings over the remaining run off period of the underlying business. Results of Operations by Segment Lincoln Retirement The Lincoln Retirement segment (formerly known as the Annuities segment), headquartered in Fort Wayne, Indiana, provides tax deferred investment growth and lifetime income opportunities for its clients through the manufacture and sale of fixed and variable annuities. Through a broad based distribution network, Lincoln Retirement provides an array of annuity products to individuals and employer sponsored groups in all 50 states of the United States. Lincoln Retirement distributes some of its products through LNCs wholesaling unit, LFD, as well as LNCs retail unit, LFA. In addition, group fixed and variable annuity products and the Alliance program are distributed to the employer sponsored retirement market through Lincoln Retirements Fringe Benefit Division dedicated sales force. Results of Operations: Lincoln Retirements financial results and account values were as follows: Year Ended December 31 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 (in millions) Net Income $ 57.8 $ 269.2 $ 358.6 $ 291.5 $ 273.8 Items Included in Net Income: Realized Gain (Loss) on Investments and Derivative Instruments (after tax) (128.7 ) (42.5 ) (3.4 ) (7.9 ) 11.4 Restructuring Charges (after tax) (1.0 ) (1.3 ) Cumulative Effect of Accounting Changes (after tax)(1) (7.3 ) Goodwill Amortization (after tax) $ 1.2 $ (0.6 ) $ 2.0 $ 2.2 Average Daily Variable Account Values (in billions) $ 30.8 $ 35.6 $ 41.8 $ 35.9 December 31 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 (in billions) Account Values Variable Annuities $ 27.4 $ 34.6 $ 39.4 $ 41.5 $ 33.4 Fixed Annuities $ 20.1 18.0 16.6 18.2 18.1 Reinsurance Ceded (2.0 ) (1.5 ) (1.2 ) (1.4 ) (1.6 ) Total Fixed Annuities 18.1 16.5 15.4 16.8 16.5 Total Account Values $ 45.5 $ 51.1 $ 54.8 $ 58.3 $ 49.9 (1) Cumulative Effect of Accounting Changes relates to the transition adjustment of $(3.6) million recorded in the first quarter of 2001 upon adoption of FAS 133 and the adjustment of $(3.7) million recorded in the second quarter of 2001 upon adoption of EITF 99 20. 33 Table of Contents Comparison of 2002 to 2001 Net income decreased $211.4 million or 79% in 2002. The decrease in net income between periods was primarily the result of the decline in the equity markets and an increase in realized losses on investments of $86.2 million, resulting from the decline in value and the sale and write downs of fixed maturity securities. In 2002, the S&P 500 index declined 23.4%. The significant decline in the equity markets negatively affected the segments earnings through lower fees from lower average variable account values, negative unlocking of deferred acquisition costs (DAC) and the present value of in force (PVIF) intangible assets and increases in reserves and benefit payments for guaranteed minimum death benefits (GMDB). Average daily variable annuity account values decreased $4.8 billion or 13% and variable annuity account values at December 31, 2002 were $7.2 billion or 21% lower than at December 31, 2001. The decrease in variable annuity account values was caused primarily by the overall decline in the equity markets in 2002. This decrease reduced fees and lowered net income by $29.9 million. The effect of equity market impact on DAC and PVIF from retrospective unlocking and net changes in amortization decreased net income by $18.4 million. The current year negative unlocking was due to actual equity market performance lagging the expected market performance used in LNCs DAC assumptions. Increases in GMDB reserves and benefit payments decreased net income by $40.4 million from 2001. In addition, in the fourth quarter of 2002 the segment had reduced net income of $30.3 million due to prospective unlocking of various assumptions underlying DAC, PVIF and GMDB calculations, including the reversion to the mean net growth assumption. The tax benefit from the Separate Account Dividend Received Deduction (DRD) was $17.7 million lower in 2002 than in 2001 due to lower fees, primarily resulting from the decline in the equity markets. Decreased earnings from investment partnerships resulted in a negative variance of $21.7 million compared to 2001. Partially offsetting the negative variances were $17.6 million from higher investment margins. Overall investment spreads on fixed annuity products was relatively flat between years: 2.04% in 2002 versus 2.05% in 2001. For annuity products spread, the yield on earning assets is calculated as net investment income on fixed product investment portfolios divided by the average earning assets, the average crediting rate is calculated using interest credited on annuity products less bonus credits and excess dollar cost averaging (DCA) interest, divided by the average fixed account values net of coinsured account values. Fixed account values reinsured under modified coinsurance agreements are included in account values for this calculation. (See discussion on investment margins and the interest rate risk due to falling interest rates within Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.) Average fixed annuity account values increased $2.1 billion in 2002 resulting in an increase in income of $17.7 million. The increase in fixed annuity account values was due to the positive net cash flows for fixed annuities, reflecting strong sales of the StepFive, Lincoln Select and Lincoln ChoicePlusSM Fixed annuity products. (See below for further discussion of net flows.) These strong sales increases could be interrupted if the interest rates decrease significantly and remain lower. In the event that LNC is not able to achieve spread targets, sales of fixed annuities could be significantly reduced. Critical Accounting Policy Deferred Acquisition Cost The amortization of the Lincoln Retirement segments deferred acquisition costs is impacted by the change in market value of variable annuity accounts. Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 97, Accounting by Insurance Companies for Certain Long Duration Contracts & Realized Gains & Losses on Investment Sales (FAS 97) requires that acquisition costs for variable annuity contracts be amortized over the lives of the contracts in relation to the incidence of estimated gross profits. Estimated gross profits on variable annuity contracts vary based on surrenders, fee income, expenses and realized gains/losses on investments. The amortization is adjusted retrospectively (DAC unlocking) when estimates of current or future gross profits to be realized from variable annuity contracts are revised. Because equity market movements have a significant impact on the value of variable annuity accounts and the fees earned on these accounts, estimated future profits increase or decrease with movements in the equity markets. Movements in equity markets also have an impact on reserves and payments for the guaranteed minimum death benefit feature within certain annuity contracts. The Lincoln Retirement segments assumption for the long term 34 Table of Contents annual gross growth rate of the equity markets used in the determination of DAC amortization and GMDB benefits is 9%, which is reduced by mortality and expense charges (M&E) and asset management charges resulting in a net variable account growth assumption of less than 9%. As equity markets do not move in a systematic manner, LNC uses a methodology referred to as reversion to the mean to maintain its long term gross growth rate assumption while also giving consideration to the effect of short term swings in the equity markets. The application of this methodology results in the use of a higher or lower future gross equity market growth assumption for a period of four years subsequent to the valuation date which, together with actual historical gross equity growth, is expected to produce a 9% gross return. The use of a reversion to the mean assumption is common within the industry; however, the parameters used in the methodology are subject to judgment and vary within the industry. An important aspect of LNCs application of the reversion to the mean is the use of caps and floors on the growth rate assumption, which limit the gross growth rate assumption to reasonable levels above and below the long term assumption. In the fourth quarter 2002, LNC adjusted its reversion to the mean gross growth rate assumption to 9%. This change along with changes to assumptions for variable annuity persistency and revisions to amortization periods resulted in DAC and PVIF adjustments reducing income by $8.8 million. Going forward, as the growth rate of the equity market varies from LNCs growth rate assumption, the period over which the reversion to the mean gross growth rate assumption needs to be earned will be four years. The segment is reviewing the appropriate cap or floor levels and will incorporate this into the methodology. On a quarterly basis, LNC reviews the assumptions of its DAC amortization model and records a retrospective adjustment to the amount expensed, (i.e. unlocks the DAC). On an annual basis, LNC reviews and adjusts as necessary its assumptions for prospective amortization of DAC, as well as its other intangible asset, present value of in force (PVIF). Critical Accounting Policy Guarantee Minimum Death Benefits Reserving The GMDB reserves are a function of the net amount at risk (NAR), mortality, persistency, and incremental death benefit M&E expected to be incurred over the period of time for which the NAR is positive. At any given point in time, the NAR is the difference between the potential death benefit payable and the total account balance, with a floor value of zero (when account values exceed the potential death benefit there is no amount at risk). As part of the estimate of future NAR, gross equity growth rates which are consistent with those used in the DAC valuation process are utilized. On average, the current gross equity growth rate would project to a zero NAR over roughly four years from the balance sheet date. The fourth quarter of 2002 change to the reversion to the mean assumption resulted in an increase to GMDB reserves and reduced income by $21.5 million. Projections of account values and NAR followed by computation of the present value of expected NAR death claims using product pricing mortality assumptions less expected GMDB M&E revenue during the period for which the death benefit options are assumed to be in the money are made each valuation date for every variable annuity contract with a GMDB benefit feature. If equity market returns exactly match LNCs reversion to the mean rate and actual mortality and lapse experience is as assumed, the GAAP reserve plus interest and GMDB M&E revenue would exactly cover the future expected GMDB payments as they arise. As discussed above, the decline of the equity markets effect has resulted in increased GMDB reserves and benefit payments which negatively effected Lincoln Retirements income. Although there is no method currently prescribed under generally accepted accounting principles for GMDB reserving, LNC uses a method that recognizes that there is an amount at risk that will result in future payments and that over time the equity market growth will reduce the payment stream. This approach is expected to cover future GMDB payments, net of future GMDB fee income. Currently, there are few companies that reserve for the liability caused by the decline in the equity markets with some companies recognizing the cost on a pay as you go basis. At December 31, 2002, LNCs net amount at risk (NAR) was $4.6 billion and the GAAP reserve was $84.5 million. The reserve for statutory accounting was $144.1 million, reflecting the more conservative market performance and mortality assumptions required under statutory accounting. In evaluating the relative GMBD exposures that exist within LNCs variable annuity business relative to industry peers, it is important to distinguish between the various types of GMDB structures, and other factors 35 Table of Contents such as average account values, average amounts of NAR, and the age of contractholders. The following discussion provides this information for LNCs variable annuity business. At December 31, 2002 LNC had $19.2 billion of variable annuity account value, about 52% of LNCs total, that was subject to a return of premium type GMDB benefit. LNCs average variable annuity with a return of premium feature has an average account value of $32,000 and an average remaining premium base of $26,300 resulting in an average NAR of $5,700. The average attained age of these contract holders is just over 50 with less than 9% over age 70. The GAAP GMDB reserve on these accounts was $27.2 million on a total NAR of $1.8 billion. At December 31, 2002 LNC had $9.1 billion of variable annuity account value, about 25% of LNCs total, that is subject to a high water mark type GMDB benefit. LNCs average variable annuity with a high water mark feature has an average account value of $58,400 and average NAR of $19,800. The average attained age of these contract holders is just over 60 with 24% over age 70. The GAAP GMDB reserve on these accounts was $56.9 million on a total NAR of $2.8 billion. At December 31, 2002 only $262 million of variable account value, less than 1% of LNCs total, was subject to roll up type GMDB benefit. LNCs average variable annuity with a roll up feature has an average account value of $91,000 and average NAR of $17,700. The average attained age of these contract holders is just under 63 with 28% over age 70. The GAAP GMDB reserve on these accounts was $0.4 million on a total NAR of $40 million. At December 31, 2002 LNC had $8.5 billion of variable annuity account value, about 23%, that was not subject to any GMDB benefit. These accounts average $45,800 in account value. The average attained age of these contract holders is 58 with 20% over 70. LNCs contract holders overall average attained age is just over 53 with only 13% over age 70. LNC average attained ages are lower than industry average (per The Gallup Organizations 2001 Survey) due to the mix of business that includes significant amounts of qualified and employer sponsored business. LNCs average non qualified contract holders attained age is just under 64 with 35% over age 72 compared to the industry average attained age of 65 with 35% over age 72. LNC has variable annuity contracts containing GMDBs which have a dollar for dollar withdrawal feature. Under such a feature, withdrawals reduce both current account value and the GMDB amount on a dollar for dollar basis. For contracts containing this dollar for dollar feature, the account holder could withdraw a substantial portion of their account value resulting in a GMDB which is multiples of the current account value. LNCs exposure to this dollar for dollar risk is somewhat mitigated by the fact that LNC does not allow for partial 1035 exchanges on non qualified contracts. To take advantage of the dollar for dollar feature, the contract holder must take constructive receipt of the withdrawal and pay any applicable surrender charges. LNC will report the appropriate amount of the withdrawal that is taxable to the IRS, as well as indicating whether or not tax penalties apply under the premature distribution tax rules. LNC closely monitors its dollar for dollar withdrawal GMDB exposure and works with key broker dealers that distribute LNCs variable annuity products. As of December 31, 2002, there were 276 contracts for which the death benefit to account value ratio was greater than ten to one. The net amount at risk on these contracts was $19.3 million. Effective May of 2003, the GMDB feature offered on new sales will be a pro rata GMDB feature whereby each dollar of withdrawal will reduce the GMDB benefit in proportion to the current GMDB to account value ratio. As illustrated in the discussion of Lincoln Retirements results of operations above, the segments income is extremely sensitive to swings in the equity markets. Refer to the First Quarter 2003 Guidance for Estimated Effect of Equity Market Volatility section for estimates of the effect of movements in the equity markets on Lincoln Retirements earnings. Comparison of 2001 to 2000 The $89.4 million or 25% decrease in net income was due in part to an increase in realized loss on investments and derivative instruments of $39.1 million. These investment losses were due primarily to losses 36 Table of Contents taken on Enron and Argentina securities in the fourth quarter of 2001 in addition to increased write downs of other securities throughout 2001 due to credit deterioration. Weak performance of the equity markets in 2001 caused variable annuity account values to be depressed throughout 2001. Fee income, which is calculated daily based on the ending variable annuity account values, decreased $48.9 million between years as a result of market depreciation experienced in the last quarter of 2000 and overall in 2001 and to a lesser extent, net outflows for variable annuities in 2000. Average variable annuity account values decreased by $6.2 billion or 15% in 2001 from 2000. Variable annuity net flows (including the fixed portion of variable contracts) were essentially zero for 2001 due to a strong second half of the year. Partially offsetting the decrease in fee income was a $6.2 million positive fee income rate variance related to a change in mix of the variable annuity business. The downturn in the equity markets also contributed to an increase of $7.3 million in benefit payments and reserve requirements for guaranteed minimum death benefits. Average fixed annuity account values decreased by $331 million or 1.9% in 2001 from the average in 2000 due to net outflows in 2000. This decreased earnings by $1.4 million between years. As a result of improved retention and lower account values in 2001, surrender charges decreased $6.9 million between years. Increased operating and administrative expenses of $16.2 million also contributed to the decrease in net income between years. This increase was due primarily to higher information technology costs including computer software write offs and equipment amortization, as well as increased severance and relocation costs related to LNCs initiative to build a high performance culture. Net investment income decreased between years due primarily to reduced earnings of $5.2 million on investment partnerships. Overall investment spreads on fixed annuity products (excluding the impact of investment income earned on surplus supporting the segment which includes investment partnerships) decreased between years: 2.05% in 2001 versus 2.14% in 2000. The Lincoln Retirement segment experienced negative DAC unlocking in the first and third quarters of 2001 and positive unlocking in the second and fourth quarters of 2001 due to movements in the market. DAC unlocking created a negative variance in earnings of $4.0 million compared to 2000. Due to changes in assumptions for prospective DAC amortization made at the beginning of 2001, the segment experienced a decrease in DAC amortization expense of $37.8 million relative to 2000. This unlocking created a positive variance of $4.5 million between years, which was caused by improved persistency in 2001 and lower expense projections. Net Flows(1) Lincoln Retirements product net flows were as follows: Year Ended December 31 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 (in billions) Variable Portion of Annuity Deposits $ 2.7 $ 3.1 $ 3.1 $ 2.6 $ 2.8 Variable Portion of Annuity Withdrawals (3.3 ) (3.9 ) (4.8 ) (3.8 ) (3.0 ) Variable Portion of Annuity Net Flows (0.6 ) (0.8 ) (1.7 ) (1.2 ) (0.2 ) Fixed Portion of Variable Annuity Deposits 1.8 1.6 1.6 1.9 1.0 Fixed Portion of Variable Annuity Withdrawals (1.1 ) (0.8 ) (1.0 ) (1.2 ) (1.1 ) Fixed Portion of Variable Annuity Net Flows 0.7 0.8 0.6 0.7 (0.1 ) Fixed Annuity Deposits 1.9 1.7 0.5 0.7 0.5 Fixed Annuity Withdrawals (1.5 ) (1.6 ) (2.3 ) (1.4 ) (1.4 ) Fixed Annuity Net Flows 0.4 0.1 (1.8 ) (0.7 ) (0.9 ) Total Annuity Net Flows $ 0.5 $ 0.1 ($ 2.9 ) ($ 1.2 ) ($ 1.2 ) Incremental Deposits(1) $ 6.2 $ 5.8 $ 4.5 $ 4.7 $ 3.9 37 Table of Contents (1) Incremental Deposits represent gross deposits reduced by transfers from other Lincoln Annuity products. In order to achieve profitable future earnings growth for both fixed and variable annuity products the ability to attract new deposits and to retain existing accounts is crucial. In 2002, the Lincoln Retirement segment experienced a continuation of the trend of positive net flows that began in the third quarter of 2001. For the year, total annuity deposits were $6.4 billion, flat with 2001. However, withdrawals were $5.9 billion, an improvement of $0.5 billion resulting in positive net flows of $0.5 billion. The improvement in net flows is reflective of LNCs goal of maintaining positive net flows by growing deposits and retaining existing accounts. LNC has experienced six consecutive quarters of positive net flows. This improvement is largely attributable to LNCs balanced array of products and distribution breadth. Although American Legacy Variable Annuity gross deposits were down 14%, its incremental deposits decreased only 2% in 2002. In addition, Lincoln ChoicePlusSM with its multi manager variable annuity experienced a $302 million or 40% increase in gross deposits in 2002. In the first quarter of 2002, LFD launched Lincoln ChoicePlus in UBS PaineWebber, one of the largest distributors of variable annuity products in the country. Also, in April 2002, LFD launched Lincoln ChoicePlus in Salomon Smith Barney, another key distributor of variable annuity products. Sales of the SEI Variable Annuity product line, distributed through SEI, declined 30% to $57 million in 2002. Effective February 28, 2003, SEI Investments will no longer take applications for new contract sales in the SEI Variable Annuity Program. Total fixed annuity gross deposits (excluding the fixed portion of variable annuity gross deposits) were $1.9 billion in 2002, a $0.2 billion or 12% increase. The increase was reflective of the strong sales of the StepFive, Lincoln Select Fixed Annuity and the Alliance Program Fixed Annuities. At December 31, 2002, 52% of Lincoln Retirements account values contained the most conservative type of GMDB which is return of premium. There are two other primary types of GMDBs in the portfolio, the high water mark and the 5% step up. The 5% step up product accounts for less than 1 percent of Lincoln Retirements variable annuity account values. LNC is currently reviewing this feature and other guarantees. In the future they may be changed or discontinued. LNCs efforts to grow deposits by introducing innovative products that meet the changing needs of its customers and to retain existing accounts through targeted conservation efforts and by offering better replacement alternatives for current customers have yielded positive results. In addition, Lincoln Retirements improvement in flows is even more powerful when looking at current industry activity. Aggressive pricing strategies aimed at increasing market share which are prevalent in the marketplace, but counter to LNCs strategy, include significant commission specials that are 100 200 basis points above LNCs; aggressive living benefit riders that give the customer the opportunity to transfer market risk to the company at their discretion and could ultimately spell disaster for either client or company; and combination high bonus and high commission products that could promote inappropriate sales behavior. LNC has been able to grow new deposits without employing, to any significant extent, the various aggressive strategies listed above. This progress can be attributed to not only its strong product line up and distribution breadth, but also the implementation of more stringent standards and controls on internal transfers. Retention of Assets In looking at annuity withdrawals and the overall profitability of the business, it is important to look beyond the mere total dollar amount of withdrawals and assess how total withdrawals compare to total retained account values. These measures of account persistency are referred to as lapse rates, which are key elements to assessing underlying profitability. By comparing actual lapse rates to the rates assumed in designing the annuity product, it is possible to gauge whether performance is better or worse than pricing. Overall lapse rates were 10.47% in 2002, 9.72% in 2001 and 11.95% in 2000. In all three years, overall lapse rates have been more favorable than expected in pricing assumptions. The improvement in persistency over the three year period has partially countered the reduction in fee income resulting from lower average variable annuity account values caused by market depreciation. 38 Table of Contents To sustain and further improve overall retention levels, LNC is utilizing targeted conservation efforts and is exploring other retention initiatives. In addition, LNC believes that maintaining a strong and balanced portfolio of fixed and variable annuities provides a platform for maintaining positive net flows. If equity markets continue to decline, LNC may see increased exchange activity in 2003, particularly if consumers move funds to products that provide an account value floor (i.e. living benefits). Growth of New Deposits LNC has been focused over the last several years on growing new deposits. This effort has been concentrated on both product and distribution breadth. As a result of the continued volatility of the equity markets, sales of fixed annuities have increased in spite of the historically low interest rate environment. LNCs fixed annuity sales in 2001 through 2002 were bolstered by product offerings that were introduced in 2001 including the Lincoln Select Fixed Annuity and the StepFive Fixed Annuity. The guarantees of the StepFive Fixed Annuity made it an important product for LNC in the Financial Institutions channel. New product offerings launched in 2002 in the Financial Institutions channel include AccelaRate and ChoiceGuarantee. The market value adjusted (MVA) feature of the Lincoln Select Fixed Annuity is expected to be more attractive in the Wirehouse/ Regional channel during a volatile interest rate environment. This feature increases or decreases the cash surrender value of the annuity based on a decrease or increase in interest rates. Contractholders participate in gains when the contract is surrendered in a falling interest rate market, and LNC is protected from losses up to a cap when the contract is surrendered in a rising interest rate market. A new version of Lincoln Select that provides the individual with a higher interest rate but a larger potential penalty for early withdrawal or surrender is being developed. LNC continues to approach the fixed annuity marketplace opportunistically and only offer rates that are consistent with LNCs required spreads. If interest rates drop further, it may result in reduced product offerings and could impact net flows. In 2002, an enhanced low cost variable annuity product, Multi Fund 5 was launched. In addition, LNC expanded the ChoicePlus and American Legacy product offerings in New York to include Bonus, L share and A share (American Legacy only) contracts. Annuities with living benefit riders, that provide equity market performance guarantees, are becoming much more prevalent in the industry. LNC is evaluating various product approaches and designs in this area that will provide a competitive benefit while still falling within LNCs risk tolerance levels for such guarantees. LFD, LNCs wholesaling distribution arm and internal partner of Lincoln Retirement, provides a wholesaling unit for the distribution of the Lincoln ChoicePlus variable annuity, Lincoln ChoicePlus fixed annuity and StepFive fixed annuity product lines. In 2002, LFD contributed significantly to the level of ChoicePlusSM Variable Annuity sales which reached $1.0 billion, an increase of 40% from 2001. LFD has also been a driver of fixed annuity products with $1.2 billion of sales in 2002. LNC is continuing to build and reinvent its strategic partnerships as part of its ongoing marketing strategy, while selectively working on other alliances that will provide increased access for LNC annuity products through various distribution channels. American Legacy variable annuity gross deposits were $1.7 billion in 2002, a decrease of 14% from 2001. One means for improving American Legacy annuity sales would be the use of a dedicated wholesaling team of Lincoln Insurance Planning Consultants focused strictly on American Legacy Variable Annuity products. Recently, LNC and American Funds Distributors (AFD) have agreed to transition the wholesaling of American Legacy to LFD. Currently, AFD uses wholesalers who focus on both American Funds mutual funds as well as the American Legacy Variable Annuity products. Segment management believes that this change to a dedicated team focused on key broker/dealer relationships developed in conjunction with AFD, has the potential to renew growth in American Legacy VA sales. The transitioning of wholesaling and distribution responsibility for the American Legacy variable annuities from AFD to LFD will provide LFD with two distinct annuity product areas: The single manager (American Legacy) and the multi manager (ChoicePlusSM and Multi Fund). Proposed Bush Administration Tax Legislation President Bushs proposed 2003 budget legislation contains a variety of changes to the taxation of corporations and shareholders. Of particular importance to the Lincoln Retirement segment are proposed 39 Table of Contents changes intended to mitigate the double taxation of dividends. At this point, the potential impact of this developing legislative proposal on annuities products is uncertain. Concerns expressed in this regard by the industry have been favorably received by key Bush administration officials, with indications that these matters are being given careful consideration during the ongoing drafting of the legislative proposal. Also unknown at this time is the impact, if any, that the proposed legislation may have on the Lincoln Retirement segment future corporate tax burden, including how corporate dividends would be treated under the proposed new approach to corporate taxation. At this point, LNC is unable to predict, with any degree of certainty, the likelihood or final form in which this proposed legislation might become law. Outlook Tax legislation, along with current economic and market conditions continue to be very uncertain which may adversely affect annuity sales for the industry and Lincoln Retirement. Although LNC is committed to its two pronged approach of growing new deposits and retaining existing assets to manage its net flows; achieving positive net flows in 2003 may be difficult for the industry and Lincoln Retirement. LNC expects to continue to strengthen its distribution breadth and emphasize expense management as key profitability drivers in an increasingly challenging market. Life Insurance The Life Insurance segment, headquartered in Hartford, Connecticut, creates and protects wealth for its clients through the manufacture and sale of life insurance products throughout the United States. The Life Insurance segment offers term life, universal life, variable universal life, interest sensitive whole life and corporate owned life insurance. A majority of the Life Insurance segments products are currently distributed through LFD and LFA. In the third quarter 2002, the Life Insurance segment entered into a marketing agreement to distribute life insurance products through the M Financial Group, a well respected and successful nationwide organization of independent firms serving the needs of affluent individuals and corporations. In addition to the marketing agreement, most business sold through M Financial Group will be subject to a 50% modified coinsurance arrangement. Results of Operations: The Life Insurance segments financial results, first year premiums by product, account values and in force amounts were as follows: Year Ended December 31 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 (in millions) Net Income $ 209.0 $ 233.1 $ 249.3 $ 211.5 $ 127.5 Items Included in Net Income: Realized Loss on Investments and Derivative Instruments (after tax) (62.9 ) (36.9 ) (10.6 ) (0.5 ) (1.7 ) Restructuring Charges (after tax) (3.5 ) (20.0 ) Cumulative Effect of Accounting Changes (after tax) (1) (5.5 ) Goodwill Amortization (after tax) $ $ 23.7 $ 23.7 $ 23.4 $ 19.7 First Year Premiums (by Product) Universal Life $ 495.3 $ 292.7 $ 289.3 $ 342.9 $ 233.0 Variable Universal Life 134.4 228.5 218.7 142.2 101.3 Whole Life 30.3 26.4 22.4 24.0 20.0 Term 32.3 30.8 41.9 45.9 48.0 Total Retail 692.3 578.4 572.3 555.0 402.3 Corporate Owned Life Insurance (COLI) 88.1 47.2 87.0 14.7 4.0 Total First Year Premiums $ 780.4 $ 625.6 $ 659.3 $ 569.7 $ 406.3 40 Table of Contents December 31 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 (in billions) Account Values Universal Life $ 8.2 $ 7.5 $ 6.9 $ 6.6 $ 6.3 Variable Universal Life 1.7 1.8 1.8 1.6 1.2 Interest Sensitive Whole Life 2.2 2.1 2.1 2.0 1.8 Total Life Insurance Account Values $ 12.1 $ 11.4 $ 10.8 $ 10.2 $ 9.3 In Force Face Amount Universal Life and Other $ 126.0 $ 121.2 $ 115.9 $ 109.3 $ 105.8 Term Insurance 127.9 113.2 100.1 85.7 67.1 Total In Force $ 253.9 $ 234.4 $ 216.0 $ 195.0 $ 172.9 (1) Cumulative Effect of Accounting Changes relates to the transition adjustment of $(0.2) million recorded in the first quarter of 2001 upon adoption of FAS No. 133 and the adjustment of $(5.3) million recorded in the second quarter of 2001 upon adoption of EITF 99 20. Comparison of 2002 to 2001 Net income decreased $24.1 million or 10% in 2002 from the prior year. Excluding the amortization of goodwill in 2001, net income decreased $47.8 million or 19%. A significant contributor to the decrease in net income between periods was an increase in realized losses on investments of $26.0 million primarily resulting from the write down of fixed maturity securities in 2002. In 2001, the Life Segment reported two restructuring charges which reduced 2001 net income by $3.5 million. There were no restructuring charges for the segment in 2002. Also, in 2001 net income was negatively affected by $5.5 million to due the cumulative effect of the adopting FAS. No. 133 and EITF 99 20. There were no accounting principles adopted in 2002 requiring a cumulative adjustment. In addition to the items noted above, other factors contributing to the decline in net income in 2002 compared to 2001 were less favorable mortality, declining investment margins, poor results in investment partnerships and declines in the equity markets. Mortality experience (mortality assessments less net death benefits and negative DAC unlocking) in 2002 was less favorable relative to 2001 and resulted in a $13.1 million reduction in income. Volatility is expected from mortality risk, but LNC attempts to lessen the impact of volatility on earnings by reinsuring approximately 90% of the new business written by the Life Insurance segment. Investment yields declined at a faster pace than reductions in crediting rates which reduced investment margins $10.5 million. (See discussion on investment margins and the interest rate risk due to falling interest rates within Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.) In addition, decreased earnings from investment partnerships resulted in a negative variance of $6.7 million. Life insurance in force, increased 8% from December 31, 2001 due to strong sales growth over the last year and continued favorable persistency. Total sales as measured by first year premiums were up $154.8 million or 25% and retail sales were up $113.9 million or 20% in 2002. Sales of universal life (UL), whole life and term life insurance products improved by 69%, 15% and 5%, respectively. Due to the volatile equity markets experienced over the last several quarters, there has been a sustained flight to interest sensitive products from variable universal life insurance (VUL). As a result, sales of VUL products were down 41% from the prior year period. Account values of $12.1 billion at December 31, 2002 increased $0.7 billion or 6% from December 31, 2001. The drivers of this increase were positive cash flows, net of policyholder assessments, of approximately $0.3 billion across all products during the last twelve months, the transfer of the Legacy Life block of business ($0.15 billion) from the Lincoln Retirement segment in the first quarter of 2002 and interest earned on the 41 Table of Contents fixed products. These increases were partially offset by the negative effect of the equity markets on VUL account values. Critical Accounting Policy DAC and PVIF FAS 97 requires that acquisition costs for universal life insurance (UL) policies and variable universal life insurance (VUL) policies be amortized over the lives of the contracts in relation to the incidence of estimated gross profits, consistent with the treatment noted previously for variable annuities. Factors affecting estimated gross profits are surrender charges; investment, mortality net of reinsurance ceded and expense margins; and realized gains/losses on investments. For VUL policies, estimated gross profits are affected by fee income as well. For the Life Insurance segment, based on the current mix of life insurance in force on the books, the factors that have the most significant impact on estimated gross profits are mortality (net of reinsurance) and interest margins. Market movement, which has the greatest impact on DAC amortization for the Retirement segment relative to its variable annuity block of business, has less impact on DAC amortization for the Life Insurance segment. The Life Insurance segment earns fee income on its VUL product line based on the ending daily VUL account values. This product only makes up 14% of the segments total account values at December 31, 2002. On a quarterly basis, LNC reviews the assumptions of its DAC amortization model and records a retrospective adjustment to the amount expensed, (i.e. unlocks the DAC). On an annual basis, LNC reviews and adjusts as necessary its assumptions for prospective amortization of DAC, as well as its other intangible asset, PVIF. Although the Life Insurance segment is not as sensitive to the performance of the equity markets as the Lincoln Retirement segment, the negative performance of the equity markets resulted in negative retrospective DAC unlocking in 2002 of $2.4 million. In addition, negative DAC unlocking of $3.9 million related to changes in various prospective assumptions occurred in 2002. As illustrated in the discussion of the Life Insurance segments results of operations above, the segment earnings are not particularly sensitive to swings in the equity markets. Refer to the First Quarter 2003 Guidance for Estimated Effect of Equity Market Volatility section for estimates of the effect of movements in the equity markets on Life Insurances earnings. Comparison of 2001 to 2000 The $16.2 million or 6% decrease in net income in 2001 was due primarily to increased realized losses on investments and derivative instruments of $26.3 million. The Life Insurance segment also incurred two restructuring charges in the second and fourth quarters of 2001 of $2.0 million and $1.5 million, respectively. The $2.0 million charge recorded in the second quarter of 2001 related to a restructuring plan with the objective of eliminating duplicative staff functions in the Schaumburg, Illinois operations of First Penn Pacific by transitioning them into the Annuities and Life Insurance segment operations in Fort Wayne, Indiana and Hartford, Connecticut, respectively, in order to reduce ongoing operating costs. The $1.5 million charge recorded in the fourth quarter of 2001 was for the reorganization and consolidation of the life insurance operations in Hartford, Connecticut related to the streamlining of underwriting and new business processes and the completion of outsourcing of administration of certain closed blocks of business. Life Insurance experienced less favorable mortality throughout 2001 after having a favorable year in 2000. Partially contributing to the downturn in mortality experience were the losses of $1.1 million recorded for the September 11 terrorist attacks. The Life Insurance segment also experienced lower earnings on investment partnerships. The Life Insurance segments 2001 income was positively impacted by growth in life insurance in force from sales, favorable persistency and lower general and administrative expenses. General and administrative expenses decreased due to expense reduction initiatives implemented in the second half of 2001. In 2000 and 2001, the Life Insurance segment did not experience DAC unlocking that resulted in a significant impact on earnings. Sales as measured by first year premiums were down overall in 2001 by $33.7 million or 5%. This decline was due to a $39.8 million decrease in Corporate Owned Life Insurance (COLI) sales. COLI sales, which 42 Table of Contents consist of very large cases, decreased from the prior year due to two large cases accounting for $42.5 million in first year premiums recorded in the fourth quarter of 2000. First year premiums on retail products increased by $6.1 million or 1% between years. UL sales increased $3.4 million or 1% between years. Although this overall increase is modest, sales in the fourth quarter of 2001 were $98 million, a 20% increase over the prior year quarter. Sales rebounded nicely in the fourth quarter after a volatile year for UL sales. VUL sales were up $9.8 million or 4% between years. These results were encouraging given the performance of the equity markets in 2001. Partially offsetting the increased retail UL/ UVL sales levels noted above was a decrease in term life sales of $11.1 million or 26% between years. Term life sales for the first six months of 2001 lagged the prior year period largely due to strong first half of 2000 sales that were bolstered by the impending enactment of the Valuation of Life Insurance Model Regulation (Regulation XXX). Regulation XXX required companies to increase reserves relative to certain term life and permanent insurance policies with secondary guarantees as of January 1, 2000. There was a rush of term business in anticipation of the related price increases for implementation of Regulation XXX with sales up in the first half of 2000 due to a back log of business at December 31, 1999. Term sales increased incrementally each quarter in 2001 and for the fourth quarter were 20% higher compared to the same quarter in 2000. Account values increased $0.6 billion or 6% to $11.4 billion at December 31, 2001 from $10.8 billion at the prior year end. Positive cash flows for the year of $1.2 billion were the main contributor to the increase between years. Cash flows in 2001 were flat compared to the prior year. VUL account values were down between years by $62 million due to market depreciation. Product Development The Life Insurance segment offers a broad portfolio of Life Insurance products. In addition to Term, the segment offers three distinct permanent insurance product types: Universal Life, Variable Universal Life and Interest Sensitive Whole Life. Within these product types are wealth accumulation and wealth transfer specific products, including single life and survivorship versions of all three. Insurance riders such as return of premium and long term care benefit provisions are available with certain products. .In addition, the segment offers both UL and VUL versions of COLI. This allows the segment to effectively align its portfolio of products with the primary affluent market segments, and to also provide products that perform under a variety of market conditions. Given the economic environment of the recent past, portfolio breadth has proven its value. The industry has experienced a dramatic shift from variable to fixed products over the last year, driven primarily by the equity market decline and a flight to conservatism exacerbated by the events of September 11, 2001. Over the last 12 months, the Life segments mix of business has shifted dramatically from VUL to UL, but the dollar decline in VUL sales has been more than offset by the dollar increase in UL sales. Universal Life accounted for 79% of total retail UL/ VUL sales in 2002 versus 56% of those sales in 2001. In times like these, when clients have less tolerance for market risk, it is important to have a competitive fixed Universal Life portfolio. The Life Insurance segment has continued to develop products that meet the changing needs of its target affluent market. Throughout 2002, the segment revamped its entire retail UL portfolio. In March 2002, it introduced a new single life series of products with Lincoln ULLPR and Lincoln ULDB. The Lapse Protection Rider (LPR) product is an upgrade to the product introduced in 2001 which offers the innovative lapse protection rider, designed to provide flexibility and guaranteed death benefit coverage important features in todays market. The Death Benefit (DB) product is designed to offer cost efficient coverage for people less interested in guarantees. In August of 2002, new survivorship versions of both the LPR and DB products were also introduced. Overall, the response to these new products has been very positive. In 2003, the segment plans to continue to be aggressive in product development. 43 Table of Contents Estate Tax Reform Estate tax reform was a major legislative debate in 2002, which is expected to continue. Among a variety of alternatives being considered is a temporary extension of the one year estate tax repeal that will occur in 2010 under current law. If this occurs, inheritance taxes on a state by state basis may be increased to offset the projected reduction in revenues to state governments. More costly to both federal and state governments would be a permanent repeal of estate taxes. The outlook for permanent repeal remains highly uncertain, particularly in light of increasing federal and state budgetary concerns. To date, the impact on LNCs life insurance sales of the recent changes in estate tax laws has not been significant to overall sales for the Life Insurance segment. Total survivorship sales as a percent of overall retail sales dropped from 29% of the total first year premiums in 2001 to 22% of the total in 2002. If estate taxes are permanently repealed, LNC believes there will continue to be a demand for survivorship products to meet a variety of tax, business and family needs. The Life Insurance segments survivorship wealth transfer products support a wide variety of financial planning needs such as business succession and charitable giving, not just management of estate tax exposure. Guideline AXXX The Application of the Valuation of Life Insurance Policies Model Regulation (AXXX) was developed to clarify statutory reserve requirements for particular policy designs under the NAIC Valuation of Life Insurance Policies Model Regulation (Regulation XXX). AXXX will increase statutory reserves for universal life policies sold beginning in 2003 with secondary guarantees using shadow accounts and for specified premium guarantees that are prefunded. The secondary guarantee promises to keep a policy in force as long as certain conditions are met, regardless of whether the policy has any cash value. Regardless of the value in the actual account value, the policy will not lapse as long as the shadow account is positive. A shadow account is a hypothetical account that accumulates actual premium payments and interest less fees based on the secondary guarantee assumptions. However, the shadow account does not provide any cash value to the policyholder. All companies offering secondary guarantees that allow prefunding will be impacted to a greater or lesser degree depending on product design. A prefunded policy is one where premiums are paid earlier than is necessary to maintain the policys benefits. To reflect the financial requirements of AXXX, Lincoln is repricing single life and survivorship products that offer secondary guarantees using shadow accounts. The products are scheduled to be released in the latter part of first quarter 2003. Lincoln also markets universal life products that do not offer secondary guarantees, which will not be impacted by AXXX. LNC believes that secondary guarantees are going to continue to be critical to LNCs target affluent market and that the repriced versions of these products should remain competitive. However, LNC may lose market share if competitors are slow to replace their secondary guarantees for AXXX. Split Dollar New regulations have set forth the IRS views regarding the tax treatment of split dollar funding arrangements. Split dollar is a premium funding mechanism that has been used for many years, with IRS approval, to provide life insurance benefits to a firms key executives, or to provide life insurance benefits to family members of closely held firms, etc. In some cases, split dollar funding may not be as attractive under the new IRS rules. Further affecting some split dollar programs have been accounting reforms under Sarbanes Oxley, which prohibit publicly traded companies from extending credit to their directors or executives. However, most of the products sold by LNC for use in split dollar arrangements are sold to closely held companies, limited partnerships and family owned businesses, not for publicly traded companies. Segment management believes that given LNCs target market, and the fact that the amount of split dollar sales in relationship to the level of total first year life premium sold is insignificant to the Life Insurance segment, the impacts of these changes should have minimal overall effect on sales. 44 Table of Contents COLI A variety of legislative proposals are being considered that would effect corporate owned life insurance. LNC believes that life insurance remains a legitimate method of corporate funding of anticipated future commitments as well as protection from unpredictable events such as the loss of key business executives. The Life Insurance segment continues to approach COLI as an opportunistic market strategy. LNCs COLI product is only marketed to organizations for coverage of officers and require the prospective permission of officers to be covered under the COLI policy. Given the continuing legislative debates over corporate owned life insurance LNC management is not currently able to determine what impact this environment will have on product design or sales. At December 31, 2002, Life Insurance had $684 million of account values for COLI, representing less than 6% of total segment account values. Outlook The Life Insurance segment experienced strong retail sales growth in 2002. Sales trends over the next year for both UL and VUL products will likely continue to be heavily influenced by the equity markets performance and the uncertainty of the regulatory environment as well as the continued competitive environment. There should continue to be a demand among the affluent for sophisticated life products to meet a variety of tax, business and family needs. LNCs balanced portfolio of products is nicely positioned to take advantage of this demand. The Life Insurance segment expects to continue to hold firm its operating fundamentals of: strong distribution relationships, solid underwriting, mortality and investment management and strong expense controls as it strives to be among the top five generators of new premiums in the life insurance industry. The Life Insurance segments earnings can be expected to reflect some volatility due to short term effects of swings in mortality and morbidity. Investment Management The Investment Management segment, headquartered in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, offers a variety of asset management services to retail and institutional clients located throughout the United States and certain foreign countries. Its product offerings include mutual funds and managed accounts. It also provides investment management and account administration services for variable annuity products, 401(k) plans, 529 college savings plans, pension, endowment, and trust and other institutional accounts. The primary operating companies within this segment are the subsidiaries of Delaware Management Holdings, Inc. (Delaware). Retail products are primarily marketed by LFD and Delaware Distributors, L.P. through financial intermediaries including LFA. Institutional products, including large case 401(k) plans, are marketed by a separate sales force within Delaware working closely with pension consultants. Diversity of investment styles, as well as diversity of clients served, are prudent ways to manage risk in varying market environments. Delaware, historically known for a conservative, value equity investment style has now evolved into an investment manager with strong and diversified offerings across all major asset classes including value and growth equity investment styles; high grade, high yield and municipal fixed income investment styles; balanced and quantitative investment styles; and international and global equity and fixed income investment styles. 45 Table of Contents Results of Operations: The Investment Management segments financial results were as follows: Year Ended December 31 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 (in millions) Total Revenue $ 404.7 $ 437.4 $ 494.2 $ 495.6 $ 491.0 Total Investment Advisory Fees (Included in Total Revenue) $ 267.1 $ 284.7 $ 320.5 $ 332.2 $ 331.5 Net Income $ 25.6 $ 11.8 $ 37.0 $ 51.6 $ 44.4 Items Included in Net Income: Realized Gain (Loss) on Investments (after tax) (3.6 ) (2.3 ) (2.5 ) (0.1 ) 0.5 Restructuring Charges (after tax) 0.3 (0.4 ) (4.6 ) (9.3 ) Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change (after tax) (1) (0.1 ) Goodwill Amortization (after tax) $ $ 16.2 $ 16.2 $ 16.2 $ 16.3 (1) Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change relates to the second quarter 2001 adoption of EITF 99 20. Comparison of 2002 to 2001 Net income for 2002 increased $13.8 million or 117% over 2001. Excluding the effect of goodwill amortization in 2001, net income decreased $2.4 million or 9% in 2002. The decrease in income is primarily a result of declines in the equity markets reducing retail and institutional assets under management and revenues. Offsetting the negative effect of the markets on revenues has been a reduction in expenses of $19.2 million, excluding the reduction in expenses from the change in accounting for goodwill amortization and restructuring charges. This improvement in expenses is a result of cost containment efforts, the effect of the equity market decline on variable expenses, $1.7 million reduction in amortization of other intangible assets resulting from certain intangibles being fully amortized in the second quarter of 2001 and $4.2 million for the release of accrued compensation resulting from the fourth quarter 2002 resignation of the segments CEO. In addition to lower expenses, positive net cash flows in 2002 partially offset the negative effect of the equity markets on assets under management and revenues. Net income for 2002 included releases of $0.3 million related to restructuring charges reported in the fourth quarter of 2000 to combine the investment management operations for fixed income products of Lincoln Investment Management and Delaware in Philadelphia. Critical Accounting Policy Equity Market Sensitivity As illustrated in the discussion of the Investment Management segments results of operations above, the segments earnings are sensitive to swings in the equity markets. Refer to the First Quarter 2003 Guidance for Estimated Effect of Equity Market Volatility section for estimates of the effect of movements in the equity markets on Investment Managements earnings. Critical Accounting Policy Deferred Dealer Commission Asset The Investment Management segment has a deferred dealer commission asset of approximately $53 million as of December 31, 2002 relating to upfront sales commissions paid to brokers for the sale of Class B shares of Delaware Investments retail mutual funds. The asset is amortized over the estimated period of time that it is expected to be realized or recovered from future cash flows in the form of asset based distribution (12b 1) fees from the mutual funds or contingent deferred sales charges (CDSCs) from shareholders who redeem shares during the CDSC period. The estimate of future cash flows from these sources has been negatively impacted by the continued declines in the equity markets. 46 Table of Contents In accordance with SFAS 144 Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets, should the estimated undiscounted future cash flows from 12b 1 fees and CDSCs drop below the carrying value of the deferred dealer commission asset, then an impairment write down would be required to be recognized. In that event, the amount of the impairment write down would be computed by comparing the carrying value of the deferred dealer commission asset to the discounted value of the future 12b 1 and CDSC cash flows. As of December 31, 2002, the estimated undiscounted future 12b 1 and CDSC cash flows exceeded the carrying value of the deferred dealer commission asset. However, continued declines in the financial markets or Net Asset Values (NAVs) of the underlying retail mutual funds may trigger the recognition of a write down of the deferred dealer commission asset. For instance, a review of the deferred dealer commission asset was performed as of March 10, 2003. Based on information currently available, it is estimated that a decline of approximately 3% in the equity markets from March 10, 2003 levels may trigger a loss, which would range from approximately $7.4 million to $11.4 million after tax with the application of assumed discount rates ranging between 10% to 18% for purposes of measuring the fair value of the deferred dealer commission asset. The estimated balance of the deferred dealer commission asset as of March 10, 2003 was approximately $50 million. The determination of any impairment of the deferred dealer commission asset is performed at quarter end when complete information is available. The determination of any impairment includes both the fixed income and equity mutual funds. Once an impairment loss is recognized, no write up of the value of the deferred dealer commission asset is permitted even if there are subsequent increases in the NAVs of the underlying retail mutual funds from favorable financial markets. Comparison of 2001 to 2000 The decreases in net income of $25.2 million or 68% in 2001 were primarily attributable to lower investment advisory fees and to a lesser extent lower other revenue partially offset by lower expenses. Revenue decreased as a result of a decrease in external assets under management, reduced distribution, shareholder servicing and investment accounting revenue associated with lower retail mutual fund sales and lower assets under management. The primary driver of the decrease in external assets under management between years was net cash outflows of $7.2 billion in 2000 that caused the 2001 beginning of year external assets under management to be much lower than the prior year beginning balance and to a lesser extent, market depreciation of $4.3 billion. Total net outflows in 2001 of $0.6 billion also had a slight negative impact on investment advisory fees. The Investment Management segment made significant investments in 2000 and 2001 in upgrading talent and revamping investment processes; however, effective expense management resulted in an overall decrease in expenses. Expenses decreased by $10.9 million (pre tax) or 3% in 2001. This decrease was primarily due to the absence of significant severance expenses incurred during 2000, lower amortization expense associated with other intangible assets and effective management of other expenses. Certain other intangible assets capitalized as part of LNCs acquisition of Delaware Management Holdings, Inc. in 1995 had six year lives and were fully amortized in April of 2001. In addition, the segment had lower incentive compensation expense accruals due primarily to the declining financial results between years. Partially offsetting the decreased expenses noted above was higher amortization of deferred broker commissions due to an increase in the deferred broker commission asset and expenses incurred during 2001 to close and or merge a number of mutual funds. The change in net income for 2001 compared to 2000 also included the impact of restructuring charges. The Investment Management segment incurred a restructuring charge in the fourth quarter of 2001 of $0.4 million related to the consolidation of the Boston, Massachusetts investment and marketing office with the Philadelphia, Pennsylvania investment and marketing operations in order to eliminate redundant facilities and functions within this business segment. In 2000, the Investment Management segment incurred two restructuring charges of $2.7 million and $2.5 million in the second and fourth quarters, respectively. The objectives of the $2.7 million charge recorded in the second quarter of 2000 were to combine the structured product teams of Delaware and Vantage in Philadelphia and to consolidate the back office operations of 47 Table of Contents Vantage into Delaware, in order to reduce ongoing operating costs and to eliminate redundant facilities within this business segment. The objectives of the $2.5 million charge recorded in the fourth quarter of 2000 were to combine the investment management operations for fixed income products of Lincoln Investment Management and Delaware in Philadelphia, in order to reduce ongoing operating costs and eliminate redundant facilities within this business segment. In addition, in 2000 there were reversals totaling $0.6 million related to the Lynch & Mayer restructuring charge originally recorded in 1999 and the Vantage restructuring charge recorded in 2000. For further discussion of these restructuring plans refer to Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements. Assets Under Management and Client Net Flows(1) The Investment Management segments assets under management were as follows: December 31 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 (in billions) Assets Under Management Regular Operations: Retail Equity $ 14.9 $ 18.0 $ 21.5 $ 23.4 $ 22.1 Retail Fixed 7.6 7.1 6.6 7.5 8.2 Total Retail(1) 22.5 25.1 28.1 30.9 30.3 Institutional Equity 16.7 17.8 19.1 23.6 24.2 Institutional Fixed 7.3 5.5 6.1 6.9 7.0 Total Institutional 24.0 23.3 25.2 30.5 31.2 Insurance Assets 41.1 38.1 35.7 35.9 39.4 Total Assets Under Management(1) $ 87.6 $ 86.5 $ 89.0 $ 97.3 $ 100.9 The Investment Management segments net flows were as follows: Year Ended December 31 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 (in billions) Retail: Equity Sales $ 4.5 $ 2.8 $ 4.1 $ 3.3 $ 3.6 Equity Redemptions and Transfers (3.9 ) (3.4 ) (4.6 ) (5.1 ) (1.7 ) Net Flows 0.6 (0.6 ) (0.5 ) (1.8 ) 1.9 Fixed Sales 1.2 0.9 0.8 1.0 1.1 Fixed Redemptions and Transfers (1.0 ) (0.7 ) (1.8 ) (1.4 ) (1.2 ) Net Flows 0.2 0.2 (1.0 ) (0.4 ) (0.1 ) Total Retail Net Flows 0.8 (0.4 ) (1.5 ) (2.2 ) 1.8 Institutional: Equity Inflows 2.9 3.2 2.7 5.2 3.8 Equity Withdrawals and Transfers (1.9 ) (2.8 ) (7.2 ) (7.8 ) (7.4 ) Net Flows 1.0 0.4 (4.5 ) (2.6 ) (3.6 ) Fixed Inflows 2.3 0.6 0.8 2.0 2.2 Fixed Withdrawals and Transfers (1.2 ) (1.2 ) (2.0 ) (1.7 ) (1.3 ) Net Flows 1.1 (0.6 ) (1.2 ) 0.3 0.9 Total Institutional Net Flows 2.1 (0.2 ) (5.7 ) (2.3 ) (2.7 ) Total Retail and Institutional Net Flows $ 2.9 $ (0.6 ) $ (7.2 ) $ (4.5 ) $ (0.9 ) 48 Table of Contents (1) Retail assets under management and net flows for 2000 and 2001 have been restated to include assets under administration by the segment. Previously, these assets were excluded as the investments are managed by third parties. Assets under administration are now included so that assets under management includes all assets for which the segment receives asset based revenues. The restatements increased assets under management by $0.5 billion at both December 31, 2001 and December 31, 2000 and net retail flows increased by $81 million and $18 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Assets under management increased $1.1 billion to $87.6 billion at the end of 2002. The increase was the result of a $3.0 billion increase in insurance assets (i.e. primarily general account assets of LNCs insurance subsidiaries). In addition, institutional assets under management increased $0.7 billion as positive net inflows of $2.1 billion offset the reduction in assets of $1.4 billion resulting from the negative performance of the equity markets. Retail assets under management decreased $2.6 billion as the equity markets reduced assets by $3.4 billion, more than offsetting the $0.8 billion positive net flows. The Investment Management segments net flows turned positive for 2002, a significant improvement over the net outflows in prior years. Total net flows improved $3.5 billion over 2001. The improvement in net flows in 2002 was the result of a $1.4 billion increase in institutional inflows and improvement in retention of institutional assets. In addition, higher retail sales offset increased redemptions and transfers. Positive investment performance has been a key driver of the improvement in net flows. On the institutional side, for the year ended December 31, 2002, 4 of the 8 largest product composites met or outperformed their respective indices and these 4 composites accounted for 74% of institutional assets under management. However, this relative performance is below the results experienced for the year ended December 31, 2001, in which 6 of the 8 largest composites outperformed their respective indices. On the retail side, for the year ended December 31, 2002, 17 of 25 or 68% of the largest retail funds in Delaware Investments Family of Funds (the Delaware Investments Family of Funds does not include mutual funds managed by Delaware for certain LNC affiliates) performed in the top half of their respective Lipper universes; 76% of the 25 largest retail funds performed in the top half of their respective Lipper universes for the year ended December 31, 2001. These 17 funds represented 63% of assets under management of the largest 25 retail funds at December 31, 2002. In addition, Delaware had 15 funds labeled Lipper Leaders for Consistent Return, 8 funds named Lipper Leaders for Capital Preservation, 10 funds labeled Lipper Leaders for Total Return, 7 funds labeled Lipper Leaders for Expense and 22 funds labeled Lipper Leaders for Tax Efficiency. For the year, 41 of Delawares 52 retail funds have been labeled a Lipper Leader in at least one category and 17 funds have been selected in multiple categories. Retail sales for 2002 were a record $5.7 billion, up $2.0 billion or 54% over 2001. The growth in retail sales was driven by increased sales of managed account business. Managed account deposits in 2002 more than doubled deposits in 2001, with deposits of $1.2 billion in 2002 compared to $0.5 billion in 2001. A portion of the sales increase in managed accounts was a result of events affecting key competitors (a group departure of investment professionals from one firm and a second firm temporarily closing for new business). Sales of Delawares mutual funds by LFA continued to decline during 2002 as sales through LFA represented approximately 4% and 5% of LFAs total mutual fund sales in 2002 and 2001, respectively. Sales of mutual funds, managed accounts, 401(k) products and 529 plans through LFD, the internal wholesaling arm for distribution of Delawares investment products increased 32% in 2002 relative to 2001. LFD was organized at the end of 2000 and was in the ramp up stage throughout 2001. Delaware is working closely with both LFA and LFD to increase sales through improved communication, focusing on selected funds and working with the newly formed research teams to ensure optimum positioning of competitive Delaware products. Delaware was awarded program management and certain investment advisory services for the 529 college savings plans for the state of Hawaii and the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania during 2001. Services commenced in mid 2002 for the 529 plans. The persistence of poor equity markets, combined with a more crowded 529 marketplace, has resulted in lower than anticipated sales; however, these programs provide Delaware with an opportunity to attract significant long term assets under management. Although 529 49 Table of Contents programs should have a favorable impact on retail sales, positive earnings impact is not expected to occur until at least 2005 because of significant start up and distribution costs. Outlook In October 2002, the President and CEO of Delaware, Charles E. Haldeman, Jr. announced his resignation. In January 2003, Jude T. Driscoll, Executive Vice President and Head of Fixed Income for Delaware, was named President and CEO. LNC believes that a strong team of investment and research professionals exists at Delaware that continues to be committed to a team approach to research and investment management. Delaware continues to focus on improving investment performance, attracting and retaining client assets and or funds, managing expenses and ultimately improving profitability. The Investment Management segment has made progress on these initiatives, and will continue to focus on sustaining and improving those results. Lincoln UK Lincoln UK is headquartered in Barnwood, Gloucester, England, and is licensed to do business throughout the United Kingdom (UK). Although Lincoln UK transferred its sales force to Inter Alliance Group PLC in the third quarter of 2000, it continues to manage, administer and accept new deposits on its current block of business and accept new business for certain products. Lincoln UKs product portfolio principally consists of unit linked life and pension products, which are similar to variable life and annuity products sold in the U.S. Result of Operations: Lincoln UKs financial results, account values, in force and exchange rates were as follows: Year Ended December 31 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 (in millions) Net Income (Loss)(1) $ 40.0 $ 68.9 $ (13.2 ) $ (18.2 ) $ 71.7 Items Included in Net Income: Realized Gain on Investments (after tax) 1.3 8.7 2.3 2.2 0.8 Restructuring Charges (after tax) 1.7 (76.5 ) (6.5 ) Goodwill Amortization (after tax) $ $ 0.6 $ 4.0 $ 7.0 $ 6.3 December 31 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 (in billions) Unit Linked Assets $ 5.1 $ 5.6 $ 6.4 $ 7.2 $ 6.3 Individual Life Insurance In Force $ 18.9 $ 20.9 $ 24.3 $ 25.7 $ 25.0 Exchange Rate Ratio U.S. Dollars to Pounds Sterling Average for the Year 1.503 1.441 1.518 1.617 1.658 End of Year 1.610 1.456 1.493 1.615 1.660 (1) Income (loss) from operations and net income (loss) for 1999 include a charge of $126.1 million ($194.0 million pre tax) for a change in estimate of the cost of settling pension misselling liabilities and 1999 also includes a tax benefit of $42.1 million relating to the decision to explore exiting the UK insurance market. Comparison of 2002 to 2001 The $28.9 million or 42% decrease in net income in 2002 was primarily due to the decline in the UK equity markets. The FSTE 100 index declined 24% in 2002 compared to a 16% decline in 2001. The decline in the equity markets reduced assets in equity linked accounts resulting in lower fee income. The equity market 50 Table of Contents decline also resulted in increased amortization from retrospective unlocking of DAC and PVIF assets and the liability, deferred front end loads revenue (DFEL). There was negative unlocking of $22.8 million in 2002 compared to negative unlocking of $8.4 million in 2001. As required under FAS 97, acquisition costs for unit linked contracts are amortized over the lives of the contracts in relation to the incidence of estimated gross profits. Estimated gross profits on unit linked contracts vary based on surrenders, fee income, expenses and realized gains/losses on investments. The amortization is adjusted retrospectively when estimates of current or future gross profits to be realized from unit linked contracts are revised. Because market movement has such a significant impact on fee income, estimated future profits will go up or down accordingly. On a quarterly basis, Lincoln UK reviews the assumptions of its DAC amortization model and records a retrospective adjustment to the amount expensed, (i.e. unlocks the DAC). On an annual basis, Lincoln UK reviews and adjusts as necessary its assumptions for prospective amortization of DAC, PVIF and DFEL. In 2001, Lincoln UK consolidated its home office operations into the Barnwood office. In 2002, Lincoln UK sold its former Uxbridge home office and recognized a realized gain on the transaction of $5.5 million ($7.9 million pre tax) which is included in realized gain on investments. Excluding this gain, Lincoln UKs realized gains (losses) decreased $12.9 million from 2001. The impact of realized gain (losses) in both years was a result of sales relating to the realignment of the investment portfolio in order to better match invested assets with the liabilities they support. Net income for 2002 included releases of $1.7 million related to restructuring charges reported in 2000 for the restructuring plan to exit all direct sales and sales support operations and to consolidate the Uxbridge home office with the Barnwood home office. Critical Accounting Policy Equity Market Sensitivity As illustrated in the discussion of the Lincoln UK segments results of operations above, the segment earnings are sensitive to swings in the equity markets. Refer to the First Quarter 2003 Guidance for Estimated Effect of Equity Market Volatility on Fee Income, DAC and GMDB section for estimates of the effect of movements in the equity markets on Lincoln UKs earnings. Comparison of 2001 to 2000 The increase in net income of $82.1 million in 2001 was due primarily to the absence of restructuring charges of $76.5 million recorded in the third and fourth quarters of 2000 as discussed above. This restructuring plan resulted from LNCs decisions to cease writing new business in the UK through its sales force and transfer of the sales force to Inter Alliance Group PLC. In addition, Lincoln UK had an increase in realized gains on investments of $6.4 million between years. The gains reported in 2001 relate to the realignment of the investment portfolio to better match invested assets with the liabilities they support. Outsourcing Agreement In the third quarter 2002, Lincoln UK agreed to outsource its customer service and policy administration function to the Capita Group, Plc (Capita). The agreement involved the transfer of approximately 500 employees to Capita. The purpose of the transaction was to reduce the operational risk and variability of future costs associated with administering the business by taking advantage of Capitas proven expertise in providing outsourcing solutions to a variety of industries including general insurance companies. Exchange Rates LNCs subsidiary in the UK has its balance sheets and income statements translated at the current spot exchange rate as of the year end and average spot exchange rate for the year, respectively. From time to time, LNC will hedge its exposure to foreign currency as it relates to its net investment in Lincoln UK. 51 Table of Contents Outlook During 2003, Lincoln UK will continue to work to resolve all past misselling exposures while focusing on retaining and managing its current block of business and maximizing earnings through effective expense management. Other Operations Activity that is not included in the major business segments is reported in Other Operations. Other Operations includes operations not directly related to the business segments and unallocated corporate items (i.e., corporate investment income, interest expense on corporate debt, unallocated overhead expenses, and the operations of LFA and LFD. Prior to the fourth quarter of 2001, LNC had a Reinsurance segment (Lincoln Re). LNCs reinsurance business was acquired by Swiss Re in December 2001. As the majority of the business acquired by Swiss Re was via indemnity reinsurance agreements, LNC is not relieved of its legal liability to the ceding companies for this business. This means that the liabilities and obligations associated with the reinsured contracts remain on the consolidated balance sheets of LNC with a corresponding reinsurance receivable from Swiss Re. In addition, the gain resulting from the indemnity reinsurance portion of the transaction was deferred and is being amortized into earnings at the rate that earnings on the reinsured business are expected to emerge, over a period of 15 years. The ongoing management of the indemnity reinsurance contracts and the reporting of the deferred gain will be within LNCs Other Operations. Given the lengthy period of time over which LNC will continue to amortize the deferred gain, and the fact that related assets and liabilities will continue to be reported on LNCs financial statements, the historical results for the Reinsurance segment prior to the close of the transaction with Swiss Re will not be reflected in discontinued operations, but as a separate line in Other Operations. The results for 2001 included eleven months of Reinsurance segment operations through the period ended November 30, 2001. 52 Table of Contents Results of Operations: Other Operations financial results were as follows: Year Ended December 31 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 (in millions) Net Income by Source: LFA (27.6 ) $ (15.9 ) $ (11.7 ) $ (20.8 ) $ (23.7 ) LFD (33.9 ) (34.4 ) (18.5 ) (14.0 ) (8.2 ) LNC Financing (43.0 ) (77.9 ) (84.9 ) (83.5 ) (51.5 ) Other Corporate 5.8 (18.2 ) (15.1 ) (4.9 ) (31.8 ) Reinsurance Operations 128.8 123.2 36.9 104.9 Amortization of Deferred Gain on Indemnity Reinsurance 48.9 12.9 FAS 113 Reserve Development on Business Sold through Indemnity Reinsurance (199.1 ) Gain (Loss) on Sale of Reinsurance Subsidiaries (9.4 ) 15.0 Gain on Sale of Equity Investment in Reinsurance Marketing Company 21.7 Realized Gain (Loss) on Investments and Derivatives (4.2 ) (0.4 ) (3.2 ) 10.2 2.7 Cumulative Effect of Accounting Changes(1) (2.7 ) Net Income (240.8 ) 7.2 (10.2 ) (76.1 ) (7.6 ) Items Included in Net Income: Realized Gain (Loss) on Investments and Derivatives (including gain on sale of Equity Investment in Reinsurance Marketing Company) (after tax) 17.5 (0.4 ) (3.2 ) 10.2 2.7 Restructuring Charges (after tax) 1.1 (19.5 ) 1.0 (3.2 ) (14.3 ) Cumulative Effect of Accounting Changes(1) (after tax) (2.7 ) (1) Cumulative Effect of Accounting Changes relates to the transition adjustment of $(0.5) million recorded in the first quarter of 2001 upon adoption of FAS No. 133 and the adjustment of $(2.2) million recorded in the second quarter of 2001 upon adoption of EITF 99 20. Comparison of 2002 to 2001 The net loss in 2002 was a $248.0 million higher compared to net income in 2001. The net loss includes $199.1 million related to charges required by FAS 113 for increases in personal accident and disability income reserves for the business sold through indemnity reinsurance to Swiss Re. Included in the charge is $0.6 million of amortization related to the reserve increases and the settlement with Swiss Re on disputed matters. In addition, the amortization of deferred gain on indemnity reinsurance increased $36.0 million due to a full years amortization in 2002 compared to one months amortization in 2001. Net income for 2001, included $128.8 million of income from the former Reinsurance segment. In 2002, LNC reported a gain of $21.7 million on the sale of its investment (included in realized gains on investments) in an international marketing company associated with LNCs former Reinsurance segment. Offsetting this gain was an adjustment in 2002 of $9.4 million to the gain on sale of reinsurance subsidiaries sold in 2001. The adjustment related primarily to the true up of estimated taxes associated with the sale. LNC Financing had a positive variance of $34.9 million from 2001. In 2002, LNC Financing included investment income of $19.6 million from the proceeds of the sale of LNCs reinsurance business to Swiss Re. 53 Table of Contents In addition to the investment income, there was a decrease in long term debt expense associated with various long term financing activities that occurred in the second half of 2001 and third quarter of 2002 as described in the Liquidity and Cash Flow section within Review of Consolidated Financial Conditions. In addition, short term borrowing costs were lower due to lower interest rates and lower daily average borrowings under the commercial paper program in the U.K. The Lincoln UK segment has experienced increased cash flow from operations over the last year, which was used in part to eliminate its outstanding commercial paper balance during 2002. Other Corporate had income of $5.8 million in 2002, an improvement of $24.0 million compared to 2001. Included in the 2001 loss was a restructuring charge of $15.8 million to consolidate operations and reduce excess space in LNCs Fort Wayne, Indiana operations resulting from LNCs divestiture of its reinsurance operations. LFA had an increase in net loss of $11.7 million compared to 2001. Included in LFAs expenses are the effects of changes in the measurement of LFAs liability for deferred compensation due to changes in fair value primarily resulting from changes in the equity markets. The declines in the equity markets during 2002, reduced LFAs liability for deferred compensation and increased income by $6.4 million. However, in the fourth quarter 2001, LNC invested in a variable annuity contract to partially offset the impact on net income of equity market volatility associated with the liability for deferred compensation. Due to the fall of the equity markets in 2002, the annuity value decreased resulting in a loss of $8.3 million. In addition, in 2002 the Fringe Benefit operation (FBD) was moved from LFA to the Retirement segment. In 2001, FBD had a loss of $2.2 million which was included in LFAs results. Excluding the net effect of the annuity and the deferred compensation liability and FBDs income in 2001, LFAs net loss was $25.6 million and $18.5 million in 2002 and 2001, respectively, an increase of $7.1 million between years. LFA sales during the fourth quarter 2002 did not reflect the typical seasonal fourth quarter increase over the prior three quarters of the year as had been seen during the fourth quarter of the previous four years. This deviation from the prior trend in sales resulted in a decrease in revenues for the year. In 2003, LFA expects to focus on its growth strategy to increase its financial planner base in order to expand sales while employing effective expense management. LFD, LNCs wholesaling distribution arm, experienced an improvement in net losses of $0.5 million in 2002. However, included in LFDs 2002 net income were expenses of $5.0 million resulting from a decision to expense previously deferred costs related to specific initiatives to expand life insurance sales. Excluding this expense, LFDs net losses improved as a result of a combination of increased sales in all of its product categories including life insurance, annuity and investment products and a reduction in fixed operating costs primarily due to lower expenses following two restructurings that occurred in 2001 and ongoing disciplined expense management. LFD incurred expenses of $3.7 million in 2001 for the restructuring activities. The objectives of LFD restructuring charges were to reorganize the life wholesaling function within the independent planner distribution channel; consolidate retirement wholesaling territories; streamline the marketing and communications functions in LFD; combine channel oversight; position LFD to take better advantage of ongoing marketplace consolidation and to expand the customer base of wholesalers in certain non productive territories. LFDs on going strategy is to develop existing strategic alliances across all distribution channels. However, given the continued uncertainty of the equity markets and interest rate environment, LNC is cautious about sales expectations for 2003. Critical Accounting Policy Personal Accident & Disability Income Reserves Refer to the Acquisition and Divestiture section for discussion of the impact on income for changes in reserves for the personal accident and disability income sold to Swiss Re through indemnity reinsurance. Comparison of 2001 to 2000 Net income increased $17.4 million to $7.2 million in 2002. Net income for 2001 included the impact of three restructuring charges totaling $19.5 million: two charges were recorded related to LFD totaling $3.7 million and the other charge was for $15.8 million noted above in Other Corporate. Net income for 2001 also included the impact of a $15.0 million gain on sale of reinsurance subsidiaries. 54 Table of Contents The loss in Financing decreased $7.0 million between years primarily due to lower short term borrowing costs resulting from the ten Fed rate cuts that occurred in 2001 and lower long term debt costs. The decrease in long term debt costs resulted from several corporate finance activities in 2001 as described in the Liquidity and Cash Flow section of the Review of Consolidated Financial Conditions. Other Corporate experienced a negative variance of $3.1 million between years. Included in the 2001 loss was the restructuring charge noted above. In 2000, there were losses of $2.6 million associated with litigation items and a $2.4 million loss related to LNCs equity investment in AnnuityNet. In addition, there was $8.6 million in incentive compensation expense in 2000 resulting from the achievement of the three year long term incentive compensation goals. The Reinsurance line, which includes the historical earnings of the former Reinsurance segment had an increase in income of $5.6 million in 2001. The 2001 results, however, only represents eleven months of earnings through November 30, 2001. The Amortization of Deferred Gain line includes the amortization of the deferred gain on the indemnity reinsurance portion of the transaction with Swiss Re for December ($5.0 million) along with the recognition of accelerated amortization of the deferred gain on Canadian reinsurance business that was novated to Swiss Re after December 7, 2001 ($7.9 million), but prior to December 31, 2001. In accordance with FAS 113, the gain associated with the indemnity reinsurance portion of the transaction with Swiss Re was recorded as a deferred gain and is being amortized into earnings over a period of 15 years. Upon novation (transfer of the legal liability), generally accepted accounting principles provide for immediate recognition in earnings of the deferred gain related to the novated business. LFA had an increased net loss of $4.2 million between years due primarily to a decrease in sales revenue. LFA, a fee based investment planning firm and broker/ dealer, experienced a decrease in sales across all product lines: annuities, life insurance and other investment products. The downturn in the equity markets caused a difficult sales environment for broker/ dealers. Sales in the fourth quarter of 2001 rebounded from the lower levels experienced in the first three quarters of 2001 and contributed to positive earnings for the quarter which reduced the loss for the year. This fourth quarter 2001 increase in sales was consistent with the trend experienced over the prior three years and can be explained as a seasonal improvement related to the year end increase in tax planning and other related activities. In addition, in 2001, the events of September 11 derailed sales in the third quarter which created increased demand in the fourth quarter. In addition to lower revenues, LFA had an increase in overall expenses in 2001 as a result of increased salaries and other general and administrative expenses partially offset by reduced commissions and other volume related expenses. LFD had an increased loss of $15.9 million between years due to decreased sales revenue and increased expenses, including the restructuring charge in 2001 noted above. LFD experienced slightly lower retail sales in 2001, and revenue decreased as a result of changes in the mix of business. In addition, LFD had lower sales of corporate owned life insurance as previously discussed in the Life Insurance segments result of operations. Retail sales were bolstered by strong second half sales of the StepFive Fixed Annuity, Lincoln ChoicePlussm Variable Annuity product line and the MoneyGuard universal life product which includes a long term care benefit. Mutual fund sales, however, were weak throughout the year due primarily to the poor performance of the equity markets. In addition, LFDs wholesaling force was not at full strength until the end of 2001. LFD had higher expenses primarily as a result of its investment in new wholesalers during 2001 partially offset by the positive impact on expenses of the two restructuring plans implemented in 2001, as well as other targeted expense reduction activities. LFD started with 221 wholesalers at the beginning of 2001 and had 241 at December 31, 2001. Litigation During the first quarter of 2000, the appellate court upheld LNCs position in litigation relating to the 1992 sale of the Employee Life Health Benefit business segment. As a result of this favorable decision, LNCs 2000 earnings increased by approximately $11.2 million ($17.2 million pre tax). 55 Table of Contents In 2001, Lincoln National Life Insurance Company (LNL) concluded the settlement of all class action lawsuits alleging fraud in the sale of LNL non variable universal life and participating whole life policies issued between January 1, 1981 and December 31, 1998. Since 2001, LNL has reached settlements with a substantial number of the owners of policies that opted out of the class action settlement. LNL continues to defend a small number of opt out claims and lawsuits. While there is continuing uncertainty about the ultimate costs of settling the remaining opt out cases, it is managements opinion that established reserves are adequate and future developments will not materially affect the consolidated financial position of LNC. LNC and LNL have pursued claims with their liability insurance carriers for reimbursement of certain costs incurred in connection with the class action settlement and the settlement of claims and litigation brought by owners that opted out of the class action settlement. During the fourth quarter of 2002, LNC and LNL settled their claims against three liability carriers on a favorable basis. LNC and LNL continue to pursue similar claims against a fourth liability insurance carrier. In December 2000, LNC received a $43 million (pre tax) cash payment in exchange for agreeing to modify certain non compete terms included in an acquisition completed by LNC prior to 1999. In LNCs purchase accounting for this acquisition, the non compete terms of the acquisition agreement were believed to have only negligible value and there was no reasonable basis for estimating the additional business and profits, if any, that might result from these non compete terms. Under these facts and circumstances, LNC concluded that no separately identifiable intangible asset should be recorded for the non compete terms. However, events in 2000 resulted in a substantial increase in the value of these non compete terms, culminating with the receipt of the $43 million payment. LNC does not believe that the forfeiture of its remaining non compete rights and benefits, which would have otherwise expired in 2001, diminishes the value of goodwill recorded in the acquisition. As a result, LNC recorded the $28.0 million ($43 million pre tax) payment in fourth quarter 2000 net income. Consolidated Investments The consolidated assets under management including consolidated investments and assets held in separate accounts on the balance sheet, and external assets under management classified by investment advisor, mean invested assets, net investment income and investment yield are as follows: December 31 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 (in billions) Assets Managed by Advisor Investment Management Segment(1): External Assets $ 46.5 $ 48.4 $ 53.4 $ 61.4 $ 61.5 Insurance Assets 41.1 38.1 35.7 35.9 39.4 Lincoln UK 6.4 6.9 7.9 8.6 7.6 Within Business Units (Policy Loans) 1.9 1.9 1.9 1.9 1.8 By Non LNC Entities 23.2 30.9 32.4 32.7 23.5 Total Assets Managed $ 119.1 $ 126.2 $ 131.3 $ 140.5 $ 133.8 Mean Invested Assets $ 38.83 $ 37.62 $ 37.47 $ 39.03 $ 36.50 Adjusted Net Investment Income(2) $ 2.61 $ 2.69 $ 2.75 $ 2.82 $ 2.69 Investment Yield ( ratio of net investment income to mean invested assets) 6.74 % 7.14 % 7.35 % 7.21 % 7.36 % (1) See Investment Management segment data for additional detail. (2) Includes tax exempt income. Investment Objective: Invested assets are an integral part of the Lincoln Retirement, Life Insurance and Lincoln UK segments operations. For discussion of external assets under management, i.e. retail and 56 Table of Contents institutional assets, see the Investment Management segment discussion. LNC follows a balanced approach of investment for both current income and prudent risk management, with an emphasis on generating sufficient current income to meet LNCs obligations. This approach requires the evaluation of risk and expected return of each asset class utilized, while still meeting the income objectives of LNC. This approach also permits LNC to be more effective in its asset liability management, since decisions can be made based upon both the economic and current investment income considerations affecting assets and liabilities. Investment Portfolio Composition and Diversification: Fundamental to LNCs investment policy is diversification across asset classes. LNCs investment portfolio, excluding cash and invested cash, is composed of fixed maturity securities; mortgage loans on real estate; real estate either wholly owned or in joint ventures and other long term investments. LNC purchases investments for its segmented portfolios that have yield, duration and other characteristics that take into account the liabilities of the products being supported. The dominant investments held are fixed maturity securities, which represent approximately 82% the investment portfolio. The total investment portfolio increased $3.9 billion in 2002 and $744 million in 2001. The increase in 2002 was due to the purchase of investments from cash flow generated by the business units, positive net flows for fixed annuity portfolios and market appreciation of fixed maturity securities. The increase in 2001 was due to the purchase of investments from cash flow generated by the business units, positive net flows for fixed annuity portfolios and market appreciation of fixed maturity securities due to the significant decline in interest rates during 2001. Securities Available for Sale: LNCs entire fixed maturity and equity securities portfolio is classified as available for sale and is carried at fair value on its balance sheet. Because the general intent of the available for sale accounting rules is to reflect shareholders equity as if unrealized gains and losses were actually recognized, it is necessary for LNC to consider all related accounting adjustments that would occur upon such a hypothetical recognition of unrealized gains and losses. Such related balance sheet effects include adjustments to the balances of deferred acquisition costs, policyholder commitments and deferred income taxes. Adjustments to each of these balances are charged or credited directly to shareholders equity as part of LNCs available for sale accounting. For instance, deferred acquisition costs are adjusted upon the recognition of unrealized gains or losses since the amortization of deferred acquisition costs is based upon an assumed emergence of gross profits on certain insurance business. In a similar manner, adjustments to the balances of policyholder reserves or commitments are made because LNC has either a contractual obligation or has a consistent historical practice of making allocations of investment gains or losses to certain policyholders. Deferred income tax balances are also adjusted, since unrealized gains or losses do not affect actual taxes currently paid. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for details of the gross unrealized gains and losses as of December 31, 2002. Mortgaged Backed Securities: LNCs fixed maturity securities available for sale include mortgage backed securities. The mortgage backed securities included in LNCs investment portfolio are subject to risks associated with variable prepayments. This may result in these securities having a different actual cash flow and maturity than expected at the time of purchase. Securities that have an amortized cost greater than par and are backed by mortgages that prepay faster than expected will incur a reduction in yield or a loss. Those securities with an amortized cost lower than par that prepay faster than expected will generate an increase in yield or a gain. In addition, LNC may incur reinvestment risks if market yields are lower than the book yields earned on the securities. Prepayments occurring slower than expected have the opposite impact. LNC may incur disinvestment risks if market yields are higher than the book yields earned on the securities and LNC is forced to sell the securities. The degree to which a security is susceptible to either gains or losses is influenced by 1) the difference between its amortized cost and par, 2) the relative sensitivity of the underlying mortgages backing the assets to prepayment in a changing interest rate environment and 3) the repayment priority of the securities in the overall securitization structure. LNC limits the extent of its risk on mortgage backed securities by prudently limiting exposure to the asset class, by generally avoiding the purchase of securities with a cost that significantly exceeds par, by purchasing securities backed by stable collateral, and by concentrating on securities with enhanced priority in their trust structure. Such securities with reduced risk typically have a lower yield (but higher liquidity) than higher risk mortgage backed securities. At selected times, higher risk securities may be purchased if they do 57 Table of Contents not compromise the safety of the general portfolio. At December 31, 2002, LNC did not have a significant amount of higher risk mortgage backed securities. There are negligible default risks in the mortgage backed securities portfolio as a whole as the vast majority of the assets are either guaranteed by U.S. government sponsored entities or are supported in the securitization structure by junior securities enabling the assets to achieve high investment grade status. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for additional detail about the underlying collateral. Mortgage Loans on Real Estate and Real Estate: As of December 31, 2002, mortgage loans on real estate and investments in real estate represented 10.5% and 0.7% of the total investment portfolio. As of December 31, 2002, the underlying properties supporting the mortgage loans on real estate consisted of 36.8% in commercial office buildings, 23.3% in retail stores, 18.1% in industrial buildings, 10.3% in apartments, 7.7% in hotels/motels and 3.8% in other. In addition to the dispersion by property type, the mortgage loan portfolio is geographically diversified throughout the United States. However, mortgage loans on real estate in California and Texas accounted for approximately 28% of the total carrying value of mortgage loans at December 31, 2002. All mortgage loans that are impaired have an established allowance for credit loss. Changing economic conditions impact LNCs valuation of mortgage loans. Increasing vacancies, declining rents and the like are incorporated into the discounted cash flow analysis that LNC performs for monitored loans and may contribute to the establishment of (or an increase in) an allowance for credit losses. In addition, LNC recently completed a detailed review of its entire hotel mortgage loan portfolio in light of the downturn in that sector and has done similar analysis for its portfolio of anchored retail mortgage loans. LNC also monitors and evaluates office mortgage loan exposures to troubled sectors such as telecom. Where warranted, LNC has established or increased loss reserves based upon this analysis. Impaired mortgage loans as a percentage of total mortgage loans has deteriorated over the last year as a result of increased credit losses in the sectors noted above. This percentage was 1.7%, 0.6%, 0.5%, 0.6%, 0.8%, 1.1%, 1.9% and 3.9% as of December 31, 2002, 2001, 2000, 1999, 1998, 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for additional detail regarding impaired mortgage loans. LNC completed securitizations of commercial mortgage loans in both the fourth quarter of 2000 and the fourth quarter of 2001. In each securitization, the loans were transferred to a trust held in a qualified special purpose entity (SPE), which is therefore not consolidated into LNC. In the first securitization, the loans had a fair value of $186.0 million and a carrying value of $185.7 million. LNC retained a 6.3% interest in the securitized assets. LNC received $172.7 million from the trust for the sale of the senior trust certificates representing the other 93.7% beneficial interest. A realized gain of $0.4 million pre tax was recorded on this sale. A recourse liability was not recorded since LNC is not obligated to repurchase any loans from the trust that may later become delinquent. Cash flows received during 2002, 2001 and 2000 from interests retained in the trust were $2.6 million, $2.6 million and $0.4, respectively. In the second securitization completed in 2001, the loans had a fair value of $209.7 million and a carrying value of $198.1 million. LNC received $209.7 million from the trust for the sale of the loans. A recourse liability was not recorded since LNC is not obligated to repurchase any loans from the trust that may later become delinquent. Servicing fees of $0.03 million were received in 2001 and $0.2 million were received in 2002. The transaction was hedged with total return swaps to lock in the value of the loans. LNC recorded a loss on the hedge of $10.1 million pre tax and a realized gain on the sale of $11.6 million pre tax resulting in a net gain of $1.5 million pre tax. LNC did not initially retain an interest in the securitized assets; however, LNC later invested $14.3 million of its general account assets in the certificates issued by the trust. This investment is included in fixed maturity securities on the balance sheet. Limited Partnership Investments: As of December 31, 2002 and 2001, there were $294.2 million and $329.5 million, respectively, of limited partnership investments included in consolidated investments. These include investments in approximately 50 different partnerships that allow LNC to gain exposure to a broadly diversified portfolio of asset classes such as venture capital, hedge funds, and oil and gas. They are generally fairly large partnerships with several third party partners. These partnerships do not represent off balance sheet financing to LNC. Select partnerships contain capital calls which require LNC to contribute capital 58 Table of Contents upon notification by the general partner. These capital calls are contemplated during the initial investment decision and are planned for well in advance of the call date. The capital calls are not material in size and pose no threat to LNCs liquidity. The capital calls are included on LNCs table of contingent commitments within Review of Consolidated Financial Condition. Limited partnership investments are accounted for using the equity method of accounting and the majority of these investments are included in Other Investments on the consolidated balance sheets. Net Investment Income: Net Investment income decreased $71.3 million or 3% in 2002 due to a decrease in the yield on investments from 7.14% to 6.74% (all calculations on a cost basis). The decrease in yield was primarily due to lower interest rates on new securities purchased along with higher than historical levels of defaults due to the weak economy of 2002. In addition, 2002 net investment income generated by partnership investments was lower than the unusually favorable levels of net investment income generated by partnerships in 2001. Net investment income decreased $67.5 million or 2% in 2001 due to a decrease in the yield on investments from 7.35% to 7.14% (all calculations on a cost basis). The decrease in the yield on investments was primarily due to lower interest rates on new securities purchased along with an increase in security defaults resulting from the weak economy in 2001. In addition, LNC transferred higher yielding invested assets, and received current fair value as part of the close of the sale of the reinsurance business to Swiss Re on December 7, 2001. The proceeds of the sale were invested in lower yielding highly liquid short term investments. Mean invested assets only increased 0.4% in 2001. Critical Accounting Policy Realized Gain (Loss) on Investments and Derivative Instruments: LNC had net pre tax realized losses on investments and derivatives of $271.5 million, $114.5 million and $28.3 million in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Prior to the amortization of acquisition costs, provision for policyholder commitments and investment expenses, net pre tax realized losses were $405.3 million, $202.8 million, and $56.4 million in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Also included in the 2002 loss was a pre tax realized gain of $33.4 million ($21.7 million after tax) from the sale of LNCs investment in unconsolidated affiliate related to LNCs former Reinsurance segment (see further discussion of this investment in the Results of Operations for Other Operations). The gross realized gains on fixed maturity and equity securities were $181.2 million, $223.2 million and $204.5 million, in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Gross realized losses on fixed maturity and equity securities were $609.9 million, $459.7 million and $266.8 million, respectively. Included within losses are write downs for impairments of $321.5 million, $252.9 million and $55.8 million in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Although the realized losses that resulted from sales and impairments originated from a number of sectors, the larger losses can be attributed to collateralized debt obligations (CDOs) and the telecommunications and airline sectors. LNCs overall strategy of reducing exposure to CDOs was complicated by the deteriorating economy and the lack of liquidity of these instruments driven by declining economic conditions and increased corporate default rates. All these effects negatively impacted the CDO market, resulting in prolonged implementation of our strategy. As a result of sales and impairment write downs, the CDO exposure has been reduced to approximately 1.6% of LNCs fixed maturity securities, with 90% rated investment grade. The losses in the telecommunications sector were largely due to sales and impairment write downs of Worldcom bonds, although there were other telecommunications issuers that were sold at losses throughout the year. Similar to the telecommunication sector, LNC also experienced realized losses in the airline sector due to the bankruptcies of US Airways and United Airlines. LNCs exposure to the airline sector is primarily equipment trust certificates and enhanced equipment trust certificates. Airplanes collateralize these investments, but the declines in underlying valuations of airplanes have resulted in the impairment of LNCs holdings. 59 Table of Contents In addition to the aforementioned sectors, the realized losses and gains in 2002 arose from investment transactions as a result of the active management of LNCs portfolio quality. There were several strategies that drove transactions, some of which include: 1. In addition to credit evaluations and relative value considerations, investments that do not provide adequate return relative to statutory capital requirements were liquidated and replaced with investments that are more capital efficient. 2. Portfolio exposure to certain high risk sectors, such as bonds of issuers that have asbestos related litigation risk, was reduced. 3. Small proportions of the LNC portfolio are allocated to high risk asset classes such as emerging markets. Given the volatile markets in 2002, the turnover was higher on this sub segment of the portfolio than in previous years. This resulted in realized gains as well as realized losses. Significant circumstances that contributed to realized losses on investments in 2001 included the Enron bankruptcy, the defaults by Kmart and Argentina, as well as rapid declines in credit ratings and deterioration of expected cash flows on various collateralized debt obligation investments. The loss in 2000 was primarily the result of the sale of investments, and to a lesser extent the write down and provision for losses on investments. LNC has considered economic factors and circumstances within countries and industries where recent write downs have occurred in its assessment of the status of securities owned by LNC of similarly situated issuers. While it is possible for realized or unrealized losses on a particular investment to affect other investments, LNCs risk management has been designed to identify correlation risks and other risks inherent in managing an investment portfolio. Once identified, strategies and procedures are developed to effectively monitor and manage these risks. The areas of risk correlation that LNCs investment management group pays particular attention to are risks that may be correlated within specific financial and business markets, risks within specific industries and risks associated with related parties. Critical Accounting Policy Write Downs and Allowance for Losses: Securities available for sale, that were deemed to have declines in fair value that were other than temporary were written down to fair value. The fixed maturity securities to which these write downs apply were generally of investment grade quality at the time of purchase, but were subsequently down graded by rating agencies to below investment grade. Factors considered by LNC in determining whether declines in the fair value of fixed maturity securities are other than temporary include 1) the significance of the decline, 2) LNCs ability and intent to retain the investment for a sufficient period of time for it to recover, 3) the time period during which there has been a significant decline in value, and 4) fundamental analysis of the liquidity, business prospects and overall financial condition of the issuer. Based upon these factors, securities that have indications of potential impairment are subject to intensive review. Where such analysis results in a conclusion that declines in fair values are other than temporary, the security is written down to fair value. See Note 8 (Fair Value of Financial Instruments) to the consolidated financial statements for a general discussion of the methodologies and assumptions used to determine estimated fair values. Fair values for private securities are estimated by (1) a matrix process that employs discounting expected future cash flows using a current market rate applicable to the coupon rate, credit quality, industry sector and maturity of the investments, (2) third party supplied prices or secondary market transactions, and (3) applying professional judgment to arrive at fair value based upon prices of public or non public securities of similarly situated issuers. The fair value for all private securities was $4,601.3 million and $4,537.7 million at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively, representing about 11.5% and 12.5% of total invested assets, respectively. As the discussion above indicates, there are risks and uncertainties associated with determining whether declines in the fair value of investments are other than temporary. These include subsequent significant changes in general overall economic conditions as well as specific business conditions affecting particular issuers, future financial market effects such as interest rate spreads, stability of foreign governments and economies, future ratings agency actions and significant accounting, fraud or corporate governance issues that 60 Table of Contents may adversely affect certain investments. In addition, there are often significant estimates and assumptions required by LNC to estimate the fair values of securities, including projections of expected future cash flows and pricing of private securities. LNC is continuously monitoring developments and updating underlying assumptions and financial models based upon new information. Provided below are additional facts concerning the potential affect upon LNCs future earnings and financial position should management later conclude that some of the current declines in fair value of securities are other than temporary declines. EITF 99 20 changed the manner in which impairment on certain investments in collateralized securities is determined. The cumulative effect adjustment that LNC recorded in connection with the adoption of EITF 99 20 in the second quarter of 2001 was a net realized loss on investments of $11.3 million after tax ($17.3 million pre tax). Write downs and allowances for losses on select mortgage loans on real estate, real estate and other investments were established when the underlying value of the property was deemed to be less than the carrying value. These write downs and provisions for losses, as well as the write downs of fixed maturity and equity securities are disclosed within the notes to the accompanying consolidated financial statements (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements). Unrealized Gains and Losses: At December 31, 2002 and 2001, gross unrealized gains on securities available for sale were $2,402.5 million and $1,075.4 million, respectively, and gross unrealized losses on securities available for sale were $735.4 million and $659.6 million, respectively. At December 31, 2002, gross unrealized gains and losses on fixed maturity securities available for sale were $2,357.5 million and $693.1 million, respectively, and gross unrealized gains and losses on equity securities available for sale were $11.2 million and $8.5 million, respectively. At December 31, 2001, gross unrealized gains and losses on fixed maturity securities available for sale were $1,005.6 million and $615.9 million, respectively, and gross unrealized gains and losses on equity securities available for sale were $69.8 million and $43.7 million, respectively. The great majority of these unrealized gains and losses can be attributed to changes in interest rates, which have created temporary price fluctuations. However, within the portfolio of securities with unrealized losses are certain securities that LNC has identified as exhibiting indications that the decline in fair value may be other than a temporary decline in value. Where detailed analysis by LNC credit analysts and investment portfolio managers leads to the conclusion that a securitys decline in fair value is other than temporary, the security is written down to fair value. In instances where declines are considered temporary, the security will continue to be carefully monitored. The following information is applicable to unrealized loss securities that were subject to these enhanced analysis and monitoring processes as of the relevant balance sheet date. In viewing this information, it is important to realize that LNC is continuously reviewing and updating the status of its investment portfolios. Accordingly, the information presented below relates to the status of securities that were being monitored at a particular point in time, and may not be indicative of the status of LNCs investment portfolios subsequent to the balance sheet date. Further, since the timing of the recognition of realized investment gains and losses through the selection of which securities are sold is largely at managements discretion, it is important to consider the information provided below within the context of the overall unrealized gain or loss position of LNCs investment portfolios. These are important considerations that should be included in any evaluation of the potential impact of unrealized loss securities upon LNCs future earnings. LNC had an overall net unrealized gain (after the amortization of acquisition costs, provision for policyholder commitments, investment expenses and taxes) on securities available for sale under FAS 115 of $753.3 million and $195.7 million at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. For traded and private securities held by LNC at December 31, 2002 that were subject to enhanced analysis and monitoring for potential changes in unrealized loss status, the fair value, amortized cost, unrealized loss and total time period that the security has been in an unrealized loss position are presented in the table below. 61 Table of Contents % Fair Amortized % Amortized Unrealized % Unrealized (000s omitted) Fair Value Value Cost Cost Loss Loss 90 days $ 13,595 4.8% $ 14,627 3.1% $ (1,032 ) 0.5% 90 days but 180 days 27,026 9.5% 38,118 8.0% (11,092 ) 5.8% 180 days but 270 days 23,448 8.2% 39,151 8.2% (15,702 ) 8.2% 270 days but 1 year 24,827 8.7% 37,898 7.9% (13,071 ) 6.8% 1 year 195,644 68.8% 346,954 72.8% (151,311 ) 78.7% Total $ 284,540 100.0% $ 476,748 100.0% $ (192,208 ) 100.0% less than or equal to. For traded and private securities held by LNC at December 31, 2001 that were subject to enhanced analysis and monitoring for potential changes in unrealized loss status, the fair value, amortized cost, unrealized loss and total time period that the security has been in an unrealized loss position are presented in the table below. % Fair Amortized % Amortized Unrealized % Unrealized (000s omitted) Fair Value Value Cost Cost Loss Loss 90 days $ 67,107 42.7% $ 87,006 41.80% $ (19,899 ) 39.2% 90 days but 180 days 6,618 4.2% 8,706 4.20% (2,088 ) 4.1% 180 days but 270 days 13,515 8.6% 18,428 8.90% (4,913 ) 9.7% 270 days but 1 year 1 year 70,049 44.5% 93,926 45.10% (23,877 ) 47.0% Total $ 157,289 100.0% $ 208,066 100.00% $ (50,777 ) 100.0% less than or equal to. For total traded and private securities held by LNC at December 31, 2002 that are in unrealized loss status, the fair value, amortized cost, unrealized loss and total time period that the security has been in an unrealized loss position are presented in the table below. % Fair Amortized % Amortized Unrealized % Unrealized (000s omitted) Fair Value Value Cost Cost Loss Loss 90 days $ 1,910,152 38.1% $ 1,981,327 34.5% $ (71,175 ) 10.1% 90 days but 180 days 607,070 12.1% 684,139 11.9% (77,069 ) 11.0% 180 days but 270 days 349,872 7.0% 421,977 7.3% (72,105 ) 10.3% 270 days but 1 year 358,915 7.2% 426,758 7.4% (67,843 ) 9.6% 1 year * 1,782,873 35.6% 2,230,058 38.8% (447,185 ) 59.0% Total $ 5,008,882 100.0% $ 5,744,259 100.0% $ (735,377 ) 100.0% less than or equal to. * Included in the amount of unrealized losses greater than one year are unrealized losses of $36.0 million related primarily to participating polices in the Lincoln UK segment. Gain and losses on securities supporting this business are credited to the policyholder when incurred and do not affect net income of LNC. 62 Table of Contents For total traded and private securities held by LNC at December 31, 2001 that are in unrealized loss status, the fair value, amortized cost, unrealized loss and total time period that the security has been in an unrealized loss position are presented in the table below. % Fair Amortized % Amortized Unrealized % Unrealized (000s omitted) Fair Value Value Cost Cost Loss Loss 90 days $ 6,411,635 62.5% $ 6,596,925 60.5% $ (185,290 ) 28.1% 90 days but 180 days 709,976 6.9% 789,048 7.2% (79,072 ) 12.0% 180 days but 270 days 142,493 1.4% 165,441 1.5% (22,948 ) 3.5% 270 days but 1 year 507,417 5.0% 558,307 5.1% (50,890 ) 7.7% 1 year 2,478,173 24.2% 2,799,543 25.7% (321,370 ) 48.7% Total $ 10,249,694 100.0% $ 10,909,264 100.0% $ (659,570 ) 100.0% Less than or equal to LNC has no concentrations of issuers or guarantors of fixed maturity and equity securities. The composition by industry categories of securities subject to enhanced analysis and monitoring for potential changes in unrealized loss status, held by LNC at December 31, 2002 is presented in the table below. % Fair Amortized % Amortized Unrealized % Unrealized Fair Value Value Cost Cost Loss Loss (000s omitted) Electric Power $ 96,797 34.0 % $ 173,008 36.3 % $ (76,211 ) 39.7 % Asset Backed Securities 67,138 23.6 % 100,650 21.1 % (33,512 ) 17.4 % Chemicals 7,565 2.7 % 30,000 6.3 % (22,435 ) 11.7 % Oil Field Services 9,530 3.3 % 28,387 6.0 % (18,857 ) 9.8 % Pharmaceuticals 15,068 5.3 % 28,450 6.0 % (13,382 ) 7.0 % Technology 11,880 4.2 % 22,294 4.7 % (10,414 ) 5.4 % Pipelines 26,688 9.4 % 32,689 6.8 % (6,001 ) 3.1 % Airlines 19,881 7.0 % 25,433 5.3 % (5,552 ) 2.9 % Consumer Non Cyclical 7,488 2.6 % 9,386 2.0 % (1,898 ) 1.0 % Sovereigns 3,452 1.2 % 4,961 1.0 % (1,509 ) 0.8 % Textile 7,813 2.7 % 8,672 1.8 % (859 ) 0.4 % Non Captive Consumer 4,050 1.4 % 4,646 1.0 % (596 ) 0.3 % Wirelines 1,080 0.4 % 1,629 0.3 % (549 ) 0.3 % Retailers 423 0.2 % 780 0.2 % (357 ) 0.2 % CMBS 1,934 0.7 % 2,009 0.4 % (75 ) 0.0 % Other 3,753 1.3 % 3,754 0.8 % (1 ) 0.0 % $ 284,540 100.0 % $ 476,748 100.0 % $ (192,208 ) 100.0 % 63 Table of Contents The composition by industry categories of securities subject to enhanced analysis and monitoring for potential changes in unrealized loss status, held by LNC at December 31, 2001 is presented in the table below. % Fair Amortized % Amortized Unrealized % Unrealized Fair Value Value Cost Cost Loss Loss (000s omitted) Textile $ 11,531 7.3 % $ 21,499 10.3 % $ (9,968 ) 19.6 % Electric Power 47,467 30.2 % 55,482 26.7 % (8,015 ) 15.8 % Distributors 36,350 23.1 % 43,534 20.9 % (7,184 ) 14.1 % Wirelines 9,058 5.8 % 16,062 7.7 % (7,004 ) 13.8 % Asset Backed Securities 16,977 10.8 % 23,097 11.1 % (6,120 ) 12.1 % Industrial 14,664 9.3 % 19,748 9.5 % (5,084 ) 10.0 % Metals and Mining 4,264 2.7 % 6,680 3.2 % (2,416 ) 4.8 % Non Captive Consumer 6,764 4.3 % 8,686 4.2 % (1,922 ) 3.8 % Utility 2,686 1.7 % 4,140 2.0 % (1,454 ) 2.9 % REITs 3,900 2.5 % 5,037 2.4 % (1,137 ) 2.2 % Basic Industry 3,628 2.30 % 4,101 2.00 % (473 ) 0.90 % $ 157,289 100.0 % $ 208,066 100.0 % $ (50,777 ) 100.0 % The composition by industry categories of all securities in unrealized loss status, held by LNC at December 31, 2002 is presented in the table below. % Fair Amortized % Amortized Unrealized % Unrealized Fair Value Value Cost Cost Loss Loss (000s omitted) Electric Power $ 692,086 13.8 % $ 856,740 14.9 % $ (164,654 ) 22.4 % Airlines 240,684 4.8 % 339,997 5.9 % (99,313 ) 13.5 % Asset Backed Securities 566,568 11.3 % 633,628 11.0 % (67,060 ) 9.1 % Pipelines 157,596 3.1 % 199,625 3.5 % (42,029 ) 5.7 % Banking 319,051 6.4 % 354,941 6.2 % (35,890 ) 4.9 % Chemicals 66,657 1.3 % 96,285 1.7 % (29,628 ) 4.0 % Wirelines 144,079 2.9 % 170,803 3.0 % (26,724 ) 3.6 % Sovereigns 266,654 5.3 % 289,079 5.0 % (22,425 ) 3.1 % Oil Field Services 43,253 0.9 % 62,945 1.1 % (19,692 ) 2.7 % Media Cable 57,937 1.2 % 74,174 1.3 % (16,237 ) 2.2 % Automotive 116,021 2.3 % 131,566 2.3 % (15,545 ) 2.1 % Pharmaceuticals 39,983 0.8 % 53,450 0.9 % (13,467 ) 1.8 % Retailers 49,183 1.0 % 61,416 1.1 % (12,233 ) 1.7 % CMBS 67,330 1.3 % 79,316 1.4 % (11,986 ) 1.6 % Industrial Other 39,719 0.8 % 51,178 0.9 % (11,459 ) 1.6 % Technology 18,566 0.4 % 29,152 0.5 % (10,586 ) 1.4 % P&C 82,308 1.6 % 90,840 1.6 % (8,532 ) 1.1 % Refining 38,307 0.8 % 46,758 0.8 % (8,451 ) 1.1 % Other 680,255 13.6 % 688,168 12.0 % (7,913 ) 1.1 % Foreign Agencies 22,425 0.4 % 29,385 0.5 % (6,960 ) 1.0 % Metals and Mining 124,446 2.5 % 130,646 2.3 % (6,200 ) 0.8 % Integrated 60,547 1.2 % 66,425 1.2 % (5,878 ) 0.8 % Supermarkets 31,598 0.6 % 37,145 0.6 % (5,547 ) 0.8 % Wireless 98,502 2.0 % 104,010 1.8 % (5,508 ) 0.8 % 64 Table of Contents % Fair Amortized % Amortized Unrealized % Unrealized Fair Value Value Cost Cost Loss Loss (000s omitted) Transportation Services 64,921 1.3 % 69,801 1.2 % (4,880 ) 0.7 % Paper 36,883 0.7 % 41,453 0.7 % (4,570 ) 0.6 % Utility Other 27,578 0.6 % 31,166 0.5 % (3,588 ) 0.5 % Consumer Cyclical Services 21,657 0.4 % 24,933 0.4 % (3,276 ) 0.5 % Building Materials 41,614 0.8 % 44,320 0.8 % (2,706 ) 0.4 % Railroads 25,666 0.5 % 28,005 0.5 % (2,339 ) 0.3 % Tennessee Valley Authority 32,862 0.7 % 35,133 0.6 % (2,271 ) 0.3 % Food and Beverage 28,166 0.6 % 30,349 0.5 % (2,183 ) 0.3 % Consumer Non Cyclical 7,488 0.1 % 9,386 0.2 % (1,898 ) 0.3 % Mortgage 51,291 1.0 % 53,025 0.9 % (1,734 ) 0.2 % Aerospace/ Defense 20,791 0.4 % 22,280 0.4 % (1,489 ) 0.2 % Life 34,893 0.7 % 35,947 0.6 % (1,054 ) 0.1 % Distributors 15,070 0.3 % 16,015 0.3 % (945 ) 0.1 % Media Non Cable 23,470 0.5 % 24,406 0.4 % (936 ) 0.1 % Textile 7,813 0.2 % 8,672 0.2 % (859 ) 0.1 % Captive 30,931 0.6 % 31,782 0.6 % (851 ) 0.1 % Construction Machinery 4,250 0.1 % 5,083 0.1 % (833 ) 0.1 % Non Captive Consumer 10,597 0.2 % 11,348 0.2 % (751 ) 0.1 % Non Captive Diversified 3,220 0.1 % 3,667 0.1 % (447 ) 0.1 % Collateralized Mortgage Obligations 96,018 1.9 % 96,463 1.7 % (445 ) 0.1 % Consumer Products 12,544 0.3 % 12,960 0.2 % (416 ) 0.1 % Consumer Cyclical 773 0.0 % 1,146 0.0 % (373 ) 0.1 % Foreign Local Governments 4,454 0.1 % 4,750 0.1 % (296 ) 0.1 % Financial Other 25,592 0.5 % 25,827 0.4 % (235 ) 0.0 % Entertainment 23,276 0.5 % 23,501 0.4 % (225 ) 0.0 % Healthcare 850 0.0 % 1,033 0.0 % (183 ) 0.0 % Municipal 17,905 0.4 % 18,054 0.3 % (149 ) 0.0 % Lodging 1,840 0.0 % 1,988 0.0 % (148 ) 0.0 % Brokerage 1,392 0.0 % 1,412 0.0 % (20 ) 0.0 % FNMA FHA VA 30YR 208 0.0 % 214 0.0 % (6 ) 0.0 % REITS 445 0.0 % 446 0.0 % (1 ) 0.0 % Lincoln UK Fixed Maturity Securities 181,758 3.6 % 187,086 3.3 % (5,328 ) 0.7 % Lincoln UK Equity Securities* 128,911 2.6 % 164,936 2.9 % (36,025 ) 4.9 % $ 5,008,882 100.0 % $ 5,744,259 100.0 % $ (735,377 ) 100.0 % * The unrealized losses for Lincoln UK Equity Securities are primarily related to participating polices in the Lincoln UK segment. Gain and losses on securities supporting this business are credited to the policyholder when incurred and do not affect net income of LNC. 65 Table of Contents The composition by industry categories of all securities in unrealized loss status, held by LNC at December 31, 2001 is presented in the table below. % Fair Amortized % Amortized Unrealized % Unrealized Fair Value Value Cost Cost Loss Loss (000s omitted) Asset Backed Securities $ 966,070 9.4 % $ 1,065,451 9.8 % $ (99,381 ) 15.1 % Electric 997,693 9.7 % 1,062,158 9.7 % (64,465 ) 9.8 % Airlines 366,334 3.6 % 417,161 3.8 % (50,827 ) 7.7 % Automotive 244,003 2.4 % 269,613 2.5 % (25,610 ) 3.9 % Chemicals 223,614 2.2 % 247,673 2.3 % (24,059 ) 3.6 % Banking 568,173 5.5 % 590,271 5.4 % (22,098 ) 3.4 % Pipelines 243,255 2.4 % 264,136 2.4 % (20,881 ) 3.2 % Wirelines 202,401 2.0 % 221,842 2.0 % (19,441 ) 2.9 % P&C 116,502 1.1 % 135,819 1.3 % (19,317 ) 2.9 % Industrial Other 135,387 1.3 % 151,800 1.4 % (16,413 ) 2.5 % Sovereigns 261,942 2.6 % 277,802 2.5 % (15,860 ) 2.4 % Retailers 171,429 1.7 % 185,648 1.7 % (14,219 ) 2.2 % Media Non Cable 228,365 2.2 % 241,429 2.2 % (13,064 ) 2.0 % Metals and Mining 188,734 1.8 % 200,763 1.8 % (12,029 ) 1.8 % Textile 30,080 0.3 % 41,207 0.4 % (11,127 ) 1.7 % Beverage 36,296 0.4 % 47,176 0.4 % (10,880 ) 1.6 % Distributors 114,546 1.1 % 124,603 1.1 % (10,057 ) 1.5 % Transportation Services 171,275 1.7 % 180,689 1.7 % (9,414 ) 1.4 % Refining 50,584 0.5 % 57,535 0.5 % (6,951 ) 1.1 % Building Materials 88,015 0.9 % 94,624 0.9 % (6,609 ) 1.0 % Entertainment 157,335 1.5 % 163,940 1.5 % (6,605 ) 1.0 % Other 134,073 1.3 % 140,578 1.3 % (6,505 ) 1.0 % Wireless 39,358 0.4 % 45,771 0.4 % (6,413 ) 1.0 % Oil Field Services 161,150 1.6 % 167,528 1.5 % (6,378 ) 1.0 % CMBS 148,716 1.5 % 154,382 1.4 % (5,666 ) 0.9 % Collateralized Mortgage Obligations 288,754 2.8 % 294,301 2.7 % (5,547 ) 0.8 % Media Cable 35,146 0.3 % 40,641 0.4 % (5,495 ) 0.8 % Utility Other 60,861 0.6 % 65,911 0.6 % (5,050 ) 0.8 % REITs 65,097 0.6 % 69,977 0.6 % (4,880 ) 0.7 % Paper 121,372 1.2 % 126,050 1.2 % (4,678 ) 0.7 % Railroads 77,741 0.8 % 82,310 0.8 % (4,569 ) 0.7 % Lodging 37,608 0.4 % 42,119 0.4 % (4,511 ) 0.7 % Non Callable 97,239 0.9 % 101,698 0.9 % (4,459 ) 0.7 % Technology 68,293 0.7 % 72,568 0.7 % (4,275 ) 0.6 % Integrated 167,765 1.6 % 171,595 1.6 % (3,830 ) 0.6 % Captive 123,778 1.2 % 127,400 1.2 % (3,622 ) 0.5 % Food 177,804 1.7 % 181,372 1.7 % (3,568 ) 0.5 % Conglomerates 138,682 1.4 % 142,106 1.3 % (3,424 ) 0.5 % Financial Other 38,191 0.4 % 41,368 0.4 % (3,177 ) 0.5 % Aerospace/ Defense 92,886 0.9 % 96,040 0.9 % (3,154 ) 0.5 % Communications 2,940 0.0 % 5,632 0.1 % (2,692 ) 0.4 % 66 Table of Contents % Fair Amortized % Amortized Unrealized % Unrealized Fair Value Value Cost Cost Loss Loss (000s omitted) Life 67,926 0.7 % 70,284 0.6 % (2,358 ) 0.4 % FNMA 19,472 0.2 % 21,676 0.2 % (2,204 ) 0.3 % Consumer Cyclical 6,851 0.1 % 8,987 0.1 % (2,136 ) 0.3 % Non Captive Diversified 24,011 0.2 % 26,044 0.2 % (2,033 ) 0.3 % Yankee Corporates 3,087 0.0 % 5,112 0.0 % (2,025 ) 0.3 % Mortgage 55,786 0.5 % 57,686 0.5 % (1,900 ) 0.3 % Municipal 36,185 0.4 % 37,928 0.3 % (1,743 ) 0.3 % Pharmaceuticals 74,631 0.7 % 76,270 0.7 % (1,639 ) 0.2 % Consumer Products 31,188 0.3 % 32,639 0.3 % (1,451 ) 0.2 % Finance Companies 49,824 0.5 % 51,125 0.5 % (1,301 ) 0.2 % Consumer Cyclical Services 28,550 0.3 % 29,654 0.3 % (1,104 ) 0.2 % Construction Machinery 24,476 0.2 % 25,567 0.2 % (1,091 ) 0.2 % FNMA Conventional 30 Yr 121,842 1.2 % 122,842 1.1 % (1,000 ) 0.2 % Other 1,505,678 14.7 % 1,539,057 14.1 % (33,379 ) 5.0 % Lincoln UK Fixed Maturity Securities 435,104 4.2 % 444,278 4.1 % (9,174 ) 1.4 % Lincoln UK Equity Securities 125,596 1.2 % 149,428 1.4 % (23,832 ) 3.6 % $ 10,249,694 100.0 % $ 10,909,264 100.0 % $ (659,570 ) 100.0 % At December 31, 2002 and 2001, less than 9% and 5%, respectively, of the traded and private securities held that were subject to enhanced analysis and monitoring for potential changes in unrealized loss status were rated as investment grade. The range of maturity dates for these securities varies, with about 57% of these securities maturing between 5 and 10 years, about 20% maturing in greater than 10 years and the remaining maturity dates maturing in less than 5 years. At December 31, 2002 and 2001, 65.3% and 84.7%, respectively of total traded and private securities in unrealized loss status were rated as investment grade. At December 31, 2002, the range of maturity dates for total traded and private securities in unrealized loss status varies, with about 22% maturing between 5 and 10 years, 46% maturing after 10 years and the remaining securities maturing in less than 5 years. At December 31, 2001, the range of maturity dates for these securities varies, with about 39% maturing between 5 and 10 years, 37% maturing after 10 years and the remaining securities maturing in less than 5 years. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for ratings and maturity date information for LNCs fixed maturity investment portfolio. The information presented above is subject to rapidly changing conditions. As such, LNC expects that the level of securities with overall unrealized losses will fluctuate, as will the level of unrealized loss securities that are subject to enhanced analysis and monitoring. The recent volatility of financial market conditions has resulted in increased recognition of both investment gains and losses, as portfolio risks are adjusted through sales and purchases. As discussed below, this is consistent with LNCs classification of its investment portfolios as available for sale. During the year ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, LNC sold securities at gains and at losses. As discussed earlier, in the process of evaluating whether a security with an unrealized loss reflects an other than temporary decline, LNC considers its ability and intent to hold the security until its value recovers. However, subsequent decisions on securities sales are made within the context of overall risk monitoring, assessing value relative to other comparable securities and overall portfolio maintenance. Although LNCs portfolio managers may, at a given point in time, believe that the preferred course of action is to hold securities with unrealized losses that are considered temporary until such losses are recovered, the dynamic nature of portfolio management may result in a subsequent decision to sell. These subsequent decisions are consistent with the classification of LNCs investment portfolio as available for sale. In the future, LNC expects to continue to 67 Table of Contents manage all invested assets within its portfolios in a manner that is consistent with the available for sale classification. Use of Derivatives: The primary use of derivatives at LNC is to hedge interest rate risk that is embedded in either life insurance and annuity product liabilities or investment portfolios. To a lesser extent, derivatives are also used to hedge exposures to foreign currency and equity market risks. Derivatives held at December 31, 2002 contain industry standard terms and are entered into with financial institutions with long standing, superior performance records. Review of Consolidated Financial Condition Liquidity and Cash Flow Liquidity refers to the ability of an enterprise to generate adequate amounts of cash from its normal operations to meet cash requirements with a prudent margin of safety. Because of the interval of time from receipt of deposit or premium until payment of benefits or claims, LNC and other insurers employ investment portfolios as an integral element of operations. By segmenting its investment portfolios along product lines, LNC enhances the focus and discipline it can apply to managing the liquidity, as well as the interest rate and credit risk of each portfolio commensurate with the profile of the liabilities. For example, portfolios backing products with less certain cash flows and or withdrawal provisions are kept more liquid than portfolios backing products with more predictable cash flows. The consolidated statements of cash flows indicate that operating activities provided cash of $0.5 billion, $1.3 billion and $2.0 billion in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. This statement also classifies the other sources and uses of cash by investing activities and financing activities and discloses the amount of cash available at the end of the year to meet LNCs obligations. Although LNC generates adequate cash flow to meet the needs of its normal operations, periodically LNC may issue debt or equity securities to fund internal expansion, acquisitions, investment opportunities and the retirement of LNCs debt and equity. In April 2002, a new shelf registration statement was declared effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission. The new shelf registration totaled $1.2 billion (including $402.5 million of registered but unissued securities from previous registration statements). After giving consideration to the $250 million 5.25% five year senior notes issued in June 2002, LNC has $950 million remaining under the shelf registration to issue debt securities, preferred stock, common stock, warrants, stock purchase contracts and stock purchase units of LNC and trust preferred securities of four subsidiary trusts. The net proceeds from the sale of the securities offered by this shelf registration and the applicable prospectus supplement(s) are expected to be used by LNC for general corporate purposes, including repurchases of outstanding common stock, repayment or redemption of outstanding debt or preferred stock, the possible acquisition of financial services businesses or assets thereof, investment in portfolio assets and working capital needs. Cash funds are also available from LNCs revolving credit agreements. In June 2002, LNC reduced its revolving bank lines of credit from $700 million to $500 million when LNC suspended its commercial paper issuance under its European Commercial Paper program (see Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements). LNC purchased and retired 12,088,100; 11,278,022; and 6,222,581 shares of common stock at a cost of $474.5 million, $503.7 million and $210.0 million in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. In November 2000, the LNC board authorized $500 million to repurchase LNC securities. At the time of this authorization, there was $99.7 million remaining under a $500 million May 1999 board authorization. All of the shares repurchased in 2000 came under the May 1999 board authorization. In July 2001, the LNC board authorized an additional $500 million to repurchase LNC securities. In 2001, the remaining amount ($53.4 million) under the May 1999 board authorization was used and $450.4 million under the November 2000 board authorization was used. On August 8, 2002, the LNC Board authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $600 million of LNC securities. In 2002, the remaining amount ($49.6 million) under the November 2000 board authorization was used and $424.9 million under the July 2001 board authorization was used. The remaining amount under the combined repurchase authorization at December 31, 2002 was $675.1 million. 68 Table of Contents On August 16, 2001, LNC settled mandatory stock purchase contracts issued in conjunction with the FELINE PRIDES financing. This action resulted in the issuance of 4.6 million shares of LNC stock at $49.67 per share. Investors had the option of settling the purchase contract with separate cash or by having the collateral securing their purchase obligations sold. In the case of investors who held the Trust Originated Preferred Securities (TOPrS) as collateral for the purchase contracts, they were permitted to enter into a remarketing process with proceeds used to settle the contracts. On August 13, 2001, the remarketing failed resulting in the retirement of $225 million TOPrS. A total of $5 million of two year TOPrS remain outstanding which represents investors who chose to settle with separate cash and hold onto their TOPrS until maturity. On September 13, 2001, LNC redeemed all 8.6 million shares of the $215 million outstanding 8.75% Cumulative Quarterly Income Preferred Securities, Series A that were issued by Lincoln National Capital I and guaranteed by LNC. On November 19, 2001, LNC issued 6.9 million shares of $172.5 million 7.65% Trust Preferred Securities (TRUPS) through Lincoln National Capital V. In conjunction with the $172.5 million TRUPS issue, LNC executed a $172.5 million notional amount interest rate swap that effectively converted the 7.65% fixed rate coupon on the TRUPS into a LIBOR based floating rate obligation. On December 7, 2001, LNC issued $250 million 6.20% ten year senior notes. On January 7, 2002, LNC redeemed $100 million 8.35% Trust Originated Preferred Securities issued by Lincoln Capital II and guaranteed by LNC. On June 3, 2002, LNC issued $250 million 5.25% five year senior notes. The net proceeds of that offering was used for general corporate purposes, and pending such application, have been used to pay down short term debt. In conjunction with the $250 million debt issue, LNC executed a $100 million notional amount interest rate swap that effectively converted the 5.25% fixed rate coupon on the bond into a LIBOR based floating rate obligation for that portion of the bond. On December 7, 2001, Swiss Re acquired LNCs reinsurance operation for $2.0 billion. In addition, LNC retained the capital supporting the reinsurance operation. After giving affect to the increased levels of capital needed within the Life Insurance and Lincoln Retirement segments that results from the change in the ongoing mix of business under LNCs internal capital allocation models, the disposition of LNCs reinsurance operation has freed up approximately $100 million of capital. The transaction structure involved a series of indemnity reinsurance transactions combined with the sale of certain stock companies that comprised LNCs reinsurance operation. Approximately $0.56 billion of the proceeds from the transaction were used to pay taxes and associated deal costs and approximately $1.0 billion was used to repurchase stock, reduce debt, and support holding company cash flow needs. LNC used approximately $0.3 billion to pay the fourth quarter 2002 settlement with Swiss Re (see the Acquisition and Divestiture section for regarding the settlement with Swiss Re). Any remaining proceeds will be dedicated to the ongoing capital needs of LNL. In order to maximize the use of available cash, the holding company (LNC) maintains a facility where subsidiaries can borrow from the holding company to meet their short term needs and can invest their short term funds with the holding company. Depending on the overall cash availability or need, the holding company invests excess cash in short term investments or borrows funds in the financial markets. In addition to facilitating the management of cash, the holding company receives dividends from its subsidiaries, invests in operating companies, maintains an investment portfolio and pays shareholder dividends and certain corporate expenses. LNCs insurance subsidiaries are subject to certain insurance department regulatory restrictions as to the transfer of funds and payment of dividends to the holding company. Generally, these restrictions pose no short term liquidity concerns for the holding company. However, as discussed in detail within Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements, the acquisition of two blocks of business in 1998 resulted in negative statutory earned surplus for LNL which triggered certain approval requirements in order for LNL to declare and pay dividends to LNC. As a result of negative earned surplus, LNL was required to obtain the prior approval of the Indiana Insurance Commissioner (Commissioner) before paying any dividends to LNC until its statutory earned surplus became positive. During the first quarter 2002, LNL received approval from the Commissioner to reclassify total dividends of $495 million paid to LNC in 2001 from LNLs earned 69 Table of Contents surplus to paid in capital. This change plus the increase in statutory earned surplus from the indemnity reinsurance transaction with Swiss Re resulted in positive statutory earned surplus for LNL at December 31, 2001. In general, dividends are not subject to prior approval from the Commissioner provided LNLs statutory earned surplus is positive and such dividends do not exceed the standard limitation of the greater of 10% of total statutory earned surplus or the amount of statutory earnings in the prior calendar year. Dividends of $710 million were paid by LNL to LNC in the second quarter of 2002. These distributions were made in two installments. The first installment of $60 million was paid in April. The second installment of $650 million was paid in June. As both installments exceeded the standard limitation noted above, a special request was made for each payment and each was approved by the Commissioner. Both distributions represented a portion of the proceeds received from the indemnity reinsurance transaction with Swiss Re. As a result of the payment of dividends and statutory losses in 2002, LNLs statutory earned surplus is negative as of December 31, 2002. The statutory losses resulted from realized losses on investments, the effect of the equity markets and the reserve strengthening in 2002 related to the reinsurance business sold to Swiss Re. Due to the negative statutory earned surplus as of December 31, 2002, any dividend(s) paid by LNL in 2003 will be subject to prior approval from the Commissioner. As occurred in 2001, dividends approved and paid while statutory earned surplus is negative are expected to be classified as a reduction to paid in capital. LNL is recognized as an accredited reinsurer in the state of New York, which effectively enables it to conduct reinsurance business with unrelated insurance companies that are domiciled within the state of New York. As a result, in addition to regulatory restrictions imposed by the state of Indiana, LNL is also subject to the regulatory requirements that the State of New York imposes upon accredited reinsurers. Contractual Obligations and Contingent Commitments The tables below summarize LNCs obligations and commitments to make future payments under contracts in place at December 31, 2002, as well as contingent commitments in place at December 31, 2002. Contractual Obligations Future Amortization/ Amount Per Contractual Obligations 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Thereafter Total Adjustment Balance Sheet (in millions) Short Term Debt $ 153.0 $ $ $ $ $ $ 153.0 $ $ 153.0 Long Term Debt 193.0 250.0 670.3 1,113.3 5.9 1,119.2 Company Obligated Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Securities of Subsidiary Trusts Holding Soley Junior Subordinated Debentures 5.0 372.5 377.5 15.2 392.7 Operating Leases 59.8 58.6 58.0 54.6 53.1 77.2 361.3 Stadium Naming Rights Lincoln Financial Field (1) 5.5 5.6 5.7 5.8 6.0 106.4 135.0 Lincoln UK Administration Contract (2) 33.3 30.1 28.2 27.8 26.7 113.1 259.2 Information Technology Contract 70.0 70.0 5.8 145.8 Totals $ 326.6 $ 164.3 $ 290.7 $ 88.2 $ 335.8 $ 1,339.5 $ 2,545.1 $ 21.1 $ 1,664.9 70 Table of Contents Contingent Commitments Amount of Commitment Expiring per Period Total Amount Less than 13 45 After 5 Commitments Committed 1 Year Years Years Years (in millions) Lines of Credit (amount outstanding at 12/31/2002 is $11.9 million) $ 580.0 $ 280.0 $ 300.0 $ $ Standby Letters of Credit (amount outstanding at 12/31/2002 is $223.8 million) 450.0 450.0 Guarantees 22.3 0.1 1.2 2.5 18.5 Investment Commitments (3) 390.8 143.5 202.8 44.4 0.1 Standby Commitments to Purchase Real Estate upon Completion and Leasing 168.1 31.7 136.4 $ 1,611.2 $ 905.3 $ 640.4 $ 46.9 $ 18.6 (1) The amount includes a maximum annual increase related to the CPI. (2) The contract is for a term of 10 years and the annual cost is based on a per policy charge plus an amount for other services provided. The amounts quoted above are the estimated fees as the actual cost will depend on the number of policies in force and the applicable inflation rate for the each period. (3) Total includes $72.0 million of capital calls on limited partnership investments, $182.9 million of real estate pre buys and $49.7 million and $86.2 million of commitments for mortgage loans and private placement securities, respectively. As of December 31, 2002, LNCs senior debt ratings were Moodys at A3 (Upper Medium Grade), Standard and Poors at A (Strong), Fitch at A (Strong) and A.M. Best at a (Strong), and LNCs commercial paper ratings included Moodys at P 2 (Strong), Standard and Poors at A 2 (Satisfactory) and Fitch at F 1 (Very Strong). On September 19, 2002 Fitch lowered LNCs senior debt ratings from A+ to A and the trust preferred security ratings for Lincoln Capital III, IV, and V from A to A both on stable outlook. Fitchs action did not impact LNCs commercial paper rating or the insurance financial strength ratings of LNCs insurance subsidiaries. The move was part of industry wide action on several life insurance companies given the recent market environment and, in the case of LNC, reflects Fitchs desire to maintain a traditional three notch separation between debt and insurance financial strength ratings. The rating action is expected to have no effect on LNCs liquidity, access to capital, or cost of capital. Although there are less investors for A 2/ P 2 commercial paper and there are periods in which there is weak investor interest in A 2/ P 2 commercial paper, through December 31, 2002, liquidity has not been adversely impacted. LNC can draw upon alternative short term borrowing facilities such as revolving bank lines of credit. At December 31, 2002 LNC maintained three revolving credit agreements with a group of domestic and foreign banks totaling $580 million. LNCs commercial paper is supported by these facilities, a $200 million 364 day revolving credit facility maturing in December 2003 and a $300 million revolving credit facility maturing in December 2005 and a $80 million revolving credit facility, maintained by Lincoln UK, which matured in January 2003. The UK facility was renewed in January 2003 for $48 million maturing in January 2004. At December 31, 2002, LNC had $12 million in outstanding borrowings under the Lincoln UK agreement. All three agreements provide for interest on borrowings based on various money market indices. Under all three agreements, LNC must maintain senior unsecured long term debt ratings of at least S&P A and Moodys A3 or be restricted by an adjusted debt to capitalization ratio. LNCs 364 day revolving credit contains a one year term out feature which allows LNC to convert any loans outstanding on the maturity date of the credit facility into a one year term loan subject to a floating interest rate. On average, LNCs commercial paper borrowing rates have increased 0.20% per annum since LNC was downgraded to an A 2/ P 2 issuer. However, historically there have been times of greater volatility in commercial paper borrowing rates for an A 2/ P 2 issuer with the spread above A 1/ P 1 rates ranging 71 Table of Contents from 0.10% to 0.50%. During such times of greater volatility, LNC may experience difficulty in placing longer term commercial paper (defined as 30 90 day maturities), and as a result, experience increased short term financing costs. If current debt ratings and claims paying ratings were downgraded in the future, certain covenants of various contractual obligations may be triggered which could impact overall liquidity. In addition, contractual selling agreements with intermediaries could be negatively impacted which could have an adverse impact on overall sales of annuities, life insurance and investment products. As a result of increased cash flow from operations, Lincoln National (UK) PLC was able to retire its remaining outstanding commercial paper in the second quarter of 2002 and LNC eliminated the bank lines and ratings associated with this program. On June 3, 2002, LNC announced an agreement with the Philadelphia Eagles to name the Eagles new stadium, Lincoln Financial Field. In exchange for the naming rights, LNC agreed to pay $139.6 million over a 20 year period, through annual payments to the Eagles, which average approximately $6.7 million per year. This future commitment has not been recorded as a liability on LNCs balance sheet as it will be accounted for in a manner consistent with the accounting for operating leases. Effect of Inflation LNCs insurance affiliates, as well as other companies in the insurance industry, attempt to minimize the effect of inflation on their revenues and expenses by anticipating inflationary trends in the pricing of their products. Inflation, except for changes in interest rates, does not have a significant effect on LNCs balance sheet due to the minimal amount of dollars invested in property, plant and equipment and the absence of inventories. Capital Resources Total shareholders equity increased $32.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2002. Accumulated other comprehensive income increased shareholders equity by $561.4 million. The components of the changes to accumulated other comprehensive income were: $564.5 million related to the increase in the unrealized gain on securities available for sale and derivative instruments, $58.8 million related to an increase in the accumulated foreign exchange gain and a decrease of $61.9 million for minimum pension liability adjustments. Excluding changes due to other comprehensive income, shareholders equity decreased $528.6 million. This decrease is the net of increases due to $91.6 million of net income and $93.6 million from the issuance of common stock related to benefit plans and decreases due to $234.3 million from the declaration of dividends to shareholders, $474.5 million for the retirement of common stock, $4.5 million for the forfeiture of shares under benefit plans and $0.5 million for the cancellation of shares related to the acquisition of subsidiaries Capital adequacy is a primary measure used by insurance regulators to determine the financial stability of an insurance company. In the U.S., risk based capital guidelines are used by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners to determine the amount of capital that represents minimum acceptable operating amounts related to insurance and investment risks. Regulatory action is triggered when an insurers statutory basis capital falls below the formula produced capital level. At December 31, 2002, statutory basis capital for each of LNCs U.S. insurance subsidiaries was in excess of regulatory action levels of risk based capital required by the jurisdiction of domicile. As noted above, shareholders equity includes accumulated other comprehensive income. At December 31, 2002, the book value of $29.82 per share included $3.85 of accumulated other comprehensive income. At December 31, 2001, the book value of $28.10 per share included $0.97 related to accumulated other comprehensive income. 72 Table of Contents Contingencies See Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding contingencies. Legislation In the 2003 Budget proposal, President Bush proposed an economic stimulus package and changes to retirement savings. The centerpiece of the stimulus proposal is the elimination of the double taxation of corporate dividends. Both the Bush Administration and Congress have expressed concerns regarding the impact of the proposal on variable annuities. The life insurance industry has proposed that dividends in equity securities held in separate accounts flow through to increase the basis in the variable annuity contract. The overall impact of these proposals on LNCs products and corporate tax burden cannot be accurately predicted at this time. Initial legislative language has been introduced to implement certain aspects of the Presidents proposals, which is currently the subject of debate and testimony before Congress It is too early to predict the final form of the legislation that Congress will pass, if any. Tax legislation could increase or reduce tax advantages for some of LNCs life insurance and annuity products. LNC continues to support reductions in the tax burden imposed on its businesses, employees and policyholders. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Market Risk Exposures of Financial Instruments LNC analyzes and manages the risks arising from market exposures of financial instruments, as well as other risks, in an integrated asset liability management process that takes diversification into account. By aggregating the potential effect of market and other risks of the entire enterprise, LNC estimates, reviews and in some cases manages the risk to its earnings and shareholder value. LNC has exposures to several market risks including interest rate, default risk, foreign currency exchange, liquidity and equity price risks. The exposures of financial instruments to market risks, and the related risk management processes, are most important in the Lincoln Retirement (formerly known as Annuities) and Life Insurance segments. It is within these segments where most of the invested assets support accumulation and investment oriented insurance products. As an important element of its integrated asset liability management process, LNC uses derivatives to minimize the effects of changes in interest levels and the shape of the yield curve. In this context, derivatives are designated as a hedge and serve to reduce interest rate risk by mitigating the effect of significant increases in interest rates on LNCs earnings. Additional market exposures exist in LNCs other general account insurance products and in its debt structure and derivatives positions. The primary sources of market risk are: 1) substantial, relatively rapid and sustained increases or decreases in interest rates, 2) fluctuations in currency exchange rates or 3) a sharp drop in equity market values. Each of these market risks are discussed in detail in the following pages. 1) Interest Rate Risk Accumulation and Investment Oriented Insurance Products. General account assets supporting accumulation and investment oriented insurance products total $31.2 billion or 78% and $26.5 billion or 73% of total invested assets at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. With respect to these products, LNC seeks to earn a stable and profitable spread between investment income and interest credited to account values. If LNC has adverse experience on investments that cannot be passed onto customers, its spreads are reduced. Alternatively, LNC may seek to maintain spreads and this may result in crediting rates that are not competitive in the market place. This strategy could result in adverse surrender experience on policies and could force LNC to liquidate a portion of its portfolio to fund cash surrender value benefits. LNC does not view the near term risk to spreads over the next twelve months to be material. The combination of a probable range of interest rate changes over the next twelve months, asset liability 73 Table of Contents management strategies, flexibility in adjusting policy crediting rate levels and protection afforded by policy surrender charges and other switching costs all work together to minimize this risk. The interest rate scenarios of concern are those in which there is a substantial, relatively rapid increase or decrease in interest rates that is then sustained over a long period. Fixed Deferred Annuities. Assets of $19.9 billion and $16.5 billion at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively, support the largest category of accumulation and investment oriented insurance products, fixed deferred annuities. For these products, LNC may adjust renewal crediting rates monthly or quarterly, subject to guaranteed minimums ranging from 3% to 5%. The higher minimums apply to in force blocks of older products that no longer are sold. Annuity insurance customers have the right to surrender their policies at account value less a surrender charge that grades to zero over periods ranging from 5 to 10 years from policy issue date or, in some cases, the date of each premium received. In some cases, a market value adjustment may also apply. Due to LNCs ability to change crediting rates to reflect investment experience on the majority of its traditional annuity products, the underlying assets are assumed to be a good proxy for the interest rate risk inherent in these liabilities. This assumption is appropriate for probable movements in interest rates over the next 12 months. This assumption may not be appropriate for a substantial, relatively rapid increase or decrease in interest rates that is then sustained over a long period. Universal Life and Interest Sensitive Whole Life. LNC had $9.3 billion and $8.1 billion in assets at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively, supporting universal life and interest sensitive whole life insurance on which it has the right to adjust renewal crediting rates. The credited rates are subject to guaranteed minimums ranging from 3% to 4.5% for universal life and 4.0% to 7.0% for interest sensitive whole life, at December 31, 2002. Similar to annuities, universal life insurance customers have the right to surrender their policies at account value less a surrender charge that grades to zero over periods ranging from 10 to 20 years from policy issue date or, in some cases, the date of each premium received. Guaranteed Interest Contracts and Group Pension Annuities. LNC had assets totaling $2.0 billion and $1.9 billion at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively that support guaranteed interest contracts, group pension annuities and immediate annuities. Generally, the cash flows expected on these liabilities do not vary with fluctuations in market interest rates and are not adjustable by LNC. Accordingly, if experience on the assets supporting these products is more adverse than the assumptions used in pricing the products, spreads will tend to be below expectations. LNC limits exposure to interest rate risk by managing the duration and maturity structure of each investment portfolio in relation to the liabilities it supports. Other General Account Insurance Products. LNC had $8.8 billion and $9.6 billion of assets at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively, supporting general account products. For these products, the liability cash flows may have actuarial uncertainty. However, their amounts and timing do not vary significantly with interest rates. LNC limits interest rate risk by analyzing the expected cash flows of the products and structuring investment portfolios with similar cash flows. Interest Rate Risk Falling Rates. Interest rates declined in 1998, rose in 1999 and declined again in 2000, 2001 and 2002. For example, the five year Treasury yield decreased from 5.7% in 1997 to 4.5% by the end of 1998, increased to 6.3% by the end of 1999, and declined from 5.0% at the end of 2000 to 4.3% at the end of 2001 and declined again to 2.70% at the end of 2002. Under scenarios in which interest rates fall and remain at levels significantly lower than those prevailing at December 31, 2002, minimum guarantees on annuity and universal life insurance policies (generally 3% to 5% or an average of approximately 4%) could cause the spread between the yield on the portfolio and the interest rate credited to policyholders to deteriorate. The earned rate on the annuity and universal life insurance portfolios averaged 6.8% and 7.3%, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2002, providing a cushion for a decline before the earned rates would be insufficient to cover minimum guaranteed rates plus the target spread. The following table provides detail on the difference between interest crediting rates and minimum guaranteed rates as of December 31, 2002. For example, at December 31, 2002, there are $5.920 billion of 74 Table of Contents combined Retirement and Life Insurance account values where the excess of the crediting rate over contact minimums is between 1.51% and 2.00%. As of December 31, 2002 Excess of Crediting Rates over Contract Minimums Retirement Life Total % (in millions) Fixed Rate and On Benefit type annuities $ 4,359 $ $ 4,359 14.4 % Discretionary rate setting products* No difference 2,104 696 2,800 9.3 % up to .1% 107 0 107 0.4 % .11% to .20% 54 0 54 0.2 % .21% to .30% 391 728 1,119 3.7 % .31% to .40% 2,941 0 2,941 9.7 % .41% to .50% 368 39 407 1.4 % .51% to .60% 40 246 286 0.9 % .61% to .70% 93 158 251 0.8 % .71% to .80% 41 844 885 2.9 % .81% to .90% 5,195 0 5,195 17.2 % .91% to 1.0% 295 20 315 1.0 % 1.01% to 1.50% 2,228 1,893 4,121 13.6 % 1.51% to 2.00% 1,118 4,802 5,920 19.6 % 2.01% to 2.50% 447 584 1,031 3.4 % 2.51% to 3.00% 279 157 436 1.4 % 3.01% and above 28 0 28 0.1 % Total Discretionary rate setting products 15,729 10,167 25,896 85.6 % Grand Total Account Values $ 20,088 $ 10,167 $ 30,255 100.0 % * For purposes of this exhibit, contracts currently within new money rate bands are grouped according to the corresponding portfolio rate band in which they will fall upon their first anniversary. The maturity structure and call provisions of the related portfolios are structured to afford protection against erosion of this cushion for a period of time. However, spreads would be at risk if interest rates continued to fall and remained lower for a long period. LNC devotes extensive effort to evaluating these risks by simulating asset and liability cash flows for a wide range of interest rate scenarios. LNC seeks to manage these exposures by maintaining a suitable maturity structure and by limiting its exposure to call risk in each respective investment portfolio. LNC believes that the portfolios supporting its accumulation and investment oriented insurance products have a prudent degree of call protection individually and on a consolidated basis. For instance, as of December 31, 2002, the mortgage backed securities (MBS) and asset backed securities (ABS) portion represented a total of $5.0 billion or 17% of the $31.2 billion of general account assets supporting such products. Of this portfolio, 11% of general account assets or $3.1 billion is subject to residential prepayment risk from investments made in Collateralized Mortgage Obligations (CMOs), mortgage pass throughs, manufactured housing and home equity loans. As of December 31, 2001, the MBS and ABS portion of the portfolio represented a total of $3.5 billion or 14% of the $24.6 billion of general account assets supporting such products. LNCs MBS portfolio has equal to or slightly less prepayment risk than the MBS pass through market in general primarily due to holding more seasoned securities in the portfolio. 75 Table of Contents Interest Rate Risk Rising Rates. For both annuities and universal life insurance, a rapid and sustained rise in interest rates poses risks of deteriorating spreads and high surrenders. The portfolios supporting these products have fixed rate assets laddered over maturities generally ranging from one to ten years or more. Accordingly, the earned rate on each portfolio lags behind changes in market yields. As rates rise, the lag may be increased by slowing MBS prepayments. The greater and faster the rise in interest rates, the more the earned rate will tend to lag behind market rates. If LNC sets renewal crediting rates to earn the desired spread, the gap between its renewal crediting rates and competitors new money rates may be wide enough to cause increased surrenders. If LNC credits more competitive renewal rates to limit surrenders, its spreads will narrow. LNC devotes extensive effort to evaluating these risks by simulating asset and liability cash flows for a wide range of interest rate scenarios. Such analysis has led to adjustments in the target maturity structure and to hedging the risk of rising rates by buying out of the money interest rate cap agreements and swaptions (see discussion below). With these instruments in place, the potential adverse impact of a rapid and sustained rise in rates is kept within corporate risk tolerances. Debt. As of December 31, 2002, LNC had short term debt, long term debt and company obligated mandatorily redeemable preferred securities of subsidiary trusts holding solely junior subordinated debentures totaling $1.67 billion ($1.22 billion with fixed rates and $0.45 billion with floating rates) on the balance sheet. As of December 31, 2001, LNC had short term debt, long term debt and minority interest preferred securities of subsidiary companies totaling $1.69 billion ($1.27 billion with fixed rates and $0.42 billion with floating rates) on the balance sheet. LNC manages the timing of maturities and the mixture of fixed rate and floating rate debt as part of the process of integrated management of interest rate risk for the entire enterprise. Derivatives. As indicated in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements, LNC has entered into derivative transactions to reduce its exposure to rapid rises in interest rates. The four programs discussed below are used to help LNC achieve more stable margins while providing competitive crediting rates to policyholders during periods when interest rates are rising. Failure to maintain competitive crediting rates could cause policyholders to withdraw their funds and place them in more competitive products. LNC uses interest rate cap agreements to hedge against the negative impact of a significant and sustained rise in interest rates. Interest rate caps are contracts that require counterparties to pay LNC at specified future dates the amount, if any, by which a specified market interest rate exceeds the cap rate stated in the agreements, applied to a notional amount. As of December 31, 2002 and 2001, LNC had agreements with notional amounts of $1.3 billion in both periods. At December 31, 2002, the agreements had cap rates ranging from 200 to 850 basis points above prevailing interest rates. The cap rates in some contracts increase over time. These agreements expire in 2003 through 2007. LNC also uses swaptions to hedge against the negative impact of a significant and sustained rise in interest rates. Swaptions are options to enter into a swap at a specified future date. If the option is exercised at expiration, the option is either settled in cash or exercised into a swap agreement. LNC purchases swaptions to be settled in cash. At expiration, the counterparty is required to pay LNC the amount, if any, of the present value of the difference between the fixed rate on a market rate swap and the strike rate stated in the agreement, applied to a notional amount. As of December 31, 2002 and 2001, LNC had agreements with notional amounts of $0.2 billion and $1.8 billion, respectively. At December 31, 2002, the agreements had strike rates ranging from 550 to 700 basis points above prevailing interest rates. These agreements expire in 2003. Notional for swaptions decreased by $1.6 billion as a result of expirations and a change in the method of reporting notional. No additional swaptions were purchased during the year. For future periods, the fair value of LNCs interest rate caps and swaptions depends on the levels of future U.S. Treasury and U.S. dollar swap interest rates. The table below shows estimates of fair value levels for the cap and swaption portfolio at December 31, 2002 for future time periods and selected potential future interest rate levels. 76 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2002 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 (in millions) No change $ 4.7 $ 1.7 $ 0.3 $ $ $ Up 2% 26.1 13.3 4.9 0.9 Up 4% 65.8 42.6 23.6 10.0 2.7 0.5 Up 6% 119.0 86.6 56.5 31.7 15.0 6.4 LNC uses exchange traded financial futures contracts to hedge against interest rate risks on a portion of its fixed maturity securities. Financial futures contracts obligate LNC to buy or sell a financial instrument at a specified future date for a specified price. They may be settled in cash or through delivery of the financial instrument. Cash settlements on the change in market values of financial futures contracts are made daily. As of December 31, 2002, LNC did not have any open futures. LNC uses interest rate swap agreements to hedge its exposure to floating rate bond coupon payments, replicating a fixed rate bond. An interest rate swap is a contractual agreement to exchange payments at one or more times based on the actual or expected price level, performance or value of one or more underlying interest rates. LNC is required to pay the counterparty the stream of variable interest payments based on the coupon payments from the hedged bonds, and in turn, receives a fixed payment from the counterparty, at a predetermined interest rate. In addition, LNC uses interest rate swap agreements to hedge its exposure to interest rate fluctuations related to the forecasted purchase of assets to support newly acquired blocks of business or certain other portfolios of assets. Finally, LNC uses interest rate swap agreements to hedge the risk of paying a higher fixed rate interest on company obligated mandatorily redeemable preferred securities of subsidiary trusts holding solely junior subordinated debentures and on senior debt than can be paid on long term debt based on current interest rates in the marketplace. As of December 31, 2002 and 2001, LNC had swap agreements with a notional amount of $701.6 million and $507.6 million, respectively. The agreements expire in 2003 through 2050. Notional for interest rate swaps increased $194.0 million during 2002 primarily as a result of entering into interest rate swaps to hedge variable rate assets and to convert fixed rate debt payments into floating rate debt payments. LNC used a treasury lock agreement to hedge its exposure to variability in future semi annual interest payments, attributable to changes in the benchmark interest rate, related to the issuance of its 10 year $250 million senior debt in December 2001 and its 5 year $250 million senior debt in 2002. A treasury lock is an agreement that allows the holder to lock in a benchmark interest rate, so that if the benchmark interest rate increases, the holder is entitled to receive a payment from the counterparty equal to the present value of the difference in the benchmark interest rate at the determination date and the locked in benchmark interest rate. If the benchmark interest rate decreases, the holder must pay the counterparty an amount equal to the present value of the difference in the benchmark interest rate at the determination date and the locked in benchmark interest rate. As of December 31, 2002, LNC did not have any open treasury locks. In addition to continuing existing programs, LNC may use derivative products in other strategies to limit risk and enhance returns, particularly in the management of investment spread businesses. LNC has established policies, guidelines and internal control procedures for the use of derivatives as tools to enhance management of the overall portfolio of risks assumed in LNCs operations. Annually, LNCs Board of Directors reviews LNCs derivatives policy and LNCs compliance with the policy. Table of Significant Exposures. The table below provides a general measure of LNCs significant interest rate risk (principal amounts are shown by year of maturity and include amortization of premiums and discounts); notional amounts for interest rate caps and swaptions are shown by amount outstanding at the year end given) as of December 31, 2002. 77 Table of Contents There Value 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 after Total Fair (in millions) Rate Sensitive Assets Fixed interest rate securities $ 929.1 $ 959.1 $ 1,556.4 $ 1,646.8 $ 2,311.0 $ 23,183.0 $ 30,585.4 $ 30,726.5 Average interest rate 7.14 % 6.98 % 7.04 % 6.58 % 6.45 % 6.71 % 6.71 % Variable interest rate securities $ 12.0 $ 85.9 $ 153.3 $ 39.9 $ 45.7 $ 2,704.9 $ 3,041.7 $ 2,041.0 Average interest rate 7.88 % 8.08 % 8.50 % 6.89 % 6.75 % 5.52 % 5.94 % Mortgage loans $ 110.4 $ 478.8 $ 214.0 $ 336.9 $ 313.3 $ 2,765.1 $ 4,218.5 $ 4,678.8 Average interest rate 8.21 % 8.15 % 8.39 % 7.79 % 8.21 % 7.91 % 7.99 % Rate Sensitive Liabilities Guaranteed Interest Contracts: Interest paid at maturity $ 24.0 $ 36.0 $ 23.0 $ $ $ $ 83.0 $ 95.0 Average interest rate 10.67 % 10.71 % 10.72 % 10.70 % Investment type insurance contracts, excluding guaranteed interest contracts (1) $ 410.8 $ 1,218.4 $ 692.0 $ 833.6 $ 1,124.7 $ 15,662.1 $ 19,941.6 $ 20,283.3 Average interest rate 7.45 % 7.33 % 7.19 % 6.93 % 6.79 % 6.98 % 7.01 % Debt (2) $ 158.0 $ 193.0 $ 250.0 $ 1,042.8 $ 1,643.8 $ 1,727.7 Average interest rate 1.79 % 7.25 % 5.25 7.19 % 6.36 % Rate Sensitive Derivative Financial Instruments: Interest Rate and Foreign Currency Swaps: Pay variable/receive fixed 85.0 5.0 47.2 13.4 224.6 387.9 763.1 72.7 Average pay rate 1.8 % 2.0 % 4.4 % 2.7 % 1.7 % 2.3 % 2.2 % Average receive rate 5.3 % 5.9 % 6.9 % 6.6 % 4.9 % 7.0 % 6.2 % Interest Rate Caps and Swaptions: (3) Outstanding notional 1,050.0 1,050.0 1,050.0 800.0 4.7 Average strike rate (4) 7.8 % 7.9 % 8.0 % 7.9 % Forward CMT curve (5) 3.9 % 4.5 % 5.0 % 5.3 % The table shows the principal amounts and fair values of assets, liabilities and derivatives having significant interest rate risks as of December 31, 2001. Principal Fair Amount Value (in millions) Fixed interest rate securities $ 27,474.7 $ 26,380.6 Variable interest rate securities 3,154.2 1,965.1 Mortgage loans 4,538.9 4,691.1 Guaranteed interest contracts 77.0 89.0 Investment type insurance contracts (1) 19,041.1 18,297.1 Debt (2) 1,691.0 1,703.6 Interest rate and foreign currency swaps 602.2 24.1 Interest rate caps and swaptions 0.7 (1) The information shown is for the fixed maturity securities and mortgage loans that support these insurance contracts. (2) Includes company obligated mandatorily redeemable preferred securities of subsidiary trusts holding solely junior subordinated debentures. (3) Swaptions notional is shown converted to cap equivalent. 78 Table of Contents (4) The indexes are a mixture of five year and ten year Constant Maturity Treasury (CMT) and Constant Maturity Swap (CMS). (5) The CMT curve is the five year constant maturity treasury forward curve. 2) Foreign Currency Risk Foreign Currency Denominated Investments. LNC invests in foreign currency denominated securities for incremental return and risk diversification relative to United States Dollar Denominated (USD) securities. The fair value of foreign securities totaled $975.1 million as of December 31, 2002. LNC periodically uses foreign exchange forward contracts and foreign currency swaps to hedge some of the foreign exchange risk related to its investment in securities denominated in foreign currencies. The currency risk is hedged using foreign currency derivatives of the same currency as the bonds. The table below shows LNCs exposure to foreign currency securities. Also included is the relevant information relating to the foreign currency derivatives that are hedging the currency risk of these securities. The table below presents the principal or notional amount in U.S. dollar equivalents by expected maturity for LNCs foreign currency denominated investments and foreign currency swaps as of December 31, 2002. There Fair 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 After Total Value Currencies: Canadian Dollar $ $ $ $ 3.3 $ 12.7 $ 2.7 $ 18.7 $ 19.8 Interest Rate 6.37 % 4.65 % 5.53 % 5.08 % British Pound 122.0 47.1 40.1 37.8 27.7 579.3 854.0 950.7 Interest Rate 6.77 % 12.90 % 9.10 % 5.40 % 4.80 % 5.41 % 6.22 % French Franc 2.8 2.8 2.9 Interest Rate 8.90 % 8.90 % All Other Currencies 1.7 1.7 1.7 Interest Rate 13.14 % 13.14 % Total Currencies 123.7 47.1 40.1 43.9 40.4 582.0 877.2 975.1 Derivatives: Foreign Currency Swaps 44.5 13.5 3.4 61.4 (2.4 ) The table below presents the principal or notional amount in U.S. dollar equivalents of LNCs foreign currency denominated investments and foreign currency swaps as of December 31, 2001. Principal/ Fair Notional Value (in millions) Currencies Canadian Dollar $ 12.9 $ 13.5 British Pound 840.9 895.3 Filipino Peso 5.6 5.6 All other currencies 2.8 2.6 Total Currencies $ 862.2 $ 917.0 Derivatives Foreign Currency Swaps $ 94.6 $ 5.9 Foreign Currency Forward Contracts. LNC uses foreign currency forward contracts to hedge some of the foreign exchange risk related to its investments in fixed maturity securities denominated in foreign currencies. LNC typically engages in short term currency forward contracts of less than six months and actively monitors currency markets in determining those currencies to hedge, the duration of the hedge and the nominal amount to hedge. A foreign currency forward contract obligates LNC to deliver a specified amount of currency at a future date at a specified exchange rate. The value of the foreign exchange forward 79 Table of Contents contracts at any given point fluctuates according to the underlying level of exchange rate and interest rate differentials. During 2002, LNC entered into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge a portion of its net investment in Lincoln UK. At December 31, 2002, the total notional and fair value for these contracts was $43.0 million and $(1.8) million, respectively. These contracts expire in 2003. Foreign Currency Swaps. A foreign currency swap is a contractual agreement to exchange the currencies of two different countries at a specified rate of exchange in the future. LNC uses foreign currency swaps to convert the cash flow of foreign currency securities to U.S. dollars. 3) Equity Market Exposures LNCs revenues, assets, liabilities and derivatives are exposed to equity market risk. Refer to the section captioned First Quarter 2003 Guidance for the Estimated Effect of Equity Market Volatility for additional discussion of equity market risk. Fee Revenues. The fee revenues of LNCs Investment Management segment and fees earned from variable annuities and variable life insurance products are exposed to the risk of a decline in equity market values. These fees are generally a fixed percentage of the market value of assets under management. In a severe equity market decline, fee income could be reduced by not only reduced market valuations but also by customer withdrawals and redemptions. Such withdrawals and redemptions from equity funds and accounts might be partially offset by transfers to LNCs fixed income accounts and the transfer of funds to LNC from its competitors customers. Assets. While LNC invests in equity assets with the expectation of achieving higher returns than would be available in its core fixed income investments, the returns on, and values of, these equity investments are subject to somewhat greater market risk than its fixed income investments. These investments, however, add diversification benefits to LNCs fixed income investments. The table below shows the sensitivity of price changes to LNCs equity assets owned. December 31, 2002 December 31, 2001 10% Fair 10% Fair Carrying Fair Value Value Carrying Fair Value Value Increase Decrease Value Value (in millions) U.S. Equities $ 133.7 $ 133.7 $ 147.1 $ 120.3 $ 154.2 $ 154.2 Foreign Equities 198.6 198.6 218.4 178.8 309.6 309.6 Emerging Market Equities 4.9 4.9 5.4 4.4 6.7 6.7 Subtotal 337.2 337.2 370.9 303.5 470.5 470.5 Real Estate 279.7 312.0 343.2 280.8 267.9 296.9 Other Equity Interests 300.5 279.2 307.1 251.3 366.7 356.9 Total $ 917.4 $ 928.4 $ 1,021.2 $ 835.6 $ 1,105.1 $ 1,124.3 Liabilities. LNC has exposure to U.S. equity markets through stock appreciation rights (SARs) issued in 2000 through 2002. The aggregate value for vested and non vested SARs was $3.7 million and $4.1 million at December 31, 2002, respectively. The aggregate value for vested and non vested SARs was $6.5 million and $15.3 million at December 31, 2001, respectively. This program is being hedged with equity derivatives as discussed below. Derivatives Hedging Equity Risks. LNC uses OTC equity call options on LNC stock to hedge against the increase in its liabilities arising from stock appreciation rights granted on LNC stock in 2000 through 2002. These call options require the counterparty to pay LNC at specified future expiration dates the amount, if any, of the increase in LNCs stock price over the strike price of the option, applied to the number of contracts. LNC had 1.3 million and 1.1 million call options on an equal number of shares of LNC stock at 80 Table of Contents December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The call options expirations are matched to the liabilities and expire in 2005 through 2007. Default Risk. LNCs portfolio of invested assets was $40.0 billion as of December 31, 2002. Of this total, $25.9 billion consists of corporate bonds and $4.2 billion consists of commercial mortgages. LNC manages the risk of adverse default experience on these investments by applying disciplined credit evaluation and underwriting standards, prudently limiting allocations to lower quality, higher yielding investments, and diversifying exposures by issuer, industry, region and property type. For each counterparty or borrowing entity and its affiliates, LNCs exposures from all transactions are aggregated and managed in relation to formal limits set by rating quality and industry group. LNC remains exposed to occasional adverse cyclical economic downturns during which default rates may be significantly higher than the long term historical average used in pricing. As of December 31, 2001, LNC had a portfolio of invested assets of $36.1 billion. LNC is depending on the ability of derivative product dealers and their guarantors to honor their obligations to pay the contract amounts under various derivatives agreements. In order to minimize the risk of default losses, LNC diversifies its exposures among several dealers and limits the amount of exposure to each in accordance with the credit rating of each dealer or its guarantor. LNC generally limits its selection of counterparties that are obligated under these derivative contracts to those with an A credit rating or above. Credit Related Derivatives. LNC periodically uses spread lock agreements to hedge a portion of the value of its fixed maturity investments against the risk of widening in the spreads between their yields and the yields of comparable maturity U.S. or other Government obligations. As of December 31, 2002, LNC did not have any open spread lock agreements. LNC used put options, combined with various perpetual fixed income securities and interest rate swaps to replicate fixed income, fixed maturity investments. The risk being hedged was a drop in bond prices due to credit concerns with the international bond issuers. The put options allowed LNC to put the bonds back to the counterparties at original par. As of December 31, 2002, LNC did not have any open put options. LNC uses credit default swaps to hedge against a drop in bond prices due to credit concerns of certain bond issuers. A credit swap allows LNC to put the bond back to the counterparty at par upon a credit event by the bond issuer. A credit event is defined as bankruptcy, failure to pay, or obligation acceleration. As of December 31, 2002 and 2001, LNC had credit swaps with a notional amount of $26 million and $29 million, respectively. The credit swaps expire in 2003 through 2006. LNC used total return swaps to hedge its exposure to interest rate and spread risk resulting from the forecasted sale of assets in a securitization of certain LNC mortgage loans. A total return swap is an agreement that allows the holder to protect itself against loss of value by effectively transferring the economic risk of asset ownership to the counterparty. The holder pays (receives) the total return equal to interest plus capital gains or losses on a referenced asset and receives a floating rate of interest. As of December 31, 2002, LNC did not have any open total return swaps. Ratings based Termination Events. LNC and LNL are required to maintain minimum ratings as a matter of routine practice in negotiating ISDA agreements. Under the majority of ISDA agreements and as a matter of policy, LNL has agreed to maintain financial strength or claims paying ratings above S&P BBB and Moodys Baa2. A downgrade below these levels would result in termination of the derivatives contract at which time any amounts payable by LNC would be dependent on the market value of the underlying derivative contract. In certain transactions, LNC and the counterparty have entered into a collateral support agreement requiring LNC to post collateral upon significant downgrade. LNC is required to maintain long term senior debt ratings above S&P BBB and Moodys Baa2. LNC also requires for its own protection minimum rating standards for counterparty credit protection. LNL is required to maintain financial strength or claims paying ratings above S&P A and Moodys A3 under certain ISDA agreements, which collectively do not represent material notional exposure. LNC does not believe the inclusion of termination or collateralization events pose any material threat to its liquidity position. 81 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results and Financial Condition Introduction Lincoln National Corporation (LNC) is a holding company. Through subsidiary companies, LNC operates multiple insurance and investment management businesses. The collective group of companies uses, Lincoln Financial Group as its marketing identity. LNC is the 39th largest (based on assets) United States Corporation (2001 Fortune 500, Largest U.S. Corporations, April 2002). Operations are divided into four business segments: 1) Lincoln Retirement (formerly known as the Annuities segment), 2) Life Insurance, 3) Investment Management and 4) Lincoln UK. LNC reports operations not directly related to the business segments and unallocated corporate items (i.e., corporate investment income, interest expense on corporate debt, unallocated overhead expenses, and the operations of Lincoln Financial Advisors (LFA) and Lincoln Financial Distributors (LFD) and the amortization of the deferred gain on the sale of Lincoln Re) in Other Operations. Prior to the fourth quarter of 2001, LNC had a Reinsurance segment. Total employment of LNC at December 31, 2002 on a consolidated basis was 5,830. Forward Looking Statements Cautionary Language The pages that follow review results of operations of LNC Consolidated, LNCs four business segments and Other Operations; LNCs consolidated investments; and consolidated financial condition including liquidity, cash flows and capital resources. Historical financial information is presented and analyzed. Where appropriate, factors that may affect future financial performance are identified and discussed. Certain statements made in this report are forward looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the Act). Forward looking statements include, without limitation, any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate or imply future results, performance or achievements, and may contain words like: believe, anticipate, expect, estimate, project, will, shall and other words or phrases with similar meaning. Forward looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the results contained in the forward looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, among others, subsequent significant changes in: the Company (e.g., acquisitions and divestitures of legal 15 Table of Contents entities and blocks of business directly or by means of reinsurance transactions); financial markets (e.g., interest rates and securities markets); competitors and competing products and services; LNCs ability to operate its businesses in a relatively normal manner; legislation (e.g., corporate, individual, estate and product taxation); the price of LNCs stock; accounting principles generally accepted in the United States; regulations (e.g., insurance and securities regulations); and debt and claims paying ratings issued by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations. Other risks and uncertainties include: the risk that significant accounting, fraud or corporate governance issues may adversely affect the value of certain investments; whether necessary regulatory approvals are obtained (e.g., insurance department, Hart Scott Rodino, etc.) and, if obtained, whether they are obtained on a timely basis; whether proceeds from divestitures of legal entities and blocks of business can be used as planned; litigation, arbitration and other actions (e.g., (a) adverse decisions in significant actions including, but not limited to extra contractual and class action damage cases, (b) new decisions which change the law, (c) unexpected trial court rulings, (d) unavailability of witnesses and (e) newly discovered evidence); acts of God (e.g., hurricanes, earthquakes and storms); whether there will be any significant charges or benefits resulting from the contingencies described in the footnotes to LNCs consolidated financial statements; acts of terrorism or war; the stability of governments in countries in which LNCs subsidiaries do business; and other insurance risks (e.g., policyholder mortality and morbidity). The risks included here are not exhaustive. Other sections of this report, and LNCs quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission include additional factors which could impact LNCs business and financial performance. Moreover, LNC operates in a rapidly changing and competitive environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors. Further, it is not possible to assess the impact of all risk factors on LNCs business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undo reliance on forward looking statements as a prediction of actual results. In addition, LNC disclaims any obligation to update any forward looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of this report. Critical Accounting Policies Given the nature of LNCs business, the Companys accounting policies require the use of judgments relating to a variety of assumptions and estimates. Because of the inherent uncertainty in the assumptions and estimates underlying these accounting policies, under different conditions or assumptions the amounts reported in LNCs financial statements could be materially different. Throughout Managements Discussion and Analysis, the application of these various critical accounting policies is addressed along with the effect of changes in estimates and assumptions. To provide an overall perspective on these critical accounting policies, and guidance as to the specific areas within Managements Discussion and Analysis where these critical accounting policies are discussed in detail, a summary of critical accounting policies and the disclosure location is presented below. Accounting for intangible assets requires numerous assumptions, such as estimates of expected future profitability for various LNC operations and LNCs ability to retain its existing blocks of life and annuity business in force. LNCs accounting policies for the intangible assets of deferred acquisition costs (DAC) and the present value of acquired blocks of in force policies (PVIF) are discussed within the Lincoln Retirement, Life Insurance and Lincoln UK segments. LNCs overall accounting policy for other identified intangibles and goodwill is discussed within Results of Consolidated Operations. A key assumption affecting the accounting for DAC and PVIF is the performance of equity markets. Sensitivity to changes in equity market performance upon LNCs net income is discussed under the heading First Quarter 2003 Guidance for the Effects of Equity Market Volatility on Fee Income, DAC and GMDB found within LNCs discussion of Consolidated Operating results. Additionally, LNC has goodwill resulting from various acquisitions. Refer to the Accounting for Business Combinations and Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets section for discussion of the evaluation of goodwill for impairment. Within the Investment Management segment, LNC has an 16 Table of Contents intangible asset for Deferred Dealer Commissions. A significant decrease in the equity markets could affect the carrying value of this asset. Refer to the Investment Management Results of Operations section for future discussion of this asset. Determining whether a decline in current fair values for invested assets is other than a temporary decline in value can frequently involve a variety of assumptions and estimates, particularly for investments that are not actively traded on established markets. For instance, assessing the value of some investments requires an analysis of expected future cash flows. Some investment structures, such as collateralized debt obligations, often represent selected levels, or tranches of underlying investments in a wide variety of underlying issuers. LNCs accounting policies for its invested assets are discussed within Results of Consolidated Operations and Consolidated Investments. Specific discussion of LNCs accounting policy for write downs for securities that were determined to have declines in fair value that were other than temporary along with analysis of securities available for sale in an unrealized loss position can be found within Consolidated Investments. To protect itself from a variety of equity market and interest rate risks that are inherent in many of LNCs life insurance and annuity products, LNC uses various derivative instruments. Assessing the effectiveness of these hedging programs and evaluating the carrying values of the related derivatives often involves a variety of assumptions and estimates. LNCs accounting policies for derivatives are discussed within Results of Consolidated Operations, Consolidated Investments and within the discussion of Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. In addition, discussion of the potential impact on interest rate risk in a falling rate environment is included in the Interest Rate Risk Falling Rates section within LNCs discussion of Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. Establishing adequate liabilities for LNCs obligations to its policyholders requires assumptions to be made regarding mortality and morbidity. The effect of variances in these assumptions is discussed within the Lincoln Retirement and Life Insurance segments. In addition, refer to the discussion of personal accident and disability income reserves included within the Acquisition and Divestiture discussion of the disposition of LNCs former Reinsurance segment within Other Operations. As discussed within the Lincoln Retirement segment, one of the liabilities is the reserve for Guaranteed Minimum Death Benefits (GMDB). A key assumption affecting the accounting for GMDB is the performance of equity markets. Sensitivity to changes in equity market performance upon GMDB and LNCs net income is discussed under the heading First Quarter 2003 Guidance for the Effects of Equity Market Volatility found within LNCs discussion of Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. Pursuant to the accounting rules for LNCs obligations to employees under its various retirement and welfare benefit plans, LNC is required to make a large number of assumptions, such as the future performance of financial markets and the composition of LNCs employee workforce in the future. LNCs accounting for its employee plans is discussed in detail within Note 6 Employee Benefit Plans, which is included in the notes to consolidated financial statements. Establishing reserves for litigation and compliance related regulatory actions inherently involve a variety of estimates of potential future outcomes. These matters are discussed within Results of Consolidated Operations and in the Lincoln UK segment, with additional detail provided within Note 7 Restrictions, Commitments and Contingencies, which is included in the notes to consolidated financial statements. As LNC responds to an ever changing business environment and continues to adapt its organizational and operational structures, the frequency of necessary restructuring activities increases. Establishing reserves for the expected costs of these restructurings requires a variety of estimates and assumptions. The accounting for LNCs restructurings is discussed within Results of Consolidated Operations and within Results of Operations for each affected business segment, as well as within Note 12 Restructuring Charges included in the notes to consolidated financial statements. Continued access to capital markets and maintenance of favorable debt and claims paying ratings are critical to LNCs future success. LNCs accounting, in a wide variety of areas, is inherently dependant upon continued access to capital and maintaining adequate ratings. Detailed discussion of LNCs access to capital markets, liquidity status and ratings are contained within Review of Consolidated Financial Condition. 17 Table of Contents Finally, it is LNCs policy to provide disclosure of commitments or guarantees so that its financial statements present as complete a picture of LNCs financial condition as possible. The vast majority of these commitments or guarantees relate to LNCs life insurance and retirement businesses and, as such, are reflected on LNCs balance sheet. Any off balance sheet commitments or guarantees that LNC is subject to are disclosed within Review of Consolidated Financial Condition and Note 7 Restrictions, Commitments and Contingencies which is included in the notes to consolidated financial statements. On pages 19 through 56, the results of operations of LNC consolidated, LNCs four business segments and Other Operations are presented and discussed. Pages 56 through 68 discuss LNCs consolidated investments. Pages 68 through 73 discuss LNCs consolidated financial condition including liquidity and cash flow, and capital resources. Pages 73 through 81 provide LNCs quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. Please note that all amounts stated in this Managements Discussion and Analysis are on an after tax basis except where specifically identified as pre tax. This Managements Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes presented on pages 83 through 147. 18 Table of Contents Overview: Results of Consolidated Operations Summary Information Increase Year Ended December 31 (Decrease) 2002 2001 2000 2002 2001 (in millions) Life insurance and annuity premiums $ 295.6 $ 1,363.4 $ 1,403.3 (78 %) (3 %) Health insurance premiums 20.3 340.6 409.8 (94 %) (17 %) Insurance fees 1,434.4 1,544.0 1,661.4 (7 %) (7 %) Investment advisory fees 183.3 197.2 213.2 (7 %) (8 %) Net investment income 2,608.3 2,679.6 2,747.1 (3 %) (2 %) Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates (0.6 ) 5.7 (0.4 ) Realized gain (loss) on investments and derivative instruments (271.5 ) (114.5 ) (28.3 ) Gain (loss) on sale of subsidiaries (8.3 ) 12.8 Other revenue and fees 373.9 349.2 441.0 7 % (21 %) Total Revenue 4,635.4 6,378.0 6,847.1 (27 %) (7 %) Life insurance and annuity benefits 2,504.4 3,107.6 3,108.2 (19 %) Health benefits 355.1 302.1 449.0 18 % (33 %) Underwriting, acquisition, insurance and other expenses 1,677.7 2,083.2 2,314.1 (19 %) (10 %) Interest and debt expenses 96.6 121.0 139.5 (20 %) (13 %) Federal income taxes (90.0 ) 158.3 214.9 Income before cumulative effect of accounting changes 91.6 605.8 621.4 Cumulative effect of accounting changes (15.6 ) Net Income $ 91.6 $ 590.2 $ 621.4 (84 %) (5 %) Items Included in Net income: Realized Gain (Loss) on Investments and Derivative Instruments (after tax) $ (176.4 ) $ (73.6 ) $ (17.5 ) Gain (Loss) on Sale of Subsidiaries (after tax) (9.4 ) 15.0 Restructuring Charges (after tax) 2.0 (24.7 ) (80.2 ) FAS 113 Reserve Development on Business Sold through Indemnity Reinsurance (after tax) (199.1 ) Cumulative Effect of Accounting Changes (after tax) (15.6 ) Goodwill Amortization (after tax) 43.4 45.1 Summary Comparison of 2002 to 2001 Net income decreased $498.6 million or 84%. The decrease in net income included an increase in realized losses on investments and derivatives of $102.8 million and expenses totaling $199.1 million recorded in 2002 related to increases in reserves for the business sold through indemnity reinsurance to Swiss Re. The realized losses on investments resulted from declines in value and the sale and write downs of fixed maturity securities. See the Consolidated Investment section for further discussion of this matter. 19 Table of Contents A significant contributor to the decrease in net income was the poor performance of the equity markets impact on fee income, DAC and PVIF amortization and GMDB reserves and benefits. The equity market impact is discussed in more detail within the discussion of results of operations by segment. Consolidated revenue decreased primarily due to the reduction of revenue of $1,699.4 million (pre tax), excluding realized losses on investments, from the former Reinsurance segment in 2001. Another contributor to the decline in revenue was the increase in realized losses on investments noted above. Included in 2002 revenue was $74.4 million (pre tax) for the amortization of the deferred gain on indemnity reinsurance compared to $20.4 million in 2001. The Lincoln Retirement and Lincoln UK segments experienced decreased fee income due to the negative impact that 2001 and 2002 equity market declines had on average variable annuity (Retirement) and unit linked (Lincoln UK) account values. The Investment Management segment had decreased investment advisory fees and other revenue and fees as a result of lower retail and institutional assets under management during 2002. The decrease in assets under management was primarily a result of the declining equity markets. Consolidated expenses (excluding goodwill amortization, restructuring charges, reserve increases on business sold through reinsurance and federal income taxes) decreased by $1,202.0 million or 22% largely due to the sale of LNCs reinsurance business to Swiss Re in the fourth quarter of 2001. Expenses for the operations of the former Reinsurance segment, excluding goodwill amortization, were $1,503.7 million in 2001. Expenses were negatively affected by the decline in the equity markets which resulted in negative unlocking of DAC and PVIF in the Lincoln Retirement, Life Insurance and Lincoln UK business segments, and increased reserves and payments for GMDB in the Lincoln Retirement segment. For 2002, LNC reported a tax benefit of $90.0 million on $1.6 million of pre tax earnings. This unusual relationship between tax benefit and pre tax earnings results from the fact that LNC has tax preferred investment income that does not change proportionately with the change in consolidated pre tax earnings. LNCs tax preferred investment income is primarily the result of dividend received deductions attributable to LNCs allocable share of dividend income generated by equity securities held within the Lincoln Retirement segments separate accounts. See note 4, Federal Income Taxes, to the consolidated financial statements for more details. Comparison of 2001 to 2000 Net income for 2001 was $590.2 million compared to $621.4 million for 2000, a $31.2 million or 5% decrease. Restructuring charges, net of the release of liabilities, included in net income in 2001 and 2000 were $24.7 million and $80.2 million, respectively. Contributing to the decrease in 2001 were realized losses on investments and derivative instruments of $73.6 million in 2001 compared to $17.5 million in 2000. These investment losses were due primarily to losses of $41.8 million (pre tax) taken on Enron and Argentina securities in the fourth quarter of 2001 in addition to increased write downs of other securities throughout 2001 due to credit deterioration. Partially offsetting the additional losses in 2001 was the gain on sale of certain reinsurance stock companies to Swiss Re of $15.0 million. The remaining $30.1 million decrease in Net Income between years was primarily the result of decreased earnings from the Lincoln Retirement and Investment Management segments, as well as LNCs distributors, LFA and LFD, which are reported in Other Operations. These negative variances were partially offset by improved earnings from the Life Insurance segment and the former Reinsurance segment, included within Other Operations. In addition, included in net income for 2001 was one months amortization of the deferred gain on the business transferred to Swiss Re via indemnity reinsurance. There was also a decrease in the net loss from LNC Financing and Other Corporate within Other Operations. Total revenue, excluding realized gains and losses on investments and derivative instruments and gain on sale of subsidiaries, decreased by $395.7 million or 6% in 2001 due primarily to lower fee income in the Lincoln Retirement segment and lower investment advisory fees in the Investment Management segment resulting from the depressed equity markets in 2001 and to a lesser extent to net outflows in annuities and investment products. In addition, Lincoln UK had a decrease in operating revenue due to lower business volume along with lower fee income resulting from a downturn in the United Kingdom equity markets over 20 Table of Contents the last half of 2001. The former Reinsurance segments operating revenue was down in 2001 as its results only included eleven months of activity. Finally, LFA and LFD included in Other Operations had lower sales revenue largely attributable to the volatile equity markets. Partially offsetting these negative variances, the Life Insurance segment had increased operating revenue due to growth in life insurance in force. Total expenses, exclusive of restructuring charges and Federal income taxes, decreased by $329.9 million or 6% in 2001 due primarily to decreased expenses in the Lincoln UK segment as a result of the decrease in business volume along with effective expense management. The former Reinsurance segment had a decrease due to only eleven months of expenses being reported for its operations. However, included in 2001 expenses for the former Reinsurance segment were losses recorded for the events of September 11. The Lincoln Retirement segment had a decrease in expenses due primarily to less amortization of deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets partially offset by increased operating and administrative expenses and benefits expenses. The Investment Management segment also experienced decreased expenses due to effective expense management and lower amortization of other intangibles assets. Partially offsetting these positive variances were increases in expenses in the Life Insurance segment, as well as LFD and LFA. Expenses increased in the Life Insurance segment primarily as a result of the growth in in force, which drove interest credited to policyholders higher. LFD had higher expenses primarily as a result of its investment in new wholesalers during 2001 and LFA experienced an increase in general and administrative expenses partially offset by a decrease in commissions and other volume related expenses. These expenses fell as a direct result of lower sales volume in 2001. For further discussion of the results of operations, see the discussion of the results of operations by segment. LNCs domestic consolidated product deposits and net flows were as follows: Year Ended December 31 2002 2001 2000 (in billions) Deposits (1): Lincoln Retirement Segment $ 6.4 $ 6.4 $ 5.2 Life Insurance Segment 2.1 1.9 1.9 Investment Management Segment (including both retail and institutional deposits) 10.9 7.5 8.4 Consolidating Adjustments (2) (1.4 ) (1.0 ) (0.4 ) Total Deposits $ 18.0 $ 14.8 $ 15.1 Net Flows (1): Lincoln Retirement Segment $ 0.5 $ 0.1 $ (2.9 ) Life Insurance Segment 1.3 1.2 1.2 Investment Management Segment (including both retail and institutional net flows) 2.9 (0.6 ) (7.2 ) Consolidating Adjustments (2) (0.2 ) 1.4 Total Net Flows $ 4.7 $ 0.5 $ (7.5 ) (1) For additional detail of deposit and net flow information see the discussion of the Results of Operations by Segment. (2) Consolidating adjustments represent the elimination of deposits and net flows on products affecting more than one segment. First Quarter 2003 Guidance for the Estimated Effect of Equity Market Volatility In prior periods, Lincoln National Corporation (LNC) provided guidance on the estimated effect of equity market volatility on its 2002 results. The following guidance is being provided for purposes of modeling the expected effects of equity market volatility for the first quarter of 2003. As will be explained in greater 21 Table of Contents detail below, the effects on LNCs results of significant volatility in equity markets are complex and are not expected to be proportional for market increases and market decreases. The first quarter 2003 information provided below is based upon market conditions and LNCs mix of business as of the beginning of the year. This guidance can be expected to change as actual circumstances change. Although LNC believes this guidance provides reasonable estimates based upon conditions as of January 1, 2003, LNC claims no responsibility for updating this forward looking information. This guidance is intended to provide a general indication of the expected effect of equity market volatility on LNCs fee income; deferred acquisition costs (DAC) and present value of in force (PVIF) intangible assets; and guaranteed minimum death benefit (GMDB) reserves. Excluded from this guidance is the effect that equity market changes may have upon LNCs realized and unrealized gains and losses on investments and intangible assets, other than DAC and PVIF. For example, write downs for impairment of goodwill and deferred dealer commission assets may be necessary under certain market conditions. These matters are not included within the guidance provided in this document. In measuring the estimated effects of changes in equity markets on its Retirement segment, LNC uses the S&P 500 index. LNC has generally found that the S&P 500 index is reasonably correlated to the effect of overall equity markets performance on this segments account values. Because LNCs fee income earned on its variable annuity business is determined daily, the change in the S&P 500 on a daily average basis relative to the level of the S&P 500 at the beginning of each quarter provides a reasonable indication of the impact quarterly changes in equity markets have on the Retirement segments fee income. Because end of period account values are used for computing DAC unlocking and for incurred GMDB costs, the end of period change in the S&P 500 is used in measuring the estimated market impact of DAC unlocking and for the impact associated with incurred GMDB costs. In addition, because DAC and GMDB calculations have an assumed 9% positive annual equity market return, or a 2.25% quarterly assumption, variances in actual market performance relative to these calculation assumptions will generate positive or negative DAC unlocking and GMDB adjustments. It is important to understand that the actual effect on fee income of market changes in the current quarter of an equity market change and the effect in the immediately following quarter will not be equal to a pro rata 25% of the estimated annualized effect of the market change. This is due to the fact that the actual change in fee income in the immediate quarter during which the market changes is measured by the change in actual variable account values from the beginning of the quarter compared to the average balance of variable account values for the quarter. The change in fee income due to the change from average account values to ending account values does not occur in the immediate quarter of the market change; rather, that change in fee income will occur in the quarter following the market change. LNC estimates that this lagging effect for the fourth quarter 2002 equity markets change will create a decrease of $0.5 million in fee income in the first quarter of 2003, because average account values for the fourth quarter of 2002 exceeded the level of ending account values at December 31, 2002. LNC also uses the S&P 500 index when describing the general effects of changes in equity markets for the Life Insurance segment. For the Lincoln UK segment, the FTSE 100 index provides a reasonable measure for approximating the effect of equity markets performance on earnings. LNC estimates that the lagging effect for the fourth quarter 2002 equity markets change will create a decrease of $0.1 million in fee income for Lincoln UK in the first quarter of 2003, because average account values for the fourth quarter of 2002 exceeded the level of ending account values at December 31, 2002. Additional market indices are used in measuring the effects of the market on the results of LNCs Investment Management segment. All of the relevant equity market indices (S&P, NASDAQ and MSCI EAFE) declined during the third quarter, ranging from a 19.9% NASDAQ decline to a 19.7% decline in the MSCI EAFE index. The fourth quarter increases were a 13.9% increase in the NASDAQ and a 6.5% increase in the MSCI EAFE index. The ongoing effect of the fourth quarter equity markets increase is expected to be a $0.1 million increase in the first quarter of 2003. The following discussion concerning the estimated effects of ongoing equity market volatility on LNCs earnings is intended to be illustrative. Actual effects may vary depending on a variety of factors, many of which 22 Table of Contents are outside of LNCs control, such as changing customer behaviors that might result in changes in the mix of LNCs business between variable or fixed annuity contracts, switching between investment alternatives available within variable products, or changes in policy lapsation rates. The relative effects shown in the illustrative scenarios presented below should not be considered to be indicative of the proportional effects on earnings that more significant changes in equity markets may generate. Such non proportional effects include those discussed earlier, such as incurred GMDB costs and DAC unlocking. Since the effect of continued equity market volatility is complex and subject to a variety of estimates and assumptions, such as assumed rates of long term equity market performance, it is difficult to provide information that can be reliably applied to predict earnings effects over a broad range of equity markets performance alternatives. But in an effort to provide some insight into these matters, LNC has provided below illustrative examples of the effects that equity market volatility might be expected to have on LNCs earnings. The underlying assumptions regarding these illustrations are as follows: 1) The first scenario assumes that equity markets remain unchanged from their respective levels at December 31, 2002 through the first quarter of 2003. 2) The second scenario assumes that from December 31, 2002 through the end of the first quarter of 2003 equity markets increase smoothly by 2.5%. 3) The third scenario assumes that from December 31, 2002 through the end of the first quarter of 2003 equity markets decline smoothly by 2.5%. As the above assumptions indicate, actual equity market changes that may have occurred since December 31, 2002 up to the date of issuance of this guidance are not being considered; rather, the examples that follow are provided to illustrate the effects of a hypothetical change in equity markets from December 31, 2002. The following tables are examples of the estimated effects on earnings that might be expected for each of these scenarios. Scenario #1: No change in equity markets from December 31, 2002 through March 31, 2003. Estimated Effect on First Quarter of 2003 Results (Million $): Market Effects Ongoing Effects of Reported in Market Changes Fourth from 4Q02 on Current Effects in Total Effect in Segment Quarter 2002 1Q03 First Quarter 2003 First Quarter 2003 Retirement Fees Q1 Effect* $ $ $ $ Fees Q4 Effect* $ 2.8 $ (0.5 ) $ $ (0.5 ) Total Fee Income $ 2.8 $ (0.5 ) $ $ (0.5 ) Other $ $ $ $ GMDB $ 2.5 $ $ (5.9 ) $ (5.9 ) DAC $ 0.6 $ $ $ Retirement Total Effect $ 5.9 $ (0.5 ) $ (5.9 ) $ (6.4 ) Life Insurance Total Effect $ 0.6 $ $ (0.2 ) $ (0.2 ) Investment Management Total Effect $ 1.4 $ 0.1 $ $ 0.1 Lincoln UK Fee Income* $ 0.5 $ (0.1 ) $ $ (0.1 ) DAC/ PVIF $ 1.4 $ $ (0.9 ) $ (0.9 ) Lincoln UK Total Effect $ 1.9 $ (0.1 ) $ (0.9 ) $ (1.0 ) LNC Total Total Effect $ 9.8 $ (0.5 ) $ (7.0 ) $ (7.5 ) * Differences exist in the market change effect on fee income for the current quarter, as compared to the ongoing quarterly effect, because the change in fee income in the immediate quarter is determined by the change in beginning variable account balances to average variable account balances for the current quarter. The change in fee income in the next subsequent quarter is determined by the change in average account values to ending variable account values that occurred due to the market changing in the preceding quarter. 23 Table of Contents However, in all following quarters, the ongoing effect of changes in the market occurring in the current quarter will be determined by the difference in beginning of quarter to end of quarter variable account balances. For purposes of this guidance, the change in account values is assumed to correlate with the change in the relevant index. Scenario #2: 2.5% increase in equity markets from December 31, 2002 to March 31, 2003 occurs smoothly during the quarter. Estimated Effect on First Quarter of 2003 Results (Million $): Market Effects Ongoing Effects of Reported in Market Changes Current Effects Total Effect Fourth from 4Q02 in in Segment Quarter 2002 on 1Q03 First Quarter 2003 First Quarter 2003 Retirement Fees Q1 Effect* $ $ $ 0.6 $ 0.6 Fees Q4 Effect* $ 2.8 $ (0.5 ) $ $ (0.5 ) Total Fee Income $ 2.8 $ (0.5 ) $ 0.6 $ 0.1 Other $ $ $ $ GMDB $ 2.5 $ $ (3.9 ) $ (3.9 ) DAC $ 0.6 $ $ $ Retirement Total Effect $ 5.9 $ (0.5 ) $ (3.3 ) $ (3.8 ) Life Insurance Total Effect $ 0.6 $ $ $ Investment Management Total Effect $ 1.4 $ 0.1 $ 0.4 $ 0.5 Lincoln UK Fee Income* $ 0.5 $ (0.1 ) $ 0.1 $ DAC/PVIF $ 1.4 $ $ 0.1 $ 0.1 Lincoln UK Total Effect $ 1.9 $ (0.1 ) $ 0.2 $ 0.1 LNC Total Total Effect $ 9.8 $ (0.5 ) $ (2.7 ) $ (3.2 ) * See * under Scenario #1 for explanation. Scenario #3: 2.5% decline in equity markets from December 31, 2002 to March 31, 2003 occurs smoothly during the quarter. Estimated Effect on First Quarter of 2003 Results (Million $): Market Effects Ongoing Effects of Reported in Market Changes Current Effects Total Effect Fourth from 4Q02 in in Segment Quarter 2002 on 1Q03 First Quarter 2003 First Quarter 2003 Retirement Fees Q1 Effect* $ $ $ (0.6 ) $ (0.6 ) Fees Q4 Effect* $ 2.8 $ (0.5 ) $ $ (0.5 ) Total Fee Income $ 2.8 $ (0.5 ) $ (0.6 ) $ (1.1 ) Other $ $ $ (0.6 ) $ (0.6 ) GMDB $ 2.5 $ $ (10.7 ) $ (10.7 ) DAC $ 0.6 $ $ (2.4 ) $ (2.4 ) Retirement Total Effect $ 5.9 $ (0.5 ) $ (14.3 ) $ (14.8 ) Life Insurance Total Effect $ 0.6 $ $ (0.5 ) $ (0.5 ) Investment Management Total Effect** $ 1.4 $ 0.1 $ (0.4 ) $ (0.3 ) 24 Table of Contents Market Effects Ongoing Effects of Reported in Market Changes Current Effects Total Effect Fourth from 4Q02 in in Segment Quarter 2002 on 1Q03 First Quarter 2003 First Quarter 2003 Lincoln UK Fee Income* $ 0.5 $ (0.1 ) $ (0.1 ) $ (0.2 ) DAC/PVIF $ 1.4 $ $ (1.9 ) $ (1.9 ) Lincoln UK Total Effect $ 1.9 $ (0.1 ) $ (2.0 ) $ (2.1 ) LNC Total Total Effect $ 9.8 $ (0.5 ) $ (17.2 ) $ (17.7 ) * See * under Scenario #1 for explanation. ** The above table excludes the impact of an impairment of the deferred dealer commission asset within the Investment Management segment. For instance, a review of the deferred dealer commission asset was performed as of March 10, 2003. Based on information currently available, it is estimated that a decline of approximately 3% in the equity markets from March 10, 2003 levels may trigger a loss, which would range from approximately $7.4 million to $11.4 million after tax with the application of assumed discount rates ranging between 10% to 18% for purposes of measuring the fair value of the deferred dealer commission asset. The estimated balance of the deferred dealer commission asset as of March 10, 2003 was approximately $50 million. The above examples are based upon the estimated annual effect on earnings for each one percentage point change in relevant equity market indices. Taking one fourth of this annual estimate would generate the expected effect of the equity market change on quarterly results, with the exception of DAC unlocking and GMDB incurred cost calculations where the effect is fully reflected in one quarter. The estimated annual effect in millions of dollars per one percentage change and the changes in each of the relevant market indices used in the above examples, are listed in the following table. 2.50% increase in 2.50% decline in Segment and Effect Relevant Measure No Change in Market First Quarter 2003 First Quarter 2003 Retirement Fee Income Ave Daily Change in S&P 500 $2.0 M 0.0 $2.0 M 1.25 $2.0 M (1.25) Retirement Other Items Actual Change in S&P 500 vs. Expected $0.5 M 0.0 $0.5 M 0.25 $0.5 M (4.75) Retirement GMDB Incurred Costs Actual Change in S&P 500 vs. Expected ($5.9M) ($5.9M) + $0.8M 2.5 ($5.9M) + ($1.9 M) (2.5) Retirement DAC Actual Change in S&P 500 vs. Expected $0.0 M 0.0 $0.0 M 0.25 $0.5 M (4.75) Life Insurance DAC Actual Change in S&P 500 vs. Expected $0.11 M (2.25) $0.11 M 0.25 $0.11 M (4.75) Investment Management Total* Blend of Market Indices $0.6 M 0.0 $0.6 M 2.5 $0.6 M (2.5)* Lincoln UK Fee Income Ave Daily Change in FTSE 100 $0.2 M 0.0 $0.2 M 1.25 $0.2 M (1.25) Lincoln UK DAC/PVIF Actual Change in FTSE 100 vs. Expected Change $0.4 M (2.25) $0.3 M 0.25 $0.4 M (4.75) * The above table excludes the impact of an impairment of the deferred dealer commission asset within the Investment Management segment. For instance, a review of the deferred dealer commission asset was performed as of March 10, 2003. Based on information currently available, it is estimated that a decline of approximately 3% in the equity markets from March 10, 2003 levels may trigger a loss, which would range from approximately $7.4 million to $11.4 million after tax with the application of assumed discount rates ranging between 10% to 18% for purposes of measuring the fair value of the deferred dealer commission asset. The estimated balance of the deferred dealer commission asset as of March 10, 2003 was approximately $50 million. As the above table indicates, the annual effect of a one percent change in equity markets varies depending upon the severity of the change. Presented below are estimated one million dollar effects for various market changes that are currently used by LNC in modeling the Lincoln Retirement segment. These estimated 25 Table of Contents effects are subject to ongoing modification, as they are particularly sensitive to the mix of business and to the actual level of variable account balances. The following table provides the annual effect for changes in equity markets for the Lincoln Retirement segment related to fee income and other: 20% + 11 20% 6 10% 1 to 5% 1 to 5% 6 10% Decline Decline Decline Decline No Change Increase Increase 11% + ($ Millions for each 1% Change in Relevant Market Index) Fee Income (1.6) (1.8) (1.9) (2.0) 2.0 2.1 2.2 Other (0.5) (0.5) (0.5) (0.5) 0.5 0.5 0.5 The estimated annual effects indicated in the table above are applicable for the first quarter of 2003. For example, assume an estimate is being computed for the quarterly effect on Lincoln Retirements fee income due to a 2.5% increase in the markets occurring in the first quarter of 2003. In this example, the expected quarterly effect of a first quarter 2.5% increase is estimated as: ($2.0*1.25/4) $0.625 million. The table provided below contains information for use in estimating the first quarter 2003 effect for changes in equity markets for the Lincoln Retirement segment related to GMDB and DAC. For GMDB, quarterly results will include a reserve adjustment. This is due to the fact that LNC has established the GMDB reserves net of anticipated future GMDB fee revenues. As a result, an adjustment will be required to increase GMDB reserves during periods where a GMDB Net Amount At Risk exists. Based upon the Net Amount At Risk for GMDB at December 31, 2002, the first quarter 2003 GMDB reserve adjustment is estimated at $5.9 million (included in the no change column in the table below). 20% + 11 20% 6 10% 1 to 5% 1 to 5% 6 10% Decline Decline Decline Decline No Change Increase Increase 11% + ($ Millions for each 1% Change in Relevant Market Index) GMDB (2.7) (2.3) (2.1) (1.9) (5.9 ) 0.8 1.0 1.3 DAC (0.9) (0.6) (0.6) (0.5) 0.3 0.4 The estimated quarterly effects indicated in the table above are applicable for the first quarter of 2003. For example, assume an estimate is being computed for the quarterly effect on Lincoln Retirements GMDB reserve due to a 2.5% increase in the equity markets occurring in the first quarter of 2003. The estimated quarterly effect is calculated as follows: $(5.9) + 0.8*2.5 $(3.9) million. Accounting for Business Combinations and Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statements of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141, Business Combinations (FAS 141), and No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (FAS 142). FAS 141 is effective for all business combinations initiated after June 30, 2001, and FAS 142 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001. Under the new rules, goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets are no longer amortized, but are subject to impairment tests conducted at least annually in accordance with the new standards. Intangible assets that do not have indefinite lives continue to be amortized over their estimated useful lives. LNC adopted FAS 142 on January 1, 2002. After consideration of the provisions of the new standards regarding proper classification of goodwill and other intangible assets on the consolidated balance sheet, LNC did not reclassify any goodwill or other intangible balances held as of January 1, 2002. In compliance with the transition provision of FAS 142, LNC completed the first step of the transitional goodwill impairment test during the second quarter of 2002. The valuation techniques used by LNC to estimate the fair value of the group of assets comprising the different reporting units varied based on the characteristics of each reporting units business and operations. A number of valuation approaches, including discounted cash flow modeling, were used to assess the goodwill of the reporting units within LNCs Lincoln Retirement, Life Insurance and Lincoln UK segments. Valuation approaches combining multiples of revenues, earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) and assets under management were used to estimate the fair value of the reporting units within LNCs Investment Manage 26 Table of Contents ment segment. The results of the first step of the tests indicated that LNC did not have impaired goodwill. LNC has chosen October 1 as its annual review date. As such, LNC performed another valuation review during the fourth quarter of 2002. The results of the first step of the tests performed as of October 1, 2002 indicated that LNC did not have impaired goodwill. The valuation techniques used by LNC for each reporting unit were consistent with those used during the transitional testing. As a result of the application of the non amortization provisions of the new standards, LNC had an increase in net income of $41.7 million ($0.22 per common share on a fully diluted basis) for the year ended December 31, 2002. Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long lived Assets In August 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets (FAS 144), which supersedes Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 121, and the accounting and reporting provisions of APB Opinion No. 30. FAS 144 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001. LNC adopted FAS 144 on January 1, 2002 and the adoption of the Statement did not have a material impact on the consolidated financial position and results of operations of LNC. Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities In June 2002, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities (FAS 146), which addresses financial accounting and reporting for costs associated with exit or disposal activities and nullifies Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 94 3, Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity (including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring) (Issue 94 3). The principal difference between FAS 146 and Issue 94 3 is that FAS 146 requires that a liability for a cost associated with an exit or disposal activity be recognized when the liability is incurred, rather than at the date of an entitys commitment to an exit plan. FAS 146 is effective for exit or disposal activities after December 31, 2002. Adoption of FAS 146 by LNC will result in a change in timing of when expense is recognized for restructuring activities after December 31, 2002. Accounting for Stock Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure. On December 31, 2002, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 148, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure (FAS 148), which provides alternative methods of transition for entities that change to the fair value method of accounting for stock based employee compensation. In addition, FAS 148 amends the disclosure provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, to require expanded and more prominent disclosure of the effects of an entitys accounting policy with respect to stock based employee compensation on reported net income and earnings per share in annual and interim financial statements. The three transition methods provided under FAS 148 are the prospective, the modified prospective and the retroactive restatement methods. LNC will adopt the retroactive restatement method, which requires that companies restate all periods presented to reflect stock based employee compensation cost under the fair value accounting method in FAS 123 for all employee awards granted, modified or settled in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 1994. FAS 148s amendment of the transition and annual disclosure requirements of FAS 123 is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2002. LNC will adopt the fair value method of accounting under FAS 123, as amended by FAS 148, as of January 1, 2003 and will present restated financial statements for the years 2002, 2001 and 2000 in its first quarter 2003 filing on Form 10 Q (see Note 1 for pro forma net income and pro forma basic and diluted earnings per share amounts for 2002, 2001 and 2000 and Note 6 for discussion of stock based employee compensation cost.). Effective January 1, 2003, LNCs stock option employee compensation plan and long term cash incentive compensation plan were revised and combined to provide for performance vesting, and to provide for awards that may be paid out in a combination of stock options, performance shares of LNC stock and cash. The 27 Table of Contents performance measures for the initial grant under the new plan will be calculated over a three year period from grant date and will compare LNCs performance relative to a selected group of peer companies. Comparative performance measures will include relative growth in earnings per share, return on equity and total share performance. Certain participants in the new plans will select from seven different combinations of stock options, performance shares and cash in determining the form of their award. Other participants will have their award paid in performance shares. This plan will replace the current LNC stock option plan; however, the separate stock option incentive plans established by Delaware Investments U.S., Inc. (DIUS) and DIAL Holding Company, Inc. (DIAL), both wholly owned subsidiaries of Delaware Management Holdings, Inc., will continue. The revised long term incentive plan for 2003 is expected to result in about the same amount of total expense as would have been reported in 2002 for the stock option employee compensation plan, if stock options had been expensed, combined with previously expensed accrual for the long term cash incentive plan. This estimated 2003 expense is subject to uncertainty given that several assumptions are required to be made regarding LNCs performance. Accounting for Variable Interest Entities In January 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities (Interpretation 46), which requires the consolidation of variable interest entities (VIE) by an enterprise if that enterprise has a variable interest that will absorb a majority of the VIEs expected losses if they occur, receive a majority of the entitys expected residual returns if they occur, or both. If one enterprise will absorb a majority of a VIEs expected losses and another enterprise will receive a majority of that VIEs expected residual returns, the enterprise absorbing a majority of the losses shall consolidate the VIE. VIE refers to an entity in which equity investors do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest or do not have sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support from other parties. This Interpretation applies in the third quarter of 2003 to VIEs in which an enterprise holds a variable interest that is acquired before February 1, 2003. This Interpretation may be applied prospectively with a cumulative effect adjustment as of the date on which it is first applied or by restating previously issued financial statements for one or more years with a cumulative effect adjustment as of the beginning of the first year restated. Among the matters that LNC is currently reviewing in connection with the third quarter 2003 effective date of Interpretation No. 46 to existing VIEs is the potential application to Collateralized Debt Obligation (CDO) pools that are managed by LNC. If the fees earned by LNC for managing these CDOs are required to be included in the analysis of expected residual returns, it is possible that such CDO pools would fall under the consolidation requirements of Interpretation No. 46. While LNC does not currently have access to all information necessary to determine the ultimate effects of such a required consolidation (because LNC is not the trustee or the administrator to the CDOs), based upon currently available information LNC estimates that the effect of consolidation would result in recording additional assets and liabilities on LNCs consolidated balance sheet of about $1.3 billion. If such liabilities are required to be recorded, LNC would disclose that such liabilities are without recourse to LNC, as LNCs role of investment manager for such CDO pools does not expose LNC to risk of loss. Although LNC and the industry continue to review the new rules, at the present time LNC does not believe there are other significant VIEs that would result in consolidation with LNC, beyond the managed CDOs discussed above. Accounting for Modified Coinsurance Currently, there are ongoing discussions surrounding the implementation and interpretation of SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, by the Financial Accounting Standards Boards (FASB) Derivative Implementation Group regarding receivables and payables that are indexed to a pool of assets; and specific to LNC, modified coinsurance agreements and coinsurance with funds withheld reinsurance agreements that reference a pool of securities. An exposure draft for this issue has been issued by the FASB. It is not expected to be finalized by the FASB until sometime in the second quarter of 28 Table of Contents 2003. If the definition of derivative instruments is altered, this may impact LNCs prospective reported consolidated net income and consolidated financial position. Until the FASB finalizes the Statement 133 Implementation Issue, LNC is unable to determine what, if any, impact it will have on LNCs consolidated financial statements. Restructuring Charges During 1998, LNC implemented a restructuring plan relating to the integration of existing life and annuity operations with the new business operations acquired from CIGNA Corporation (CIGNA) and a second restructuring plan relating to the streamlining of LNCs corporate center operations. The aggregate charges associated with these two unrelated restructuring plans totaled $34.3 million after tax ($52.8 million pre tax) and were included in Underwriting, Acquisition, Insurance and Other Expenses on the Consolidated Statement of Income for the year ended December 31, 1998. These aggregate pre tax costs include $19.6 million for employee severance and termination benefits, $9.9 million for asset impairments and $23.3 million for costs relating to exiting business activities. The CIGNA restructuring plan was completed in the first quarter of 2000. During the fourth quarter of 2000, $0.5 million (pre tax) of the original charge to downsize LNCs corporate center operations was reversed. This plan was completed in the third quarter of 2002 due to the termination of the lease, which resulted from LNCs purchase and ultimate sale of the abandoned building. The remaining $0.2 million related to the terminated lease was reversed as a reduction in restructuring costs during the third quarter of 2002. Total pre tax costs of $56.2 million were expended or written off under these restructuring plans. During 1999, LNC implemented restructuring plans relating to 1) the downsizing and consolidation of the operations of Lynch & Mayer, Inc. (Lynch & Mayer); 2) the discontinuance of HMO excess of loss reinsurance programs and 3) the streamlining of Lincoln UKs operations. The aggregate charges associated with these three unrelated restructuring plans totaled $21.8 million after tax ($31.8 million pre tax) and were included in Underwriting, Acquisition, Insurance and Other Expenses on the Consolidated Statement of Income for the year ended December 31, 1999. During the fourth quarter of 1999, $3.0 million (pre tax) of the original charge recorded for the Lynch & Mayer restructuring plan was reversed as a reduction of restructuring costs due primarily to a change in estimate for space costs. In addition, during the fourth quarter of 1999, $1.5 million (pre tax) associated with lease terminations was released into income. During the fourth quarter of 2000, the Lynch & Mayer restructuring plan was completed and $0.3 million (pre tax) of the original charge recorded was reversed as Lynch & Mayer was able to successfully exit certain contracts without any further obligations or penalties. Also, during the fourth quarter of 2000, $1.0 million (pre tax) of the original charge for the discontinuance of HMO excess of loss reinsurance programs was reversed. During the fourth quarter of 2001, the remaining restructuring reserve of $0.2 million relating to the HMO excess of loss reinsurance programs was transferred to Swiss Re as part of its acquisition of LNCs reinsurance operations. Actual pre tax costs totaling $24.8 million have been expended or written off for all three plans through December 31, 2002. As of December 31, 2002, a balance of $2.5 million remains in the restructuring reserve for the Lincoln UK plan and is expected to be utilized in the completion of this plan. Additional details of each of the three restructuring plans are discussed in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements. During 2000, LNC implemented restructuring plans relating to 1) the downsizing and consolidation of the operations of Vantage Global Advisors, Inc. (Vantage); 2) the exit of all direct sales and sales support operations of Lincoln UK and the consolidation of its Uxbridge home office with its Barnwood home office, and 3) the downsizing and consolidation of the investment management operations of Lincoln Investment Management. The Vantage restructuring charge was recorded in the second quarter, the Lincoln UK restructuring charge was recorded in the third and fourth quarters, and the Lincoln Investment Management restructuring was recorded in the fourth quarter of 2000. The aggregate charges associated with all restructuring plans entered into during 2000 totaled $81.8 million after tax ($107.4 million pre tax). These charges were included in Underwriting, Acquisition, Insurance and Other Expenses on the Consolidated Statement of Income for the year ended December 31, 2000. The component elements of these aggregate pre tax costs include employee severance and termination benefits of $33.8 million, write off of impaired assets of $40.9 million and other exit costs of $32.7 million. During the fourth quarter of 2000, $0.6 million (pre tax) of 29 Table of Contents the original charge recorded for the Vantage restructuring plan was reversed as a reduction of restructuring costs due primarily to changes in estimates associated with severance and abandoned leased office space costs. All expenditures and write offs for the Lincoln Investment Management restructuring plan were completed in the third quarter of 2002 and $0.4 million of the original reserve was released. The release of the reserve was primarily due to LNCs purchase and ultimate sale of the vacant office space on terms, which were favorable to what was included in the original restructuring plan for rent on this office space. In the fourth quarter of 2002, $1.7 million of the Lincoln UK restructuring reserve was released as a result of new tenants being contracted for several of the abandoned office facilities on terms that were better than originally expected. Actual pre tax costs totaling $95.0 million have been expended or written off for these plans through December 31, 2002. As of December 31, 2002, a balance of $9.7 million remains in the restructuring reserve for the Lincoln UK plan and is expected to be utilized in the completion of the plan. Additional details of each of the three restructuring plans are discussed in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements. During 2001, LNC implemented restructuring plans relating to 1) the consolidation of the Syracuse operations of Lincoln Life & Annuity Company of New York into the Lincoln Retirement segments operations in Fort Wayne, Indiana and Portland, Maine; 2) the elimination of duplicative functions in the Schaumburg, Illinois operations of First Penn Pacific, and the absorption of these functions into the Lincoln Retirement and Life Insurance segments operations in Fort Wayne, Indiana and Hartford, Connecticut; 3) the reorganization of the life wholesaling function within the independent planner distribution channel, consolidation of retirement wholesaling territories, and streamlining of the marketing and communications functions in LFD; 4) the reorganization and consolidation of the life insurance operations in Hartford, Connecticut related to the streamlining of underwriting and new business processes and the completion of outsourcing of administration of certain closed blocks of business; 5) the consolidation of the Boston, Massachusetts investment and marketing office with the Philadelphia, Pennsylvania investment and marketing operations in order to eliminate redundant facilities and functions within the Investment Management segment 6) the combination of LFD channel oversight, positioning of LFD to take better advantage of ongoing marketplace consolidation and expansion of the customer base of wholesalers in certain territories and 7) the consolidation of operations and space in LNCs Fort Wayne, Indiana operations. The Syracuse restructuring charge was recorded in the first quarter of 2001, the Schaumburg, Illinois restructuring charge was recorded in the second quarter of 2001, the LFD restructuring charges were recorded in the second and fourth quarters of 2001, and the remaining restructuring charges were all recorded in the fourth quarter of 2001. The aggregate charges associated with all restructuring plans entered into during 2001 totaled $24.6 million after tax ($38.0 million pre tax). The component elements of these aggregate pre tax costs include employee severance and termination benefits of $12.2 million, write off of impaired assets of $3.3 million and other exit costs of $22.5 million primarily related to the termination of equipment leases ($1.4 million) and rent on abandoned office space ($20.0 million). The Syracuse restructuring plan was completed in the first quarter of 2002 with expenditures and write offs totaling $1.3 million. The total amount expended exceeded the original charge by $0.3 million. The LFD restructuring plan that was initiated in the second quarter of 2001 was completed in the fourth quarter of 2002. Actual pre tax costs totaling $1.8 million were expended or written off, which was equal to the original reserve. The Life Insurance segment restructuring plan that was initiated in the fourth quarter of 2001 was completed in the fourth quarter of 2002. Actual pre tax costs totaling $2.3 million dollars were expended or written off. The amount expended for this plan was in excess of the original reserve by less than $0.1 million. In addition, $0.1 million of excess reserve on the FPP restructuring plan was released during the second quarter of 2002 and $1.5 million of excess reserve on the Fort Wayne restructuring plan was released during the third quarter of 2002. The release of the reserve on the Fort Wayne restructuring plan was due to LNCs purchase and ultimate sale of the vacant building on terms which were favorable to what was included in the original restructuring plan for rent on this abandoned office space. Actual pre tax costs totaling $34.0 million have been expended or written off for the four remaining plans through December 31, 2002. As of December 31, 2002, a balance of $1.4 million remains in the restructuring reserves for these plans and is expected to be utilized in the completion of the plans. Additional details of each of these restructuring plans are discussed in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements. 30 Table of Contents During the second quarter of 2002, Lincoln Retirement completed a review of its entire internal information technology organization. As a result of that review, Lincoln Retirement decided in the second quarter of 2002 to reorganize its IT organization in order to better align the activities and functions conducted within its own organization and its IT service providers. This change was made in order to focus Lincoln Retirement on its goal of achieving a common administrative platform for its annuities products, to better position the organization and its service providers to respond to changing market conditions, and to reduce overall costs in response to increased competitive pressures. The restructuring plan implemented to achieve these objectives included aggregate pre tax costs of $1.6 million, composed of $1.4 million for employee severance and $0.2 million for employee outplacement. Actual pre tax costs expended through December 31, 2002 were $0.9 million. As of December 31, 2002, a balance of $0.7 million remains in the restructuring reserve for this plan and is expected to be utilized in the completion of the plan. Additional details of this restructuring plan are discussed in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements. In January 2003, the Life Insurance segment announced that it was realigning its operations in Hartford, Connecticut and Schaumburg, Illinois to enhance productivity, efficiency and scalability while positioning the segment for future growth. The financial impact of the realignment will result in the Life Insurance segment incurring costs of approximately $15 $17 million after tax during 2003. While some savings may materialize in the second half of 2003, the majority of the savings will be realized in 2004, at which time the run rate for operating and administrative expenses should be reduced by $15 $20 million pre tax. In February 2003, Lincoln Retirement announced plans to consolidate its fixed annuity operations in Schaumburg, Illinois into Fort Wayne, Indiana. Restructuring costs under the plan are expected to be $3 $5 million after tax and are expected to be incurred during 2003. The consolidation is expected to result in pre tax savings of approximately $4 $6 million annually beginning in the third quarter of 2003. Acquisition and Divestiture On August 30, 2002, LNC acquired The Administrative Management Group, Inc. (AMG), an employee benefits record keeping firm for $21.6 million in cash. Contingent payments up to an additional $14 million will be paid over a period of 4 years (2003 2006) if certain criteria are met. Any such contingent payments will be expensed as incurred. AMG, a strategic partner of the Lincoln Retirement segment for several years, provides record keeping services for the Lincoln Alliance Program along with approximately 400 other clients nationwide. As of December 31, 2002, the application of purchase accounting to this acquisition resulted in goodwill of $20.2 million. On December 7, 2001, Swiss Re acquired LNCs reinsurance operation for $2.0 billion. In addition, LNC retained the capital supporting the reinsurance operation. After giving effect to the increased levels of capital needed within the Life Insurance and Lincoln Retirement segments that result from the change in the ongoing mix of business under LNCs internal capital allocation models, the disposition of LNCs reinsurance operation freed up approximately $100 million of retained capital. The transaction structure involved a series of indemnity reinsurance transactions combined with the sale of certain stock companies that comprised LNCs reinsurance operation. At closing, an immediate gain of $15.0 million after tax was recognized on the sale of the stock companies. A gain of $723.1 million after tax ($1.1 billion pre tax) relating to the indemnity reinsurance agreements was reported at the time of closing. This gain was recorded as a deferred gain on LNCs consolidated balance sheet, in accordance with the requirements of FAS 113, and is being amortized into earnings at the rate that earnings on the reinsured business are expected to emerge, over a period of 15 years. Effective with the closing of the transaction, the former Reinsurance segments historical results were moved into Other Operations. During December 2001 LNC recognized in Other Operations $5.0 million ($7.9 million pre tax) of deferred gain amortization. In addition, in December 2001, LNC recognized $7.9 million ($12.5 million pre tax) of accelerated deferred gain amortization relating to the fact that certain Canadian indemnity reinsurance contracts were novated after the sale, but prior to December 31, 2001. 31 Table of Contents On October 29, 2002 LNC and Swiss Re settled disputed matters totaling about $770 million that had arisen in connection with the final closing balance sheets associated with Swiss Res acquisition of LNCs reinsurance operations. The settlement provided for a payment by LNC of $195 million to Swiss Re, which was recorded by LNC as a reduction in deferred gain. As a result of additional information made available to LNC following the settlement with Swiss Re in the fourth quarter of 2002, LNC recorded a further reduction in the deferred gain of $51.6 million after tax ($79.4 million pre tax), as well as a $9.4 million after tax ($8.3 million pre tax) reduction in the gain on the sale of subsidiaries. As part of the dispute settlement, LNC also paid $100 million to Swiss Re in satisfaction of LNCs $100 million indemnification obligation with respect to personal accident business. As a result of this payment, LNC has no further underwriting risk with respect to the reinsurance business sold. However, because LNC has not been relieved of its legal liabilities to the underlying ceding companies with respect to the portion of the business reinsured by Swiss Re, under FAS 113 the reserves for the underlying reinsurance contracts as well as a corresponding reinsurance recoverable from Swiss Re will continue to be carried on LNCs balance sheet during the run off period of the underlying reinsurance business. This is particularly relevant in the case of the exited personal accident and disability income reinsurance lines of business where the underlying reserves are based upon various estimates that are subject to considerable uncertainty. As a result of developments and information obtained during 2002 relating to personal accident and disability income matters, LNC increased these exited business reserves by $198.5 million after tax ($305.4 million pre tax). After giving effect to LNCs $100 million indemnification obligation, LNC recorded a $133.5 after tax ($205.4 million pre tax) increase in reinsurance recoverable from Swiss Re with a corresponding increase in the deferred gain. The combined effects of the 2002 settlement of disputed matters and exited business reserve increases reduced the $723.1 million after tax ($1.1 billion pre tax) deferred gain reported at closing by $44.9 million after tax ($69 million pre tax). During 2002, LNC amortized $47 million after tax ($72.3 million pre tax) of deferred gain. This includes the amortization of deferred gain from the sale of the direct disability income business in 1999. An additional $1.3 million after tax ($2 million pre tax) of deferred gain was recognized due to a novation of certain Canadian business during 2002. Also during 2002, LNC exercised a contractual right to put its interest in a subsidiary company containing LNCs disability income reinsurance business to Swiss Re for $10 million. The $10 million sale price was approximately equal to LNCs book basis in the subsidiary. Through December 31, 2002, of the original $2 billion in proceeds received by LNC, approximately $0.56 billion was paid for taxes and deal expenses and approximately $1.0 billion was used to repurchase stock, reduce debt, and support holding company cash flow needs. LNC also paid $195 million to Swiss Re to settle the closing balance sheet disputed matters and $100 million to satisfy LNCs personal accident business indemnification obligations. The remaining proceeds have been dedicated to the ongoing capital needs of the Lincoln National Life Insurance Company. Critical Accounting Policy Personal Accident and Disability Income Reserves Because of ongoing uncertainty related to personal accident and disability income businesses, the reserves related to these exited business lines carried on LNCs balance sheet at December 31, 2002 may ultimately prove to be either excessive or deficient. For instance, in the event that future developments indicate that these reserves should be increased, under FAS 113 LNC would record a current period non cash charge to record the increase in reserves. Because Swiss Re is responsible for paying the underlying claims to the ceding companies, LNC would record a corresponding increase in reinsurance recoverable from Swiss Re. However, FAS 113 does not permit LNC to take the full benefit in earnings for the recording of the increase in the reinsurance recoverable in the period of the change. Rather, LNC would increase the deferred gain recognized upon the closing of the indemnity reinsurance transaction with Swiss Re and would report a cumulative amortization catch up adjustment to the deferred gain balance as increased earnings recognized in the period of change. Any amount of additional increase to the deferred gain above the cumulative amortization catch up adjustment must continue to be deferred and will be amortized into income in future periods over 32 Table of Contents the remaining period of expected run off of the underlying business. No cash would be transferred between LNC and Swiss Re as a result of these developments Accordingly, even though LNC has no continuing underwriting risk, and no cash would be transferred between LNC and Swiss Re, in the event that future developments indicate LNCs December 31, 2002 personal accident or disability income reserves are deficient or redundant, FAS 113 requires LNC to adjust earnings in the period of change, with only a partial offset to earnings for the cumulative deferred gain amortization adjustment in the period of change. The remaining amount of increased gain would be amortized into earnings over the remaining run off period of the underlying business. Results of Operations by Segment Lincoln Retirement The Lincoln Retirement segment (formerly known as the Annuities segment), headquartered in Fort Wayne, Indiana, provides tax deferred investment growth and lifetime income opportunities for its clients through the manufacture and sale of fixed and variable annuities. Through a broad based distribution network, Lincoln Retirement provides an array of annuity products to individuals and employer sponsored groups in all 50 states of the United States. Lincoln Retirement distributes some of its products through LNCs wholesaling unit, LFD, as well as LNCs retail unit, LFA. In addition, group fixed and variable annuity products and the Alliance program are distributed to the employer sponsored retirement market through Lincoln Retirements Fringe Benefit Division dedicated sales force. Results of Operations: Lincoln Retirements financial results and account values were as follows: Year Ended December 31 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 (in millions) Net Income $ 57.8 $ 269.2 $ 358.6 $ 291.5 $ 273.8 Items Included in Net Income: Realized Gain (Loss) on Investments and Derivative Instruments (after tax) (128.7 ) (42.5 ) (3.4 ) (7.9 ) 11.4 Restructuring Charges (after tax) (1.0 ) (1.3 ) Cumulative Effect of Accounting Changes (after tax)(1) (7.3 ) Goodwill Amortization (after tax) $ 1.2 $ (0.6 ) $ 2.0 $ 2.2 Average Daily Variable Account Values (in billions) $ 30.8 $ 35.6 $ 41.8 $ 35.9 December 31 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 (in billions) Account Values Variable Annuities $ 27.4 $ 34.6 $ 39.4 $ 41.5 $ 33.4 Fixed Annuities $ 20.1 18.0 16.6 18.2 18.1 Reinsurance Ceded (2.0 ) (1.5 ) (1.2 ) (1.4 ) (1.6 ) Total Fixed Annuities 18.1 16.5 15.4 16.8 16.5 Total Account Values $ 45.5 $ 51.1 $ 54.8 $ 58.3 $ 49.9 (1) Cumulative Effect of Accounting Changes relates to the transition adjustment of $(3.6) million recorded in the first quarter of 2001 upon adoption of FAS 133 and the adjustment of $(3.7) million recorded in the second quarter of 2001 upon adoption of EITF 99 20. 33 Table of Contents Comparison of 2002 to 2001 Net income decreased $211.4 million or 79% in 2002. The decrease in net income between periods was primarily the result of the decline in the equity markets and an increase in realized losses on investments of $86.2 million, resulting from the decline in value and the sale and write downs of fixed maturity securities. In 2002, the S&P 500 index declined 23.4%. The significant decline in the equity markets negatively affected the segments earnings through lower fees from lower average variable account values, negative unlocking of deferred acquisition costs (DAC) and the present value of in force (PVIF) intangible assets and increases in reserves and benefit payments for guaranteed minimum death benefits (GMDB). Average daily variable annuity account values decreased $4.8 billion or 13% and variable annuity account values at December 31, 2002 were $7.2 billion or 21% lower than at December 31, 2001. The decrease in variable annuity account values was caused primarily by the overall decline in the equity markets in 2002. This decrease reduced fees and lowered net income by $29.9 million. The effect of equity market impact on DAC and PVIF from retrospective unlocking and net changes in amortization decreased net income by $18.4 million. The current year negative unlocking was due to actual equity market performance lagging the expected market performance used in LNCs DAC assumptions. Increases in GMDB reserves and benefit payments decreased net income by $40.4 million from 2001. In addition, in the fourth quarter of 2002 the segment had reduced net income of $30.3 million due to prospective unlocking of various assumptions underlying DAC, PVIF and GMDB calculations, including the reversion to the mean net growth assumption. The tax benefit from the Separate Account Dividend Received Deduction (DRD) was $17.7 million lower in 2002 than in 2001 due to lower fees, primarily resulting from the decline in the equity markets. Decreased earnings from investment partnerships resulted in a negative variance of $21.7 million compared to 2001. Partially offsetting the negative variances were $17.6 million from higher investment margins. Overall investment spreads on fixed annuity products was relatively flat between years: 2.04% in 2002 versus 2.05% in 2001. For annuity products spread, the yield on earning assets is calculated as net investment income on fixed product investment portfolios divided by the average earning assets, the average crediting rate is calculated using interest credited on annuity products less bonus credits and excess dollar cost averaging (DCA) interest, divided by the average fixed account values net of coinsured account values. Fixed account values reinsured under modified coinsurance agreements are included in account values for this calculation. (See discussion on investment margins and the interest rate risk due to falling interest rates within Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.) Average fixed annuity account values increased $2.1 billion in 2002 resulting in an increase in income of $17.7 million. The increase in fixed annuity account values was due to the positive net cash flows for fixed annuities, reflecting strong sales of the StepFive, Lincoln Select and Lincoln ChoicePlusSM Fixed annuity products. (See below for further discussion of net flows.) These strong sales increases could be interrupted if the interest rates decrease significantly and remain lower. In the event that LNC is not able to achieve spread targets, sales of fixed annuities could be significantly reduced. Critical Accounting Policy Deferred Acquisition Cost The amortization of the Lincoln Retirement segments deferred acquisition costs is impacted by the change in market value of variable annuity accounts. Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 97, Accounting by Insurance Companies for Certain Long Duration Contracts & Realized Gains & Losses on Investment Sales (FAS 97) requires that acquisition costs for variable annuity contracts be amortized over the lives of the contracts in relation to the incidence of estimated gross profits. Estimated gross profits on variable annuity contracts vary based on surrenders, fee income, expenses and realized gains/losses on investments. The amortization is adjusted retrospectively (DAC unlocking) when estimates of current or future gross profits to be realized from variable annuity contracts are revised. Because equity market movements have a significant impact on the value of variable annuity accounts and the fees earned on these accounts, estimated future profits increase or decrease with movements in the equity markets. Movements in equity markets also have an impact on reserves and payments for the guaranteed minimum death benefit feature within certain annuity contracts. The Lincoln Retirement segments assumption for the long term 34 Table of Contents annual gross growth rate of the equity markets used in the determination of DAC amortization and GMDB benefits is 9%, which is reduced by mortality and expense charges (M&E) and asset management charges resulting in a net variable account growth assumption of less than 9%. As equity markets do not move in a systematic manner, LNC uses a methodology referred to as reversion to the mean to maintain its long term gross growth rate assumption while also giving consideration to the effect of short term swings in the equity markets. The application of this methodology results in the use of a higher or lower future gross equity market growth assumption for a period of four years subsequent to the valuation date which, together with actual historical gross equity growth, is expected to produce a 9% gross return. The use of a reversion to the mean assumption is common within the industry; however, the parameters used in the methodology are subject to judgment and vary within the industry. An important aspect of LNCs application of the reversion to the mean is the use of caps and floors on the growth rate assumption, which limit the gross growth rate assumption to reasonable levels above and below the long term assumption. In the fourth quarter 2002, LNC adjusted its reversion to the mean gross growth rate assumption to 9%. This change along with changes to assumptions for variable annuity persistency and revisions to amortization periods resulted in DAC and PVIF adjustments reducing income by $8.8 million. Going forward, as the growth rate of the equity market varies from LNCs growth rate assumption, the period over which the reversion to the mean gross growth rate assumption needs to be earned will be four years. The segment is reviewing the appropriate cap or floor levels and will incorporate this into the methodology. On a quarterly basis, LNC reviews the assumptions of its DAC amortization model and records a retrospective adjustment to the amount expensed, (i.e. unlocks the DAC). On an annual basis, LNC reviews and adjusts as necessary its assumptions for prospective amortization of DAC, as well as its other intangible asset, present value of in force (PVIF). Critical Accounting Policy Guarantee Minimum Death Benefits Reserving The GMDB reserves are a function of the net amount at risk (NAR), mortality, persistency, and incremental death benefit M&E expected to be incurred over the period of time for which the NAR is positive. At any given point in time, the NAR is the difference between the potential death benefit payable and the total account balance, with a floor value of zero (when account values exceed the potential death benefit there is no amount at risk). As part of the estimate of future NAR, gross equity growth rates which are consistent with those used in the DAC valuation process are utilized. On average, the current gross equity growth rate would project to a zero NAR over roughly four years from the balance sheet date. The fourth quarter of 2002 change to the reversion to the mean assumption resulted in an increase to GMDB reserves and reduced income by $21.5 million. Projections of account values and NAR followed by computation of the present value of expected NAR death claims using product pricing mortality assumptions less expected GMDB M&E revenue during the period for which the death benefit options are assumed to be in the money are made each valuation date for every variable annuity contract with a GMDB benefit feature. If equity market returns exactly match LNCs reversion to the mean rate and actual mortality and lapse experience is as assumed, the GAAP reserve plus interest and GMDB M&E revenue would exactly cover the future expected GMDB payments as they arise. As discussed above, the decline of the equity markets effect has resulted in increased GMDB reserves and benefit payments which negatively effected Lincoln Retirements income. Although there is no method currently prescribed under generally accepted accounting principles for GMDB reserving, LNC uses a method that recognizes that there is an amount at risk that will result in future payments and that over time the equity market growth will reduce the payment stream. This approach is expected to cover future GMDB payments, net of future GMDB fee income. Currently, there are few companies that reserve for the liability caused by the decline in the equity markets with some companies recognizing the cost on a pay as you go basis. At December 31, 2002, LNCs net amount at risk (NAR) was $4.6 billion and the GAAP reserve was $84.5 million. The reserve for statutory accounting was $144.1 million, reflecting the more conservative market performance and mortality assumptions required under statutory accounting. In evaluating the relative GMBD exposures that exist within LNCs variable annuity business relative to industry peers, it is important to distinguish between the various types of GMDB structures, and other factors 35 Table of Contents such as average account values, average amounts of NAR, and the age of contractholders. The following discussion provides this information for LNCs variable annuity business. At December 31, 2002 LNC had $19.2 billion of variable annuity account value, about 52% of LNCs total, that was subject to a return of premium type GMDB benefit. LNCs average variable annuity with a return of premium feature has an average account value of $32,000 and an average remaining premium base of $26,300 resulting in an average NAR of $5,700. The average attained age of these contract holders is just over 50 with less than 9% over age 70. The GAAP GMDB reserve on these accounts was $27.2 million on a total NAR of $1.8 billion. At December 31, 2002 LNC had $9.1 billion of variable annuity account value, about 25% of LNCs total, that is subject to a high water mark type GMDB benefit. LNCs average variable annuity with a high water mark feature has an average account value of $58,400 and average NAR of $19,800. The average attained age of these contract holders is just over 60 with 24% over age 70. The GAAP GMDB reserve on these accounts was $56.9 million on a total NAR of $2.8 billion. At December 31, 2002 only $262 million of variable account value, less than 1% of LNCs total, was subject to roll up type GMDB benefit. LNCs average variable annuity with a roll up feature has an average account value of $91,000 and average NAR of $17,700. The average attained age of these contract holders is just under 63 with 28% over age 70. The GAAP GMDB reserve on these accounts was $0.4 million on a total NAR of $40 million. At December 31, 2002 LNC had $8.5 billion of variable annuity account value, about 23%, that was not subject to any GMDB benefit. These accounts average $45,800 in account value. The average attained age of these contract holders is 58 with 20% over 70. LNCs contract holders overall average attained age is just over 53 with only 13% over age 70. LNC average attained ages are lower than industry average (per The Gallup Organizations 2001 Survey) due to the mix of business that includes significant amounts of qualified and employer sponsored business. LNCs average non qualified contract holders attained age is just under 64 with 35% over age 72 compared to the industry average attained age of 65 with 35% over age 72. LNC has variable annuity contracts containing GMDBs which have a dollar for dollar withdrawal feature. Under such a feature, withdrawals reduce both current account value and the GMDB amount on a dollar for dollar basis. For contracts containing this dollar for dollar feature, the account holder could withdraw a substantial portion of their account value resulting in a GMDB which is multiples of the current account value. LNCs exposure to this dollar for dollar risk is somewhat mitigated by the fact that LNC does not allow for partial 1035 exchanges on non qualified contracts. To take advantage of the dollar for dollar feature, the contract holder must take constructive receipt of the withdrawal and pay any applicable surrender charges. LNC will report the appropriate amount of the withdrawal that is taxable to the IRS, as well as indicating whether or not tax penalties apply under the premature distribution tax rules. LNC closely monitors its dollar for dollar withdrawal GMDB exposure and works with key broker dealers that distribute LNCs variable annuity products. As of December 31, 2002, there were 276 contracts for which the death benefit to account value ratio was greater than ten to one. The net amount at risk on these contracts was $19.3 million. Effective May of 2003, the GMDB feature offered on new sales will be a pro rata GMDB feature whereby each dollar of withdrawal will reduce the GMDB benefit in proportion to the current GMDB to account value ratio. As illustrated in the discussion of Lincoln Retirements results of operations above, the segments income is extremely sensitive to swings in the equity markets. Refer to the First Quarter 2003 Guidance for Estimated Effect of Equity Market Volatility section for estimates of the effect of movements in the equity markets on Lincoln Retirements earnings. Comparison of 2001 to 2000 The $89.4 million or 25% decrease in net income was due in part to an increase in realized loss on investments and derivative instruments of $39.1 million. These investment losses were due primarily to losses 36 Table of Contents taken on Enron and Argentina securities in the fourth quarter of 2001 in addition to increased write downs of other securities throughout 2001 due to credit deterioration. Weak performance of the equity markets in 2001 caused variable annuity account values to be depressed throughout 2001. Fee income, which is calculated daily based on the ending variable annuity account values, decreased $48.9 million between years as a result of market depreciation experienced in the last quarter of 2000 and overall in 2001 and to a lesser extent, net outflows for variable annuities in 2000. Average variable annuity account values decreased by $6.2 billion or 15% in 2001 from 2000. Variable annuity net flows (including the fixed portion of variable contracts) were essentially zero for 2001 due to a strong second half of the year. Partially offsetting the decrease in fee income was a $6.2 million positive fee income rate variance related to a change in mix of the variable annuity business. The downturn in the equity markets also contributed to an increase of $7.3 million in benefit payments and reserve requirements for guaranteed minimum death benefits. Average fixed annuity account values decreased by $331 million or 1.9% in 2001 from the average in 2000 due to net outflows in 2000. This decreased earnings by $1.4 million between years. As a result of improved retention and lower account values in 2001, surrender charges decreased $6.9 million between years. Increased operating and administrative expenses of $16.2 million also contributed to the decrease in net income between years. This increase was due primarily to higher information technology costs including computer software write offs and equipment amortization, as well as increased severance and relocation costs related to LNCs initiative to build a high performance culture. Net investment income decreased between years due primarily to reduced earnings of $5.2 million on investment partnerships. Overall investment spreads on fixed annuity products (excluding the impact of investment income earned on surplus supporting the segment which includes investment partnerships) decreased between years: 2.05% in 2001 versus 2.14% in 2000. The Lincoln Retirement segment experienced negative DAC unlocking in the first and third quarters of 2001 and positive unlocking in the second and fourth quarters of 2001 due to movements in the market. DAC unlocking created a negative variance in earnings of $4.0 million compared to 2000. Due to changes in assumptions for prospective DAC amortization made at the beginning of 2001, the segment experienced a decrease in DAC amortization expense of $37.8 million relative to 2000. This unlocking created a positive variance of $4.5 million between years, which was caused by improved persistency in 2001 and lower expense projections. Net Flows(1) Lincoln Retirements product net flows were as follows: Year Ended December 31 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 (in billions) Variable Portion of Annuity Deposits $ 2.7 $ 3.1 $ 3.1 $ 2.6 $ 2.8 Variable Portion of Annuity Withdrawals (3.3 ) (3.9 ) (4.8 ) (3.8 ) (3.0 ) Variable Portion of Annuity Net Flows (0.6 ) (0.8 ) (1.7 ) (1.2 ) (0.2 ) Fixed Portion of Variable Annuity Deposits 1.8 1.6 1.6 1.9 1.0 Fixed Portion of Variable Annuity Withdrawals (1.1 ) (0.8 ) (1.0 ) (1.2 ) (1.1 ) Fixed Portion of Variable Annuity Net Flows 0.7 0.8 0.6 0.7 (0.1 ) Fixed Annuity Deposits 1.9 1.7 0.5 0.7 0.5 Fixed Annuity Withdrawals (1.5 ) (1.6 ) (2.3 ) (1.4 ) (1.4 ) Fixed Annuity Net Flows 0.4 0.1 (1.8 ) (0.7 ) (0.9 ) Total Annuity Net Flows $ 0.5 $ 0.1 ($ 2.9 ) ($ 1.2 ) ($ 1.2 ) Incremental Deposits(1) $ 6.2 $ 5.8 $ 4.5 $ 4.7 $ 3.9 37 Table of Contents (1) Incremental Deposits represent gross deposits reduced by transfers from other Lincoln Annuity products. In order to achieve profitable future earnings growth for both fixed and variable annuity products the ability to attract new deposits and to retain existing accounts is crucial. In 2002, the Lincoln Retirement segment experienced a continuation of the trend of positive net flows that began in the third quarter of 2001. For the year, total annuity deposits were $6.4 billion, flat with 2001. However, withdrawals were $5.9 billion, an improvement of $0.5 billion resulting in positive net flows of $0.5 billion. The improvement in net flows is reflective of LNCs goal of maintaining positive net flows by growing deposits and retaining existing accounts. LNC has experienced six consecutive quarters of positive net flows. This improvement is largely attributable to LNCs balanced array of products and distribution breadth. Although American Legacy Variable Annuity gross deposits were down 14%, its incremental deposits decreased only 2% in 2002. In addition, Lincoln ChoicePlusSM with its multi manager variable annuity experienced a $302 million or 40% increase in gross deposits in 2002. In the first quarter of 2002, LFD launched Lincoln ChoicePlus in UBS PaineWebber, one of the largest distributors of variable annuity products in the country. Also, in April 2002, LFD launched Lincoln ChoicePlus in Salomon Smith Barney, another key distributor of variable annuity products. Sales of the SEI Variable Annuity product line, distributed through SEI, declined 30% to $57 million in 2002. Effective February 28, 2003, SEI Investments will no longer take applications for new contract sales in the SEI Variable Annuity Program. Total fixed annuity gross deposits (excluding the fixed portion of variable annuity gross deposits) were $1.9 billion in 2002, a $0.2 billion or 12% increase. The increase was reflective of the strong sales of the StepFive, Lincoln Select Fixed Annuity and the Alliance Program Fixed Annuities. At December 31, 2002, 52% of Lincoln Retirements account values contained the most conservative type of GMDB which is return of premium. There are two other primary types of GMDBs in the portfolio, the high water mark and the 5% step up. The 5% step up product accounts for less than 1 percent of Lincoln Retirements variable annuity account values. LNC is currently reviewing this feature and other guarantees. In the future they may be changed or discontinued. LNCs efforts to grow deposits by introducing innovative products that meet the changing needs of its customers and to retain existing accounts through targeted conservation efforts and by offering better replacement alternatives for current customers have yielded positive results. In addition, Lincoln Retirements improvement in flows is even more powerful when looking at current industry activity. Aggressive pricing strategies aimed at increasing market share which are prevalent in the marketplace, but counter to LNCs strategy, include significant commission specials that are 100 200 basis points above LNCs; aggressive living benefit riders that give the customer the opportunity to transfer market risk to the company at their discretion and could ultimately spell disaster for either client or company; and combination high bonus and high commission products that could promote inappropriate sales behavior. LNC has been able to grow new deposits without employing, to any significant extent, the various aggressive strategies listed above. This progress can be attributed to not only its strong product line up and distribution breadth, but also the implementation of more stringent standards and controls on internal transfers. Retention of Assets In looking at annuity withdrawals and the overall profitability of the business, it is important to look beyond the mere total dollar amount of withdrawals and assess how total withdrawals compare to total retained account values. These measures of account persistency are referred to as lapse rates, which are key elements to assessing underlying profitability. By comparing actual lapse rates to the rates assumed in designing the annuity product, it is possible to gauge whether performance is better or worse than pricing. Overall lapse rates were 10.47% in 2002, 9.72% in 2001 and 11.95% in 2000. In all three years, overall lapse rates have been more favorable than expected in pricing assumptions. The improvement in persistency over the three year period has partially countered the reduction in fee income resulting from lower average variable annuity account values caused by market depreciation. 38 Table of Contents To sustain and further improve overall retention levels, LNC is utilizing targeted conservation efforts and is exploring other retention initiatives. In addition, LNC believes that maintaining a strong and balanced portfolio of fixed and variable annuities provides a platform for maintaining positive net flows. If equity markets continue to decline, LNC may see increased exchange activity in 2003, particularly if consumers move funds to products that provide an account value floor (i.e. living benefits). Growth of New Deposits LNC has been focused over the last several years on growing new deposits. This effort has been concentrated on both product and distribution breadth. As a result of the continued volatility of the equity markets, sales of fixed annuities have increased in spite of the historically low interest rate environment. LNCs fixed annuity sales in 2001 through 2002 were bolstered by product offerings that were introduced in 2001 including the Lincoln Select Fixed Annuity and the StepFive Fixed Annuity. The guarantees of the StepFive Fixed Annuity made it an important product for LNC in the Financial Institutions channel. New product offerings launched in 2002 in the Financial Institutions channel include AccelaRate and ChoiceGuarantee. The market value adjusted (MVA) feature of the Lincoln Select Fixed Annuity is expected to be more attractive in the Wirehouse/ Regional channel during a volatile interest rate environment. This feature increases or decreases the cash surrender value of the annuity based on a decrease or increase in interest rates. Contractholders participate in gains when the contract is surrendered in a falling interest rate market, and LNC is protected from losses up to a cap when the contract is surrendered in a rising interest rate market. A new version of Lincoln Select that provides the individual with a higher interest rate but a larger potential penalty for early withdrawal or surrender is being developed. LNC continues to approach the fixed annuity marketplace opportunistically and only offer rates that are consistent with LNCs required spreads. If interest rates drop further, it may result in reduced product offerings and could impact net flows. In 2002, an enhanced low cost variable annuity product, Multi Fund 5 was launched. In addition, LNC expanded the ChoicePlus and American Legacy product offerings in New York to include Bonus, L share and A share (American Legacy only) contracts. Annuities with living benefit riders, that provide equity market performance guarantees, are becoming much more prevalent in the industry. LNC is evaluating various product approaches and designs in this area that will provide a competitive benefit while still falling within LNCs risk tolerance levels for such guarantees. LFD, LNCs wholesaling distribution arm and internal partner of Lincoln Retirement, provides a wholesaling unit for the distribution of the Lincoln ChoicePlus variable annuity, Lincoln ChoicePlus fixed annuity and StepFive fixed annuity product lines. In 2002, LFD contributed significantly to the level of ChoicePlusSM Variable Annuity sales which reached $1.0 billion, an increase of 40% from 2001. LFD has also been a driver of fixed annuity products with $1.2 billion of sales in 2002. LNC is continuing to build and reinvent its strategic partnerships as part of its ongoing marketing strategy, while selectively working on other alliances that will provide increased access for LNC annuity products through various distribution channels. American Legacy variable annuity gross deposits were $1.7 billion in 2002, a decrease of 14% from 2001. One means for improving American Legacy annuity sales would be the use of a dedicated wholesaling team of Lincoln Insurance Planning Consultants focused strictly on American Legacy Variable Annuity products. Recently, LNC and American Funds Distributors (AFD) have agreed to transition the wholesaling of American Legacy to LFD. Currently, AFD uses wholesalers who focus on both American Funds mutual funds as well as the American Legacy Variable Annuity products. Segment management believes that this change to a dedicated team focused on key broker/dealer relationships developed in conjunction with AFD, has the potential to renew growth in American Legacy VA sales. The transitioning of wholesaling and distribution responsibility for the American Legacy variable annuities from AFD to LFD will provide LFD with two distinct annuity product areas: The single manager (American Legacy) and the multi manager (ChoicePlusSM and Multi Fund). Proposed Bush Administration Tax Legislation President Bushs proposed 2003 budget legislation contains a variety of changes to the taxation of corporations and shareholders. Of particular importance to the Lincoln Retirement segment are proposed 39 Table of Contents changes intended to mitigate the double taxation of dividends. At this point, the potential impact of this developing legislative proposal on annuities products is uncertain. Concerns expressed in this regard by the industry have been favorably received by key Bush administration officials, with indications that these matters are being given careful consideration during the ongoing drafting of the legislative proposal. Also unknown at this time is the impact, if any, that the proposed legislation may have on the Lincoln Retirement segment future corporate tax burden, including how corporate dividends would be treated under the proposed new approach to corporate taxation. At this point, LNC is unable to predict, with any degree of certainty, the likelihood or final form in which this proposed legislation might become law. Outlook Tax legislation, along with current economic and market conditions continue to be very uncertain which may adversely affect annuity sales for the industry and Lincoln Retirement. Although LNC is committed to its two pronged approach of growing new deposits and retaining existing assets to manage its net flows; achieving positive net flows in 2003 may be difficult for the industry and Lincoln Retirement. LNC expects to continue to strengthen its distribution breadth and emphasize expense management as key profitability drivers in an increasingly challenging market. Life Insurance The Life Insurance segment, headquartered in Hartford, Connecticut, creates and protects wealth for its clients through the manufacture and sale of life insurance products throughout the United States. The Life Insurance segment offers term life, universal life, variable universal life, interest sensitive whole life and corporate owned life insurance. A majority of the Life Insurance segments products are currently distributed through LFD and LFA. In the third quarter 2002, the Life Insurance segment entered into a marketing agreement to distribute life insurance products through the M Financial Group, a well respected and successful nationwide organization of independent firms serving the needs of affluent individuals and corporations. In addition to the marketing agreement, most business sold through M Financial Group will be subject to a 50% modified coinsurance arrangement. Results of Operations: The Life Insurance segments financial results, first year premiums by product, account values and in force amounts were as follows: Year Ended December 31 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 (in millions) Net Income $ 209.0 $ 233.1 $ 249.3 $ 211.5 $ 127.5 Items Included in Net Income: Realized Loss on Investments and Derivative Instruments (after tax) (62.9 ) (36.9 ) (10.6 ) (0.5 ) (1.7 ) Restructuring Charges (after tax) (3.5 ) (20.0 ) Cumulative Effect of Accounting Changes (after tax) (1) (5.5 ) Goodwill Amortization (after tax) $ $ 23.7 $ 23.7 $ 23.4 $ 19.7 First Year Premiums (by Product) Universal Life $ 495.3 $ 292.7 $ 289.3 $ 342.9 $ 233.0 Variable Universal Life 134.4 228.5 218.7 142.2 101.3 Whole Life 30.3 26.4 22.4 24.0 20.0 Term 32.3 30.8 41.9 45.9 48.0 Total Retail 692.3 578.4 572.3 555.0 402.3 Corporate Owned Life Insurance (COLI) 88.1 47.2 87.0 14.7 4.0 Total First Year Premiums $ 780.4 $ 625.6 $ 659.3 $ 569.7 $ 406.3 40 Table of Contents December 31 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 (in billions) Account Values Universal Life $ 8.2 $ 7.5 $ 6.9 $ 6.6 $ 6.3 Variable Universal Life 1.7 1.8 1.8 1.6 1.2 Interest Sensitive Whole Life 2.2 2.1 2.1 2.0 1.8 Total Life Insurance Account Values $ 12.1 $ 11.4 $ 10.8 $ 10.2 $ 9.3 In Force Face Amount Universal Life and Other $ 126.0 $ 121.2 $ 115.9 $ 109.3 $ 105.8 Term Insurance 127.9 113.2 100.1 85.7 67.1 Total In Force $ 253.9 $ 234.4 $ 216.0 $ 195.0 $ 172.9 (1) Cumulative Effect of Accounting Changes relates to the transition adjustment of $(0.2) million recorded in the first quarter of 2001 upon adoption of FAS No. 133 and the adjustment of $(5.3) million recorded in the second quarter of 2001 upon adoption of EITF 99 20. Comparison of 2002 to 2001 Net income decreased $24.1 million or 10% in 2002 from the prior year. Excluding the amortization of goodwill in 2001, net income decreased $47.8 million or 19%. A significant contributor to the decrease in net income between periods was an increase in realized losses on investments of $26.0 million primarily resulting from the write down of fixed maturity securities in 2002. In 2001, the Life Segment reported two restructuring charges which reduced 2001 net income by $3.5 million. There were no restructuring charges for the segment in 2002. Also, in 2001 net income was negatively affected by $5.5 million to due the cumulative effect of the adopting FAS. No. 133 and EITF 99 20. There were no accounting principles adopted in 2002 requiring a cumulative adjustment. In addition to the items noted above, other factors contributing to the decline in net income in 2002 compared to 2001 were less favorable mortality, declining investment margins, poor results in investment partnerships and declines in the equity markets. Mortality experience (mortality assessments less net death benefits and negative DAC unlocking) in 2002 was less favorable relative to 2001 and resulted in a $13.1 million reduction in income. Volatility is expected from mortality risk, but LNC attempts to lessen the impact of volatility on earnings by reinsuring approximately 90% of the new business written by the Life Insurance segment. Investment yields declined at a faster pace than reductions in crediting rates which reduced investment margins $10.5 million. (See discussion on investment margins and the interest rate risk due to falling interest rates within Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.) In addition, decreased earnings from investment partnerships resulted in a negative variance of $6.7 million. Life insurance in force, increased 8% from December 31, 2001 due to strong sales growth over the last year and continued favorable persistency. Total sales as measured by first year premiums were up $154.8 million or 25% and retail sales were up $113.9 million or 20% in 2002. Sales of universal life (UL), whole life and term life insurance products improved by 69%, 15% and 5%, respectively. Due to the volatile equity markets experienced over the last several quarters, there has been a sustained flight to interest sensitive products from variable universal life insurance (VUL). As a result, sales of VUL products were down 41% from the prior year period. Account values of $12.1 billion at December 31, 2002 increased $0.7 billion or 6% from December 31, 2001. The drivers of this increase were positive cash flows, net of policyholder assessments, of approximately $0.3 billion across all products during the last twelve months, the transfer of the Legacy Life block of business ($0.15 billion) from the Lincoln Retirement segment in the first quarter of 2002 and interest earned on the 41 Table of Contents fixed products. These increases were partially offset by the negative effect of the equity markets on VUL account values. Critical Accounting Policy DAC and PVIF FAS 97 requires that acquisition costs for universal life insurance (UL) policies and variable universal life insurance (VUL) policies be amortized over the lives of the contracts in relation to the incidence of estimated gross profits, consistent with the treatment noted previously for variable annuities. Factors affecting estimated gross profits are surrender charges; investment, mortality net of reinsurance ceded and expense margins; and realized gains/losses on investments. For VUL policies, estimated gross profits are affected by fee income as well. For the Life Insurance segment, based on the current mix of life insurance in force on the books, the factors that have the most significant impact on estimated gross profits are mortality (net of reinsurance) and interest margins. Market movement, which has the greatest impact on DAC amortization for the Retirement segment relative to its variable annuity block of business, has less impact on DAC amortization for the Life Insurance segment. The Life Insurance segment earns fee income on its VUL product line based on the ending daily VUL account values. This product only makes up 14% of the segments total account values at December 31, 2002. On a quarterly basis, LNC reviews the assumptions of its DAC amortization model and records a retrospective adjustment to the amount expensed, (i.e. unlocks the DAC). On an annual basis, LNC reviews and adjusts as necessary its assumptions for prospective amortization of DAC, as well as its other intangible asset, PVIF. Although the Life Insurance segment is not as sensitive to the performance of the equity markets as the Lincoln Retirement segment, the negative performance of the equity markets resulted in negative retrospective DAC unlocking in 2002 of $2.4 million. In addition, negative DAC unlocking of $3.9 million related to changes in various prospective assumptions occurred in 2002. As illustrated in the discussion of the Life Insurance segments results of operations above, the segment earnings are not particularly sensitive to swings in the equity markets. Refer to the First Quarter 2003 Guidance for Estimated Effect of Equity Market Volatility section for estimates of the effect of movements in the equity markets on Life Insurances earnings. Comparison of 2001 to 2000 The $16.2 million or 6% decrease in net income in 2001 was due primarily to increased realized losses on investments and derivative instruments of $26.3 million. The Life Insurance segment also incurred two restructuring charges in the second and fourth quarters of 2001 of $2.0 million and $1.5 million, respectively. The $2.0 million charge recorded in the second quarter of 2001 related to a restructuring plan with the objective of eliminating duplicative staff functions in the Schaumburg, Illinois operations of First Penn Pacific by transitioning them into the Annuities and Life Insurance segment operations in Fort Wayne, Indiana and Hartford, Connecticut, respectively, in order to reduce ongoing operating costs. The $1.5 million charge recorded in the fourth quarter of 2001 was for the reorganization and consolidation of the life insurance operations in Hartford, Connecticut related to the streamlining of underwriting and new business processes and the completion of outsourcing of administration of certain closed blocks of business. Life Insurance experienced less favorable mortality throughout 2001 after having a favorable year in 2000. Partially contributing to the downturn in mortality experience were the losses of $1.1 million recorded for the September 11 terrorist attacks. The Life Insurance segment also experienced lower earnings on investment partnerships. The Life Insurance segments 2001 income was positively impacted by growth in life insurance in force from sales, favorable persistency and lower general and administrative expenses. General and administrative expenses decreased due to expense reduction initiatives implemented in the second half of 2001. In 2000 and 2001, the Life Insurance segment did not experience DAC unlocking that resulted in a significant impact on earnings. Sales as measured by first year premiums were down overall in 2001 by $33.7 million or 5%. This decline was due to a $39.8 million decrease in Corporate Owned Life Insurance (COLI) sales. COLI sales, which 42 Table of Contents consist of very large cases, decreased from the prior year due to two large cases accounting for $42.5 million in first year premiums recorded in the fourth quarter of 2000. First year premiums on retail products increased by $6.1 million or 1% between years. UL sales increased $3.4 million or 1% between years. Although this overall increase is modest, sales in the fourth quarter of 2001 were $98 million, a 20% increase over the prior year quarter. Sales rebounded nicely in the fourth quarter after a volatile year for UL sales. VUL sales were up $9.8 million or 4% between years. These results were encouraging given the performance of the equity markets in 2001. Partially offsetting the increased retail UL/ UVL sales levels noted above was a decrease in term life sales of $11.1 million or 26% between years. Term life sales for the first six months of 2001 lagged the prior year period largely due to strong first half of 2000 sales that were bolstered by the impending enactment of the Valuation of Life Insurance Model Regulation (Regulation XXX). Regulation XXX required companies to increase reserves relative to certain term life and permanent insurance policies with secondary guarantees as of January 1, 2000. There was a rush of term business in anticipation of the related price increases for implementation of Regulation XXX with sales up in the first half of 2000 due to a back log of business at December 31, 1999. Term sales increased incrementally each quarter in 2001 and for the fourth quarter were 20% higher compared to the same quarter in 2000. Account values increased $0.6 billion or 6% to $11.4 billion at December 31, 2001 from $10.8 billion at the prior year end. Positive cash flows for the year of $1.2 billion were the main contributor to the increase between years. Cash flows in 2001 were flat compared to the prior year. VUL account values were down between years by $62 million due to market depreciation. Product Development The Life Insurance segment offers a broad portfolio of Life Insurance products. In addition to Term, the segment offers three distinct permanent insurance product types: Universal Life, Variable Universal Life and Interest Sensitive Whole Life. Within these product types are wealth accumulation and wealth transfer specific products, including single life and survivorship versions of all three. Insurance riders such as return of premium and long term care benefit provisions are available with certain products. .In addition, the segment offers both UL and VUL versions of COLI. This allows the segment to effectively align its portfolio of products with the primary affluent market segments, and to also provide products that perform under a variety of market conditions. Given the economic environment of the recent past, portfolio breadth has proven its value. The industry has experienced a dramatic shift from variable to fixed products over the last year, driven primarily by the equity market decline and a flight to conservatism exacerbated by the events of September 11, 2001. Over the last 12 months, the Life segments mix of business has shifted dramatically from VUL to UL, but the dollar decline in VUL sales has been more than offset by the dollar increase in UL sales. Universal Life accounted for 79% of total retail UL/ VUL sales in 2002 versus 56% of those sales in 2001. In times like these, when clients have less tolerance for market risk, it is important to have a competitive fixed Universal Life portfolio. The Life Insurance segment has continued to develop products that meet the changing needs of its target affluent market. Throughout 2002, the segment revamped its entire retail UL portfolio. In March 2002, it introduced a new single life series of products with Lincoln ULLPR and Lincoln ULDB. The Lapse Protection Rider (LPR) product is an upgrade to the product introduced in 2001 which offers the innovative lapse protection rider, designed to provide flexibility and guaranteed death benefit coverage important features in todays market. The Death Benefit (DB) product is designed to offer cost efficient coverage for people less interested in guarantees. In August of 2002, new survivorship versions of both the LPR and DB products were also introduced. Overall, the response to these new products has been very positive. In 2003, the segment plans to continue to be aggressive in product development. 43 Table of Contents Estate Tax Reform Estate tax reform was a major legislative debate in 2002, which is expected to continue. Among a variety of alternatives being considered is a temporary extension of the one year estate tax repeal that will occur in 2010 under current law. If this occurs, inheritance taxes on a state by state basis may be increased to offset the projected reduction in revenues to state governments. More costly to both federal and state governments would be a permanent repeal of estate taxes. The outlook for permanent repeal remains highly uncertain, particularly in light of increasing federal and state budgetary concerns. To date, the impact on LNCs life insurance sales of the recent changes in estate tax laws has not been significant to overall sales for the Life Insurance segment. Total survivorship sales as a percent of overall retail sales dropped from 29% of the total first year premiums in 2001 to 22% of the total in 2002. If estate taxes are permanently repealed, LNC believes there will continue to be a demand for survivorship products to meet a variety of tax, business and family needs. The Life Insurance segments survivorship wealth transfer products support a wide variety of financial planning needs such as business succession and charitable giving, not just management of estate tax exposure. Guideline AXXX The Application of the Valuation of Life Insurance Policies Model Regulation (AXXX) was developed to clarify statutory reserve requirements for particular policy designs under the NAIC Valuation of Life Insurance Policies Model Regulation (Regulation XXX). AXXX will increase statutory reserves for universal life policies sold beginning in 2003 with secondary guarantees using shadow accounts and for specified premium guarantees that are prefunded. The secondary guarantee promises to keep a policy in force as long as certain conditions are met, regardless of whether the policy has any cash value. Regardless of the value in the actual account value, the policy will not lapse as long as the shadow account is positive. A shadow account is a hypothetical account that accumulates actual premium payments and interest less fees based on the secondary guarantee assumptions. However, the shadow account does not provide any cash value to the policyholder. All companies offering secondary guarantees that allow prefunding will be impacted to a greater or lesser degree depending on product design. A prefunded policy is one where premiums are paid earlier than is necessary to maintain the policys benefits. To reflect the financial requirements of AXXX, Lincoln is repricing single life and survivorship products that offer secondary guarantees using shadow accounts. The products are scheduled to be released in the latter part of first quarter 2003. Lincoln also markets universal life products that do not offer secondary guarantees, which will not be impacted by AXXX. LNC believes that secondary guarantees are going to continue to be critical to LNCs target affluent market and that the repriced versions of these products should remain competitive. However, LNC may lose market share if competitors are slow to replace their secondary guarantees for AXXX. Split Dollar New regulations have set forth the IRS views regarding the tax treatment of split dollar funding arrangements. Split dollar is a premium funding mechanism that has been used for many years, with IRS approval, to provide life insurance benefits to a firms key executives, or to provide life insurance benefits to family members of closely held firms, etc. In some cases, split dollar funding may not be as attractive under the new IRS rules. Further affecting some split dollar programs have been accounting reforms under Sarbanes Oxley, which prohibit publicly traded companies from extending credit to their directors or executives. However, most of the products sold by LNC for use in split dollar arrangements are sold to closely held companies, limited partnerships and family owned businesses, not for publicly traded companies. Segment management believes that given LNCs target market, and the fact that the amount of split dollar sales in relationship to the level of total first year life premium sold is insignificant to the Life Insurance segment, the impacts of these changes should have minimal overall effect on sales. 44 Table of Contents COLI A variety of legislative proposals are being considered that would effect corporate owned life insurance. LNC believes that life insurance remains a legitimate method of corporate funding of anticipated future commitments as well as protection from unpredictable events such as the loss of key business executives. The Life Insurance segment continues to approach COLI as an opportunistic market strategy. LNCs COLI product is only marketed to organizations for coverage of officers and require the prospective permission of officers to be covered under the COLI policy. Given the continuing legislative debates over corporate owned life insurance LNC management is not currently able to determine what impact this environment will have on product design or sales. At December 31, 2002, Life Insurance had $684 million of account values for COLI, representing less than 6% of total segment account values. Outlook The Life Insurance segment experienced strong retail sales growth in 2002. Sales trends over the next year for both UL and VUL products will likely continue to be heavily influenced by the equity markets performance and the uncertainty of the regulatory environment as well as the continued competitive environment. There should continue to be a demand among the affluent for sophisticated life products to meet a variety of tax, business and family needs. LNCs balanced portfolio of products is nicely positioned to take advantage of this demand. The Life Insurance segment expects to continue to hold firm its operating fundamentals of: strong distribution relationships, solid underwriting, mortality and investment management and strong expense controls as it strives to be among the top five generators of new premiums in the life insurance industry. The Life Insurance segments earnings can be expected to reflect some volatility due to short term effects of swings in mortality and morbidity. Investment Management The Investment Management segment, headquartered in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, offers a variety of asset management services to retail and institutional clients located throughout the United States and certain foreign countries. Its product offerings include mutual funds and managed accounts. It also provides investment management and account administration services for variable annuity products, 401(k) plans, 529 college savings plans, pension, endowment, and trust and other institutional accounts. The primary operating companies within this segment are the subsidiaries of Delaware Management Holdings, Inc. (Delaware). Retail products are primarily marketed by LFD and Delaware Distributors, L.P. through financial intermediaries including LFA. Institutional products, including large case 401(k) plans, are marketed by a separate sales force within Delaware working closely with pension consultants. Diversity of investment styles, as well as diversity of clients served, are prudent ways to manage risk in varying market environments. Delaware, historically known for a conservative, value equity investment style has now evolved into an investment manager with strong and diversified offerings across all major asset classes including value and growth equity investment styles; high grade, high yield and municipal fixed income investment styles; balanced and quantitative investment styles; and international and global equity and fixed income investment styles. 45 Table of Contents Results of Operations: The Investment Management segments financial results were as follows: Year Ended December 31 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 (in millions) Total Revenue $ 404.7 $ 437.4 $ 494.2 $ 495.6 $ 491.0 Total Investment Advisory Fees (Included in Total Revenue) $ 267.1 $ 284.7 $ 320.5 $ 332.2 $ 331.5 Net Income $ 25.6 $ 11.8 $ 37.0 $ 51.6 $ 44.4 Items Included in Net Income: Realized Gain (Loss) on Investments (after tax) (3.6 ) (2.3 ) (2.5 ) (0.1 ) 0.5 Restructuring Charges (after tax) 0.3 (0.4 ) (4.6 ) (9.3 ) Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change (after tax) (1) (0.1 ) Goodwill Amortization (after tax) $ $ 16.2 $ 16.2 $ 16.2 $ 16.3 (1) Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change relates to the second quarter 2001 adoption of EITF 99 20. Comparison of 2002 to 2001 Net income for 2002 increased $13.8 million or 117% over 2001. Excluding the effect of goodwill amortization in 2001, net income decreased $2.4 million or 9% in 2002. The decrease in income is primarily a result of declines in the equity markets reducing retail and institutional assets under management and revenues. Offsetting the negative effect of the markets on revenues has been a reduction in expenses of $19.2 million, excluding the reduction in expenses from the change in accounting for goodwill amortization and restructuring charges. This improvement in expenses is a result of cost containment efforts, the effect of the equity market decline on variable expenses, $1.7 million reduction in amortization of other intangible assets resulting from certain intangibles being fully amortized in the second quarter of 2001 and $4.2 million for the release of accrued compensation resulting from the fourth quarter 2002 resignation of the segments CEO. In addition to lower expenses, positive net cash flows in 2002 partially offset the negative effect of the equity markets on assets under management and revenues. Net income for 2002 included releases of $0.3 million related to restructuring charges reported in the fourth quarter of 2000 to combine the investment management operations for fixed income products of Lincoln Investment Management and Delaware in Philadelphia. Critical Accounting Policy Equity Market Sensitivity As illustrated in the discussion of the Investment Management segments results of operations above, the segments earnings are sensitive to swings in the equity markets. Refer to the First Quarter 2003 Guidance for Estimated Effect of Equity Market Volatility section for estimates of the effect of movements in the equity markets on Investment Managements earnings. Critical Accounting Policy Deferred Dealer Commission Asset The Investment Management segment has a deferred dealer commission asset of approximately $53 million as of December 31, 2002 relating to upfront sales commissions paid to brokers for the sale of Class B shares of Delaware Investments retail mutual funds. The asset is amortized over the estimated period of time that it is expected to be realized or recovered from future cash flows in the form of asset based distribution (12b 1) fees from the mutual funds or contingent deferred sales charges (CDSCs) from shareholders who redeem shares during the CDSC period. The estimate of future cash flows from these sources has been negatively impacted by the continued declines in the equity markets. 46 Table of Contents In accordance with SFAS 144 Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets, should the estimated undiscounted future cash flows from 12b 1 fees and CDSCs drop below the carrying value of the deferred dealer commission asset, then an impairment write down would be required to be recognized. In that event, the amount of the impairment write down would be computed by comparing the carrying value of the deferred dealer commission asset to the discounted value of the future 12b 1 and CDSC cash flows. As of December 31, 2002, the estimated undiscounted future 12b 1 and CDSC cash flows exceeded the carrying value of the deferred dealer commission asset. However, continued declines in the financial markets or Net Asset Values (NAVs) of the underlying retail mutual funds may trigger the recognition of a write down of the deferred dealer commission asset. For instance, a review of the deferred dealer commission asset was performed as of March 10, 2003. Based on information currently available, it is estimated that a decline of approximately 3% in the equity markets from March 10, 2003 levels may trigger a loss, which would range from approximately $7.4 million to $11.4 million after tax with the application of assumed discount rates ranging between 10% to 18% for purposes of measuring the fair value of the deferred dealer commission asset. The estimated balance of the deferred dealer commission asset as of March 10, 2003 was approximately $50 million. The determination of any impairment of the deferred dealer commission asset is performed at quarter end when complete information is available. The determination of any impairment includes both the fixed income and equity mutual funds. Once an impairment loss is recognized, no write up of the value of the deferred dealer commission asset is permitted even if there are subsequent increases in the NAVs of the underlying retail mutual funds from favorable financial markets. Comparison of 2001 to 2000 The decreases in net income of $25.2 million or 68% in 2001 were primarily attributable to lower investment advisory fees and to a lesser extent lower other revenue partially offset by lower expenses. Revenue decreased as a result of a decrease in external assets under management, reduced distribution, shareholder servicing and investment accounting revenue associated with lower retail mutual fund sales and lower assets under management. The primary driver of the decrease in external assets under management between years was net cash outflows of $7.2 billion in 2000 that caused the 2001 beginning of year external assets under management to be much lower than the prior year beginning balance and to a lesser extent, market depreciation of $4.3 billion. Total net outflows in 2001 of $0.6 billion also had a slight negative impact on investment advisory fees. The Investment Management segment made significant investments in 2000 and 2001 in upgrading talent and revamping investment processes; however, effective expense management resulted in an overall decrease in expenses. Expenses decreased by $10.9 million (pre tax) or 3% in 2001. This decrease was primarily due to the absence of significant severance expenses incurred during 2000, lower amortization expense associated with other intangible assets and effective management of other expenses. Certain other intangible assets capitalized as part of LNCs acquisition of Delaware Management Holdings, Inc. in 1995 had six year lives and were fully amortized in April of 2001. In addition, the segment had lower incentive compensation expense accruals due primarily to the declining financial results between years. Partially offsetting the decreased expenses noted above was higher amortization of deferred broker commissions due to an increase in the deferred broker commission asset and expenses incurred during 2001 to close and or merge a number of mutual funds. The change in net income for 2001 compared to 2000 also included the impact of restructuring charges. The Investment Management segment incurred a restructuring charge in the fourth quarter of 2001 of $0.4 million related to the consolidation of the Boston, Massachusetts investment and marketing office with the Philadelphia, Pennsylvania investment and marketing operations in order to eliminate redundant facilities and functions within this business segment. In 2000, the Investment Management segment incurred two restructuring charges of $2.7 million and $2.5 million in the second and fourth quarters, respectively. The objectives of the $2.7 million charge recorded in the second quarter of 2000 were to combine the structured product teams of Delaware and Vantage in Philadelphia and to consolidate the back office operations of 47 Table of Contents Vantage into Delaware, in order to reduce ongoing operating costs and to eliminate redundant facilities within this business segment. The objectives of the $2.5 million charge recorded in the fourth quarter of 2000 were to combine the investment management operations for fixed income products of Lincoln Investment Management and Delaware in Philadelphia, in order to reduce ongoing operating costs and eliminate redundant facilities within this business segment. In addition, in 2000 there were reversals totaling $0.6 million related to the Lynch & Mayer restructuring charge originally recorded in 1999 and the Vantage restructuring charge recorded in 2000. For further discussion of these restructuring plans refer to Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements. Assets Under Management and Client Net Flows(1) The Investment Management segments assets under management were as follows: December 31 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 (in billions) Assets Under Management Regular Operations: Retail Equity $ 14.9 $ 18.0 $ 21.5 $ 23.4 $ 22.1 Retail Fixed 7.6 7.1 6.6 7.5 8.2 Total Retail(1) 22.5 25.1 28.1 30.9 30.3 Institutional Equity 16.7 17.8 19.1 23.6 24.2 Institutional Fixed 7.3 5.5 6.1 6.9 7.0 Total Institutional 24.0 23.3 25.2 30.5 31.2 Insurance Assets 41.1 38.1 35.7 35.9 39.4 Total Assets Under Management(1) $ 87.6 $ 86.5 $ 89.0 $ 97.3 $ 100.9 The Investment Management segments net flows were as follows: Year Ended December 31 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 (in billions) Retail: Equity Sales $ 4.5 $ 2.8 $ 4.1 $ 3.3 $ 3.6 Equity Redemptions and Transfers (3.9 ) (3.4 ) (4.6 ) (5.1 ) (1.7 ) Net Flows 0.6 (0.6 ) (0.5 ) (1.8 ) 1.9 Fixed Sales 1.2 0.9 0.8 1.0 1.1 Fixed Redemptions and Transfers (1.0 ) (0.7 ) (1.8 ) (1.4 ) (1.2 ) Net Flows 0.2 0.2 (1.0 ) (0.4 ) (0.1 ) Total Retail Net Flows 0.8 (0.4 ) (1.5 ) (2.2 ) 1.8 Institutional: Equity Inflows 2.9 3.2 2.7 5.2 3.8 Equity Withdrawals and Transfers (1.9 ) (2.8 ) (7.2 ) (7.8 ) (7.4 ) Net Flows 1.0 0.4 (4.5 ) (2.6 ) (3.6 ) Fixed Inflows 2.3 0.6 0.8 2.0 2.2 Fixed Withdrawals and Transfers (1.2 ) (1.2 ) (2.0 ) (1.7 ) (1.3 ) Net Flows 1.1 (0.6 ) (1.2 ) 0.3 0.9 Total Institutional Net Flows 2.1 (0.2 ) (5.7 ) (2.3 ) (2.7 ) Total Retail and Institutional Net Flows $ 2.9 $ (0.6 ) $ (7.2 ) $ (4.5 ) $ (0.9 ) 48 Table of Contents (1) Retail assets under management and net flows for 2000 and 2001 have been restated to include assets under administration by the segment. Previously, these assets were excluded as the investments are managed by third parties. Assets under administration are now included so that assets under management includes all assets for which the segment receives asset based revenues. The restatements increased assets under management by $0.5 billion at both December 31, 2001 and December 31, 2000 and net retail flows increased by $81 million and $18 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Assets under management increased $1.1 billion to $87.6 billion at the end of 2002. The increase was the result of a $3.0 billion increase in insurance assets (i.e. primarily general account assets of LNCs insurance subsidiaries). In addition, institutional assets under management increased $0.7 billion as positive net inflows of $2.1 billion offset the reduction in assets of $1.4 billion resulting from the negative performance of the equity markets. Retail assets under management decreased $2.6 billion as the equity markets reduced assets by $3.4 billion, more than offsetting the $0.8 billion positive net flows. The Investment Management segments net flows turned positive for 2002, a significant improvement over the net outflows in prior years. Total net flows improved $3.5 billion over 2001. The improvement in net flows in 2002 was the result of a $1.4 billion increase in institutional inflows and improvement in retention of institutional assets. In addition, higher retail sales offset increased redemptions and transfers. Positive investment performance has been a key driver of the improvement in net flows. On the institutional side, for the year ended December 31, 2002, 4 of the 8 largest product composites met or outperformed their respective indices and these 4 composites accounted for 74% of institutional assets under management. However, this relative performance is below the results experienced for the year ended December 31, 2001, in which 6 of the 8 largest composites outperformed their respective indices. On the retail side, for the year ended December 31, 2002, 17 of 25 or 68% of the largest retail funds in Delaware Investments Family of Funds (the Delaware Investments Family of Funds does not include mutual funds managed by Delaware for certain LNC affiliates) performed in the top half of their respective Lipper universes; 76% of the 25 largest retail funds performed in the top half of their respective Lipper universes for the year ended December 31, 2001. These 17 funds represented 63% of assets under management of the largest 25 retail funds at December 31, 2002. In addition, Delaware had 15 funds labeled Lipper Leaders for Consistent Return, 8 funds named Lipper Leaders for Capital Preservation, 10 funds labeled Lipper Leaders for Total Return, 7 funds labeled Lipper Leaders for Expense and 22 funds labeled Lipper Leaders for Tax Efficiency. For the year, 41 of Delawares 52 retail funds have been labeled a Lipper Leader in at least one category and 17 funds have been selected in multiple categories. Retail sales for 2002 were a record $5.7 billion, up $2.0 billion or 54% over 2001. The growth in retail sales was driven by increased sales of managed account business. Managed account deposits in 2002 more than doubled deposits in 2001, with deposits of $1.2 billion in 2002 compared to $0.5 billion in 2001. A portion of the sales increase in managed accounts was a result of events affecting key competitors (a group departure of investment professionals from one firm and a second firm temporarily closing for new business). Sales of Delawares mutual funds by LFA continued to decline during 2002 as sales through LFA represented approximately 4% and 5% of LFAs total mutual fund sales in 2002 and 2001, respectively. Sales of mutual funds, managed accounts, 401(k) products and 529 plans through LFD, the internal wholesaling arm for distribution of Delawares investment products increased 32% in 2002 relative to 2001. LFD was organized at the end of 2000 and was in the ramp up stage throughout 2001. Delaware is working closely with both LFA and LFD to increase sales through improved communication, focusing on selected funds and working with the newly formed research teams to ensure optimum positioning of competitive Delaware products. Delaware was awarded program management and certain investment advisory services for the 529 college savings plans for the state of Hawaii and the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania during 2001. Services commenced in mid 2002 for the 529 plans. The persistence of poor equity markets, combined with a more crowded 529 marketplace, has resulted in lower than anticipated sales; however, these programs provide Delaware with an opportunity to attract significant long term assets under management. Although 529 49 Table of Contents programs should have a favorable impact on retail sales, positive earnings impact is not expected to occur until at least 2005 because of significant start up and distribution costs. Outlook In October 2002, the President and CEO of Delaware, Charles E. Haldeman, Jr. announced his resignation. In January 2003, Jude T. Driscoll, Executive Vice President and Head of Fixed Income for Delaware, was named President and CEO. LNC believes that a strong team of investment and research professionals exists at Delaware that continues to be committed to a team approach to research and investment management. Delaware continues to focus on improving investment performance, attracting and retaining client assets and or funds, managing expenses and ultimately improving profitability. The Investment Management segment has made progress on these initiatives, and will continue to focus on sustaining and improving those results. Lincoln UK Lincoln UK is headquartered in Barnwood, Gloucester, England, and is licensed to do business throughout the United Kingdom (UK). Although Lincoln UK transferred its sales force to Inter Alliance Group PLC in the third quarter of 2000, it continues to manage, administer and accept new deposits on its current block of business and accept new business for certain products. Lincoln UKs product portfolio principally consists of unit linked life and pension products, which are similar to variable life and annuity products sold in the U.S. Result of Operations: Lincoln UKs financial results, account values, in force and exchange rates were as follows: Year Ended December 31 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 (in millions) Net Income (Loss)(1) $ 40.0 $ 68.9 $ (13.2 ) $ (18.2 ) $ 71.7 Items Included in Net Income: Realized Gain on Investments (after tax) 1.3 8.7 2.3 2.2 0.8 Restructuring Charges (after tax) 1.7 (76.5 ) (6.5 ) Goodwill Amortization (after tax) $ $ 0.6 $ 4.0 $ 7.0 $ 6.3 December 31 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 (in billions) Unit Linked Assets $ 5.1 $ 5.6 $ 6.4 $ 7.2 $ 6.3 Individual Life Insurance In Force $ 18.9 $ 20.9 $ 24.3 $ 25.7 $ 25.0 Exchange Rate Ratio U.S. Dollars to Pounds Sterling Average for the Year 1.503 1.441 1.518 1.617 1.658 End of Year 1.610 1.456 1.493 1.615 1.660 (1) Income (loss) from operations and net income (loss) for 1999 include a charge of $126.1 million ($194.0 million pre tax) for a change in estimate of the cost of settling pension misselling liabilities and 1999 also includes a tax benefit of $42.1 million relating to the decision to explore exiting the UK insurance market. Comparison of 2002 to 2001 The $28.9 million or 42% decrease in net income in 2002 was primarily due to the decline in the UK equity markets. The FSTE 100 index declined 24% in 2002 compared to a 16% decline in 2001. The decline in the equity markets reduced assets in equity linked accounts resulting in lower fee income. The equity market 50 Table of Contents decline also resulted in increased amortization from retrospective unlocking of DAC and PVIF assets and the liability, deferred front end loads revenue (DFEL). There was negative unlocking of $22.8 million in 2002 compared to negative unlocking of $8.4 million in 2001. As required under FAS 97, acquisition costs for unit linked contracts are amortized over the lives of the contracts in relation to the incidence of estimated gross profits. Estimated gross profits on unit linked contracts vary based on surrenders, fee income, expenses and realized gains/losses on investments. The amortization is adjusted retrospectively when estimates of current or future gross profits to be realized from unit linked contracts are revised. Because market movement has such a significant impact on fee income, estimated future profits will go up or down accordingly. On a quarterly basis, Lincoln UK reviews the assumptions of its DAC amortization model and records a retrospective adjustment to the amount expensed, (i.e. unlocks the DAC). On an annual basis, Lincoln UK reviews and adjusts as necessary its assumptions for prospective amortization of DAC, PVIF and DFEL. In 2001, Lincoln UK consolidated its home office operations into the Barnwood office. In 2002, Lincoln UK sold its former Uxbridge home office and recognized a realized gain on the transaction of $5.5 million ($7.9 million pre tax) which is included in realized gain on investments. Excluding this gain, Lincoln UKs realized gains (losses) decreased $12.9 million from 2001. The impact of realized gain (losses) in both years was a result of sales relating to the realignment of the investment portfolio in order to better match invested assets with the liabilities they support. Net income for 2002 included releases of $1.7 million related to restructuring charges reported in 2000 for the restructuring plan to exit all direct sales and sales support operations and to consolidate the Uxbridge home office with the Barnwood home office. Critical Accounting Policy Equity Market Sensitivity As illustrated in the discussion of the Lincoln UK segments results of operations above, the segment earnings are sensitive to swings in the equity markets. Refer to the First Quarter 2003 Guidance for Estimated Effect of Equity Market Volatility on Fee Income, DAC and GMDB section for estimates of the effect of movements in the equity markets on Lincoln UKs earnings. Comparison of 2001 to 2000 The increase in net income of $82.1 million in 2001 was due primarily to the absence of restructuring charges of $76.5 million recorded in the third and fourth quarters of 2000 as discussed above. This restructuring plan resulted from LNCs decisions to cease writing new business in the UK through its sales force and transfer of the sales force to Inter Alliance Group PLC. In addition, Lincoln UK had an increase in realized gains on investments of $6.4 million between years. The gains reported in 2001 relate to the realignment of the investment portfolio to better match invested assets with the liabilities they support. Outsourcing Agreement In the third quarter 2002, Lincoln UK agreed to outsource its customer service and policy administration function to the Capita Group, Plc (Capita). The agreement involved the transfer of approximately 500 employees to Capita. The purpose of the transaction was to reduce the operational risk and variability of future costs associated with administering the business by taking advantage of Capitas proven expertise in providing outsourcing solutions to a variety of industries including general insurance companies. Exchange Rates LNCs subsidiary in the UK has its balance sheets and income statements translated at the current spot exchange rate as of the year end and average spot exchange rate for the year, respectively. From time to time, LNC will hedge its exposure to foreign currency as it relates to its net investment in Lincoln UK. 51 Table of Contents Outlook During 2003, Lincoln UK will continue to work to resolve all past misselling exposures while focusing on retaining and managing its current block of business and maximizing earnings through effective expense management. Other Operations Activity that is not included in the major business segments is reported in Other Operations. Other Operations includes operations not directly related to the business segments and unallocated corporate items (i.e., corporate investment income, interest expense on corporate debt, unallocated overhead expenses, and the operations of LFA and LFD. Prior to the fourth quarter of 2001, LNC had a Reinsurance segment (Lincoln Re). LNCs reinsurance business was acquired by Swiss Re in December 2001. As the majority of the business acquired by Swiss Re was via indemnity reinsurance agreements, LNC is not relieved of its legal liability to the ceding companies for this business. This means that the liabilities and obligations associated with the reinsured contracts remain on the consolidated balance sheets of LNC with a corresponding reinsurance receivable from Swiss Re. In addition, the gain resulting from the indemnity reinsurance portion of the transaction was deferred and is being amortized into earnings at the rate that earnings on the reinsured business are expected to emerge, over a period of 15 years. The ongoing management of the indemnity reinsurance contracts and the reporting of the deferred gain will be within LNCs Other Operations. Given the lengthy period of time over which LNC will continue to amortize the deferred gain, and the fact that related assets and liabilities will continue to be reported on LNCs financial statements, the historical results for the Reinsurance segment prior to the close of the transaction with Swiss Re will not be reflected in discontinued operations, but as a separate line in Other Operations. The results for 2001 included eleven months of Reinsurance segment operations through the period ended November 30, 2001. 52 Table of Contents Results of Operations: Other Operations financial results were as follows: Year Ended December 31 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 (in millions) Net Income by Source: LFA (27.6 ) $ (15.9 ) $ (11.7 ) $ (20.8 ) $ (23.7 ) LFD (33.9 ) (34.4 ) (18.5 ) (14.0 ) (8.2 ) LNC Financing (43.0 ) (77.9 ) (84.9 ) (83.5 ) (51.5 ) Other Corporate 5.8 (18.2 ) (15.1 ) (4.9 ) (31.8 ) Reinsurance Operations 128.8 123.2 36.9 104.9 Amortization of Deferred Gain on Indemnity Reinsurance 48.9 12.9 FAS 113 Reserve Development on Business Sold through Indemnity Reinsurance (199.1 ) Gain (Loss) on Sale of Reinsurance Subsidiaries (9.4 ) 15.0 Gain on Sale of Equity Investment in Reinsurance Marketing Company 21.7 Realized Gain (Loss) on Investments and Derivatives (4.2 ) (0.4 ) (3.2 ) 10.2 2.7 Cumulative Effect of Accounting Changes(1) (2.7 ) Net Income (240.8 ) 7.2 (10.2 ) (76.1 ) (7.6 ) Items Included in Net Income: Realized Gain (Loss) on Investments and Derivatives (including gain on sale of Equity Investment in Reinsurance Marketing Company) (after tax) 17.5 (0.4 ) (3.2 ) 10.2 2.7 Restructuring Charges (after tax) 1.1 (19.5 ) 1.0 (3.2 ) (14.3 ) Cumulative Effect of Accounting Changes(1) (after tax) (2.7 ) (1) Cumulative Effect of Accounting Changes relates to the transition adjustment of $(0.5) million recorded in the first quarter of 2001 upon adoption of FAS No. 133 and the adjustment of $(2.2) million recorded in the second quarter of 2001 upon adoption of EITF 99 20. Comparison of 2002 to 2001 The net loss in 2002 was a $248.0 million higher compared to net income in 2001. The net loss includes $199.1 million related to charges required by FAS 113 for increases in personal accident and disability income reserves for the business sold through indemnity reinsurance to Swiss Re. Included in the charge is $0.6 million of amortization related to the reserve increases and the settlement with Swiss Re on disputed matters. In addition, the amortization of deferred gain on indemnity reinsurance increased $36.0 million due to a full years amortization in 2002 compared to one months amortization in 2001. Net income for 2001, included $128.8 million of income from the former Reinsurance segment. In 2002, LNC reported a gain of $21.7 million on the sale of its investment (included in realized gains on investments) in an international marketing company associated with LNCs former Reinsurance segment. Offsetting this gain was an adjustment in 2002 of $9.4 million to the gain on sale of reinsurance subsidiaries sold in 2001. The adjustment related primarily to the true up of estimated taxes associated with the sale. LNC Financing had a positive variance of $34.9 million from 2001. In 2002, LNC Financing included investment income of $19.6 million from the proceeds of the sale of LNCs reinsurance business to Swiss Re. 53 Table of Contents In addition to the investment income, there was a decrease in long term debt expense associated with various long term financing activities that occurred in the second half of 2001 and third quarter of 2002 as described in the Liquidity and Cash Flow section within Review of Consolidated Financial Conditions. In addition, short term borrowing costs were lower due to lower interest rates and lower daily average borrowings under the commercial paper program in the U.K. The Lincoln UK segment has experienced increased cash flow from operations over the last year, which was used in part to eliminate its outstanding commercial paper balance during 2002. Other Corporate had income of $5.8 million in 2002, an improvement of $24.0 million compared to 2001. Included in the 2001 loss was a restructuring charge of $15.8 million to consolidate operations and reduce excess space in LNCs Fort Wayne, Indiana operations resulting from LNCs divestiture of its reinsurance operations. LFA had an increase in net loss of $11.7 million compared to 2001. Included in LFAs expenses are the effects of changes in the measurement of LFAs liability for deferred compensation due to changes in fair value primarily resulting from changes in the equity markets. The declines in the equity markets during 2002, reduced LFAs liability for deferred compensation and increased income by $6.4 million. However, in the fourth quarter 2001, LNC invested in a variable annuity contract to partially offset the impact on net income of equity market volatility associated with the liability for deferred compensation. Due to the fall of the equity markets in 2002, the annuity value decreased resulting in a loss of $8.3 million. In addition, in 2002 the Fringe Benefit operation (FBD) was moved from LFA to the Retirement segment. In 2001, FBD had a loss of $2.2 million which was included in LFAs results. Excluding the net effect of the annuity and the deferred compensation liability and FBDs income in 2001, LFAs net loss was $25.6 million and $18.5 million in 2002 and 2001, respectively, an increase of $7.1 million between years. LFA sales during the fourth quarter 2002 did not reflect the typical seasonal fourth quarter increase over the prior three quarters of the year as had been seen during the fourth quarter of the previous four years. This deviation from the prior trend in sales resulted in a decrease in revenues for the year. In 2003, LFA expects to focus on its growth strategy to increase its financial planner base in order to expand sales while employing effective expense management. LFD, LNCs wholesaling distribution arm, experienced an improvement in net losses of $0.5 million in 2002. However, included in LFDs 2002 net income were expenses of $5.0 million resulting from a decision to expense previously deferred costs related to specific initiatives to expand life insurance sales. Excluding this expense, LFDs net losses improved as a result of a combination of increased sales in all of its product categories including life insurance, annuity and investment products and a reduction in fixed operating costs primarily due to lower expenses following two restructurings that occurred in 2001 and ongoing disciplined expense management. LFD incurred expenses of $3.7 million in 2001 for the restructuring activities. The objectives of LFD restructuring charges were to reorganize the life wholesaling function within the independent planner distribution channel; consolidate retirement wholesaling territories; streamline the marketing and communications functions in LFD; combine channel oversight; position LFD to take better advantage of ongoing marketplace consolidation and to expand the customer base of wholesalers in certain non productive territories. LFDs on going strategy is to develop existing strategic alliances across all distribution channels. However, given the continued uncertainty of the equity markets and interest rate environment, LNC is cautious about sales expectations for 2003. Critical Accounting Policy Personal Accident & Disability Income Reserves Refer to the Acquisition and Divestiture section for discussion of the impact on income for changes in reserves for the personal accident and disability income sold to Swiss Re through indemnity reinsurance. Comparison of 2001 to 2000 Net income increased $17.4 million to $7.2 million in 2002. Net income for 2001 included the impact of three restructuring charges totaling $19.5 million: two charges were recorded related to LFD totaling $3.7 million and the other charge was for $15.8 million noted above in Other Corporate. Net income for 2001 also included the impact of a $15.0 million gain on sale of reinsurance subsidiaries. 54 Table of Contents The loss in Financing decreased $7.0 million between years primarily due to lower short term borrowing costs resulting from the ten Fed rate cuts that occurred in 2001 and lower long term debt costs. The decrease in long term debt costs resulted from several corporate finance activities in 2001 as described in the Liquidity and Cash Flow section of the Review of Consolidated Financial Conditions. Other Corporate experienced a negative variance of $3.1 million between years. Included in the 2001 loss was the restructuring charge noted above. In 2000, there were losses of $2.6 million associated with litigation items and a $2.4 million loss related to LNCs equity investment in AnnuityNet. In addition, there was $8.6 million in incentive compensation expense in 2000 resulting from the achievement of the three year long term incentive compensation goals. The Reinsurance line, which includes the historical earnings of the former Reinsurance segment had an increase in income of $5.6 million in 2001. The 2001 results, however, only represents eleven months of earnings through November 30, 2001. The Amortization of Deferred Gain line includes the amortization of the deferred gain on the indemnity reinsurance portion of the transaction with Swiss Re for December ($5.0 million) along with the recognition of accelerated amortization of the deferred gain on Canadian reinsurance business that was novated to Swiss Re after December 7, 2001 ($7.9 million), but prior to December 31, 2001. In accordance with FAS 113, the gain associated with the indemnity reinsurance portion of the transaction with Swiss Re was recorded as a deferred gain and is being amortized into earnings over a period of 15 years. Upon novation (transfer of the legal liability), generally accepted accounting principles provide for immediate recognition in earnings of the deferred gain related to the novated business. LFA had an increased net loss of $4.2 million between years due primarily to a decrease in sales revenue. LFA, a fee based investment planning firm and broker/ dealer, experienced a decrease in sales across all product lines: annuities, life insurance and other investment products. The downturn in the equity markets caused a difficult sales environment for broker/ dealers. Sales in the fourth quarter of 2001 rebounded from the lower levels experienced in the first three quarters of 2001 and contributed to positive earnings for the quarter which reduced the loss for the year. This fourth quarter 2001 increase in sales was consistent with the trend experienced over the prior three years and can be explained as a seasonal improvement related to the year end increase in tax planning and other related activities. In addition, in 2001, the events of September 11 derailed sales in the third quarter which created increased demand in the fourth quarter. In addition to lower revenues, LFA had an increase in overall expenses in 2001 as a result of increased salaries and other general and administrative expenses partially offset by reduced commissions and other volume related expenses. LFD had an increased loss of $15.9 million between years due to decreased sales revenue and increased expenses, including the restructuring charge in 2001 noted above. LFD experienced slightly lower retail sales in 2001, and revenue decreased as a result of changes in the mix of business. In addition, LFD had lower sales of corporate owned life insurance as previously discussed in the Life Insurance segments result of operations. Retail sales were bolstered by strong second half sales of the StepFive Fixed Annuity, Lincoln ChoicePlussm Variable Annuity product line and the MoneyGuard universal life product which includes a long term care benefit. Mutual fund sales, however, were weak throughout the year due primarily to the poor performance of the equity markets. In addition, LFDs wholesaling force was not at full strength until the end of 2001. LFD had higher expenses primarily as a result of its investment in new wholesalers during 2001 partially offset by the positive impact on expenses of the two restructuring plans implemented in 2001, as well as other targeted expense reduction activities. LFD started with 221 wholesalers at the beginning of 2001 and had 241 at December 31, 2001. Litigation During the first quarter of 2000, the appellate court upheld LNCs position in litigation relating to the 1992 sale of the Employee Life Health Benefit business segment. As a result of this favorable decision, LNCs 2000 earnings increased by approximately $11.2 million ($17.2 million pre tax). 55 Table of Contents In 2001, Lincoln National Life Insurance Company (LNL) concluded the settlement of all class action lawsuits alleging fraud in the sale of LNL non variable universal life and participating whole life policies issued between January 1, 1981 and December 31, 1998. Since 2001, LNL has reached settlements with a substantial number of the owners of policies that opted out of the class action settlement. LNL continues to defend a small number of opt out claims and lawsuits. While there is continuing uncertainty about the ultimate costs of settling the remaining opt out cases, it is managements opinion that established reserves are adequate and future developments will not materially affect the consolidated financial position of LNC. LNC and LNL have pursued claims with their liability insurance carriers for reimbursement of certain costs incurred in connection with the class action settlement and the settlement of claims and litigation brought by owners that opted out of the class action settlement. During the fourth quarter of 2002, LNC and LNL settled their claims against three liability carriers on a favorable basis. LNC and LNL continue to pursue similar claims against a fourth liability insurance carrier. In December 2000, LNC received a $43 million (pre tax) cash payment in exchange for agreeing to modify certain non compete terms included in an acquisition completed by LNC prior to 1999. In LNCs purchase accounting for this acquisition, the non compete terms of the acquisition agreement were believed to have only negligible value and there was no reasonable basis for estimating the additional business and profits, if any, that might result from these non compete terms. Under these facts and circumstances, LNC concluded that no separately identifiable intangible asset should be recorded for the non compete terms. However, events in 2000 resulted in a substantial increase in the value of these non compete terms, culminating with the receipt of the $43 million payment. LNC does not believe that the forfeiture of its remaining non compete rights and benefits, which would have otherwise expired in 2001, diminishes the value of goodwill recorded in the acquisition. As a result, LNC recorded the $28.0 million ($43 million pre tax) payment in fourth quarter 2000 net income. Consolidated Investments The consolidated assets under management including consolidated investments and assets held in separate accounts on the balance sheet, and external assets under management classified by investment advisor, mean invested assets, net investment income and investment yield are as follows: December 31 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 (in billions) Assets Managed by Advisor Investment Management Segment(1): External Assets $ 46.5 $ 48.4 $ 53.4 $ 61.4 $ 61.5 Insurance Assets 41.1 38.1 35.7 35.9 39.4 Lincoln UK 6.4 6.9 7.9 8.6 7.6 Within Business Units (Policy Loans) 1.9 1.9 1.9 1.9 1.8 By Non LNC Entities 23.2 30.9 32.4 32.7 23.5 Total Assets Managed $ 119.1 $ 126.2 $ 131.3 $ 140.5 $ 133.8 Mean Invested Assets $ 38.83 $ 37.62 $ 37.47 $ 39.03 $ 36.50 Adjusted Net Investment Income(2) $ 2.61 $ 2.69 $ 2.75 $ 2.82 $ 2.69 Investment Yield ( ratio of net investment income to mean invested assets) 6.74 % 7.14 % 7.35 % 7.21 % 7.36 % (1) See Investment Management segment data for additional detail. (2) Includes tax exempt income. Investment Objective: Invested assets are an integral part of the Lincoln Retirement, Life Insurance and Lincoln UK segments operations. For discussion of external assets under management, i.e. retail and 56 Table of Contents institutional assets, see the Investment Management segment discussion. LNC follows a balanced approach of investment for both current income and prudent risk management, with an emphasis on generating sufficient current income to meet LNCs obligations. This approach requires the evaluation of risk and expected return of each asset class utilized, while still meeting the income objectives of LNC. This approach also permits LNC to be more effective in its asset liability management, since decisions can be made based upon both the economic and current investment income considerations affecting assets and liabilities. Investment Portfolio Composition and Diversification: Fundamental to LNCs investment policy is diversification across asset classes. LNCs investment portfolio, excluding cash and invested cash, is composed of fixed maturity securities; mortgage loans on real estate; real estate either wholly owned or in joint ventures and other long term investments. LNC purchases investments for its segmented portfolios that have yield, duration and other characteristics that take into account the liabilities of the products being supported. The dominant investments held are fixed maturity securities, which represent approximately 82% the investment portfolio. The total investment portfolio increased $3.9 billion in 2002 and $744 million in 2001. The increase in 2002 was due to the purchase of investments from cash flow generated by the business units, positive net flows for fixed annuity portfolios and market appreciation of fixed maturity securities. The increase in 2001 was due to the purchase of investments from cash flow generated by the business units, positive net flows for fixed annuity portfolios and market appreciation of fixed maturity securities due to the significant decline in interest rates during 2001. Securities Available for Sale: LNCs entire fixed maturity and equity securities portfolio is classified as available for sale and is carried at fair value on its balance sheet. Because the general intent of the available for sale accounting rules is to reflect shareholders equity as if unrealized gains and losses were actually recognized, it is necessary for LNC to consider all related accounting adjustments that would occur upon such a hypothetical recognition of unrealized gains and losses. Such related balance sheet effects include adjustments to the balances of deferred acquisition costs, policyholder commitments and deferred income taxes. Adjustments to each of these balances are charged or credited directly to shareholders equity as part of LNCs available for sale accounting. For instance, deferred acquisition costs are adjusted upon the recognition of unrealized gains or losses since the amortization of deferred acquisition costs is based upon an assumed emergence of gross profits on certain insurance business. In a similar manner, adjustments to the balances of policyholder reserves or commitments are made because LNC has either a contractual obligation or has a consistent historical practice of making allocations of investment gains or losses to certain policyholders. Deferred income tax balances are also adjusted, since unrealized gains or losses do not affect actual taxes currently paid. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for details of the gross unrealized gains and losses as of December 31, 2002. Mortgaged Backed Securities: LNCs fixed maturity securities available for sale include mortgage backed securities. The mortgage backed securities included in LNCs investment portfolio are subject to risks associated with variable prepayments. This may result in these securities having a different actual cash flow and maturity than expected at the time of purchase. Securities that have an amortized cost greater than par and are backed by mortgages that prepay faster than expected will incur a reduction in yield or a loss. Those securities with an amortized cost lower than par that prepay faster than expected will generate an increase in yield or a gain. In addition, LNC may incur reinvestment risks if market yields are lower than the book yields earned on the securities. Prepayments occurring slower than expected have the opposite impact. LNC may incur disinvestment risks if market yields are higher than the book yields earned on the securities and LNC is forced to sell the securities. The degree to which a security is susceptible to either gains or losses is influenced by 1) the difference between its amortized cost and par, 2) the relative sensitivity of the underlying mortgages backing the assets to prepayment in a changing interest rate environment and 3) the repayment priority of the securities in the overall securitization structure. LNC limits the extent of its risk on mortgage backed securities by prudently limiting exposure to the asset class, by generally avoiding the purchase of securities with a cost that significantly exceeds par, by purchasing securities backed by stable collateral, and by concentrating on securities with enhanced priority in their trust structure. Such securities with reduced risk typically have a lower yield (but higher liquidity) than higher risk mortgage backed securities. At selected times, higher risk securities may be purchased if they do 57 Table of Contents not compromise the safety of the general portfolio. At December 31, 2002, LNC did not have a significant amount of higher risk mortgage backed securities. There are negligible default risks in the mortgage backed securities portfolio as a whole as the vast majority of the assets are either guaranteed by U.S. government sponsored entities or are supported in the securitization structure by junior securities enabling the assets to achieve high investment grade status. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for additional detail about the underlying collateral. Mortgage Loans on Real Estate and Real Estate: As of December 31, 2002, mortgage loans on real estate and investments in real estate represented 10.5% and 0.7% of the total investment portfolio. As of December 31, 2002, the underlying properties supporting the mortgage loans on real estate consisted of 36.8% in commercial office buildings, 23.3% in retail stores, 18.1% in industrial buildings, 10.3% in apartments, 7.7% in hotels/motels and 3.8% in other. In addition to the dispersion by property type, the mortgage loan portfolio is geographically diversified throughout the United States. However, mortgage loans on real estate in California and Texas accounted for approximately 28% of the total carrying value of mortgage loans at December 31, 2002. All mortgage loans that are impaired have an established allowance for credit loss. Changing economic conditions impact LNCs valuation of mortgage loans. Increasing vacancies, declining rents and the like are incorporated into the discounted cash flow analysis that LNC performs for monitored loans and may contribute to the establishment of (or an increase in) an allowance for credit losses. In addition, LNC recently completed a detailed review of its entire hotel mortgage loan portfolio in light of the downturn in that sector and has done similar analysis for its portfolio of anchored retail mortgage loans. LNC also monitors and evaluates office mortgage loan exposures to troubled sectors such as telecom. Where warranted, LNC has established or increased loss reserves based upon this analysis. Impaired mortgage loans as a percentage of total mortgage loans has deteriorated over the last year as a result of increased credit losses in the sectors noted above. This percentage was 1.7%, 0.6%, 0.5%, 0.6%, 0.8%, 1.1%, 1.9% and 3.9% as of December 31, 2002, 2001, 2000, 1999, 1998, 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for additional detail regarding impaired mortgage loans. LNC completed securitizations of commercial mortgage loans in both the fourth quarter of 2000 and the fourth quarter of 2001. In each securitization, the loans were transferred to a trust held in a qualified special purpose entity (SPE), which is therefore not consolidated into LNC. In the first securitization, the loans had a fair value of $186.0 million and a carrying value of $185.7 million. LNC retained a 6.3% interest in the securitized assets. LNC received $172.7 million from the trust for the sale of the senior trust certificates representing the other 93.7% beneficial interest. A realized gain of $0.4 million pre tax was recorded on this sale. A recourse liability was not recorded since LNC is not obligated to repurchase any loans from the trust that may later become delinquent. Cash flows received during 2002, 2001 and 2000 from interests retained in the trust were $2.6 million, $2.6 million and $0.4, respectively. In the second securitization completed in 2001, the loans had a fair value of $209.7 million and a carrying value of $198.1 million. LNC received $209.7 million from the trust for the sale of the loans. A recourse liability was not recorded since LNC is not obligated to repurchase any loans from the trust that may later become delinquent. Servicing fees of $0.03 million were received in 2001 and $0.2 million were received in 2002. The transaction was hedged with total return swaps to lock in the value of the loans. LNC recorded a loss on the hedge of $10.1 million pre tax and a realized gain on the sale of $11.6 million pre tax resulting in a net gain of $1.5 million pre tax. LNC did not initially retain an interest in the securitized assets; however, LNC later invested $14.3 million of its general account assets in the certificates issued by the trust. This investment is included in fixed maturity securities on the balance sheet. Limited Partnership Investments: As of December 31, 2002 and 2001, there were $294.2 million and $329.5 million, respectively, of limited partnership investments included in consolidated investments. These include investments in approximately 50 different partnerships that allow LNC to gain exposure to a broadly diversified portfolio of asset classes such as venture capital, hedge funds, and oil and gas. They are generally fairly large partnerships with several third party partners. These partnerships do not represent off balance sheet financing to LNC. Select partnerships contain capital calls which require LNC to contribute capital 58 Table of Contents upon notification by the general partner. These capital calls are contemplated during the initial investment decision and are planned for well in advance of the call date. The capital calls are not material in size and pose no threat to LNCs liquidity. The capital calls are included on LNCs table of contingent commitments within Review of Consolidated Financial Condition. Limited partnership investments are accounted for using the equity method of accounting and the majority of these investments are included in Other Investments on the consolidated balance sheets. Net Investment Income: Net Investment income decreased $71.3 million or 3% in 2002 due to a decrease in the yield on investments from 7.14% to 6.74% (all calculations on a cost basis). The decrease in yield was primarily due to lower interest rates on new securities purchased along with higher than historical levels of defaults due to the weak economy of 2002. In addition, 2002 net investment income generated by partnership investments was lower than the unusually favorable levels of net investment income generated by partnerships in 2001. Net investment income decreased $67.5 million or 2% in 2001 due to a decrease in the yield on investments from 7.35% to 7.14% (all calculations on a cost basis). The decrease in the yield on investments was primarily due to lower interest rates on new securities purchased along with an increase in security defaults resulting from the weak economy in 2001. In addition, LNC transferred higher yielding invested assets, and received current fair value as part of the close of the sale of the reinsurance business to Swiss Re on December 7, 2001. The proceeds of the sale were invested in lower yielding highly liquid short term investments. Mean invested assets only increased 0.4% in 2001. Critical Accounting Policy Realized Gain (Loss) on Investments and Derivative Instruments: LNC had net pre tax realized losses on investments and derivatives of $271.5 million, $114.5 million and $28.3 million in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Prior to the amortization of acquisition costs, provision for policyholder commitments and investment expenses, net pre tax realized losses were $405.3 million, $202.8 million, and $56.4 million in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Also included in the 2002 loss was a pre tax realized gain of $33.4 million ($21.7 million after tax) from the sale of LNCs investment in unconsolidated affiliate related to LNCs former Reinsurance segment (see further discussion of this investment in the Results of Operations for Other Operations). The gross realized gains on fixed maturity and equity securities were $181.2 million, $223.2 million and $204.5 million, in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Gross realized losses on fixed maturity and equity securities were $609.9 million, $459.7 million and $266.8 million, respectively. Included within losses are write downs for impairments of $321.5 million, $252.9 million and $55.8 million in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Although the realized losses that resulted from sales and impairments originated from a number of sectors, the larger losses can be attributed to collateralized debt obligations (CDOs) and the telecommunications and airline sectors. LNCs overall strategy of reducing exposure to CDOs was complicated by the deteriorating economy and the lack of liquidity of these instruments driven by declining economic conditions and increased corporate default rates. All these effects negatively impacted the CDO market, resulting in prolonged implementation of our strategy. As a result of sales and impairment write downs, the CDO exposure has been reduced to approximately 1.6% of LNCs fixed maturity securities, with 90% rated investment grade. The losses in the telecommunications sector were largely due to sales and impairment write downs of Worldcom bonds, although there were other telecommunications issuers that were sold at losses throughout the year. Similar to the telecommunication sector, LNC also experienced realized losses in the airline sector due to the bankruptcies of US Airways and United Airlines. LNCs exposure to the airline sector is primarily equipment trust certificates and enhanced equipment trust certificates. Airplanes collateralize these investments, but the declines in underlying valuations of airplanes have resulted in the impairment of LNCs holdings. 59 Table of Contents In addition to the aforementioned sectors, the realized losses and gains in 2002 arose from investment transactions as a result of the active management of LNCs portfolio quality. There were several strategies that drove transactions, some of which include: 1. In addition to credit evaluations and relative value considerations, investments that do not provide adequate return relative to statutory capital requirements were liquidated and replaced with investments that are more capital efficient. 2. Portfolio exposure to certain high risk sectors, such as bonds of issuers that have asbestos related litigation risk, was reduced. 3. Small proportions of the LNC portfolio are allocated to high risk asset classes such as emerging markets. Given the volatile markets in 2002, the turnover was higher on this sub segment of the portfolio than in previous years. This resulted in realized gains as well as realized losses. Significant circumstances that contributed to realized losses on investments in 2001 included the Enron bankruptcy, the defaults by Kmart and Argentina, as well as rapid declines in credit ratings and deterioration of expected cash flows on various collateralized debt obligation investments. The loss in 2000 was primarily the result of the sale of investments, and to a lesser extent the write down and provision for losses on investments. LNC has considered economic factors and circumstances within countries and industries where recent write downs have occurred in its assessment of the status of securities owned by LNC of similarly situated issuers. While it is possible for realized or unrealized losses on a particular investment to affect other investments, LNCs risk management has been designed to identify correlation risks and other risks inherent in managing an investment portfolio. Once identified, strategies and procedures are developed to effectively monitor and manage these risks. The areas of risk correlation that LNCs investment management group pays particular attention to are risks that may be correlated within specific financial and business markets, risks within specific industries and risks associated with related parties. Critical Accounting Policy Write Downs and Allowance for Losses: Securities available for sale, that were deemed to have declines in fair value that were other than temporary were written down to fair value. The fixed maturity securities to which these write downs apply were generally of investment grade quality at the time of purchase, but were subsequently down graded by rating agencies to below investment grade. Factors considered by LNC in determining whether declines in the fair value of fixed maturity securities are other than temporary include 1) the significance of the decline, 2) LNCs ability and intent to retain the investment for a sufficient period of time for it to recover, 3) the time period during which there has been a significant decline in value, and 4) fundamental analysis of the liquidity, business prospects and overall financial condition of the issuer. Based upon these factors, securities that have indications of potential impairment are subject to intensive review. Where such analysis results in a conclusion that declines in fair values are other than temporary, the security is written down to fair value. See Note 8 (Fair Value of Financial Instruments) to the consolidated financial statements for a general discussion of the methodologies and assumptions used to determine estimated fair values. Fair values for private securities are estimated by (1) a matrix process that employs discounting expected future cash flows using a current market rate applicable to the coupon rate, credit quality, industry sector and maturity of the investments, (2) third party supplied prices or secondary market transactions, and (3) applying professional judgment to arrive at fair value based upon prices of public or non public securities of similarly situated issuers. The fair value for all private securities was $4,601.3 million and $4,537.7 million at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively, representing about 11.5% and 12.5% of total invested assets, respectively. As the discussion above indicates, there are risks and uncertainties associated with determining whether declines in the fair value of investments are other than temporary. These include subsequent significant changes in general overall economic conditions as well as specific business conditions affecting particular issuers, future financial market effects such as interest rate spreads, stability of foreign governments and economies, future ratings agency actions and significant accounting, fraud or corporate governance issues that 60 Table of Contents may adversely affect certain investments. In addition, there are often significant estimates and assumptions required by LNC to estimate the fair values of securities, including projections of expected future cash flows and pricing of private securities. LNC is continuously monitoring developments and updating underlying assumptions and financial models based upon new information. Provided below are additional facts concerning the potential affect upon LNCs future earnings and financial position should management later conclude that some of the current declines in fair value of securities are other than temporary declines. EITF 99 20 changed the manner in which impairment on certain investments in collateralized securities is determined. The cumulative effect adjustment that LNC recorded in connection with the adoption of EITF 99 20 in the second quarter of 2001 was a net realized loss on investments of $11.3 million after tax ($17.3 million pre tax). Write downs and allowances for losses on select mortgage loans on real estate, real estate and other investments were established when the underlying value of the property was deemed to be less than the carrying value. These write downs and provisions for losses, as well as the write downs of fixed maturity and equity securities are disclosed within the notes to the accompanying consolidated financial statements (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements). Unrealized Gains and Losses: At December 31, 2002 and 2001, gross unrealized gains on securities available for sale were $2,402.5 million and $1,075.4 million, respectively, and gross unrealized losses on securities available for sale were $735.4 million and $659.6 million, respectively. At December 31, 2002, gross unrealized gains and losses on fixed maturity securities available for sale were $2,357.5 million and $693.1 million, respectively, and gross unrealized gains and losses on equity securities available for sale were $11.2 million and $8.5 million, respectively. At December 31, 2001, gross unrealized gains and losses on fixed maturity securities available for sale were $1,005.6 million and $615.9 million, respectively, and gross unrealized gains and losses on equity securities available for sale were $69.8 million and $43.7 million, respectively. The great majority of these unrealized gains and losses can be attributed to changes in interest rates, which have created temporary price fluctuations. However, within the portfolio of securities with unrealized losses are certain securities that LNC has identified as exhibiting indications that the decline in fair value may be other than a temporary decline in value. Where detailed analysis by LNC credit analysts and investment portfolio managers leads to the conclusion that a securitys decline in fair value is other than temporary, the security is written down to fair value. In instances where declines are considered temporary, the security will continue to be carefully monitored. The following information is applicable to unrealized loss securities that were subject to these enhanced analysis and monitoring processes as of the relevant balance sheet date. In viewing this information, it is important to realize that LNC is continuously reviewing and updating the status of its investment portfolios. Accordingly, the information presented below relates to the status of securities that were being monitored at a particular point in time, and may not be indicative of the status of LNCs investment portfolios subsequent to the balance sheet date. Further, since the timing of the recognition of realized investment gains and losses through the selection of which securities are sold is largely at managements discretion, it is important to consider the information provided below within the context of the overall unrealized gain or loss position of LNCs investment portfolios. These are important considerations that should be included in any evaluation of the potential impact of unrealized loss securities upon LNCs future earnings. LNC had an overall net unrealized gain (after the amortization of acquisition costs, provision for policyholder commitments, investment expenses and taxes) on securities available for sale under FAS 115 of $753.3 million and $195.7 million at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. For traded and private securities held by LNC at December 31, 2002 that were subject to enhanced analysis and monitoring for potential changes in unrealized loss status, the fair value, amortized cost, unrealized loss and total time period that the security has been in an unrealized loss position are presented in the table below. 61 Table of Contents % Fair Amortized % Amortized Unrealized % Unrealized (000s omitted) Fair Value Value Cost Cost Loss Loss 90 days $ 13,595 4.8% $ 14,627 3.1% $ (1,032 ) 0.5% 90 days but 180 days 27,026 9.5% 38,118 8.0% (11,092 ) 5.8% 180 days but 270 days 23,448 8.2% 39,151 8.2% (15,702 ) 8.2% 270 days but 1 year 24,827 8.7% 37,898 7.9% (13,071 ) 6.8% 1 year 195,644 68.8% 346,954 72.8% (151,311 ) 78.7% Total $ 284,540 100.0% $ 476,748 100.0% $ (192,208 ) 100.0% less than or equal to. For traded and private securities held by LNC at December 31, 2001 that were subject to enhanced analysis and monitoring for potential changes in unrealized loss status, the fair value, amortized cost, unrealized loss and total time period that the security has been in an unrealized loss position are presented in the table below. % Fair Amortized % Amortized Unrealized % Unrealized (000s omitted) Fair Value Value Cost Cost Loss Loss 90 days $ 67,107 42.7% $ 87,006 41.80% $ (19,899 ) 39.2% 90 days but 180 days 6,618 4.2% 8,706 4.20% (2,088 ) 4.1% 180 days but 270 days 13,515 8.6% 18,428 8.90% (4,913 ) 9.7% 270 days but 1 year 1 year 70,049 44.5% 93,926 45.10% (23,877 ) 47.0% Total $ 157,289 100.0% $ 208,066 100.00% $ (50,777 ) 100.0% less than or equal to. For total traded and private securities held by LNC at December 31, 2002 that are in unrealized loss status, the fair value, amortized cost, unrealized loss and total time period that the security has been in an unrealized loss position are presented in the table below. % Fair Amortized % Amortized Unrealized % Unrealized (000s omitted) Fair Value Value Cost Cost Loss Loss 90 days $ 1,910,152 38.1% $ 1,981,327 34.5% $ (71,175 ) 10.1% 90 days but 180 days 607,070 12.1% 684,139 11.9% (77,069 ) 11.0% 180 days but 270 days 349,872 7.0% 421,977 7.3% (72,105 ) 10.3% 270 days but 1 year 358,915 7.2% 426,758 7.4% (67,843 ) 9.6% 1 year * 1,782,873 35.6% 2,230,058 38.8% (447,185 ) 59.0% Total $ 5,008,882 100.0% $ 5,744,259 100.0% $ (735,377 ) 100.0% less than or equal to. * Included in the amount of unrealized losses greater than one year are unrealized losses of $36.0 million related primarily to participating polices in the Lincoln UK segment. Gain and losses on securities supporting this business are credited to the policyholder when incurred and do not affect net income of LNC. 62 Table of Contents For total traded and private securities held by LNC at December 31, 2001 that are in unrealized loss status, the fair value, amortized cost, unrealized loss and total time period that the security has been in an unrealized loss position are presented in the table below. % Fair Amortized % Amortized Unrealized % Unrealized (000s omitted) Fair Value Value Cost Cost Loss Loss 90 days $ 6,411,635 62.5% $ 6,596,925 60.5% $ (185,290 ) 28.1% 90 days but 180 days 709,976 6.9% 789,048 7.2% (79,072 ) 12.0% 180 days but 270 days 142,493 1.4% 165,441 1.5% (22,948 ) 3.5% 270 days but 1 year 507,417 5.0% 558,307 5.1% (50,890 ) 7.7% 1 year 2,478,173 24.2% 2,799,543 25.7% (321,370 ) 48.7% Total $ 10,249,694 100.0% $ 10,909,264 100.0% $ (659,570 ) 100.0% Less than or equal to LNC has no concentrations of issuers or guarantors of fixed maturity and equity securities. The composition by industry categories of securities subject to enhanced analysis and monitoring for potential changes in unrealized loss status, held by LNC at December 31, 2002 is presented in the table below. % Fair Amortized % Amortized Unrealized % Unrealized Fair Value Value Cost Cost Loss Loss (000s omitted) Electric Power $ 96,797 34.0 % $ 173,008 36.3 % $ (76,211 ) 39.7 % Asset Backed Securities 67,138 23.6 % 100,650 21.1 % (33,512 ) 17.4 % Chemicals 7,565 2.7 % 30,000 6.3 % (22,435 ) 11.7 % Oil Field Services 9,530 3.3 % 28,387 6.0 % (18,857 ) 9.8 % Pharmaceuticals 15,068 5.3 % 28,450 6.0 % (13,382 ) 7.0 % Technology 11,880 4.2 % 22,294 4.7 % (10,414 ) 5.4 % Pipelines 26,688 9.4 % 32,689 6.8 % (6,001 ) 3.1 % Airlines 19,881 7.0 % 25,433 5.3 % (5,552 ) 2.9 % Consumer Non Cyclical 7,488 2.6 % 9,386 2.0 % (1,898 ) 1.0 % Sovereigns 3,452 1.2 % 4,961 1.0 % (1,509 ) 0.8 % Textile 7,813 2.7 % 8,672 1.8 % (859 ) 0.4 % Non Captive Consumer 4,050 1.4 % 4,646 1.0 % (596 ) 0.3 % Wirelines 1,080 0.4 % 1,629 0.3 % (549 ) 0.3 % Retailers 423 0.2 % 780 0.2 % (357 ) 0.2 % CMBS 1,934 0.7 % 2,009 0.4 % (75 ) 0.0 % Other 3,753 1.3 % 3,754 0.8 % (1 ) 0.0 % $ 284,540 100.0 % $ 476,748 100.0 % $ (192,208 ) 100.0 % 63 Table of Contents The composition by industry categories of securities subject to enhanced analysis and monitoring for potential changes in unrealized loss status, held by LNC at December 31, 2001 is presented in the table below. % Fair Amortized % Amortized Unrealized % Unrealized Fair Value Value Cost Cost Loss Loss (000s omitted) Textile $ 11,531 7.3 % $ 21,499 10.3 % $ (9,968 ) 19.6 % Electric Power 47,467 30.2 % 55,482 26.7 % (8,015 ) 15.8 % Distributors 36,350 23.1 % 43,534 20.9 % (7,184 ) 14.1 % Wirelines 9,058 5.8 % 16,062 7.7 % (7,004 ) 13.8 % Asset Backed Securities 16,977 10.8 % 23,097 11.1 % (6,120 ) 12.1 % Industrial 14,664 9.3 % 19,748 9.5 % (5,084 ) 10.0 % Metals and Mining 4,264 2.7 % 6,680 3.2 % (2,416 ) 4.8 % Non Captive Consumer 6,764 4.3 % 8,686 4.2 % (1,922 ) 3.8 % Utility 2,686 1.7 % 4,140 2.0 % (1,454 ) 2.9 % REITs 3,900 2.5 % 5,037 2.4 % (1,137 ) 2.2 % Basic Industry 3,628 2.30 % 4,101 2.00 % (473 ) 0.90 % $ 157,289 100.0 % $ 208,066 100.0 % $ (50,777 ) 100.0 % The composition by industry categories of all securities in unrealized loss status, held by LNC at December 31, 2002 is presented in the table below. % Fair Amortized % Amortized Unrealized % Unrealized Fair Value Value Cost Cost Loss Loss (000s omitted) Electric Power $ 692,086 13.8 % $ 856,740 14.9 % $ (164,654 ) 22.4 % Airlines 240,684 4.8 % 339,997 5.9 % (99,313 ) 13.5 % Asset Backed Securities 566,568 11.3 % 633,628 11.0 % (67,060 ) 9.1 % Pipelines 157,596 3.1 % 199,625 3.5 % (42,029 ) 5.7 % Banking 319,051 6.4 % 354,941 6.2 % (35,890 ) 4.9 % Chemicals 66,657 1.3 % 96,285 1.7 % (29,628 ) 4.0 % Wirelines 144,079 2.9 % 170,803 3.0 % (26,724 ) 3.6 % Sovereigns 266,654 5.3 % 289,079 5.0 % (22,425 ) 3.1 % Oil Field Services 43,253 0.9 % 62,945 1.1 % (19,692 ) 2.7 % Media Cable 57,937 1.2 % 74,174 1.3 % (16,237 ) 2.2 % Automotive 116,021 2.3 % 131,566 2.3 % (15,545 ) 2.1 % Pharmaceuticals 39,983 0.8 % 53,450 0.9 % (13,467 ) 1.8 % Retailers 49,183 1.0 % 61,416 1.1 % (12,233 ) 1.7 % CMBS 67,330 1.3 % 79,316 1.4 % (11,986 ) 1.6 % Industrial Other 39,719 0.8 % 51,178 0.9 % (11,459 ) 1.6 % Technology 18,566 0.4 % 29,152 0.5 % (10,586 ) 1.4 % P&C 82,308 1.6 % 90,840 1.6 % (8,532 ) 1.1 % Refining 38,307 0.8 % 46,758 0.8 % (8,451 ) 1.1 % Other 680,255 13.6 % 688,168 12.0 % (7,913 ) 1.1 % Foreign Agencies 22,425 0.4 % 29,385 0.5 % (6,960 ) 1.0 % Metals and Mining 124,446 2.5 % 130,646 2.3 % (6,200 ) 0.8 % Integrated 60,547 1.2 % 66,425 1.2 % (5,878 ) 0.8 % Supermarkets 31,598 0.6 % 37,145 0.6 % (5,547 ) 0.8 % Wireless 98,502 2.0 % 104,010 1.8 % (5,508 ) 0.8 % 64 Table of Contents % Fair Amortized % Amortized Unrealized % Unrealized Fair Value Value Cost Cost Loss Loss (000s omitted) Transportation Services 64,921 1.3 % 69,801 1.2 % (4,880 ) 0.7 % Paper 36,883 0.7 % 41,453 0.7 % (4,570 ) 0.6 % Utility Other 27,578 0.6 % 31,166 0.5 % (3,588 ) 0.5 % Consumer Cyclical Services 21,657 0.4 % 24,933 0.4 % (3,276 ) 0.5 % Building Materials 41,614 0.8 % 44,320 0.8 % (2,706 ) 0.4 % Railroads 25,666 0.5 % 28,005 0.5 % (2,339 ) 0.3 % Tennessee Valley Authority 32,862 0.7 % 35,133 0.6 % (2,271 ) 0.3 % Food and Beverage 28,166 0.6 % 30,349 0.5 % (2,183 ) 0.3 % Consumer Non Cyclical 7,488 0.1 % 9,386 0.2 % (1,898 ) 0.3 % Mortgage 51,291 1.0 % 53,025 0.9 % (1,734 ) 0.2 % Aerospace/ Defense 20,791 0.4 % 22,280 0.4 % (1,489 ) 0.2 % Life 34,893 0.7 % 35,947 0.6 % (1,054 ) 0.1 % Distributors 15,070 0.3 % 16,015 0.3 % (945 ) 0.1 % Media Non Cable 23,470 0.5 % 24,406 0.4 % (936 ) 0.1 % Textile 7,813 0.2 % 8,672 0.2 % (859 ) 0.1 % Captive 30,931 0.6 % 31,782 0.6 % (851 ) 0.1 % Construction Machinery 4,250 0.1 % 5,083 0.1 % (833 ) 0.1 % Non Captive Consumer 10,597 0.2 % 11,348 0.2 % (751 ) 0.1 % Non Captive Diversified 3,220 0.1 % 3,667 0.1 % (447 ) 0.1 % Collateralized Mortgage Obligations 96,018 1.9 % 96,463 1.7 % (445 ) 0.1 % Consumer Products 12,544 0.3 % 12,960 0.2 % (416 ) 0.1 % Consumer Cyclical 773 0.0 % 1,146 0.0 % (373 ) 0.1 % Foreign Local Governments 4,454 0.1 % 4,750 0.1 % (296 ) 0.1 % Financial Other 25,592 0.5 % 25,827 0.4 % (235 ) 0.0 % Entertainment 23,276 0.5 % 23,501 0.4 % (225 ) 0.0 % Healthcare 850 0.0 % 1,033 0.0 % (183 ) 0.0 % Municipal 17,905 0.4 % 18,054 0.3 % (149 ) 0.0 % Lodging 1,840 0.0 % 1,988 0.0 % (148 ) 0.0 % Brokerage 1,392 0.0 % 1,412 0.0 % (20 ) 0.0 % FNMA FHA VA 30YR 208 0.0 % 214 0.0 % (6 ) 0.0 % REITS 445 0.0 % 446 0.0 % (1 ) 0.0 % Lincoln UK Fixed Maturity Securities 181,758 3.6 % 187,086 3.3 % (5,328 ) 0.7 % Lincoln UK Equity Securities* 128,911 2.6 % 164,936 2.9 % (36,025 ) 4.9 % $ 5,008,882 100.0 % $ 5,744,259 100.0 % $ (735,377 ) 100.0 % * The unrealized losses for Lincoln UK Equity Securities are primarily related to participating polices in the Lincoln UK segment. Gain and losses on securities supporting this business are credited to the policyholder when incurred and do not affect net income of LNC. 65 Table of Contents The composition by industry categories of all securities in unrealized loss status, held by LNC at December 31, 2001 is presented in the table below. % Fair Amortized % Amortized Unrealized % Unrealized Fair Value Value Cost Cost Loss Loss (000s omitted) Asset Backed Securities $ 966,070 9.4 % $ 1,065,451 9.8 % $ (99,381 ) 15.1 % Electric 997,693 9.7 % 1,062,158 9.7 % (64,465 ) 9.8 % Airlines 366,334 3.6 % 417,161 3.8 % (50,827 ) 7.7 % Automotive 244,003 2.4 % 269,613 2.5 % (25,610 ) 3.9 % Chemicals 223,614 2.2 % 247,673 2.3 % (24,059 ) 3.6 % Banking 568,173 5.5 % 590,271 5.4 % (22,098 ) 3.4 % Pipelines 243,255 2.4 % 264,136 2.4 % (20,881 ) 3.2 % Wirelines 202,401 2.0 % 221,842 2.0 % (19,441 ) 2.9 % P&C 116,502 1.1 % 135,819 1.3 % (19,317 ) 2.9 % Industrial Other 135,387 1.3 % 151,800 1.4 % (16,413 ) 2.5 % Sovereigns 261,942 2.6 % 277,802 2.5 % (15,860 ) 2.4 % Retailers 171,429 1.7 % 185,648 1.7 % (14,219 ) 2.2 % Media Non Cable 228,365 2.2 % 241,429 2.2 % (13,064 ) 2.0 % Metals and Mining 188,734 1.8 % 200,763 1.8 % (12,029 ) 1.8 % Textile 30,080 0.3 % 41,207 0.4 % (11,127 ) 1.7 % Beverage 36,296 0.4 % 47,176 0.4 % (10,880 ) 1.6 % Distributors 114,546 1.1 % 124,603 1.1 % (10,057 ) 1.5 % Transportation Services 171,275 1.7 % 180,689 1.7 % (9,414 ) 1.4 % Refining 50,584 0.5 % 57,535 0.5 % (6,951 ) 1.1 % Building Materials 88,015 0.9 % 94,624 0.9 % (6,609 ) 1.0 % Entertainment 157,335 1.5 % 163,940 1.5 % (6,605 ) 1.0 % Other 134,073 1.3 % 140,578 1.3 % (6,505 ) 1.0 % Wireless 39,358 0.4 % 45,771 0.4 % (6,413 ) 1.0 % Oil Field Services 161,150 1.6 % 167,528 1.5 % (6,378 ) 1.0 % CMBS 148,716 1.5 % 154,382 1.4 % (5,666 ) 0.9 % Collateralized Mortgage Obligations 288,754 2.8 % 294,301 2.7 % (5,547 ) 0.8 % Media Cable 35,146 0.3 % 40,641 0.4 % (5,495 ) 0.8 % Utility Other 60,861 0.6 % 65,911 0.6 % (5,050 ) 0.8 % REITs 65,097 0.6 % 69,977 0.6 % (4,880 ) 0.7 % Paper 121,372 1.2 % 126,050 1.2 % (4,678 ) 0.7 % Railroads 77,741 0.8 % 82,310 0.8 % (4,569 ) 0.7 % Lodging 37,608 0.4 % 42,119 0.4 % (4,511 ) 0.7 % Non Callable 97,239 0.9 % 101,698 0.9 % (4,459 ) 0.7 % Technology 68,293 0.7 % 72,568 0.7 % (4,275 ) 0.6 % Integrated 167,765 1.6 % 171,595 1.6 % (3,830 ) 0.6 % Captive 123,778 1.2 % 127,400 1.2 % (3,622 ) 0.5 % Food 177,804 1.7 % 181,372 1.7 % (3,568 ) 0.5 % Conglomerates 138,682 1.4 % 142,106 1.3 % (3,424 ) 0.5 % Financial Other 38,191 0.4 % 41,368 0.4 % (3,177 ) 0.5 % Aerospace/ Defense 92,886 0.9 % 96,040 0.9 % (3,154 ) 0.5 % Communications 2,940 0.0 % 5,632 0.1 % (2,692 ) 0.4 % 66 Table of Contents % Fair Amortized % Amortized Unrealized % Unrealized Fair Value Value Cost Cost Loss Loss (000s omitted) Life 67,926 0.7 % 70,284 0.6 % (2,358 ) 0.4 % FNMA 19,472 0.2 % 21,676 0.2 % (2,204 ) 0.3 % Consumer Cyclical 6,851 0.1 % 8,987 0.1 % (2,136 ) 0.3 % Non Captive Diversified 24,011 0.2 % 26,044 0.2 % (2,033 ) 0.3 % Yankee Corporates 3,087 0.0 % 5,112 0.0 % (2,025 ) 0.3 % Mortgage 55,786 0.5 % 57,686 0.5 % (1,900 ) 0.3 % Municipal 36,185 0.4 % 37,928 0.3 % (1,743 ) 0.3 % Pharmaceuticals 74,631 0.7 % 76,270 0.7 % (1,639 ) 0.2 % Consumer Products 31,188 0.3 % 32,639 0.3 % (1,451 ) 0.2 % Finance Companies 49,824 0.5 % 51,125 0.5 % (1,301 ) 0.2 % Consumer Cyclical Services 28,550 0.3 % 29,654 0.3 % (1,104 ) 0.2 % Construction Machinery 24,476 0.2 % 25,567 0.2 % (1,091 ) 0.2 % FNMA Conventional 30 Yr 121,842 1.2 % 122,842 1.1 % (1,000 ) 0.2 % Other 1,505,678 14.7 % 1,539,057 14.1 % (33,379 ) 5.0 % Lincoln UK Fixed Maturity Securities 435,104 4.2 % 444,278 4.1 % (9,174 ) 1.4 % Lincoln UK Equity Securities 125,596 1.2 % 149,428 1.4 % (23,832 ) 3.6 % $ 10,249,694 100.0 % $ 10,909,264 100.0 % $ (659,570 ) 100.0 % At December 31, 2002 and 2001, less than 9% and 5%, respectively, of the traded and private securities held that were subject to enhanced analysis and monitoring for potential changes in unrealized loss status were rated as investment grade. The range of maturity dates for these securities varies, with about 57% of these securities maturing between 5 and 10 years, about 20% maturing in greater than 10 years and the remaining maturity dates maturing in less than 5 years. At December 31, 2002 and 2001, 65.3% and 84.7%, respectively of total traded and private securities in unrealized loss status were rated as investment grade. At December 31, 2002, the range of maturity dates for total traded and private securities in unrealized loss status varies, with about 22% maturing between 5 and 10 years, 46% maturing after 10 years and the remaining securities maturing in less than 5 years. At December 31, 2001, the range of maturity dates for these securities varies, with about 39% maturing between 5 and 10 years, 37% maturing after 10 years and the remaining securities maturing in less than 5 years. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for ratings and maturity date information for LNCs fixed maturity investment portfolio. The information presented above is subject to rapidly changing conditions. As such, LNC expects that the level of securities with overall unrealized losses will fluctuate, as will the level of unrealized loss securities that are subject to enhanced analysis and monitoring. The recent volatility of financial market conditions has resulted in increased recognition of both investment gains and losses, as portfolio risks are adjusted through sales and purchases. As discussed below, this is consistent with LNCs classification of its investment portfolios as available for sale. During the year ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, LNC sold securities at gains and at losses. As discussed earlier, in the process of evaluating whether a security with an unrealized loss reflects an other than temporary decline, LNC considers its ability and intent to hold the security until its value recovers. However, subsequent decisions on securities sales are made within the context of overall risk monitoring, assessing value relative to other comparable securities and overall portfolio maintenance. Although LNCs portfolio managers may, at a given point in time, believe that the preferred course of action is to hold securities with unrealized losses that are considered temporary until such losses are recovered, the dynamic nature of portfolio management may result in a subsequent decision to sell. These subsequent decisions are consistent with the classification of LNCs investment portfolio as available for sale. In the future, LNC expects to continue to 67 Table of Contents manage all invested assets within its portfolios in a manner that is consistent with the available for sale classification. Use of Derivatives: The primary use of derivatives at LNC is to hedge interest rate risk that is embedded in either life insurance and annuity product liabilities or investment portfolios. To a lesser extent, derivatives are also used to hedge exposures to foreign currency and equity market risks. Derivatives held at December 31, 2002 contain industry standard terms and are entered into with financial institutions with long standing, superior performance records. Review of Consolidated Financial Condition Liquidity and Cash Flow Liquidity refers to the ability of an enterprise to generate adequate amounts of cash from its normal operations to meet cash requirements with a prudent margin of safety. Because of the interval of time from receipt of deposit or premium until payment of benefits or claims, LNC and other insurers employ investment portfolios as an integral element of operations. By segmenting its investment portfolios along product lines, LNC enhances the focus and discipline it can apply to managing the liquidity, as well as the interest rate and credit risk of each portfolio commensurate with the profile of the liabilities. For example, portfolios backing products with less certain cash flows and or withdrawal provisions are kept more liquid than portfolios backing products with more predictable cash flows. The consolidated statements of cash flows indicate that operating activities provided cash of $0.5 billion, $1.3 billion and $2.0 billion in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. This statement also classifies the other sources and uses of cash by investing activities and financing activities and discloses the amount of cash available at the end of the year to meet LNCs obligations. Although LNC generates adequate cash flow to meet the needs of its normal operations, periodically LNC may issue debt or equity securities to fund internal expansion, acquisitions, investment opportunities and the retirement of LNCs debt and equity. In April 2002, a new shelf registration statement was declared effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission. The new shelf registration totaled $1.2 billion (including $402.5 million of registered but unissued securities from previous registration statements). After giving consideration to the $250 million 5.25% five year senior notes issued in June 2002, LNC has $950 million remaining under the shelf registration to issue debt securities, preferred stock, common stock, warrants, stock purchase contracts and stock purchase units of LNC and trust preferred securities of four subsidiary trusts. The net proceeds from the sale of the securities offered by this shelf registration and the applicable prospectus supplement(s) are expected to be used by LNC for general corporate purposes, including repurchases of outstanding common stock, repayment or redemption of outstanding debt or preferred stock, the possible acquisition of financial services businesses or assets thereof, investment in portfolio assets and working capital needs. Cash funds are also available from LNCs revolving credit agreements. In June 2002, LNC reduced its revolving bank lines of credit from $700 million to $500 million when LNC suspended its commercial paper issuance under its European Commercial Paper program (see Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements). LNC purchased and retired 12,088,100; 11,278,022; and 6,222,581 shares of common stock at a cost of $474.5 million, $503.7 million and $210.0 million in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. In November 2000, the LNC board authorized $500 million to repurchase LNC securities. At the time of this authorization, there was $99.7 million remaining under a $500 million May 1999 board authorization. All of the shares repurchased in 2000 came under the May 1999 board authorization. In July 2001, the LNC board authorized an additional $500 million to repurchase LNC securities. In 2001, the remaining amount ($53.4 million) under the May 1999 board authorization was used and $450.4 million under the November 2000 board authorization was used. On August 8, 2002, the LNC Board authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $600 million of LNC securities. In 2002, the remaining amount ($49.6 million) under the November 2000 board authorization was used and $424.9 million under the July 2001 board authorization was used. The remaining amount under the combined repurchase authorization at December 31, 2002 was $675.1 million. 68 Table of Contents On August 16, 2001, LNC settled mandatory stock purchase contracts issued in conjunction with the FELINE PRIDES financing. This action resulted in the issuance of 4.6 million shares of LNC stock at $49.67 per share. Investors had the option of settling the purchase contract with separate cash or by having the collateral securing their purchase obligations sold. In the case of investors who held the Trust Originated Preferred Securities (TOPrS) as collateral for the purchase contracts, they were permitted to enter into a remarketing process with proceeds used to settle the contracts. On August 13, 2001, the remarketing failed resulting in the retirement of $225 million TOPrS. A total of $5 million of two year TOPrS remain outstanding which represents investors who chose to settle with separate cash and hold onto their TOPrS until maturity. On September 13, 2001, LNC redeemed all 8.6 million shares of the $215 million outstanding 8.75% Cumulative Quarterly Income Preferred Securities, Series A that were issued by Lincoln National Capital I and guaranteed by LNC. On November 19, 2001, LNC issued 6.9 million shares of $172.5 million 7.65% Trust Preferred Securities (TRUPS) through Lincoln National Capital V. In conjunction with the $172.5 million TRUPS issue, LNC executed a $172.5 million notional amount interest rate swap that effectively converted the 7.65% fixed rate coupon on the TRUPS into a LIBOR based floating rate obligation. On December 7, 2001, LNC issued $250 million 6.20% ten year senior notes. On January 7, 2002, LNC redeemed $100 million 8.35% Trust Originated Preferred Securities issued by Lincoln Capital II and guaranteed by LNC. On June 3, 2002, LNC issued $250 million 5.25% five year senior notes. The net proceeds of that offering was used for general corporate purposes, and pending such application, have been used to pay down short term debt. In conjunction with the $250 million debt issue, LNC executed a $100 million notional amount interest rate swap that effectively converted the 5.25% fixed rate coupon on the bond into a LIBOR based floating rate obligation for that portion of the bond. On December 7, 2001, Swiss Re acquired LNCs reinsurance operation for $2.0 billion. In addition, LNC retained the capital supporting the reinsurance operation. After giving affect to the increased levels of capital needed within the Life Insurance and Lincoln Retirement segments that results from the change in the ongoing mix of business under LNCs internal capital allocation models, the disposition of LNCs reinsurance operation has freed up approximately $100 million of capital. The transaction structure involved a series of indemnity reinsurance transactions combined with the sale of certain stock companies that comprised LNCs reinsurance operation. Approximately $0.56 billion of the proceeds from the transaction were used to pay taxes and associated deal costs and approximately $1.0 billion was used to repurchase stock, reduce debt, and support holding company cash flow needs. LNC used approximately $0.3 billion to pay the fourth quarter 2002 settlement with Swiss Re (see the Acquisition and Divestiture section for regarding the settlement with Swiss Re). Any remaining proceeds will be dedicated to the ongoing capital needs of LNL. In order to maximize the use of available cash, the holding company (LNC) maintains a facility where subsidiaries can borrow from the holding company to meet their short term needs and can invest their short term funds with the holding company. Depending on the overall cash availability or need, the holding company invests excess cash in short term investments or borrows funds in the financial markets. In addition to facilitating the management of cash, the holding company receives dividends from its subsidiaries, invests in operating companies, maintains an investment portfolio and pays shareholder dividends and certain corporate expenses. LNCs insurance subsidiaries are subject to certain insurance department regulatory restrictions as to the transfer of funds and payment of dividends to the holding company. Generally, these restrictions pose no short term liquidity concerns for the holding company. However, as discussed in detail within Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements, the acquisition of two blocks of business in 1998 resulted in negative statutory earned surplus for LNL which triggered certain approval requirements in order for LNL to declare and pay dividends to LNC. As a result of negative earned surplus, LNL was required to obtain the prior approval of the Indiana Insurance Commissioner (Commissioner) before paying any dividends to LNC until its statutory earned surplus became positive. During the first quarter 2002, LNL received approval from the Commissioner to reclassify total dividends of $495 million paid to LNC in 2001 from LNLs earned 69 Table of Contents surplus to paid in capital. This change plus the increase in statutory earned surplus from the indemnity reinsurance transaction with Swiss Re resulted in positive statutory earned surplus for LNL at December 31, 2001. In general, dividends are not subject to prior approval from the Commissioner provided LNLs statutory earned surplus is positive and such dividends do not exceed the standard limitation of the greater of 10% of total statutory earned surplus or the amount of statutory earnings in the prior calendar year. Dividends of $710 million were paid by LNL to LNC in the second quarter of 2002. These distributions were made in two installments. The first installment of $60 million was paid in April. The second installment of $650 million was paid in June. As both installments exceeded the standard limitation noted above, a special request was made for each payment and each was approved by the Commissioner. Both distributions represented a portion of the proceeds received from the indemnity reinsurance transaction with Swiss Re. As a result of the payment of dividends and statutory losses in 2002, LNLs statutory earned surplus is negative as of December 31, 2002. The statutory losses resulted from realized losses on investments, the effect of the equity markets and the reserve strengthening in 2002 related to the reinsurance business sold to Swiss Re. Due to the negative statutory earned surplus as of December 31, 2002, any dividend(s) paid by LNL in 2003 will be subject to prior approval from the Commissioner. As occurred in 2001, dividends approved and paid while statutory earned surplus is negative are expected to be classified as a reduction to paid in capital. LNL is recognized as an accredited reinsurer in the state of New York, which effectively enables it to conduct reinsurance business with unrelated insurance companies that are domiciled within the state of New York. As a result, in addition to regulatory restrictions imposed by the state of Indiana, LNL is also subject to the regulatory requirements that the State of New York imposes upon accredited reinsurers. Contractual Obligations and Contingent Commitments The tables below summarize LNCs obligations and commitments to make future payments under contracts in place at December 31, 2002, as well as contingent commitments in place at December 31, 2002. Contractual Obligations Future Amortization/ Amount Per Contractual Obligations 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Thereafter Total Adjustment Balance Sheet (in millions) Short Term Debt $ 153.0 $ $ $ $ $ $ 153.0 $ $ 153.0 Long Term Debt 193.0 250.0 670.3 1,113.3 5.9 1,119.2 Company Obligated Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Securities of Subsidiary Trusts Holding Soley Junior Subordinated Debentures 5.0 372.5 377.5 15.2 392.7 Operating Leases 59.8 58.6 58.0 54.6 53.1 77.2 361.3 Stadium Naming Rights Lincoln Financial Field (1) 5.5 5.6 5.7 5.8 6.0 106.4 135.0 Lincoln UK Administration Contract (2) 33.3 30.1 28.2 27.8 26.7 113.1 259.2 Information Technology Contract 70.0 70.0 5.8 145.8 Totals $ 326.6 $ 164.3 $ 290.7 $ 88.2 $ 335.8 $ 1,339.5 $ 2,545.1 $ 21.1 $ 1,664.9 70 Table of Contents Contingent Commitments Amount of Commitment Expiring per Period Total Amount Less than 13 45 After 5 Commitments Committed 1 Year Years Years Years (in millions) Lines of Credit (amount outstanding at 12/31/2002 is $11.9 million) $ 580.0 $ 280.0 $ 300.0 $ $ Standby Letters of Credit (amount outstanding at 12/31/2002 is $223.8 million) 450.0 450.0 Guarantees 22.3 0.1 1.2 2.5 18.5 Investment Commitments (3) 390.8 143.5 202.8 44.4 0.1 Standby Commitments to Purchase Real Estate upon Completion and Leasing 168.1 31.7 136.4 $ 1,611.2 $ 905.3 $ 640.4 $ 46.9 $ 18.6 (1) The amount includes a maximum annual increase related to the CPI. (2) The contract is for a term of 10 years and the annual cost is based on a per policy charge plus an amount for other services provided. The amounts quoted above are the estimated fees as the actual cost will depend on the number of policies in force and the applicable inflation rate for the each period. (3) Total includes $72.0 million of capital calls on limited partnership investments, $182.9 million of real estate pre buys and $49.7 million and $86.2 million of commitments for mortgage loans and private placement securities, respectively. As of December 31, 2002, LNCs senior debt ratings were Moodys at A3 (Upper Medium Grade), Standard and Poors at A (Strong), Fitch at A (Strong) and A.M. Best at a (Strong), and LNCs commercial paper ratings included Moodys at P 2 (Strong), Standard and Poors at A 2 (Satisfactory) and Fitch at F 1 (Very Strong). On September 19, 2002 Fitch lowered LNCs senior debt ratings from A+ to A and the trust preferred security ratings for Lincoln Capital III, IV, and V from A to A both on stable outlook. Fitchs action did not impact LNCs commercial paper rating or the insurance financial strength ratings of LNCs insurance subsidiaries. The move was part of industry wide action on several life insurance companies given the recent market environment and, in the case of LNC, reflects Fitchs desire to maintain a traditional three notch separation between debt and insurance financial strength ratings. The rating action is expected to have no effect on LNCs liquidity, access to capital, or cost of capital. Although there are less investors for A 2/ P 2 commercial paper and there are periods in which there is weak investor interest in A 2/ P 2 commercial paper, through December 31, 2002, liquidity has not been adversely impacted. LNC can draw upon alternative short term borrowing facilities such as revolving bank lines of credit. At December 31, 2002 LNC maintained three revolving credit agreements with a group of domestic and foreign banks totaling $580 million. LNCs commercial paper is supported by these facilities, a $200 million 364 day revolving credit facility maturing in December 2003 and a $300 million revolving credit facility maturing in December 2005 and a $80 million revolving credit facility, maintained by Lincoln UK, which matured in January 2003. The UK facility was renewed in January 2003 for $48 million maturing in January 2004. At December 31, 2002, LNC had $12 million in outstanding borrowings under the Lincoln UK agreement. All three agreements provide for interest on borrowings based on various money market indices. Under all three agreements, LNC must maintain senior unsecured long term debt ratings of at least S&P A and Moodys A3 or be restricted by an adjusted debt to capitalization ratio. LNCs 364 day revolving credit contains a one year term out feature which allows LNC to convert any loans outstanding on the maturity date of the credit facility into a one year term loan subject to a floating interest rate. On average, LNCs commercial paper borrowing rates have increased 0.20% per annum since LNC was downgraded to an A 2/ P 2 issuer. However, historically there have been times of greater volatility in commercial paper borrowing rates for an A 2/ P 2 issuer with the spread above A 1/ P 1 rates ranging 71 Table of Contents from 0.10% to 0.50%. During such times of greater volatility, LNC may experience difficulty in placing longer term commercial paper (defined as 30 90 day maturities), and as a result, experience increased short term financing costs. If current debt ratings and claims paying ratings were downgraded in the future, certain covenants of various contractual obligations may be triggered which could impact overall liquidity. In addition, contractual selling agreements with intermediaries could be negatively impacted which could have an adverse impact on overall sales of annuities, life insurance and investment products. As a result of increased cash flow from operations, Lincoln National (UK) PLC was able to retire its remaining outstanding commercial paper in the second quarter of 2002 and LNC eliminated the bank lines and ratings associated with this program. On June 3, 2002, LNC announced an agreement with the Philadelphia Eagles to name the Eagles new stadium, Lincoln Financial Field. In exchange for the naming rights, LNC agreed to pay $139.6 million over a 20 year period, through annual payments to the Eagles, which average approximately $6.7 million per year. This future commitment has not been recorded as a liability on LNCs balance sheet as it will be accounted for in a manner consistent with the accounting for operating leases. Effect of Inflation LNCs insurance affiliates, as well as other companies in the insurance industry, attempt to minimize the effect of inflation on their revenues and expenses by anticipating inflationary trends in the pricing of their products. Inflation, except for changes in interest rates, does not have a significant effect on LNCs balance sheet due to the minimal amount of dollars invested in property, plant and equipment and the absence of inventories. Capital Resources Total shareholders equity increased $32.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2002. Accumulated other comprehensive income increased shareholders equity by $561.4 million. The components of the changes to accumulated other comprehensive income were: $564.5 million related to the increase in the unrealized gain on securities available for sale and derivative instruments, $58.8 million related to an increase in the accumulated foreign exchange gain and a decrease of $61.9 million for minimum pension liability adjustments. Excluding changes due to other comprehensive income, shareholders equity decreased $528.6 million. This decrease is the net of increases due to $91.6 million of net income and $93.6 million from the issuance of common stock related to benefit plans and decreases due to $234.3 million from the declaration of dividends to shareholders, $474.5 million for the retirement of common stock, $4.5 million for the forfeiture of shares under benefit plans and $0.5 million for the cancellation of shares related to the acquisition of subsidiaries Capital adequacy is a primary measure used by insurance regulators to determine the financial stability of an insurance company. In the U.S., risk based capital guidelines are used by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners to determine the amount of capital that represents minimum acceptable operating amounts related to insurance and investment risks. Regulatory action is triggered when an insurers statutory basis capital falls below the formula produced capital level. At December 31, 2002, statutory basis capital for each of LNCs U.S. insurance subsidiaries was in excess of regulatory action levels of risk based capital required by the jurisdiction of domicile. As noted above, shareholders equity includes accumulated other comprehensive income. At December 31, 2002, the book value of $29.82 per share included $3.85 of accumulated other comprehensive income. At December 31, 2001, the book value of $28.10 per share included $0.97 related to accumulated other comprehensive income. 72 Table of Contents Contingencies See Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding contingencies. Legislation In the 2003 Budget proposal, President Bush proposed an economic stimulus package and changes to retirement savings. The centerpiece of the stimulus proposal is the elimination of the double taxation of corporate dividends. Both the Bush Administration and Congress have expressed concerns regarding the impact of the proposal on variable annuities. The life insurance industry has proposed that dividends in equity securities held in separate accounts flow through to increase the basis in the variable annuity contract. The overall impact of these proposals on LNCs products and corporate tax burden cannot be accurately predicted at this time. Initial legislative language has been introduced to implement certain aspects of the Presidents proposals, which is currently the subject of debate and testimony before Congress It is too early to predict the final form of the legislation that Congress will pass, if any. Tax legislation could increase or reduce tax advantages for some of LNCs life insurance and annuity products. LNC continues to support reductions in the tax burden imposed on its businesses, employees and policyholders. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Market Risk Exposures of Financial Instruments LNC analyzes and manages the risks arising from market exposures of financial instruments, as well as other risks, in an integrated asset liability management process that takes diversification into account. By aggregating the potential effect of market and other risks of the entire enterprise, LNC estimates, reviews and in some cases manages the risk to its earnings and shareholder value. LNC has exposures to several market risks including interest rate, default risk, foreign currency exchange, liquidity and equity price risks. The exposures of financial instruments to market risks, and the related risk management processes, are most important in the Lincoln Retirement (formerly known as Annuities) and Life Insurance segments. It is within these segments where most of the invested assets support accumulation and investment oriented insurance products. As an important element of its integrated asset liability management process, LNC uses derivatives to minimize the effects of changes in interest levels and the shape of the yield curve. In this context, derivatives are designated as a hedge and serve to reduce interest rate risk by mitigating the effect of significant increases in interest rates on LNCs earnings. Additional market exposures exist in LNCs other general account insurance products and in its debt structure and derivatives positions. The primary sources of market risk are: 1) substantial, relatively rapid and sustained increases or decreases in interest rates, 2) fluctuations in currency exchange rates or 3) a sharp drop in equity market values. Each of these market risks are discussed in detail in the following pages. 1) Interest Rate Risk Accumulation and Investment Oriented Insurance Products. General account assets supporting accumulation and investment oriented insurance products total $31.2 billion or 78% and $26.5 billion or 73% of total invested assets at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. With respect to these products, LNC seeks to earn a stable and profitable spread between investment income and interest credited to account values. If LNC has adverse experience on investments that cannot be passed onto customers, its spreads are reduced. Alternatively, LNC may seek to maintain spreads and this may result in crediting rates that are not competitive in the market place. This strategy could result in adverse surrender experience on policies and could force LNC to liquidate a portion of its portfolio to fund cash surrender value benefits. LNC does not view the near term risk to spreads over the next twelve months to be material. The combination of a probable range of interest rate changes over the next twelve months, asset liability 73 Table of Contents management strategies, flexibility in adjusting policy crediting rate levels and protection afforded by policy surrender charges and other switching costs all work together to minimize this risk. The interest rate scenarios of concern are those in which there is a substantial, relatively rapid increase or decrease in interest rates that is then sustained over a long period. Fixed Deferred Annuities. Assets of $19.9 billion and $16.5 billion at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively, support the largest category of accumulation and investment oriented insurance products, fixed deferred annuities. For these products, LNC may adjust renewal crediting rates monthly or quarterly, subject to guaranteed minimums ranging from 3% to 5%. The higher minimums apply to in force blocks of older products that no longer are sold. Annuity insurance customers have the right to surrender their policies at account value less a surrender charge that grades to zero over periods ranging from 5 to 10 years from policy issue date or, in some cases, the date of each premium received. In some cases, a market value adjustment may also apply. Due to LNCs ability to change crediting rates to reflect investment experience on the majority of its traditional annuity products, the underlying assets are assumed to be a good proxy for the interest rate risk inherent in these liabilities. This assumption is appropriate for probable movements in interest rates over the next 12 months. This assumption may not be appropriate for a substantial, relatively rapid increase or decrease in interest rates that is then sustained over a long period. Universal Life and Interest Sensitive Whole Life. LNC had $9.3 billion and $8.1 billion in assets at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively, supporting universal life and interest sensitive whole life insurance on which it has the right to adjust renewal crediting rates. The credited rates are subject to guaranteed minimums ranging from 3% to 4.5% for universal life and 4.0% to 7.0% for interest sensitive whole life, at December 31, 2002. Similar to annuities, universal life insurance customers have the right to surrender their policies at account value less a surrender charge that grades to zero over periods ranging from 10 to 20 years from policy issue date or, in some cases, the date of each premium received. Guaranteed Interest Contracts and Group Pension Annuities. LNC had assets totaling $2.0 billion and $1.9 billion at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively that support guaranteed interest contracts, group pension annuities and immediate annuities. Generally, the cash flows expected on these liabilities do not vary with fluctuations in market interest rates and are not adjustable by LNC. Accordingly, if experience on the assets supporting these products is more adverse than the assumptions used in pricing the products, spreads will tend to be below expectations. LNC limits exposure to interest rate risk by managing the duration and maturity structure of each investment portfolio in relation to the liabilities it supports. Other General Account Insurance Products. LNC had $8.8 billion and $9.6 billion of assets at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively, supporting general account products. For these products, the liability cash flows may have actuarial uncertainty. However, their amounts and timing do not vary significantly with interest rates. LNC limits interest rate risk by analyzing the expected cash flows of the products and structuring investment portfolios with similar cash flows. Interest Rate Risk Falling Rates. Interest rates declined in 1998, rose in 1999 and declined again in 2000, 2001 and 2002. For example, the five year Treasury yield decreased from 5.7% in 1997 to 4.5% by the end of 1998, increased to 6.3% by the end of 1999, and declined from 5.0% at the end of 2000 to 4.3% at the end of 2001 and declined again to 2.70% at the end of 2002. Under scenarios in which interest rates fall and remain at levels significantly lower than those prevailing at December 31, 2002, minimum guarantees on annuity and universal life insurance policies (generally 3% to 5% or an average of approximately 4%) could cause the spread between the yield on the portfolio and the interest rate credited to policyholders to deteriorate. The earned rate on the annuity and universal life insurance portfolios averaged 6.8% and 7.3%, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2002, providing a cushion for a decline before the earned rates would be insufficient to cover minimum guaranteed rates plus the target spread. The following table provides detail on the difference between interest crediting rates and minimum guaranteed rates as of December 31, 2002. For example, at December 31, 2002, there are $5.920 billion of 74 Table of Contents combined Retirement and Life Insurance account values where the excess of the crediting rate over contact minimums is between 1.51% and 2.00%. As of December 31, 2002 Excess of Crediting Rates over Contract Minimums Retirement Life Total % (in millions) Fixed Rate and On Benefit type annuities $ 4,359 $ $ 4,359 14.4 % Discretionary rate setting products* No difference 2,104 696 2,800 9.3 % up to .1% 107 0 107 0.4 % .11% to .20% 54 0 54 0.2 % .21% to .30% 391 728 1,119 3.7 % .31% to .40% 2,941 0 2,941 9.7 % .41% to .50% 368 39 407 1.4 % .51% to .60% 40 246 286 0.9 % .61% to .70% 93 158 251 0.8 % .71% to .80% 41 844 885 2.9 % .81% to .90% 5,195 0 5,195 17.2 % .91% to 1.0% 295 20 315 1.0 % 1.01% to 1.50% 2,228 1,893 4,121 13.6 % 1.51% to 2.00% 1,118 4,802 5,920 19.6 % 2.01% to 2.50% 447 584 1,031 3.4 % 2.51% to 3.00% 279 157 436 1.4 % 3.01% and above 28 0 28 0.1 % Total Discretionary rate setting products 15,729 10,167 25,896 85.6 % Grand Total Account Values $ 20,088 $ 10,167 $ 30,255 100.0 % * For purposes of this exhibit, contracts currently within new money rate bands are grouped according to the corresponding portfolio rate band in which they will fall upon their first anniversary. The maturity structure and call provisions of the related portfolios are structured to afford protection against erosion of this cushion for a period of time. However, spreads would be at risk if interest rates continued to fall and remained lower for a long period. LNC devotes extensive effort to evaluating these risks by simulating asset and liability cash flows for a wide range of interest rate scenarios. LNC seeks to manage these exposures by maintaining a suitable maturity structure and by limiting its exposure to call risk in each respective investment portfolio. LNC believes that the portfolios supporting its accumulation and investment oriented insurance products have a prudent degree of call protection individually and on a consolidated basis. For instance, as of December 31, 2002, the mortgage backed securities (MBS) and asset backed securities (ABS) portion represented a total of $5.0 billion or 17% of the $31.2 billion of general account assets supporting such products. Of this portfolio, 11% of general account assets or $3.1 billion is subject to residential prepayment risk from investments made in Collateralized Mortgage Obligations (CMOs), mortgage pass throughs, manufactured housing and home equity loans. As of December 31, 2001, the MBS and ABS portion of the portfolio represented a total of $3.5 billion or 14% of the $24.6 billion of general account assets supporting such products. LNCs MBS portfolio has equal to or slightly less prepayment risk than the MBS pass through market in general primarily due to holding more seasoned securities in the portfolio. 75 Table of Contents Interest Rate Risk Rising Rates. For both annuities and universal life insurance, a rapid and sustained rise in interest rates poses risks of deteriorating spreads and high surrenders. The portfolios supporting these products have fixed rate assets laddered over maturities generally ranging from one to ten years or more. Accordingly, the earned rate on each portfolio lags behind changes in market yields. As rates rise, the lag may be increased by slowing MBS prepayments. The greater and faster the rise in interest rates, the more the earned rate will tend to lag behind market rates. If LNC sets renewal crediting rates to earn the desired spread, the gap between its renewal crediting rates and competitors new money rates may be wide enough to cause increased surrenders. If LNC credits more competitive renewal rates to limit surrenders, its spreads will narrow. LNC devotes extensive effort to evaluating these risks by simulating asset and liability cash flows for a wide range of interest rate scenarios. Such analysis has led to adjustments in the target maturity structure and to hedging the risk of rising rates by buying out of the money interest rate cap agreements and swaptions (see discussion below). With these instruments in place, the potential adverse impact of a rapid and sustained rise in rates is kept within corporate risk tolerances. Debt. As of December 31, 2002, LNC had short term debt, long term debt and company obligated mandatorily redeemable preferred securities of subsidiary trusts holding solely junior subordinated debentures totaling $1.67 billion ($1.22 billion with fixed rates and $0.45 billion with floating rates) on the balance sheet. As of December 31, 2001, LNC had short term debt, long term debt and minority interest preferred securities of subsidiary companies totaling $1.69 billion ($1.27 billion with fixed rates and $0.42 billion with floating rates) on the balance sheet. LNC manages the timing of maturities and the mixture of fixed rate and floating rate debt as part of the process of integrated management of interest rate risk for the entire enterprise. Derivatives. As indicated in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements, LNC has entered into derivative transactions to reduce its exposure to rapid rises in interest rates. The four programs discussed below are used to help LNC achieve more stable margins while providing competitive crediting rates to policyholders during periods when interest rates are rising. Failure to maintain competitive crediting rates could cause policyholders to withdraw their funds and place them in more competitive products. LNC uses interest rate cap agreements to hedge against the negative impact of a significant and sustained rise in interest rates. Interest rate caps are contracts that require counterparties to pay LNC at specified future dates the amount, if any, by which a specified market interest rate exceeds the cap rate stated in the agreements, applied to a notional amount. As of December 31, 2002 and 2001, LNC had agreements with notional amounts of $1.3 billion in both periods. At December 31, 2002, the agreements had cap rates ranging from 200 to 850 basis points above prevailing interest rates. The cap rates in some contracts increase over time. These agreements expire in 2003 through 2007. LNC also uses swaptions to hedge against the negative impact of a significant and sustained rise in interest rates. Swaptions are options to enter into a swap at a specified future date. If the option is exercised at expiration, the option is either settled in cash or exercised into a swap agreement. LNC purchases swaptions to be settled in cash. At expiration, the counterparty is required to pay LNC the amount, if any, of the present value of the difference between the fixed rate on a market rate swap and the strike rate stated in the agreement, applied to a notional amount. As of December 31, 2002 and 2001, LNC had agreements with notional amounts of $0.2 billion and $1.8 billion, respectively. At December 31, 2002, the agreements had strike rates ranging from 550 to 700 basis points above prevailing interest rates. These agreements expire in 2003. Notional for swaptions decreased by $1.6 billion as a result of expirations and a change in the method of reporting notional. No additional swaptions were purchased during the year. For future periods, the fair value of LNCs interest rate caps and swaptions depends on the levels of future U.S. Treasury and U.S. dollar swap interest rates. The table below shows estimates of fair value levels for the cap and swaption portfolio at December 31, 2002 for future time periods and selected potential future interest rate levels. 76 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2002 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 (in millions) No change $ 4.7 $ 1.7 $ 0.3 $ $ $ Up 2% 26.1 13.3 4.9 0.9 Up 4% 65.8 42.6 23.6 10.0 2.7 0.5 Up 6% 119.0 86.6 56.5 31.7 15.0 6.4 LNC uses exchange traded financial futures contracts to hedge against interest rate risks on a portion of its fixed maturity securities. Financial futures contracts obligate LNC to buy or sell a financial instrument at a specified future date for a specified price. They may be settled in cash or through delivery of the financial instrument. Cash settlements on the change in market values of financial futures contracts are made daily. As of December 31, 2002, LNC did not have any open futures. LNC uses interest rate swap agreements to hedge its exposure to floating rate bond coupon payments, replicating a fixed rate bond. An interest rate swap is a contractual agreement to exchange payments at one or more times based on the actual or expected price level, performance or value of one or more underlying interest rates. LNC is required to pay the counterparty the stream of variable interest payments based on the coupon payments from the hedged bonds, and in turn, receives a fixed payment from the counterparty, at a predetermined interest rate. In addition, LNC uses interest rate swap agreements to hedge its exposure to interest rate fluctuations related to the forecasted purchase of assets to support newly acquired blocks of business or certain other portfolios of assets. Finally, LNC uses interest rate swap agreements to hedge the risk of paying a higher fixed rate interest on company obligated mandatorily redeemable preferred securities of subsidiary trusts holding solely junior subordinated debentures and on senior debt than can be paid on long term debt based on current interest rates in the marketplace. As of December 31, 2002 and 2001, LNC had swap agreements with a notional amount of $701.6 million and $507.6 million, respectively. The agreements expire in 2003 through 2050. Notional for interest rate swaps increased $194.0 million during 2002 primarily as a result of entering into interest rate swaps to hedge variable rate assets and to convert fixed rate debt payments into floating rate debt payments. LNC used a treasury lock agreement to hedge its exposure to variability in future semi annual interest payments, attributable to changes in the benchmark interest rate, related to the issuance of its 10 year $250 million senior debt in December 2001 and its 5 year $250 million senior debt in 2002. A treasury lock is an agreement that allows the holder to lock in a benchmark interest rate, so that if the benchmark interest rate increases, the holder is entitled to receive a payment from the counterparty equal to the present value of the difference in the benchmark interest rate at the determination date and the locked in benchmark interest rate. If the benchmark interest rate decreases, the holder must pay the counterparty an amount equal to the present value of the difference in the benchmark interest rate at the determination date and the locked in benchmark interest rate. As of December 31, 2002, LNC did not have any open treasury locks. In addition to continuing existing programs, LNC may use derivative products in other strategies to limit risk and enhance returns, particularly in the management of investment spread businesses. LNC has established policies, guidelines and internal control procedures for the use of derivatives as tools to enhance management of the overall portfolio of risks assumed in LNCs operations. Annually, LNCs Board of Directors reviews LNCs derivatives policy and LNCs compliance with the policy. Table of Significant Exposures. The table below provides a general measure of LNCs significant interest rate risk (principal amounts are shown by year of maturity and include amortization of premiums and discounts); notional amounts for interest rate caps and swaptions are shown by amount outstanding at the year end given) as of December 31, 2002. 77 Table of Contents There Value 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 after Total Fair (in millions) Rate Sensitive Assets Fixed interest rate securities $ 929.1 $ 959.1 $ 1,556.4 $ 1,646.8 $ 2,311.0 $ 23,183.0 $ 30,585.4 $ 30,726.5 Average interest rate 7.14 % 6.98 % 7.04 % 6.58 % 6.45 % 6.71 % 6.71 % Variable interest rate securities $ 12.0 $ 85.9 $ 153.3 $ 39.9 $ 45.7 $ 2,704.9 $ 3,041.7 $ 2,041.0 Average interest rate 7.88 % 8.08 % 8.50 % 6.89 % 6.75 % 5.52 % 5.94 % Mortgage loans $ 110.4 $ 478.8 $ 214.0 $ 336.9 $ 313.3 $ 2,765.1 $ 4,218.5 $ 4,678.8 Average interest rate 8.21 % 8.15 % 8.39 % 7.79 % 8.21 % 7.91 % 7.99 % Rate Sensitive Liabilities Guaranteed Interest Contracts: Interest paid at maturity $ 24.0 $ 36.0 $ 23.0 $ $ $ $ 83.0 $ 95.0 Average interest rate 10.67 % 10.71 % 10.72 % 10.70 % Investment type insurance contracts, excluding guaranteed interest contracts (1) $ 410.8 $ 1,218.4 $ 692.0 $ 833.6 $ 1,124.7 $ 15,662.1 $ 19,941.6 $ 20,283.3 Average interest rate 7.45 % 7.33 % 7.19 % 6.93 % 6.79 % 6.98 % 7.01 % Debt (2) $ 158.0 $ 193.0 $ 250.0 $ 1,042.8 $ 1,643.8 $ 1,727.7 Average interest rate 1.79 % 7.25 % 5.25 7.19 % 6.36 % Rate Sensitive Derivative Financial Instruments: Interest Rate and Foreign Currency Swaps: Pay variable/receive fixed 85.0 5.0 47.2 13.4 224.6 387.9 763.1 72.7 Average pay rate 1.8 % 2.0 % 4.4 % 2.7 % 1.7 % 2.3 % 2.2 % Average receive rate 5.3 % 5.9 % 6.9 % 6.6 % 4.9 % 7.0 % 6.2 % Interest Rate Caps and Swaptions: (3) Outstanding notional 1,050.0 1,050.0 1,050.0 800.0 4.7 Average strike rate (4) 7.8 % 7.9 % 8.0 % 7.9 % Forward CMT curve (5) 3.9 % 4.5 % 5.0 % 5.3 % The table shows the principal amounts and fair values of assets, liabilities and derivatives having significant interest rate risks as of December 31, 2001. Principal Fair Amount Value (in millions) Fixed interest rate securities $ 27,474.7 $ 26,380.6 Variable interest rate securities 3,154.2 1,965.1 Mortgage loans 4,538.9 4,691.1 Guaranteed interest contracts 77.0 89.0 Investment type insurance contracts (1) 19,041.1 18,297.1 Debt (2) 1,691.0 1,703.6 Interest rate and foreign currency swaps 602.2 24.1 Interest rate caps and swaptions 0.7 (1) The information shown is for the fixed maturity securities and mortgage loans that support these insurance contracts. (2) Includes company obligated mandatorily redeemable preferred securities of subsidiary trusts holding solely junior subordinated debentures. (3) Swaptions notional is shown converted to cap equivalent. 78 Table of Contents (4) The indexes are a mixture of five year and ten year Constant Maturity Treasury (CMT) and Constant Maturity Swap (CMS). (5) The CMT curve is the five year constant maturity treasury forward curve. 2) Foreign Currency Risk Foreign Currency Denominated Investments. LNC invests in foreign currency denominated securities for incremental return and risk diversification relative to United States Dollar Denominated (USD) securities. The fair value of foreign securities totaled $975.1 million as of December 31, 2002. LNC periodically uses foreign exchange forward contracts and foreign currency swaps to hedge some of the foreign exchange risk related to its investment in securities denominated in foreign currencies. The currency risk is hedged using foreign currency derivatives of the same currency as the bonds. The table below shows LNCs exposure to foreign currency securities. Also included is the relevant information relating to the foreign currency derivatives that are hedging the currency risk of these securities. The table below presents the principal or notional amount in U.S. dollar equivalents by expected maturity for LNCs foreign currency denominated investments and foreign currency swaps as of December 31, 2002. There Fair 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 After Total Value Currencies: Canadian Dollar $ $ $ $ 3.3 $ 12.7 $ 2.7 $ 18.7 $ 19.8 Interest Rate 6.37 % 4.65 % 5.53 % 5.08 % British Pound 122.0 47.1 40.1 37.8 27.7 579.3 854.0 950.7 Interest Rate 6.77 % 12.90 % 9.10 % 5.40 % 4.80 % 5.41 % 6.22 % French Franc 2.8 2.8 2.9 Interest Rate 8.90 % 8.90 % All Other Currencies 1.7 1.7 1.7 Interest Rate 13.14 % 13.14 % Total Currencies 123.7 47.1 40.1 43.9 40.4 582.0 877.2 975.1 Derivatives: Foreign Currency Swaps 44.5 13.5 3.4 61.4 (2.4 ) The table below presents the principal or notional amount in U.S. dollar equivalents of LNCs foreign currency denominated investments and foreign currency swaps as of December 31, 2001. Principal/ Fair Notional Value (in millions) Currencies Canadian Dollar $ 12.9 $ 13.5 British Pound 840.9 895.3 Filipino Peso 5.6 5.6 All other currencies 2.8 2.6 Total Currencies $ 862.2 $ 917.0 Derivatives Foreign Currency Swaps $ 94.6 $ 5.9 Foreign Currency Forward Contracts. LNC uses foreign currency forward contracts to hedge some of the foreign exchange risk related to its investments in fixed maturity securities denominated in foreign currencies. LNC typically engages in short term currency forward contracts of less than six months and actively monitors currency markets in determining those currencies to hedge, the duration of the hedge and the nominal amount to hedge. A foreign currency forward contract obligates LNC to deliver a specified amount of currency at a future date at a specified exchange rate. The value of the foreign exchange forward 79 Table of Contents contracts at any given point fluctuates according to the underlying level of exchange rate and interest rate differentials. During 2002, LNC entered into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge a portion of its net investment in Lincoln UK. At December 31, 2002, the total notional and fair value for these contracts was $43.0 million and $(1.8) million, respectively. These contracts expire in 2003. Foreign Currency Swaps. A foreign currency swap is a contractual agreement to exchange the currencies of two different countries at a specified rate of exchange in the future. LNC uses foreign currency swaps to convert the cash flow of foreign currency securities to U.S. dollars. 3) Equity Market Exposures LNCs revenues, assets, liabilities and derivatives are exposed to equity market risk. Refer to the section captioned First Quarter 2003 Guidance for the Estimated Effect of Equity Market Volatility for additional discussion of equity market risk. Fee Revenues. The fee revenues of LNCs Investment Management segment and fees earned from variable annuities and variable life insurance products are exposed to the risk of a decline in equity market values. These fees are generally a fixed percentage of the market value of assets under management. In a severe equity market decline, fee income could be reduced by not only reduced market valuations but also by customer withdrawals and redemptions. Such withdrawals and redemptions from equity funds and accounts might be partially offset by transfers to LNCs fixed income accounts and the transfer of funds to LNC from its competitors customers. Assets. While LNC invests in equity assets with the expectation of achieving higher returns than would be available in its core fixed income investments, the returns on, and values of, these equity investments are subject to somewhat greater market risk than its fixed income investments. These investments, however, add diversification benefits to LNCs fixed income investments. The table below shows the sensitivity of price changes to LNCs equity assets owned. December 31, 2002 December 31, 2001 10% Fair 10% Fair Carrying Fair Value Value Carrying Fair Value Value Increase Decrease Value Value (in millions) U.S. Equities $ 133.7 $ 133.7 $ 147.1 $ 120.3 $ 154.2 $ 154.2 Foreign Equities 198.6 198.6 218.4 178.8 309.6 309.6 Emerging Market Equities 4.9 4.9 5.4 4.4 6.7 6.7 Subtotal 337.2 337.2 370.9 303.5 470.5 470.5 Real Estate 279.7 312.0 343.2 280.8 267.9 296.9 Other Equity Interests 300.5 279.2 307.1 251.3 366.7 356.9 Total $ 917.4 $ 928.4 $ 1,021.2 $ 835.6 $ 1,105.1 $ 1,124.3 Liabilities. LNC has exposure to U.S. equity markets through stock appreciation rights (SARs) issued in 2000 through 2002. The aggregate value for vested and non vested SARs was $3.7 million and $4.1 million at December 31, 2002, respectively. The aggregate value for vested and non vested SARs was $6.5 million and $15.3 million at December 31, 2001, respectively. This program is being hedged with equity derivatives as discussed below. Derivatives Hedging Equity Risks. LNC uses OTC equity call options on LNC stock to hedge against the increase in its liabilities arising from stock appreciation rights granted on LNC stock in 2000 through 2002. These call options require the counterparty to pay LNC at specified future expiration dates the amount, if any, of the increase in LNCs stock price over the strike price of the option, applied to the number of contracts. LNC had 1.3 million and 1.1 million call options on an equal number of shares of LNC stock at 80 Table of Contents December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The call options expirations are matched to the liabilities and expire in 2005 through 2007. Default Risk. LNCs portfolio of invested assets was $40.0 billion as of December 31, 2002. Of this total, $25.9 billion consists of corporate bonds and $4.2 billion consists of commercial mortgages. LNC manages the risk of adverse default experience on these investments by applying disciplined credit evaluation and underwriting standards, prudently limiting allocations to lower quality, higher yielding investments, and diversifying exposures by issuer, industry, region and property type. For each counterparty or borrowing entity and its affiliates, LNCs exposures from all transactions are aggregated and managed in relation to formal limits set by rating quality and industry group. LNC remains exposed to occasional adverse cyclical economic downturns during which default rates may be significantly higher than the long term historical average used in pricing. As of December 31, 2001, LNC had a portfolio of invested assets of $36.1 billion. LNC is depending on the ability of derivative product dealers and their guarantors to honor their obligations to pay the contract amounts under various derivatives agreements. In order to minimize the risk of default losses, LNC diversifies its exposures among several dealers and limits the amount of exposure to each in accordance with the credit rating of each dealer or its guarantor. LNC generally limits its selection of counterparties that are obligated under these derivative contracts to those with an A credit rating or above. Credit Related Derivatives. LNC periodically uses spread lock agreements to hedge a portion of the value of its fixed maturity investments against the risk of widening in the spreads between their yields and the yields of comparable maturity U.S. or other Government obligations. As of December 31, 2002, LNC did not have any open spread lock agreements. LNC used put options, combined with various perpetual fixed income securities and interest rate swaps to replicate fixed income, fixed maturity investments. The risk being hedged was a drop in bond prices due to credit concerns with the international bond issuers. The put options allowed LNC to put the bonds back to the counterparties at original par. As of December 31, 2002, LNC did not have any open put options. LNC uses credit default swaps to hedge against a drop in bond prices due to credit concerns of certain bond issuers. A credit swap allows LNC to put the bond back to the counterparty at par upon a credit event by the bond issuer. A credit event is defined as bankruptcy, failure to pay, or obligation acceleration. As of December 31, 2002 and 2001, LNC had credit swaps with a notional amount of $26 million and $29 million, respectively. The credit swaps expire in 2003 through 2006. LNC used total return swaps to hedge its exposure to interest rate and spread risk resulting from the forecasted sale of assets in a securitization of certain LNC mortgage loans. A total return swap is an agreement that allows the holder to protect itself against loss of value by effectively transferring the economic risk of asset ownership to the counterparty. The holder pays (receives) the total return equal to interest plus capital gains or losses on a referenced asset and receives a floating rate of interest. As of December 31, 2002, LNC did not have any open total return swaps. Ratings based Termination Events. LNC and LNL are required to maintain minimum ratings as a matter of routine practice in negotiating ISDA agreements. Under the majority of ISDA agreements and as a matter of policy, LNL has agreed to maintain financial strength or claims paying ratings above S&P BBB and Moodys Baa2. A downgrade below these levels would result in termination of the derivatives contract at which time any amounts payable by LNC would be dependent on the market value of the underlying derivative contract. In certain transactions, LNC and the counterparty have entered into a collateral support agreement requiring LNC to post collateral upon significant downgrade. LNC is required to maintain long term senior debt ratings above S&P BBB and Moodys Baa2. LNC also requires for its own protection minimum rating standards for counterparty credit protection. LNL is required to maintain financial strength or claims paying ratings above S&P A and Moodys A3 under certain ISDA agreements, which collectively do not represent material notional exposure. LNC does not believe the inclusion of termination or collateralization events pose any material threat to its liquidity position. 81 Table of Contents 
 
