Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward Looking Statements Cautionary Language This report, among other things, reviews the results of operations of LNC Consolidated, LNCs four business segments and Other Operations; LNCs consolidated investments; and consolidated financial condition including liquidity, cash flows and capital resources. Historical financial information is presented and analyzed. This report and other written or oral statements made by LNC or on LNCs behalf may contain forward looking statements. Where appropriate, factors that may affect future financial performance are identified and discussed. Certain statements made in this report are forward looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (SLRA). A forward looking statement is any statement that is not a historical fact and, without limitation, includes any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate or imply future results, performance or achievements, and may contain words like: believe, anticipate, expect, estimate, project, will, shall and other words or phrases with similar meaning. LNC claims the protection afforded by the safe harbor for forward looking statements provided by the SLRA. 14 Table of Contents Forward looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the results contained in the forward looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, among others, subsequent significant changes in: the Company (e.g., acquisitions and divestitures of legal entities and blocks of business directly or by means of reinsurance transactions); financial markets (e.g., interest rates and securities markets and stock and bond market performance); the performance of the investment portfolios of LNCs subsidiaries and of the portfolios which they manage (both internal and external); competitors and competing products and services; LNCs ability to operate its businesses in a relatively normal manner; legislation (e.g., corporate, individual, estate and product taxation) including the recently enacted provisions affecting the taxation of dividends and retirement savings; the price of LNCs stock; accounting principles generally accepted in the United States; regulations (e.g., insurance and securities regulations); debt and claims paying ratings issued by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations; and the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) capital requirements. Other risks and uncertainties include: the risk that significant accounting, fraud or corporate governance issues may adversely affect the value of certain investments in the portfolios of LNCs companies; the risk that LNC could have to accelerate amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs if the market deteriorates; the risk that LNC could have to write off investments in certain securities if the issuers financial condition deteriorates; the risks associated with having products with guaranteed benefits; whether necessary regulatory approvals are obtained (e.g., insurance department, Hart Scott Rodino, etc.) and, if obtained, whether they are obtained on a timely basis; whether proceeds from divestitures of legal entities and blocks of business can be used as planned; risks associated with litigation, arbitration and other actions such as: (a) adverse decisions in significant actions including, but not limited to extra contractual and class action damage cases; (b) new decisions which change the law; (c) unexpected trial court rulings; (d) unavailability of witnesses; (e) newly discovered evidence and (f) acts of God (e.g., hurricanes, earthquakes and storms); whether there will be significant charges or benefits resulting from the contingencies described in the footnotes to LNCs consolidated financial statements; risks associated with acts of terrorism or war; and other insurance risks (e.g., policyholder mortality and morbidity). The risks included here are not exhaustive. Other sections of this report, and LNCs quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission 15 Table of Contents include additional factors which could impact LNCs business and financial performance. Moreover, LNC operates in a rapidly changing and competitive environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors. Further, it is not possible to assess the impact of all risk factors on LNCs business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undo reliance on forward looking statements as a prediction of actual results. In addition, LNC disclaims any obligation to update any forward looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of this report. Introduction Lincoln National Corporation (LNC) is a holding company. Through subsidiary companies LNC operates multiple insurance and investment management businesses. The collective group of companies uses Lincoln Financial Group as its marketing identity. LNC is the 44th largest (based on assets) United States corporation (2002 Fortune 500, Largest U.S. Corporations, April 2003). Operations are divided into four business segments: 1) Lincoln Retirement, 2) Life Insurance, 3) Investment Management and 4) Lincoln UK. LNC reports operations not directly related to the business segments and unallocated corporate items (i.e., corporate investment income, interest expense on corporate debt, unallocated overhead expenses, and the operations of Lincoln Financial Advisors (LFA) and Lincoln Financial Distributors (LFD) and the amortization of the deferred gain on the sale of Lincoln Re) in Other Operations. Prior to the fourth quarter of 2001, LNC had a Reinsurance segment. Total employment of LNC at December 31, 2003 on a consolidated basis was 5,644. Executive Summary LNCs annuities, life insurance, money management and financial planning businesses all benefited from the improving financial markets experienced during 2003. Growth in equity markets translated into improved earnings as fee income based on account values increased, reserves for variable annuity guaranteed minimum death benefits declined, and credit losses in the investment portfolios dropped significantly. The elevated account values position LNC for earning increased ongoing fee based revenues from variable annuities, variable life insurance and asset advisory services. Key marketplace themes of the past year against the backdrop of improving financial markets included continuing demand for variable annuity products containing guaranteed benefits, the relative safety and predictability of universal life insurance, and the desire to work with investment advisors with proven track records earned over difficult market periods. LNCs ability to meet these needs led to the successes of 2003. Excellence in enhanced product offerings and outstanding investment management performance contributed to an acceleration of positive net cash flows into LNCs product offerings, particularly evident in the latter half of the year. While historically low interest rates continue to create a challenge for LNCs products that generate investment spread profits, such as fixed annuities and universal life insurance, careful management of crediting rate policies allowed LNC to minimize spread compression effects. Managing investment spread businesses remains an important consideration in the current interest rate environment. Other challenges that LNC anticipates include intensifying competitive pressures and growing uncertainty created by emerging legislative and regulatory responses to recent events in the financial services marketplace. In this fiercely competitive and highly uncertain financial marketplace, LNC intends to continue to distinguish itself by consistently delivering product excellence while maintaining pricing discipline and prudent risk management, by continuing to extend its distribution reach while keeping a sharp focus on effective cost management, and by continuing to expand the power of the Lincoln Financial Group brand. As it executes on these key strategic drivers, LNC has its long term focus on the emerging opportunity that will occur as the baby boomer generation reaches retirement age. LNC intends to capitalize on that opportunity 16 Table of Contents by positioning itself to be the partner of choice for the intermediaries and organizations that serve the baby boomer generation in meeting their wealth accumulation, retirement income and wealth transfer needs. The following management discussion and analysis contains details on recent progress made by LNC toward that goal. Critical Accounting Policies Given the nature of LNCs business, LNCs accounting policies require the use of judgments relating to a variety of assumptions and estimates. Because of the inherent uncertainty in the assumptions and estimates underlying these accounting policies, under different conditions or assumptions the amounts reported in LNCs financial statements could be materially different. Throughout Managements Discussion and Analysis, the application of these various critical accounting policies is addressed along with the effect of changes in estimates and assumptions. To provide an overall perspective on these critical accounting policies, and guidance as to the specific areas within Managements Discussion and Analysis where these critical accounting policies are discussed in detail, a summary of critical accounting policies and the disclosure location is as follows: Accounting for intangible assets requires numerous assumptions, such as estimates of expected future profitability for various LNC operations and LNCs ability to retain its existing blocks of life and annuity business in force. LNCs accounting policies for the intangible assets of deferred acquisition costs (DAC) and the present value of acquired blocks of in force policies (PVIF) are discussed within the Lincoln Retirement, Life Insurance and Lincoln UK segments. LNCs overall accounting policy for other identified intangibles and goodwill is discussed within Results of Consolidated Operations. A key assumption affecting the accounting for DAC and PVIF is the performance of equity markets. LNCs net income sensitivity to changes in equity market performance is discussed under the heading First Quarter 2004 Guidance for the Effects of Equity Market Volatility found within LNCs discussion of Consolidated Operating results. Additionally, LNC has goodwill resulting from various acquisitions. Refer to the Accounting for Business Combinations and Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets section for a discussion of the evaluation of goodwill for impairment. Within the Investment Management segment, LNC has an intangible asset for Deferred Dealer Commissions. Refer to the Investment Management Results of Operations section for further discussion of this asset. Determining whether a decline in current fair values for invested assets is other than a temporary decline in value can frequently involve a variety of assumptions and estimates, particularly for investments that are not actively traded on established markets. For instance, assessing the value of some investments requires an analysis of expected future cash flows. Some investment structures, such as collateralized debt obligations, often represent selected levels, or tranches collateralized by underlying investments in a wide variety of underlying issuers. LNCs accounting policies for its invested assets are discussed within Results of Consolidated Operations and Consolidated Investments. Specific discussion of LNCs accounting policy for write downs for securities that were determined to have declines in fair value that were other than temporary along with analysis of securities available for sale in an unrealized loss position can be found within Consolidated Investments. To protect itself from a variety of equity market and interest rate risks that are inherent in many of LNCs life insurance and annuity products, LNC uses various derivative instruments. Assessing the effectiveness of these hedging programs and evaluating the carrying values of the related derivatives often involves a variety of assumptions and estimates. LNCs accounting policies for derivatives are discussed within Results of Consolidated Operations, Consolidated Investments and within the discussion of Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. In addition, the potential impact on interest spreads in a falling rate environment is presented in the Interest Rate Risk Falling Rates section within LNCs Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. Establishing adequate liabilities for LNCs obligations to its policyholders requires assumptions to be made regarding mortality and morbidity. The effect of variances in these assumptions is discussed within the Lincoln 17 Table of Contents Retirement and Life Insurance segments. In addition, refer to the discussion of personal accident and disability income reserves included within the Acquisition and Divestiture discussion of the disposition of LNCs former Reinsurance segment within Other Operations. As discussed within the Lincoln Retirement segment, one of the liabilities is the reserve for Guaranteed Minimum Death Benefits (GMDB). A key assumption affecting the accounting for GMDB is the performance of equity markets. Sensitivity to changes in equity market performance upon GMDB and LNCs net income is discussed under the heading First Quarter 2004 Guidance for the Effects of Equity Market Volatility. The accounting for GMDB reserves will change in 2004, as a result of new guidance affecting guaranteed benefits. See the topic New Accounting Pronouncements and the disclosure under the heading Statement of Accounting Position 03 1. Pursuant to the accounting rules for LNCs obligations to employees under its various retirement and welfare benefit plans, LNC is required to make a large number of assumptions, such as the future performance of financial markets and the composition of LNCs employee workforce in the future. LNCs accounting for its employee plans is discussed in detail within Note 6 Employee Benefit Plans, which is included in the notes to consolidated financial statements. Establishing reserves for litigation and compliance related regulatory actions inherently involves a variety of estimates of potential outcomes. These matters are discussed within Results of Consolidated Operations and in the Lincoln UK segment, with additional detail provided within Note 7 Restrictions, Commitments and Contingencies, which is included in the notes to consolidated financial statements. As LNC responds to an ever changing business environment and continues to adapt its organizational and operational structures, the frequency of necessary restructuring activities increases. Establishing reserves for the expected costs of these restructurings requires a variety of estimates and assumptions. The accounting for LNCs restructurings is set forth within Results of Consolidated Operations and within Results of Operations for each affected business segment, as well as within Note 12 Restructuring Charges included in the notes to consolidated financial statements. Continued access to capital markets and maintenance of favorable debt and insurance financial strength ratings are critical to LNCs future success. LNCs liquidity, in a wide variety of areas, is inherently dependant upon continued access to capital and maintaining adequate ratings. Detailed discussion of LNCs access to capital markets, liquidity status and ratings are contained within Review of Consolidated Financial Condition. Finally, it is LNCs policy to provide disclosure of commitments or guarantees so that its financial statements present as complete a picture of LNCs financial condition as possible. The vast majority of these commitments or guarantees relate to LNCs life insurance and retirement businesses and, as such, are reflected on LNCs balance sheet. Any off balance sheet commitments or guarantees that LNC is subject to are disclosed within Review of Consolidated Financial Condition and Note 7 Restrictions, Commitments and Contingencies which is included in the notes to consolidated financial statements. 18 Table of Contents Overview: Results of Consolidated Operations On pages 19 through 58, the results of operations of LNC consolidated, LNCs four business segments and Other Operations are presented and discussed. Pages 58 through 72 discuss LNCs consolidated investments. Pages 72 through 80 discuss LNCs consolidated financial condition including liquidity and cash flow, and capital resources. Pages 81 through 89 provide LNCs quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. Please note that all amounts stated in this Managements Discussion and Analysis are on an after tax basis except where specifically identified as pre tax. This Managements Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes presented on pages 91 through 158. Summary Information Increase (Decrease) Year Ended December 31 (in millions) 2003 2002 2001 2003 2002 Life insurance and annuity premiums $ 277.0 $ 295.6 $ 1,363.4 (6 )% (78 )% Health insurance premiums 4.0 20.3 340.6 (80 )% (94 )% Insurance fees 1,417.5 1,410.8 1,514.9 % (7 )% Investment advisory fees 205.0 183.3 197.2 12 % (7 )% Net investment income 2,638.5 2,631.9 2,708.7 % (3 )% Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates (0.6 ) 5.7 Realized loss on investments and derivative instruments (19.2 ) (271.5 ) (114.5 ) 93 % (137 )% Market adjustment for trading securities 371.5 Market adjustment reinsurance embedded derivative/trading securities 4.1 Other revenue and fees 385.5 365.6 362.0 5 % 1 % Total Revenue 5,283.9 4,635.4 6,378.0 14 % (27 )% Life insurance and annuity benefits 2,382.3 2,504.4 3,107.6 (5 )% (19 )% Health benefits 46.3 355.1 302.1 (87 )% 18 % Underwriting, acquisition, insurance and other expenses 1,712.7 1,733.2 2,141.4 (1 )% (19 )% Interest and debt expenses 95.1 96.6 121.0 (2 )% (20 )% Total Benefits and Expenses 4,236.4 4,689.3 5,672.1 Federal income taxes (benefits) 280.4 (102.7 ) 144.7 Income before cumulative effect of accounting changes 767.1 48.8 561.2 1,472 % (91 )% Cumulative effect of accounting changes (255.2 ) (15.6 ) Net Income $ 511.9 $ 48.8 $ 545.6 949 % (91 )% Items Included in Net Income (after tax): Realized loss on investments and derivative instruments $ (12.6 ) $ (176.4 ) $ (73.6 ) Gain (loss) on sale of subsidiaries (9.4 ) 15.0 Restructuring Charges (35.0 ) 2.0 (24.7 ) Net gain on reinsurance embedded derivative/trading securities 2.7 FAS 113 reserve development, net of related amortization on business sold through indemnity reinsurance (18.5 ) (199.1 ) Loss on early retirement of subordinated debt (3.7 ) Market adjustment for reclassification to trading securities 241.5 Cumulative effect of accounting changes (255.2 ) (15.6 ) Goodwill amortization 43.4 19 Table of Contents Summary Comparison of 2003 to 2002 Net income for 2003 increased significantly from 2002. A key driver of 2003 results was the favorable performance of the equity markets. In 2003, the S&P 500 index increased 26.4%, compared to a decline of 23.4% in 2002. The increase in the equity markets positively affected net income through increased fee revenue, favorable changes on the amortization of deferred acquisition costs and lower costs associated with reserves and benefits for guaranteed minimum death benefits. The impact of the equity markets is discussed in more detail within the discussion of results of operations by business segment. LNCs losses from credit markets as reflected in the realized loss on investments and derivatives were $163.8 million lower in 2003 compared to 2002. This improvement was reflective of the improvements in the credit markets as LNC did not experience the same level of effect from declines in value and write downs of fixed maturity securities available for sale. Additional details on LNCs investment performance are provided in the Consolidated Investment section on page 58. In 2002, LNC reported losses of $199.1 million related to reserve increases on the business sold through indemnity reinsurance to Swiss Re. In 2003, LNC recorded additional charges on this business, but significantly less than in 2002. The accounting for these charges and the effect on LNCs results in the future is more fully described in the Acquisition and Divestiture section. As more fully discussed in the following section on new accounting pronouncements on page 23, net income for 2003 includes the effects of implementing Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Derivative Implementation Group Statement No. 133 Implementation Issue No. B36 (DIG B36). This required LNC to recognize an embedded derivative resulting from the structure of several significant reinsurance arrangements, which was recorded as a cumulative effect of accounting change. Coincident with the recording of the embedded derivative, LNC reclassified a substantial portion of the investment securities supporting these reinsurance arrangements from available for sale to trading. This resulted in the recognition in earnings of the unrealized gains on these investment securities previously reported in accumulated other comprehensive income in shareholders equity. Revenues The increase in consolidated revenues includes the $371.5 million reclassification of trading account securities and the significant reduction in realized losses on investments and derivative securities. Excluding these items, consolidated revenues were slightly higher than 2002. This largely reflects the timing of equity market effects on average account values and assets under management, which declined during 2002 and through the first half of 2003, and did not recover to previous levels until the end of the fourth quarter of 2003. Net investment income was level with 2002 as declining investment yields substantially offset growth in investment securities. Benefits and Expenses Consolidated expenses (exclusive of restructuring charges, reserve increases on business sold through reinsurance and federal income taxes) decreased from 2002. The favorable effects of equity markets on DAC and PVIF amortization and unlocking, and on the level of GMDB reserves were primarily responsible for this improvement. Spread management through lower crediting rates on interest sensitive and contractholder deposit funds also contributed to the improvement. The increase in restructuring charges in 2003 was a result of expense initiatives undertaken by LNC during the year to improve operational efficiencies. Additional details on this activity are provided in the restructuring charge section on page 28. 20 Table of Contents Comparison of 2002 to 2001 The decrease in net income in 2002 from 2001 included an increase in realized losses on investments and derivatives and expenses recorded in 2002 related to increases in reserves for the business sold through indemnity reinsurance to Swiss Re. The realized losses on investments resulted from declines in value and the sale and write downs of fixed maturity securities. See the Consolidated Investments section on page 58 for further discussion of this matter. A significant contributor to the decrease in net income was the effect of the poor performance of the equity markets on fee income, DAC and PVIF amortization and GMDB reserves and benefits. The equity market impact is discussed in more detail within the discussion of results of operations by segment. Revenue Consolidated revenue decreased primarily due to the reduction of revenue of $1,699.4 million (pre tax), excluding realized losses on investments, from the disposition of the Reinsurance segment in 2001. Another contributor to the decline in revenue was the increase in realized losses on investments noted above. Included in 2002 revenue was a full year of the amortization of the deferred gain on indemnity reinsurance compared to amortization for one month in 2001. The Lincoln Retirement and Lincoln UK segments experienced decreased fee income due to the negative impact that 2001 and 2002 equity market declines had on average variable annuity (Retirement) and unit linked (Lincoln UK) account values. The Investment Management segment had decreased investment advisory fees and other revenue and fees as a result of lower retail and institutional assets under management during 2002. The decrease in assets under management resulted primarily from declining equity markets. Expenses Consolidated expenses (excluding goodwill amortization, restructuring charges, reserve increases on business sold through reinsurance and federal income taxes) decreased largely due to the sale of LNCs reinsurance business to Swiss Re in the fourth quarter of 2001. Expenses for the operations of the former Reinsurance segment, excluding goodwill amortization were $1,503.7 million in 2001. Expenses were negatively affected by the decline in the equity markets, which resulted in negative unlocking of DAC and PVIF in the Lincoln Retirement, Life Insurance and Lincoln UK business segments, increased reserves and payments for GMDB in the Lincoln Retirement segment. For 2002, LNC reported a tax benefit of $102.7 million on a pre tax loss of $53.8 million. This unusual relationship between tax and pre tax earnings results from the fact that LNC has tax preferred investment income that does not change proportionately with the change in consolidated pre tax earnings. LNCs tax preferred investment income is primarily the result of dividend received deductions attributable to LNCs allocable share of dividend income generated by equity securities held within the Retirement segments separate accounts. See note 4, Federal Income Taxes, to the consolidated financial statements for more details. 21 Table of Contents CONSOLIDATED DEPOSITS, NET FLOWS, AND ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT Key measures of LNCs success are its deposits, net flows and assets under management as presented in the table below. Deposits are the result of sales of LNCs products and represent the money put into LNCs products each year. Net flows represent the deposits net of withdrawals, payments on death and surrenders. Assets under management include LNCs investment securities as well as those assets belonging to third parties but managed by LNCs businesses. Increase/(Decrease) Year Ended December 31 (in billions) 2003 2002 2001 2003 2002 Deposits (1): Lincoln Retirement Segment $ 6.2 $ 6.4 $ 6.4 (3 )% Life Insurance Segment 2.3 2.1 1.9 10 % 11 % Investment Management Segment (including both retail and institutional deposits) 11.4 10.9 7.5 5 % 45 % Consolidating Adjustments (2) (1.0 ) (1.8 ) (0.8 ) Total Deposits $ 18.9 $ 17.6 $ 15.0 7 % 17 % Net Flows (1): Lincoln Retirement Segment $ 1.0 $ 0.5 $ 0.1 100 % 400 % Life Insurance Segment 1.4 1.3 1.2 8 % 8 % Investment Management Segment (including both retail and institutional net flows) 3.7 2.9 (0.6 ) 28 % N/A Consolidating Adjustments (2) 0.1 (0.1 ) Total Net Flows $ 6.2 $ 4.6 $ 0.7 35 % 557 % December 31 Assets Under Management by Advisor Investment Management Segment (3): External Assets $ 62.8 $ 46.5 $ 48.4 35 % (4 )% Insurance Assets 43.0 41.1 38.1 5 % 8 % Lincoln UK 7.7 6.4 6.9 20 % (7 )% Within Business Units (Policy Loans) 1.9 1.9 1.9 By Non LNC Entities 25.1 20.0 27.1 26 % (26 )% Total Assets Under Management $ 140.5 $ 115.9 $ 122.4 21 % (5 )% (1) For additional detail of deposit and net flow information see the discussion of the Results of Operations by Segment starting on page 31. (2) Consolidating adjustments represent the elimination of deposits and net flows on products affecting more than one segment. (3) See Investment Management segment data starting on page 47 for additional detail. FIRST QUARTER 2004 GUIDANCE FOR THE ESTIMATED EFFECT OF EQUITY MARKET VOLATILITY During 2003, LNC provided guidance on the estimated effect of equity market volatility on its quarterly results. As discussed below, LNC will adopt the GMDB reserving provisions of Statement of Accounting Position 03 1 Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain Nontraditional Long Duration Contracts and For Separate Accounts (the SOP) effective January 1, 2004. LNC does not expect the initial adoption of these rules to materially change the aggregate level of GMDB reserves that existed at December 31, 2003. However, it is probable that changes in future equity markets will have different effects on LNCs GMDB reserves under the rules of the SOP than was the case under LNCs prior approach to GMDB reserving. In 22 Table of Contents addition, LNC is now hedging some of its GMDB exposure. LNCs current GMDB hedging program is intended to reduce the effect on GAAP earnings of increases in GMDB reserves that is created by drops in the equity markets. LNC is continuing to evaluate how the new rules of the SOP, combined with the GMDB hedging program, will affect future GMDB reserve fluctuations due to changes in equity markets. In addition, LNC is studying the inter relationship between the fluctuations in DAC amortization and the fluctuations in GMDB reserves. Once LNC has completed these analyses, LNC intends to provide guidance regarding the effects that changes in equity market performance can be expected to have on LNCs earnings. NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS Accounting for Variable Interest Entities. In January 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued initial guidance under Interpretation No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities (FIN 46), which requires the consolidation of variable interest entities (VIE) by an enterprise if that enterprise has a variable interest that will absorb a majority of the VIEs expected losses if they occur, receive a majority of the entitys expected residual returns if they occur, or both. If one enterprise will absorb a majority of a VIEs expected losses and another enterprise will receive a majority of that VIEs expected residual returns, the enterprise absorbing a majority of the losses shall consolidate the VIE. A VIE is an entity in which equity investors do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest or do not have sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support from other parties. In response to concerns raised by LNC and others in the Insurance and Investment industries with respect to the initial guidance, the FASB significantly modified several key aspects of the rules in a revised interpretation issued in December 2003. LNC adopted the final FIN 46 rules on December 31, 2003. Prior to the issuance of the revised guidance, FIN 46 would have required LNC to include the gross amount of all fees earned by LNC for managing Collateralized Debt Obligation (CDO) pools in the analysis of expected residual returns. As discussed in LNCs third quarter form 10 Q filing, under the initial requirements of FIN 46, LNC may have been required to bring onto the consolidated balance sheet approximately $1.2 billion of invested assets underlying the CDOs and approximately $1.5 billion of liabilities owed by the CDO issuer to third party investors. Because of changes made by FASB to the initial interpretation in December of 2003, these amounts were not reflected on LNCs balance sheet when LNC adopted FIN 46 on December 31, 2003. As explained below, under the revised guidance LNC is not treated as the primary beneficiary of these CDOs and will not consolidate the CDO assets or liabilities. LNC currently manages seven CDOs, and of these there are five where the asset management fees paid to LNC no longer contain performance based incentives. As a result, LNC is not considered the primary beneficiary of these VIEs. LNCs maximum exposure to loss in these five CDOs is an investment in a small portion of the senior debt issued by one of these CDO pools, which had a carrying and estimated fair value of approximately $3 million, at December 31, 2003. For the other two CDOs, LNC still has the right to earn performance based fees above the base asset management fees. These performance based fees are considered variable fees for purposes of performing the analysis of expected residual returns. In addition, LNC also holds investment interests in these CDOs. However, in these two CDOs, LNC has determined that the expected variability in its fees and the level of other LNC interests in the CDO are currently below the level that would result in LNC being treated as the primary beneficiary. Future changes in the interest held by the third party investors in these two CDO pools, relative to LNCs interest, will require retesting LNCs potential status as primary beneficiary. LNC will continue to disclose its variable interests in these two CDO pools. LNCs maximum exposure to loss is its investment in these two CDO pools, which had a carrying value of approximately $14.5 million and an estimated fair value of approximately $13.9 million, at December 31, 2003. 23 Table of Contents Accounting for Modified Coinsurance. During the fourth quarter of 2003, LNC implemented the FASBs Derivative Implementation Group Statement 133 Implementation Issue No. B36 (DIG B36). DIG B36 provides that the embedded derivatives included within modified coinsurance agreements (Modco) and coinsurance with funds withheld (CFW) reinsurance agreements must be accounted for separately from the underlying reinsurance agreements. The effective date for implementation of DIG B36 for LNC was the October 1, 2003 start date of the fourth quarter. The following table summarizes the various effects on shareholders equity from the implementation of DIG B36 (in millions): Initial Adoption Shareholder Equity Effect on October 1, 2003 Notes Pre tax After tax Recording of Embedded Derivative 1A Cumulative effect of accounting change $ (392.5 ) $ (255.2 ) 1B Release of liability for unrealized investment gains 376.3 244.6 Total (16.2 ) (10.6 ) 2A Reclassification of available for sale securities to trading securities 371.5 241.5 2B Release of unrealized available for sale security gains in Other Comprehensive Income (371.5 ) (241.5 ) Total available for sale to trading adjustment Total effect on Shareholders Equity from DIG B36 Implementation onOctober 1, 2003 $ (16.2 ) $ (10.6 ) 1A. At the time of adoption, LNC recorded a charge to net income as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting, representing the fair value of the embedded derivatives included in various Modco and CFW reinsurance agreements. 1B. In conjunction with recording the above charge in 1A., LNC also recorded an increase in Other Comprehensive Income relating to the fact that prior to the adoption of DIG B36 the net unrealized gains on the underlying available for sale securities supporting these reinsurance agreements had been accounted for as gains benefiting the reinsurance companies assuming the risks under these Modco and CFW reinsurance agreements. 2A. Concurrent with the initial recording of the embedded derivative associated with these reinsurance arrangements, LNC reclassified related available for sale securities to trading account classification. 2B. The previously recorded increases to shareholders equity reported in Other Comprehensive Income as a result of the available for sale classification of these securities were reversed as part of the reclassification accounting. During the fourth quarter and going forward, changes in the fair value of the embedded derivative flow through net income, as do changes in the fair value of the trading account securities, as represented by adjustments 3A and 3B in the table below. For the quarter ended December 31, 2003, the effect of the two new mark to market adjustments on net income was $4.2 million pre tax ($2.7 million after tax). The table combines the trading account and embedded derivative mark to mark accounting with the implementation effects discussed above to demonstrate the effects on the income statement for the quarter ended December 31, 2003 (in millions). 24 Table of Contents Net Income Effect for the Quarter Ended December 31, 2003 Notes Pre tax After tax Revenues 3A Trading account securities change during fourth quarter $ (35.9 ) $ (23.4 ) 3B Embedded derivative Change during fourth quarter 40.1 26.1 Gain on reinsurance embedded derivative/trading securities in fourth quarter 4.2 2.7 Reclassification of available for sale securities to trading account securities 371.5 241.5 Income before accounting changes 375.7 244.2 Cumulative effect of accounting change (392.5 ) (255.2 ) Effect on Net Income $ (16.8 ) $ (11.0 ) As indicated in the above tables, the implementation of DIG B36 resulted in an initial decrease to shareholders equity and the ongoing accounting of DIG B36 will continue to give rise to ongoing gains and losses flowing through net income as the embedded derivative and trading account securities are continuously marked to market. These adjustments do not net to zero in any one particular accounting period because not all of the invested assets supporting these Modco and CFW reinsurance agreements were available for sale securities that could be reclassified to trading account securities and not all Modco and CFW reinsurance agreements have segregated portfolios of securities that can be classified as trading account securities. However, it is important to note that these differences in net income will reverse over the term of the underlying Modco and CFW reinsurance agreements, reflecting the fact that the new accounting for the embedded derivatives prescribed in DIG B36 changes the timing of the recognition of income under these Modco and CFW reinsurance agreements but does not change the total amount of earnings that will ultimately be reported over the life of these agreements. Statement of Accounting Position 03 1. In July 2003, the Accounting Standards Executive Committee (AcSEC) of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants issued Statement of Position 03 1, Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain Nontraditional Long Duration Contracts and for Separate Accounts (the SOP). LNC will adopt the SOP as of January 1, 2004. The SOP provides guidance related to the reporting and disclosure of certain insurance contracts and separate accounts, including guidance for computing reserves for products with guaranteed benefits, such as guaranteed minimum death benefits (GMDB), and for products with annuitization benefits such as guaranteed minimum income benefits. In addition, the SOP addresses the presentation and reporting of separate accounts, the capitalization and amortization of sales inducements, and secondary guarantees on universal life type contracts. GMDB Reserves. Although there was no method prescribed under generally accepted accounting principles for GMDB reserving until the issuance of the SOP, LNCs Retirement segment has been recording a reserve for GMDBs. At December 31, 2003, LNCs GMDB reserve was $46.4 million. Based upon a comparison of the requirements of the SOP to LNCs established practice of reserving for GMDB, the adoption of the GMDB reserving methodology under the SOP is not expected to have a material effect on LNCs financial statements. Sales Inducements. LNCs Retirement segment variable annuity product offerings include contracts that offer a bonus credit, typically ranging from 2% to 5% of each deposit. LNC also offers enhanced interest rates to variable annuity contracts that are under dollar cost averaging (DCA) funding arrangements. Bonus credits and 25 Table of Contents excess DCA interest are considered sales inducements under the SOP and, as such, are to be deferred as a sales inducement asset and amortized as a benefit expense over the expected life of the contract. Amortization will be computed using the same methodology and assumptions used in amortizing DAC. LNC currently defers bonus credits as part of the DAC asset and reports the amortization of bonus credits as part of DAC amortization. Upon adoption of the SOP, LNC will reclassify bonus credits from DAC to deferred sales inducements on its balance sheet and report deferred sales inducement amortization as part of benefit expense. Prior period balance sheet and income statement line item presentation will be reclassified to conform to the new basis of presentation. LNC currently reports excess DCA interest as benefit expense when the excess interest is earned under the contract. Upon adoption of the SOP, LNC will begin deferring excess DCA interest as deferred sales inducements and amortizing these deferred sales inducements as benefit expense over the expected life of the contract. Amortization will be calculated using the same methodology and assumptions used in amortizing DAC. While over the long run the same amount of excess DCA interest expense will emerge under the SOP as under LNCs current accounting method, because of the prospective treatment of new deferred sales inducements, LNC expects earnings to be slightly higher under the SOP, relative to LNCs current approach, for near term financial reporting periods. For instance, had the rules for excess DCA interest expense under the SOP been in effect for 2003, LNC estimates that Lincoln Retirement would have reported increased earnings of about $6 million. The actual effect on LNCs results in future periods will depend upon the volume of business written with excess DCA interest. Separate Accounts. LNCs current accounting is consistent with the provisions of the SOP relating to the reporting and measuring of separate account product assets and liabilities as general account assets and liabilities when specific criteria are not met, as well as for the reporting and measuring seed money in separate accounts as general account assets, and for recognizing contractholder liabilities. The adoption of these provisions of the SOP are expected to have no effect on LNCs financial statements. Universal Life Contracts. LNCs Life Insurance segment offers individual and survivor life universal life insurance products that provide a secondary guarantee to the contract holder, commonly referred to as a no lapse guarantee. This feature permits a policy that would normally terminate, if the net cash value were to fall below zero, to remain in force as long as the conditions of the no lapse provision are met. LNCs analysis of this benefit indicates that this feature should be considered insignificant, as newly defined by the SOP. In general, LNC does not expect to record an additional liability for its current secondary guarantee offerings. However, in the event that an additional liability is required under the SOP for certain of LNCs current secondary guarantee features, LNC would not expect the adoption of the SOP to have a material effect on its financial statements. LNC understands that throughout the life insurance industry a wide variety of interpretations and approaches to the application of the SOP to fixed and variable universal life contracts have recently begun to emerge. Industry wide concern over this inconsistency in interpretation has become so great that on February 18, 2004 the American Council of Life Insurers (ACLI) submitted a letter on behalf of the industry to the Chairman of AcSEC, requesting a delay of the effective date for the SOP, as it applies to universal life insurance, until such time that guidance for these implementation matters can be made available. If AcSEC decides to address these industry wide concerns and issue new guidance, LNCs current estimates of the expected effects of the adoption of the SOP could change. Other Products and Riders. LNC continues to review the features and characteristics of other products and riders offered within its Retirement, Life Insurance, and Lincoln UK segments, and to evaluate the potential applicability of the SOP to these other products and riders. With respect to the other products and riders that are the subject of this ongoing review, LNC does not currently expect that the adoption of the SOP should have a material effect on LNCs financial statements. 26 Table of Contents FASB Financial Staff Position No. FAS 106 1 Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003. In December 2003, the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (the Medicare Act) became law. Beginning in 2006, the Medicare Act provides various alternatives that could result in an offset to some portion of the costs of prescription drug benefits provided to retirees. In January 2004, the staff of the FASB issued Financial Staff Position No. FAS 106 1 (FSP 106 1), which permits a sponsor of a post retirement health care plan that provides retiree prescription drug benefits to make a one time election to defer accounting for the effects of the Medicare Act. There are several uncertainties that exist as to the eventual effects of the Medicare Act on the cost of the prescription drug benefits currently included in LNCs retiree medical benefit plan. These uncertainties include various administrative components related to the Medicare Act that have yet to be developed, the potential for significant legislative changes to the Medicare Act prior to its implementation in 2006, and the interrelated effects that the existence of various cost containment measures currently included within LNCs retiree medical benefit plans may have under the new legislation. However, regardless of the outcome of these various uncertainties, LNC does not currently expect that the Medicare Act would have a material affect on future net income due to the cost containment measures already in place under LNCs retiree medical benefit plans. Due to these uncertainties and expected immaterial impact, LNC has elected to defer accounting for the effects of the Medicare Act. Having made this deferral election, FSP 106 1 prohibits LNC from accounting for the effects of the Medicare Act until such time as either final FASB guidance is issued or a significant event occurs that would require a remeasurement of plan assets and obligations. Accordingly, the measures of accumulated post retirement benefit obligation and periodic post retirement benefit cost in LNCs financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2003 do not reflect the effects of the Medicare Act. Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities. In 2002, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities (FAS 146), which addresses financial accounting and reporting for costs associated with exit or disposal activities and nullifies Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 94 3, Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Action (including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring) (Issue 94 3). The principal difference between FAS 146 and Issue 94 3 is that FAS 146 requires that a liability for a cost associated with an exit or disposal activity be recognized when the liability is incurred, rather than at the date of an entitys commitment to an exit plan. FAS 146 is effective for exit or disposal activities after December 31, 2002. LNC adopted FAS 146 on January 1, 2003 and the adoption of FAS 146 affects the timing of when an expense is recognized for restructuring activities. Accounting for Business Combinations and Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. In June 2001, the FASB issued Statements of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141, Business Combinations (FAS 141), and No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (FAS 142). FAS 141 is effective for all business combinations initiated after June 30, 2001, and FAS 142 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001. Under the new rules, goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets are no longer amortized, but are subject to impairment tests conducted at least annually in accordance with the new standards. Intangible assets that do not have indefinite lives continue to be amortized over their estimated useful lives. LNC adopted FAS 142 on January 1, 2002. After consideration of the provisions of the new standards regarding proper classification of goodwill and other intangible assets on the consolidated balance sheet, LNC did not reclassify any goodwill or other intangible balances held as of January 1, 2002. In compliance with the transition provision of FAS 142, LNC completed the first step of the transitional goodwill impairment test during the second quarter of 2002. The valuation techniques used by LNC to estimate the fair value of the group of assets comprising the different reporting units varied based on the characteristics of 27 Table of Contents each reporting units business and operations. A discounted cash flow model was used to assess the goodwill of the reporting units within LNCs Lincoln Retirement, Life Insurance and Lincoln UK segments. A valuation technique combining multiples of revenues, earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) and assets under management was used to assess the goodwill in LNCs Investment Management segment. The results of the first step of the tests indicated that LNC did not have impaired goodwill. In accordance with FAS 142, LNC has chosen October 1 as its annual review date. As such, LNC performed another valuation review during the fourth quarter of 2003 and 2002. The results of the tests performed as of October 1, 2003 and 2002 indicate that LNC did not have impaired goodwill. The valuation techniques used by LNC for each reporting unit were consistent with those used during the transitional testing. As a result of the application of the non amortization provisions of the new standards, LNC had an increase in net income of $41.7 million ($0.22 per common share on a fully diluted basis) for the year ended December 31, 2002. Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long lived Assets. In August 2001, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets (FAS 144), which supersedes Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 121, and the accounting and reporting provisions of APB Opinion No. 30. FAS 144 was effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001. LNC adopted FAS 144 on January 1, 2002 and the adoption of the Statement did not have a material impact on the consolidated financial position and results of operations of LNC. Accounting for Stock Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure. On December 31, 2002, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 148, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure (FAS 148), which provides alternative methods of transition for entities that change to the fair value method of accounting for stock based employee compensation. LNC adopted the fair value method of accounting under FAS 123 with the retroactive restatement method, as amended by FAS 148, as of January 1, 2003 and restated its financial statements for the years 2002, 2001, and 2000. Restructuring Charges Below is a summary of the restructuring charges initiated by year. Additional details of each of these restructuring plans are discussed in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements. (in millions) 2003 2002 2001 2000 1999 Original Charges Employee Severance and Termination Benefits $ 36.2 $ 1.6 $ 12.2 $ 33.8 Write off of Impaired Assets 4.9 3.3 40.9 Rent on Abandoned Space 8.2 20.0 Other Exit Costs 4.5 2.5 32.7 Total (Pre tax) 53.8 1.6 38.0 107.4 $ 31.8 Total (After tax) 35.0 1.0 24.6 81.8 21.8 Actual Costs Through December 31, 2003 (Pre tax) 38.7 1.6 30.6 96.3 25.7 Balance at December 31, 2003 $ 15.1 $ $ 0.7 $ 8.4 $ 1.7 Amounts expended in excess of original charge (pre tax) $ $ $ 0.3 $ $ Additional amounts expended that do not qualify as restructuring charge (pre tax) $ 9.3 $ $ $ $ Two of the three different restructuring plans implemented by LNC during 1999 were not completed as of December 31, 2000. The two outstanding plans were those relating to the discontinuance of HMO excess of loss 28 Table of Contents reinsurance programs and the streamlining of Lincoln UKs operations. During the fourth quarter of 2001, all remaining restructuring charge liability relating to the HMO excess of loss reinsurance programs was transferred to Swiss Re as part of its acquisition of LNCs reinsurance operations. As of December 31, 2003, the remaining balance of the restructuring reserve is for the Lincoln UK plan and is expected to be utilized in the completion of this plan. During 2000, LNC implemented restructuring plans relating to 1) the downsizing and consolidation of the operations of Vantage Global Advisors, Inc. (Vantage); 2) the exit of all direct sales and sales support operations of Lincoln UK and the consolidation of its Uxbridge home office with its Barnwood home office, and 3) the downsizing and consolidation of the investment management operations of Lincoln Investment Management. All expenditures and write offs for the Lincoln Investment Management restructuring plan were completed in the third quarter of 2002 and $0.4 million of the original reserve was released. The release of the reserve was primarily due to LNCs purchase and ultimate sale of the vacant office space on terms, which were favorable to what was included in the original restructuring plan for rent on this office space. As of December 31, 2003, the remaining balance is for the Lincoln UK plan and is expected to be utilized in the completion of the plan. During 2001, LNC implemented restructuring plans relating to 1) the consolidation of the Syracuse operations of Lincoln Life & Annuity Company of New York into the Lincoln Retirement segments operations in Fort Wayne, Indiana and Portland, Maine; 2) the elimination of duplicative functions in the Schaumburg, Illinois operations of First Penn Pacific, and the absorption of these functions into the Lincoln Retirement and Life Insurance segments operations in Fort Wayne, Indiana and Hartford, Connecticut; 3) the reorganization of the life wholesaling function within the independent planner distribution channel, consolidation of retirement wholesaling territories, and streamlining of the marketing and communications functions in LFD; 4) the reorganization and consolidation of the life insurance operations in Hartford, Connecticut related to the streamlining of underwriting and new business processes and the completion of outsourcing of administration of certain closed blocks of business; 5) the consolidation of the Boston, Massachusetts investment and marketing office with the Philadelphia, Pennsylvania investment and marketing operations in order to eliminate redundant facilities and functions within the Investment Management segment; 6) the combination of LFD channel oversight, positioning of LFD to take better advantage of ongoing marketplace consolidation and expansion of the customer base of wholesalers in certain non productive territories; and 7) the consolidation of operations and space in LNCs Fort Wayne, Indiana operations. The Syracuse restructuring charge was recorded in the first quarter of 2001, the Schaumburg, Illinois restructuring charge was recorded in the second quarter of 2001, the LFD restructuring charges were recorded in the second and fourth quarters of 2001, and the remaining restructuring charges were all recorded in the fourth quarter of 2001. The Syracuse restructuring plan was completed in the first quarter of 2002 with expenditures and write offs totaling $1.3 million. The total amount expended exceeded the original charge by $0.3 million. In addition, $0.1 million of excess reserve on the Schaumburg, Illinois restructuring plan was released during the second quarter of 2002 and $1.5 million of excess reserve on the Fort Wayne restructuring plan was released during the third quarter of 2002. The release of the reserve on the Fort Wayne restructuring plan was due to LNCs purchase and ultimate sale of the vacant building on terms that were favorable to what was included in the original restructuring plan for rent on this abandoned office space. As of December 31, 2003, the remaining balance is expected to be utilized in the completion of the plans. During the second quarter of 2002, Lincoln Retirement completed a review of its entire internal information technology organization. As a result of that review, Lincoln Retirement decided to reorganize its IT organization in order to better align the activities and functions conducted within its own organization and its IT service providers. This change was made in order to focus Lincoln Retirement on its goal of achieving a common administrative platform for its annuities products, to better position the organization and its service providers to respond to changing market conditions, and to reduce overall costs in response to increased competitive pressures. This plan was completed in the third quarter of 2003. 29 Table of Contents In January 2003, the Life Insurance segment announced that it was realigning its operations in Hartford, Connecticut and Schaumburg, Illinois to enhance productivity, efficiency and scalability while positioning the segment for future growth. In February 2003, Lincoln Retirement announced plans to consolidate its fixed annuity operations in Schaumburg, Illinois into Fort Wayne, Indiana. In June 2003, LNC announced that it was combining its retirement and life insurance businesses into a single operating unit focused on providing wealth accumulation and protection, income distribution and wealth transfer products. The realigned organization is expected to significantly reduce operating expenses while positioning LNC for future growth and to take advantage of the recent market recovery. In August 2003, LNC announced additional realignment activities, which impact all of LNCs domestic operations. These realignment activities are expected to result in total charges of $127.0 million. The realignment activities are expected to be completed by the first quarter of 2006. ACQUISITION AND DIVESTITURE On August 30, 2002, LNC acquired The Administrative Management Group, Inc. (AMG), an employee benefits record keeping firm for $21.6 million in cash. Contingent payments up to an additional $14 million may be paid over a period of 4 years (2003 2006) if certain criteria are met. Lincoln Retirement recorded an expense of $1.2 million after tax ($1.8 million pre tax) for 2003 relating to such contingent payments. AMG, a strategic partner of the Lincoln Retirement segment for several years, provides record keeping services for the Lincoln Alliance Program along with approximately 200 other clients nationwide. The application of purchase accounting to this acquisition resulted in goodwill of $20.2 million. On December 7, 2001, Swiss Re acquired LNCs reinsurance operation for $2.0 billion. In addition, LNC retained the capital supporting the reinsurance operation. After giving effect to the increased levels of capital needed within the Life Insurance and Lincoln Retirement segments that result from the change in the ongoing mix of business under LNCs internal capital allocation models, the disposition of LNCs reinsurance operation freed up approximately $100 million of retained capital. The transaction structure involved a series of indemnity reinsurance transactions combined with the sale of certain stock companies that comprised LNCs reinsurance operation. At closing, an immediate gain of $15.0 million after tax was recognized on the sale of the stock companies. A gain of $723.1 million after tax ($1.1 billion pre tax) relating to the indemnity reinsurance agreements was reported at the time of closing. This gain was recorded as a deferred gain on LNCs consolidated balance sheet, in accordance with the requirements of FAS 113, and is being amortized into earnings at the rate that earnings on the reinsured business are expected to emerge, over a period of 15 years. Effective with the closing of the transaction, the former Reinsurance segments historical results were moved into Other Operations. During December 2001 LNC recognized in Other Operations $5.0 million ($7.9 million pre tax) of deferred gain amortization. In addition, in December 2001, LNC recognized $7.9 million ($12.5 million pre tax) of accelerated deferred gain amortization relating to the fact that certain Canadian indemnity reinsurance contracts were novated after the sale, but prior to December 31, 2001. On October 29, 2002, LNC and Swiss Re settled disputed matters totaling about $770 million that had arisen in connection with the final closing balance sheets associated with Swiss Res acquisition of LNCs reinsurance operations. The settlement provided for a payment by LNC of $195 million to Swiss Re, which was recorded by LNC as a reduction in deferred gain. As a result of additional information made available to LNC following the settlement with Swiss Re in the fourth quarter of 2002, LNC recorded a further reduction in the deferred gain of $51.6 million after tax ($79.4 million pre tax), as well as a $9.4 million after tax ($8.3 million pre tax) reduction in the gain on the sale of subsidiaries. As part of the dispute settlement, LNC also paid $100 million to Swiss Re in satisfaction of LNCs $100 million indemnification obligation with respect to personal accident business. As a result of this payment, LNC has no further underwriting risk with respect to the reinsurance business sold. However, because LNC has not been relieved of it legal liabilities to the underlying ceding companies with respect to the portion of the business indemnity reinsured by Swiss Re, under FAS 113 the reserves for the underlying reinsurance contracts as well as 30 Table of Contents a corresponding reinsurance recoverable from Swiss Re will continue to be carried on LNCs balance sheet during the run off period of the underlying reinsurance business. This is particularly relevant in the case of the exited personal accident and disability income reinsurance lines of business where the underlying reserves are based upon various estimates that are subject to considerable uncertainty. As a result of developments and information obtained during 2002 relating to personal accident and disability income matters, LNC increased these exited business reserves by $198.5 million after tax ($305.4 million pre tax). After giving effect to LNCs $100 million indemnification obligation, LNC recorded a $133.5 after tax ($205.4 million pre tax) increase in reinsurance recoverable from Swiss Re with a corresponding increase in the deferred gain. The combined effects of the 2002 settlement of disputed matters and exited business reserve increases reduced the $723.1 million after tax ($1.1 billion pre tax) deferred gain reported at closing by $44.9 million after tax ($69 million pre tax). During 2002, LNC amortized $47 million after tax ($72.3 million pre tax) of deferred gain. This includes the amortization of deferred gain from the sale of the direct disability income business in 1999. An additional $1.3 million after tax ($2 million pre tax) of deferred gain was recognized due to a novation of certain Canadian business during 2002. As a result of developments and information received in the third quarter of 2003 relating to personal accident matters, LNC increased reserves on this exited business by $20.9 million after tax ($32.1 million pre tax) with a corresponding increase in reinsurance recoverable from Swiss Re and in the deferred gain. During 2003, LNC amortized $49.3 million after tax ($75.8 million pre tax) of deferred gain. Through December 31, 2003, of the original $2.0 billion in proceeds received by LNC, approximately $560 million was paid for taxes and deal expenses and approximately $1.0 billion was used to repurchase stock, reduce debt, and support holding company cash flow needs. LNC also paid $195 million to Swiss Re to settle the closing balance sheet disputed matters and $100 million to satisfy LNCs personal accident business indemnification obligations. The remaining proceeds have been dedicated to the ongoing capital needs of The Lincoln National Life Insurance Company. Results of Operations by Segment As disclosed in the Restructuring Charges section, LNC initiated realignment activities during 2003, which included combining the retirement and life insurance businesses into a single unit for operating purposes. Although these operations are now under common management, the results of these businesses are required to be reported as separate reporting segments for financial statement purposes. LINCOLN RETIREMENT The Lincoln Retirement segment, with principal operations in Fort Wayne, Indiana and Hartford, Connecticut, and additional operations in Portland, Maine, and Arlington Heights, Illinois, provides tax deferred investment growth and lifetime income opportunities for its clients through the manufacture and sale of fixed and variable annuities. Through a broad based distribution network, Lincoln Retirement provides an array of annuity products to individuals and employer sponsored groups in all 50 states of the United States. Lincoln Retirement distributes its products through LNCs wholesaling unit, LFD, as well as LNCs retail unit, LFA. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Deferred Acquisition Cost Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 97, Accounting by Insurance Companies for Certain Long Duration Contracts & Realized Gains & Losses on Investment Sales (FAS 97) requires that acquisition costs for variable annuity contracts be amortized over the lives of the contracts in relation to the incidence of estimated gross profits. Estimated gross profits on variable annuity contracts vary based on surrenders, fee income, expenses and realized gains/losses on investments. The amortization is adjusted retrospectively (DAC 31 Table of Contents unlocking) when estimates of current or future gross profits to be realized from variable annuity contracts are revised. Because equity market movements have a significant impact on the value of variable annuity accounts and the fees earned on these accounts, estimated future profits increase or decrease with movements in the equity markets. Movements in equity markets also have an impact on reserves and payments for the guaranteed minimum death benefit feature within certain annuity contracts. The Lincoln Retirement segments assumption for the long term annual gross growth rate of the equity markets used in the determination of DAC amortization and GMDB benefits is 9%, which is reduced by mortality and expense charges (M&E) and asset management charges resulting in a net variable account growth assumption of less than 9%. As equity markets do not move in a systematic manner, LNC uses a methodology referred to as reversion to the mean for its long term gross growth rate assumption while also giving consideration to the effect of short term swings in the equity markets. The application of this methodology results in the use of a higher or lower future gross equity market growth assumption for a period of four years subsequent to the valuation date which, together with actual historical gross equity growth, is expected to produce a 9% gross return. The use of a reversion to the mean assumption is common within the industry; however, the parameters used in the methodology are subject to judgment and vary within the industry. An important aspect of LNCs application of the reversion to the mean is the use of caps and floors on the equity market growth rate assumption, which limits the gross growth rate assumption to reasonable levels above and below the long term assumption. In the fourth quarter 2002, LNC adjusted its reversion to the mean gross equity market growth rate assumption to 9%. Going forward, as the growth rate of the equity market varies from LNCs growth rate assumption, the period over which the reversion to the mean gross growth rate needs to occur will be four years. The Lincoln Retirement segment has incorporated a cap of 15% and a floor of 0% into the reversion to the mean methodology. At December 31, 2003, Lincoln Retirements reversion to the mean gross growth rate assumption for equity markets was 4.20%. If a flat 9% equity market growth rate had been used instead of the reversion to the mean rate, the December 31, 2003 DAC and PVIF balance would have been $33.8 million higher on a pre tax basis and net income would have been $22.0 million higher on an after tax basis. On a quarterly basis, LNC reviews the assumptions of its DAC amortization model and records a retrospective adjustment to the amount expensed, (i.e., unlocks the DAC). On an annual basis, LNC reviews and adjusts as necessary its assumptions for prospective amortization of DAC, as well as its other intangible asset, PVIF. Guaranteed Minimum Benefit Reserves LNC currently offers minimum guarantee features with certain variable annuity products, which include various types of guaranteed minimum death benefit features (GMDB) and a recently introduced guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit (GMWB). The GMWB feature was introduced during 2003. In light of the favorable performance of the equity markets since the introduction of the GMWB feature, LNC held no reserves for GMWB liabilities as of December 31, 2003. Further discussion of the current structure of LNCs GMWB feature, as well as related hedging activities, is presented after the following discussion of the various types of GMDB features that LNC offers. The reserves for the GMDB are a function of the net amount at risk (NAR), mortality, persistency, and incremental death benefit M&E expected to be incurred over the period of time for which the NAR is positive. At any given point in time, the NAR is the difference between the potential death benefit payable and the total account balance, with a floor value of zero (when account values exceed the potential death benefit there is no amount at risk). As part of the estimate of future NAR, equity market growth rates with a reversion to the mean assumption are utilized, which are consistent with those used in the DAC valuation process. If a flat 9% equity market growth rate had been used instead of the reversion to the mean rate, the December 31, 2003 GMDB balance would have been $15.0 million lower on a pre tax basis and net income would have been $9.8 million higher on an after tax basis. This compares to the fourth quarter 2002 change to the reversion to the mean assumption, which resulted in an increase to GMDB reserves and reduced net income by $21.5 million. At each valuation date, projections of account values and NAR followed by the computation of the present value of expected NAR death claims using product pricing mortality assumptions less expected GMDB M&E revenue during the period for which the death benefit options are assumed to be in the money are made for every variable 32 Table of Contents annuity contract with a GMDB benefit feature. If equity market returns exactly match LNCs reversion to the mean rate and actual mortality and lapse experience is as assumed, the GAAP reserve plus interest and GMDB M&E revenue would exactly cover the future expected GMDB payments as they arise. A decline in the equity markets results in increased GMDB reserves and benefit payments which negatively effects Lincoln Retirements income, while an increase in the equity markets results in a decrease in GMDB reserves and benefit payments which favorably effects Lincoln Retirements income. Although there was no method prescribed under generally accepted accounting principles for GMDB reserving until the issuance of the SOP, which LNC will adopt effective January 1, 2004, LNC has used a method that recognizes that there is an amount at risk that will result in future payments and that over time the equity market growth will reduce the payment stream. This approach results in a reserve that is expected to cover future GMDB payments, net of future GMDB fee income. Due to strong equity market performance, at December 31, 2003, LNCs GMDB NAR was $1.5 billion and the GAAP reserve was $46.4 million. This is a significant decrease from the $4.6 billion in NAR and GAAP reserve of $84.5 million at December 31, 2002. The reserve for statutory reporting was $58.9 million at December 31, 2003 compared to $144.1 million at December 31, 2002, reflecting the more conservative market performance and mortality assumptions that are required to be used under statutory reporting. In evaluating the GMBD exposures that exist within LNCs variable annuity business relative to industry peers, it is important to distinguish between the various types of GMDB structures, and other factors such as average account values, average amounts of NAR, and the age of contractholders. The following table and discussion provides this information for LNCs variable annuity business as of December 31, 2003: Type of GMDB Feature Return ofPremium HighWaterMark Roll up NoGMDB Total Variable Annuity Account Value (billions) $ 25.2 $ 12.4 $ 0.3 $ 7.7 $ 45.6 % of Total Annuity Account Value 55.2 % 27.3 % 0.7 % 16.8 % 100.0 % Average Account Value $ 36,343 $ 73,526 $ 113,811 $ 51,559 $ 46,805 Average NAR $ 3,586 $ 12,489 $ 12,834 N/A $ 7,735 GAAP Reserve (millions) $ 12.1 $ 32.9 $ 1.4 N/A $ 46.4 NAR (billions) $ 0.4 $ 1.1 $ N/A $ 1.5 Average Age of Contract Holder 51 61 64 59 54 % of Contract Holders &gt; 70 Years of Age 9.9 % 26.7 % 30.9 % 22.3 % 14.8 % LNC average ages are lower than industry average (per The Gallup Organizations 2001 Survey) due to the mix of business that includes significant amounts of qualified and employer sponsored business. LNCs average non qualified contract holders attained age is just over 64 with 32% over age 73 compared to the industry average attained age of 65 with 35% over age 72. LNC has variable annuity contracts containing GMDBs that have a dollar for dollar withdrawal feature. Under such a feature, withdrawals reduce both current account value and the GMDB amount on a dollar for dollar basis. For contracts containing this dollar for dollar feature, the account holder could withdraw a substantial portion of their account value resulting in a GMDB that is multiples of the current account value. LNCs exposure to this dollar for dollar risk is somewhat mitigated by the fact that LNC does not allow for partial 1035 exchanges on non qualified contracts. To take advantage of the dollar for dollar feature, the contract holder must take constructive receipt of the withdrawal and pay any applicable surrender charges. LNC will report the appropriate amount of the withdrawal that is taxable to the IRS, as well as indicating whether or not tax penalties apply under the premature distribution tax rules. LNC closely monitors its dollar for dollar withdrawal GMDB exposure and works with key broker dealers that distribute LNCs variable annuity products. As of December 31, 2003, there were 589 contracts for which the death benefit to account value ratio was greater than ten to one. The NAR on these contracts was $43.9 million. Effective May 2003, the GMDB feature offered on new sales is a pro rata GMDB feature whereby each dollar of withdrawal reduces the GMDB benefit in proportion to the current GMDB to account value ratio. 33 Table of Contents Hedge Program for Guaranteed Minimum Benefits During 2003, the Lincoln Retirement segment developed a hedging strategy designed to mitigate the income statement volatility caused by falling equity markets associated with the introduction of the Principal Securitysm Guaranteed Minimum Withdrawal Benefit and LNCs various GMDB features. (See the discussion below under the heading Net Deposits for details of LNCs Principal Securitysm Guaranteed Minimum Withdrawal Benefit.) At December 31, 2003, there was no hedge in place for the GMWB, as there was no required reserve for this feature due to the favorable performance of the equity markets since the feature was introduced. LNCs GMDB hedging program is designed to mitigate the equity market volatility associated with the GAAP reserves for this benefit. At December 31, 2003 account balances covered in this hedging program combined with account balances for which there is no death benefit represent approximately 45% of total variable annuity account balances. LNC expects to continue expanding the coverage of its GMDB hedging program on an opportunistic basis, as the underlying account values increase due to equity market appreciation. This hedging program reflects the benefit designs of the segments products and has been effective to date. LNC continues to evaluate various hedging tools and opportunities as it considers additional benefits, product features, and alternative hedging strategies. Equity Markets The Lincoln Retirement segments net income has been significantly affected by volatility in the equity markets. Changes in the equity markets impact the segments earnings through the level of variable annuity account values and the effect on fees that the segment earns, unlocking of deferred acquisition costs (DAC) and the present value of in force intangible (PVIF), and changes to reserves and benefit payments for GMDB. DAC unlocking, PVIF unlocking and GMDB reserve adjustments that result from changes in equity market volatility are based upon end of period equity market values and are immediately reflected in LNCs earnings. However, variable annuity account values are valued on a daily basis with LNCs fees earned on those daily balances, rather than end of period values. As a result, the point to point changes in equity market indexes do not affect the Retirement segments variable annuity fee income in the immediate period as much as does the timing of when the changes in the equity markets occurred during the period. These effects are highlighted in the discussion of Lincoln Retirements results of operations. Refer to the Results of Operations discussion provided below for information relating to variable annuity account values and an analysis of the comparative effects that movements in the equity markets have had on Lincoln Retirements earnings. As discussed earlier, LNC will adopt the GMDB reserving provisions of the SOP effective January 1, 2004. Although LNC does not expect the initial adoption of these rules to materially change the aggregate level of GMDB reserves that existed at December 31, 2003, it is probable that changes in future equity markets will have different effects on LNCs GMDB reserves under the rules of the SOP than was the case under LNCs prior approach to GMDB reserving. In addition, LNC is now hedging some of its GMDB exposure. LNCs current GMDB hedging program is intended to reduce the magnitude of increases in GMDB reserves that is created by drops in the equity markets. LNC is continuing to evaluate how the new rules of the SOP, combined with the GMDB hedging program, will effect future GMDB reserve fluctuations due to changes in equity markets. In addition, LNC is studying the inter relationship between the fluctuations in DAC amortization and the fluctuations in GMDB reserves. Once LNC has completed these analyzes, LNC intends to provide guidance regarding the effects that changes in equity market performance can be expected to have on LNCs earnings. Reinsurance The Retirement segment utilizes reinsurance in the management of the fixed annuity business. The reinsurance arrangements are on a modified coinsurance basis, which results in LNC retaining the assets supporting the business and sharing in the risks associated with the fixed annuity business with the reinsurer. At December 31, 2003, the amount of business reinsured represents approximately 20% of the gross fixed annuity account values exclusive of the fixed portion of variable annuity contracts. During 2003, LNC received notice of 34 Table of Contents termination of reinsurance coverage for new business from the fixed annuity reinsurer. Starting January 1, 2004, LNC is retaining all the new fixed annuity business written. Fixed annuity business written prior to December 31, 2003 will continue to be covered by the reinsurance agreements under which they were written. Results of Operations: Lincoln Retirements financial results and account values were as follows: Increase(Decrease)Over PriorYear Year Ended December 31 (in millions) 2003 2002 2001 2003 2002 Net Income $ 300.5 $ 53.7 $ 265.1 460 % (80 )% Items Included in Net Income (after tax): Realized loss on investments and derivative instruments (12.5 ) (128.7 ) (42.5 ) 90 % (203 )% Restructuring charges (13.1 ) (1.0 ) (1.3 ) N/M 23 % Net gain on reinsurance derivative/trading securities 1.8 Market adjustment for reclassification to trading securities 55.9 Cumulative effect of accounting changes (1) (63.6 ) (7.3 ) Goodwill amortization (1.2 ) December 31 (in billions) 2003 2002 2001 Account Values Variable Annuities $ 35.8 $ 27.4 $ 34.6 31 % (21 )% Fixed Annuities $ 21.2 $ 20.1 18.0 5 % 12 % Reinsurance Ceded (2.3 ) (2.0 ) (1.5 ) (15 )% (33 )% Total Fixed Annuities 18.9 18.1 16.5 4 % 10 % Total Account Values $ 54.7 $ 45.5 $ 51.1 20 % (11 )% Average Daily Variable Account Values $ 30.4 $ 30.8 $ 35.6 (1 )% (13 )% Average Fixed Annuity Account Values $ 19.9 $ 18.1 $ 16.0 10 % 13 % (1) Cumulative Effect of Accounting Changes for 2003 results from the recording in the fourth quarter of 2003 the embedded derivative for Modco reinsurance arrangements resulting from implementation of DIG B36. The 2001 changes relate to the transition adjustment of $(3.6) million recorded in the first quarter of 2001 upon adoption of FAS 133 and the adjustment of $(3.7) million recorded in the second quarter of 2001 upon adoption of EITF 99 20. (Refer to New Accounting Pronouncements section for further discussion of these items.) 35 Table of Contents Net Income Variances Increase (Decrease) (in millions, after tax) 2003 to2002 2002 to2001 Net Income Increase (Decrease) $ 246.8 $ (211.4 ) Significant Changes in Net Income: Realized loss on investments and derivatives 116.2 (86.2 ) Restructuring charges (12.1 ) 0.3 Market adjustment for reclassification to trading securities 55.9 Cumulative effect of accounting changes (63.6 ) 7.3 Effects of Equity Markets* Fee income (7.2 ) (29.9 ) DAC/PVIF/DFEL 26.8 (18.4 ) GMDB 48.6 (40.4 ) Prospective DAC/PVIF/DFEL unlocking 31.8 (30.3 ) Investment margins (including earnings on investment partnerships) 26.2 (4.1 ) Increase in average fixed account values 18.5 17.7 Changes in dividends received deduction 2.8 (17.7 ) * Excludes the effects of equity markets on realized gains (losses) on investments and derivative investments, market adjustment for trading securities, and reinsurance embedded derivatives/trading securities and cumulative effect adjustment. Comparison of 2003 to 2002 Net income increased significantly in 2003, reflecting improving equity markets and the decrease in realized losses on investments and derivative instruments. The significant realized losses on investments and derivative instruments in 2002 were the result of the decline in value and the sale and write downs of fixed maturity securities. Net income for 2003 also includes the effects of fourth quarter implementation of DIG B36, which required the recording of an embedded derivative related to the Modco reinsurance arrangements supporting the segments fixed annuity business. Investment securities supporting these arrangements were reclassified at the beginning of the fourth quarter from available for sale to trading resulting in an increase to net income. Additional details on the Retirement segments reinsurance arrangements are provided in the section on Reinsurance. The restructuring charges for 2003 were incurred in connection with the combining of the Lincoln Retirement and Life Insurance operations and the consolidation of fixed annuity operations formerly located in Schaumburg, Illinois into Fort Wayne, Indiana. For further details on these restructuring charges, refer to the restructuring charge section on page 28. The increase in variable annuity account values for the year resulted from net positive cash flows, the overall improvement in the equity markets in 2003, and shifts from the fixed portion of variable annuity products into the variable portion of variable annuity products. However, average daily variable annuity account values, a key driver of fee income for the segment, were below last year, reflecting the timing of equity market movements over the two year period, and resulted in reduced fee income in 2003 relative to 2002. As indicated in the above tables, variable annuities account values stood at $34.6 billion at December 31, 2001, declined to $27.4 billion at December 31, 2002 and recovered to $35.8 billion at December 31, 2003. Over this same timeframe, average variable account values were $35.6 billion during 2001, $30.8 billion during 2002 and $30.4 billion during 2003. The timing of when the equity markets declined and increased during these three years is a primary reason for the decline in fee revenues as reported on an annual basis. Within these annual periods, on a quarterly basis the equity markets were generally declining from the first quarter of 2002 through the first quarter of 2003. Until the fourth quarter 2003 market improvement occurred, the 2003 daily average variable annuity account values were 36 Table of Contents below the levels reported in the comparable 2002 quarters. This explains why, despite the strong overall equity market performance experienced for the year, fee revenue for 2003 lagged behind revenues reported for 2002. However, because equity market performance in 2003 exceeded the expected market performance used in LNCs DAC assumptions, favorable retrospective unlocking and net changes in amortization for DAC and PVIF were reported for 2003. Equity market performance also drove decreases in GMDB reserves and benefit payments resulting in favorable effects on net income. In addition, the annual review of the various assumptions underlying DAC, PVIF, and GMDB calculations resulting in prospective unlocking which increased net income by $1.5 million in 2003. This compared to a large negative impact from prospective unlocking in 2002. Investment margins on fixed annuity products contributed to the improvement in net income in 2003. The table below presents the improvement in the investment rate margin. Although the net investment income yield declined year over year, LNC was able to reduce crediting rates to offset this decrease. In addition, during 2003 the investment margins were positively impacted by $3.5 million from increases in mortgage loan prepayments and make wholes. Annuity product investment rate margins represent the excess of the yield on earning assets over the average crediting rate. The yield on earning assets is calculated as net investment income on fixed product investment portfolios divided by average earning assets. The average crediting rate is calculated using interest credited on annuity products less bonus credits and excess dollar cost averaging (DCA) interest, divided by the average fixed account values net of coinsured account values. Fixed account values reinsured under modified coinsurance agreements are included in account values for this calculation. (See discussion on investment margins and the interest rate risk due to falling interest rates in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk on page 81.) Investment income on investment partnerships was below expected levels in 2003 and 2002. However, the performance of these partnerships did improve in 2003 over 2002. This improvement resulted in $6.8 million of additional income. The income improvement from the increase in average fixed annuity account values resulted from net flows in 2003. Change in Rate OverPrior Year (basis points) Year Ended December 31 (in millions) 2003 2002 2001 2003 2002 Net Investment Income Yield 6.41 % 6.98 % 7.38 % (57 ) (40 ) Interest Rate Credited to Policyholders 4.25 % 4.87 % 5.33 % (62 ) (46 ) Interest Rate Margin 2.16 % 2.11 % 2.05 % 5 6 Comparison of 2002 to 2001 Net income decreased significantly in 2002. The decrease in net income between periods was primarily the result of the decline in the equity markets and an increase in realized losses on investments and derivative instruments, resulting from the decline in value and the sale and write downs of fixed maturity securities. The significant decline in the equity markets negatively affected the segments earnings through lower fees from lower average variable account values, negative unlocking of DAC and PVIF and increases in reserves and benefit payments for GMDB. The decline in the equity markets in 2002 resulted in average daily variable annuity account values and ending variable annuity account values for 2002 being significantly lower than for 2001. The decrease in variable annuity account values reduced fees and lowered net income. The lower equity markets resulted in negative retrospective unlocking of DAC and PVIF and changes in the rate of amortization. The negative unlocking in 2002 was due to actual equity market performance lagging the expected market performance used in LNCs DAC assumptions. Increases in GMDB reserves and benefit payments also significantly decreased net income in 37 Table of Contents 2002. In addition, in 2002 the segment had negative prospective unlocking of various assumptions underlying DAC, PVIF and GMDB calculations, including the reversion to the mean net equity market growth assumption. Decreased earnings from investment partnerships resulted in a negative variance of $21.7 million compared to 2001. Partially offsetting the negative variances were $17.6 million from higher investment margins. Overall investment spreads on fixed annuity products (excluding the impact of the policy loan interest adjustment and investment income earned on invested capital supporting the segment which includes investment partnerships) were relatively flat between years: 2.04% in 2002, excluding an adjustment to interest on policy loans, versus 2001. Average fixed annuity account values increased significantly in 2002 increasing net income. The increase in fixed annuity account values was due to the positive net cash flows for fixed annuities, reflecting strong sales of the StepFive&reg;, Lincoln Select and Lincoln ChoicePlusSM Fixed annuity products in 2002. Net Flows (1) Lincoln Retirements product deposits, withdrawals and net flows were as follows: Improvement(Decline) OverPrior Year Year Ended December 31 (in billions) 2003 2002 2001 2003 2002 Variable Portion of Annuity Deposits $ 3.1 $ 2.7 $ 3.1 15 % (13 )% Variable Portion of Annuity Withdrawals (3.2 ) (3.3 ) (3.9 ) 3 % 15 % Variable Portion of Annuity Net Flows (0.1 ) (0.6 ) (0.8 ) 83 % 25 % Fixed Portion of Variable Annuity Deposits 1.7 1.8 1.6 (6 )% 13 % Fixed Portion of Variable Annuity Withdrawals (1.1 ) (1.1 ) (0.8 ) % (38 )% Fixed Portion of Variable Annuity Net Flows 0.6 0.7 0.8 (14 )% (13 )% Total Variable Annuity Deposits 4.8 4.5 4.7 7 % (4 )% Total Variable Annuity Withdrawals (4.3 ) (4.4 ) (4.7 ) 2 % 6 % Total Variable Annuity Net Flows 0.5 0.1 (0.0 ) 400 % N/M Fixed Annuity Deposits 1.4 1.9 1.7 (26 )% 12 % Fixed Annuity Withdrawals (0.9 ) (1.5 ) (1.6 ) 40 % 6 % Fixed Annuity Net Flows 0.5 0.4 0.1 25 % 300 % Total Annuity Deposits 6.2 6.4 6.4 (3 )% % Total Annuity Withdrawals (5.2 ) (5.9 ) (6.3 ) 12 % 6 % Total Annuity Net Flows 1.0 0.5 0.1 100 % 400 % Incremental Deposits (1) $ 6.1 $ 6.2 $ 5.8 (2 )% 7 % (1) Incremental Deposits represent gross deposits reduced by transfers from other Lincoln Annuity products. LNC has been following a two pronged approach to improving net flows over the last few years. Attracting new deposits and retaining existing accounts are key drivers of the Retirement segments ability to achieve profitable future earnings growth. Variable product sales were up six percent in 2003 over 2002 while fixed product sales were down from the prior year. Through the fourth quarter of 2003, the Retirement segment has experienced ten consecutive quarters of positive net flows. 38 Table of Contents New Deposits Improvement(Decline) Year Ended December 31 (in billions) 2003 2002 2001 2003 2002 Individual Annuities Variable $ 3.1 $ 3.1 $ 3.1 % % Fixed 0.9 1.4 1.4 (36 )% % Total Individual 4.0 4.5 4.5 (11 )% % Employer Sponsored Annuities Variable 1.7 1.5 1.6 12 % (6 )% Fixed 0.5 0.4 0.3 25 % 33 % Total Employer Sponsored 2.2 1.9 1.9 16 % % Total Annuity Deposits Variable 4.8 4.5 4.7 7 % (4 )% Fixed 1.4 1.9 1.7 (26 )% 12 % Total Individual Annuities $ 6.2 $ 6.4 $ 6.4 (3 )% % New deposits are an important component of LNCs effort to grow the annuity business. In the past several years, this effort has concentrated on both product and distribution breadth. Although overall annuity deposits were down in 2003 compared to 2002, LNC maintained deposit levels in the individual variable annuity business and saw growth in the employer sponsored business. The overall decline was a result of a 37% reduction in individual fixed annuities, as interest rates remained at low levels in 2003. LNCs sales in 2003 of individual variable annuities were driven by the introduction of the Principal Securitysm benefit in June of 2003. Lincoln ChoicePlussm variable annuity gross deposits were up 13% and American Legacy variable annuity gross deposits were up nearly 3% compared to 2002 as a result of guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit (GMWB) feature of the Principal Securitysm benefit. This benefit offers the contractholder a guarantee equal to the initial purchase payment (or contract value, if elected after issue), adjusted for any subsequent purchase payments or withdrawals. To receive the full amount of the guarantee, annual withdrawals are limited to 7% of the guaranteed amount. Withdrawals in excess of the 7% maximum in any contract year are assessed any applicable surrender charges, and the guaranteed amount is recalculated. The annual charge for this benefit is 0.45% of the guaranteed amount (less withdrawals), assessed on a quarterly basis. The charge is waived five years after the start or resetting of the guarantee amount, as long as the cumulative payments since election or reset are less than 10% of the current guarantee amount. The benefit may also be cancelled at any time five years after election or reset. If cancelled, the benefit may be reelected after one year, if available. As of December 31, 2003, less than 10% of deposits that elected this feature have elected automatic withdrawal benefits at the 7% level. Principal Securitysm is available on new and existing variable annuity contracts in nearly all states for most LNC individual variable annuity products. In addition to the introduction of the Lincoln Principal SecuritySM feature, Lincoln Financial Distributors (LFD) added wholesalers in the latter part of 2003, and more are expected to be added in the near future. The increase in wholesalers is expected to increase sales. LFD is the primary wholesale distributor of LNCs individual annuity products. During 2003, LNC worked with American Funds Distributors (AFD) to transition the wholesaling of the American Legacy variable annuity to LFD. With this change, LFD has a dedicated team focused on key broker/dealer relationships developed in conjunction with AFD, which is expected to continue to renew growth in American Legacy variable annuity sales. Also as a result of this change, LFD now has two distinct annuity product wholesaling groups: the single manager (American Legacy) and the multi manager (ChoicePlusSM and Multi Fund&reg;). 39 Table of Contents The decrease in individual fixed product sales is the result of declining interest rates and competitive pressures in 2003. With the decline in interest rates over the last few years, it has been more difficult to offer rates that were competitive in the marketplace and still allow LNC to achieve targeted spreads on the fixed annuity products. LNCs approach in 2003 and into 2004 is to approach the fixed annuity marketplace on an opportunistic basis where LNC intends to only offer products with rates that are consistent with LNCs required spreads. During 2001 and 2002, the poor performance of the equity markets, resulted in an increase in sales of fixed annuity products. LNCs fixed annuity sales in 2001 through 2002 were bolstered by product offerings that were introduced in 2001 including the Lincoln Select Fixed Annuity and the StepFive&reg; Fixed Annuity. The guarantees of the StepFive Fixed Annuity made it an important product for LNC in the Financial Institutions channel. New product offerings launched in 2002 in the Financial Institutions channel included AccelaRate and ChoiceGuarantee. In 2003, LNC experienced an increase in deposits in the employer sponsored business as a result of increased deposits in variable and fixed products within the Alliance program. The Alliance program enables the Retirement segment to sell a multi manager mutual fund based product within the employer sponsored marketplace. Deposits of the Alliance program were $969 million in 2003, an increase of 77% from deposits of $547 million in 2002. A significant portion of the deposits, $337 million, came in the first quarter of 2003 from a large number of enrollments from employer sponsored plans. Retention of Assets One of the key assumptions in pricing a product is the account persistency, often referred to as the lapse rate. The lapse rate compares the amount of withdrawals to the retained account values. One way to measure a companys success in retaining assets is to look at the overall level of withdrawals from period to period. However, this alone does not tell the whole story. By comparing actual lapse rates to the rates assumed in designing the annuity product, it is possible to gauge the impact of persistency on profitability. Overall lapse rates were 9.01% in 2003, 10.47% in 2002 and 9.72% in 2001. In all three years, overall lapse rates have been more favorable than the level of persistency assumed in product pricing. In addition, as described above, LNC experienced an increase in deposits within the Alliance program offered within the employer sponsored marketplace. The persistency of the employer sponsored business tends to be higher than in the individual annuity marketplace as employer sponsored products involve systematic deposits and are part of an overall employee benefit plan which are generally not subject to the level of exchange activity typically experienced in the individual marketplace. Bush Administration Tax Legislation President Bushs tax legislation has not provided a pass through of reduced rates on qualified dividends or long term capital gains for non qualified annuities, as is the case for other financial services products, such as mutual funds. The long term impact of this for the annuity industry is unknown. However, LNC expects that the income guarantee provided within an annuity will continue to be viewed as a significant benefit. The guaranteed living and death benefits offered within annuity products are not found in any other investment vehicle. Because of the equity market volatility over the last few years, in LNCs experience, the demand for these benefits appears to have outweighed any potential detrimental impact of tax law changes. LNC believes that the guarantees within an annuity should continue to drive annuity sales. In addition, LNC continues to support tax legislation that recognizes and rewards the long term nature of annuity investments and the unique benefit payout alternatives that are only available from annuity products. Outlook Economic and market conditions, and the level of interest rates have been volatile over the past several years. This volatility and uncertainty in the marketplace has impacted fixed and variable annuity sales for both the industry and Lincoln Retirement. Customer behavior has been influenced by these factors as well as by the introduction of new products and product features, including the very popular living benefits products. 40 Table of Contents Lincoln Retirements living benefit product, Principal Securitysm, was rolled out in June of 2003 and resulted in an immediate increase in sales in the second half of the year. While LNC expects this sales momentum to continue, history has shown that competitive pressures and new product innovations can have a short term impact on market share. Looking forward, continued low interest rates would lower portfolio earned rates and move more of LNCs crediting rates to contractual minimum, causing a drop in investment spreads. Conversely, if interest rates were to rise rapidly it could lead to disintermediation risk. Changes in tax laws and additional regulatory scrutiny of variable annuities could have a negative impact on LNCs ability to grow the business. To deal with these uncertainties, LNC remains committed to its two pronged approach of growing new deposits and retaining existing assets to manage its net flows. LNC expects to continue to strengthen its distribution breadth, utilize and improve upon its balanced portfolio of fixed and variable annuities and aggressively manage expenses as key profitability drivers in the challenging annuity market. LIFE INSURANCE The Life Insurance segment, with principal operations in Hartford, Connecticut, and Fort Wayne, Indiana, with additional operations in Schaumburg, Illinois, creates and protects wealth for its clients through the manufacture and sale of life insurance products throughout the United States. The Life Insurance segment offers universal life (UL), variable universal life (VUL), interest sensitive whole life (ISWL), term life (Term) and corporate owned life insurance (COLI). A majority of the Life Insurance segments products are distributed through LFD and LFA. Life Insurance Products The Life Insurance segment offers a broad portfolio of life insurance products. In addition to Term, the segment offers three distinct permanent insurance product types: Universal Life, Variable Universal Life and Interest Sensitive Whole Life. Within these product types are wealth accumulation and wealth transfer specific products, including single life and survivorship versions of all three. Insurance riders such as return of premium, lapse protection, and long term care benefit provisions are available with certain products. The long term care benefit is available in the UL MoneyGuard product. In addition, the segment offers both UL and VUL versions of COLI. This allows the segment to effectively align its portfolio of products with the primary affluent market segments and to also provide products that perform under a variety of market conditions. Given the economic environment of the recent past, portfolio breadth has proven its value. The industry has experienced a dramatic shift from variable to fixed products over the last few years, driven primarily by the equity market declines in 2001 and 2002 and a flight to conservatism. Although the equity markets improved during 2003, there was not a movement back to variable from fixed products and the Life Insurance segments mix of business has continued to shift from VUL to UL. The Life Insurance segment has continued to develop products that meet the changing needs of its target affluent market. During times when the consumer has less tolerance for market risk, it is important to have a competitive fixed UL product portfolio. In 2003, the segment focused its efforts on maintaining the series of products with the Lapse Protection Rider (LPR). These products, originally introduced in 1998, offer an innovative rider, which is designed to provide flexibility and guaranteed death benefit coverage (see Guideline AXXX section for a description of the guarantee feature). New single life and survivorship versions of these products were released in February 2003 and updated again in October 2003 to address continuing movement in the market by competitors. In May 2003, the segments Corporate Specialty Markets unit released an updated VUL product called Lincoln CV4. The segment continued to strengthen the guarantees available in its VUL portfolio to generate additional interest in this line. The response to all of these new products has been very positive. In 2004, the segment plans to continue to be aggressive in product development. 41 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policy DAC, PVIF and DFEL FAS 97 requires that acquisition costs for UL policies and VUL policies be amortized over the lives of the contracts in relation to the incidence of estimated gross profits, consistent with the treatment noted previously for variable annuities. Factors affecting estimated gross profits are mortality (net of reinsurance ceded), investment margins and expense margins. For the Life Insurance segment, based on the current mix of life insurance in force on the books, the factors that have the most significant impact on estimated gross profits are mortality experience (net of reinsurance), premium and policy persistency, and interest margins. Each of these sources of profit is, in turn, driven by other factors. For example assets under management and the spread between earned and credited rates drive investment margins; net amount at risk drives the level of Cost of Insurance charges and reinsurance premiums. Market movement, which has the greatest impact on DAC amortization for the Retirement segment relative to its variable annuity block of business, has less impact on DAC amortization for the Life Insurance segment. On a quarterly basis, LNC reviews the assumptions of its DAC amortization model and records a retrospective adjustment to the amount expensed, (i.e., unlocks the DAC). On an annual basis, LNC reviews and adjusts as necessary its assumptions for prospective amortization of DAC, as well as its other intangible asset, PVIF. Changes in future assumptions resulted in prospective unlocking, which increased amortization by $14.5 million in the third quarter of 2003. In addition, as a result of a significant increase in the degree to which customers were utilizing their option to reduce the face amount of their policies, the Company recorded net prospective unlocking adjustments, which increased amortization by $5.3 million during 2003, most of which occurred in the first quarter of 2003. Results of Operations: The Life Insurance segments financial results, first year premiums by product, account values and in force amounts were as follows: Increase (Decrease) Year Ended December 31 (in millions) 2003 2002 2001 2003 2002 Net Income $ 252.1 $ 206.1 $ 229.3 22 % (10 )% Items Included in Net Income (after tax): Realized loss on investments and derivative instruments (62.9 ) (36.9 ) (70 )% Restructuring charges (12.7 ) (3.5 ) Net gain (loss) on reinsurance derivative/trading securities (0.4 ) Cumulative effect of accounting changes (1) 0.6 (5.5 ) Goodwill amortization (23.7 ) (1) Cumulative Effect of Accounting Changes for 2003 results from the recording in the fourth quarter of 2003 the embedded derivative for Modco reinsurance arrangements resulting from implementation of DIG B36. The 2001 changes relate to the transition adjustment of $(0.2) million recorded in the first quarter of 2001 upon adoption of FAS 133 and the adjustment of $(5.3) million recorded in the second quarter of 2001 upon adoption of EITF 99 20. (Refer to New Accounting Pronouncements section beginning on page 23 for further discussion of these items.) 42 Table of Contents Net Income Variances Increase (Decrease) (in millions, after tax) 2003 to2002 2002 to2001 Net Income Increase (Decrease) $ 46.0 $ (23.2 ) Significant Changes In Net Income: Realized gain (loss) on investments and derivatives 62.9 (26.0 ) Restructuring charges (12.7 ) 3.5 Cumulative effect of accounting changes 0.6 5.5 Goodwill amortization 23.7 Effects of equity markets* Fee income 0.5 DAC/PVIF/DFEL 4.2 (2.4 ) Prospective DAC/PVIF/DFEL unlocking (24.9 ) (3.9 ) Mortality 10.9 (13.1 ) Investment margins (including earnings on investment partnerships) 5.3 (17.2 ) * The above table excludes the effects of equity markets on realized gains (losses) on investments and derivative investments. Comparison of Net Income Comparison of 2003 to 2002 The increase in net income in 2003 was primarily due to the absence of realized losses on investments and derivative instruments that was experienced in 2002. The decrease to net income from restructuring charges was a result of the realignment of the Lincoln Retirement and Life Insurance segments and the realignment of operations from the Schaumburg, Illinois office to Hartford, Connecticut. The segment also experienced a minor impact from the fourth quarter implementation of DIG B36. A significant negative effect on net income in 2003 was the negative prospective DAC/PVIF/DFEL unlocking, and the resulting higher DAC amortization from the increase in the DAC amortization rate associated with these prospective assumption changes. See the discussion of the third quarter prospective unlocking presented above within the topic Critical Accounting Policy DAC, PVIF and DFEL. The improvement in the equity markets during 2003 increased net income through higher fees and favorable retrospective DAC unlocking relative to 2002. Mortality experience (mortality assessments less net death benefits and mortality related retrospective DAC unlocking) in 2003 was favorable relative to 2002. The improvement in mortality resulted from lower death benefits and favorable unlocking relative to 2002. Volatility is expected from mortality risk, but LNC attempts to lessen the impact of volatility on earnings by reinsuring approximately 90% of the mortality risk on new business written by the Life Insurance segment. As presented in the table below, investment margins in the interest sensitive lines of business (UL and ISWL) improved 8 basis points in 2003 resulting in additional income of $7.9 million. Partially offsetting this improvement in margins was lower investment yields on traditional non par lines of business, which reduced income by $5.6 million. Traditional non par business includes term and whole life insurance. Investment margins for the interest sensitive line of business represent the excess of the yield on earning assets, calculated as net investment income on fixed product investment portfolios divided by the average earning assets, over the average crediting rate, calculated using interest credited on life products divided by the average fixed account values. Investment yield on traditional non par products decreased to 6.99% in 2003 from 7.42% in 2002. For these products, the yield on earning assets is calculated as net investment income on non par investment portfolios divided by average earning assets. At December 31, 2003 and 2002, interest sensitive products represented 88% 43 Table of Contents and 87%, respectively, of total interest sensitive and traditional non par earning assets. At December 31, 2003, 24% of the interest sensitive account values have crediting rates at contract guarantee levels and 25% have crediting rates within 50 basis points of contractual guarantees. Additional information on investment margins and the interest rate risk due to falling interest rates is provided within Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. In addition, earnings on investment partnerships for the segment contributed $3.1 million more in 2003 compared to 2002. Change in Rate OverPrior Year Increase (Decrease) Year Ended December 31 (in millions) 2003 2002 2001 2003 2002 Basis points Interest Sensitive Products Net Investment Income Yield 6.97 % 7.30 % 7.63 % (33 ) (33 ) Interest Rate Credited to Policyholders 5.36 % 5.77 % 5.86 % (41 ) (9 ) Interest Rate Margin 1.61 % 1.53 % 1.77 % 8 (24 ) Traditional Products Net Investment Income Yield 6.99 % 7.42 % 7.49 % (43 ) (07 ) Comparison of 2002 to 2001 The decrease in net income was due to a number of factors and excluding the amortization of goodwill in 2001, was $46.9 million or 19% lower in 2002 than in 2001. The primary variances are displayed in the net income variance table above. Mortality experience in 2002 was less favorable relative to 2001. Investment yields declined at a faster pace than reductions in crediting rates, which reduced the interest rate margin on interest sensitive products by 24 basis points and the investment yield on traditional products by seven basis points resulting in a reduction to income of $10.5 million. In addition, earnings from investment partnerships were lower in 2002 than 2001 and resulted in a negative variance of $6.7 million. Sales, Net Flow, Account Values and In force Increase(Decrease) Year Ended December 31, 2003 2002 2001 2003 2002 First Year Premiums by Product (in millions) Universal Life Excluding MoneyGuard $ 417.0 $ 356.9 $ 184.7 17 % 93 % MoneyGuard 224.6 138.4 107.9 62 % 28 % Total Universal Life 641.6 495.3 292.6 30 % 69 % Variable Universal Life 79.4 134.4 228.5 (41 )% (41 )% Whole Life 34.4 30.3 26.4 14 % 15 % Term 40.2 32.3 30.9 24 % 5 % Total Retail 795.6 692.3 578.4 15 % 20 % Corporate Owned Life Insurance (COLI) 125.7 88.1 47.2 43 % 87 % Total First Year Premiums $ 921.3 $ 780.4 $ 625.6 18 % 25 % Net Flows (in billions) Deposits $ 2.259 $ 2.138 $ 1.934 6 % 11 % Withdrawals & Deaths (.882 ) (.818 ) (.771 ) (8 )% (6 )% Net Flows $ 1.377 $ 1.320 $ 1.163 4 % 13 % Policyholder Assessments (1.053 ) (1.002 ) (.931 ) (5 )% (8 )% 44 Table of Contents Increase(Decrease) December 31 (in billions) 2003 2002 2001 2003 2002 Account Values Universal Life $ 9.030 $ 8.211 $ 7.508 10 % 9 % Variable Universal Life 2.195 1.690 1.746 30 % (3 )% Interest Sensitive Whole Life 2.195 2.185 2.123 % 3 % Total Life Insurance Account Values $ 13.420 $ 12.086 $ 11.377 11 % 6 % In Force Face Amount Universal Life and Other $ 129.623 $ 126.016 $ 121.168 3 % 4 % Term Insurance 151.717 127.880 113.226 19 % 13 % Total In Force $ 281.340 $ 253.896 $ 234.394 11 % 8 % Total sales as measured by first year premiums increased from 2002. The sales growth for UL was driven by sales of MoneyGuard, a UL product with a long term care rider, and strong growth in other fixed UL products. Despite the equity market turnaround, sales of VUL continued to decline in 2003. The dollar decline in VUL sales has been more than offset by the dollar increase in UL sales. UL accounted for 89% of total retail UL/VUL sales in 2003 versus 79% of those sales in 2002. In analyzing the impact of sales growth as a predictive measure of future earnings it is important to understand that product mix of sales affects future profitability. The MoneyGuard product, an important driver of recent sales growth, is typically sold as a single premium product. As a result, the relative profitability of MoneyGuard on a per dollar of first year premium basis is less than that of other types of permanent life insurance such as UL and VUL. However, the products profitability does meet LNCs overall profitability targets. The increase in life insurance in force has been driven by the growth in term life insurance. An unusually high level of face amount reductions by policyholders electing to reduce their coverage dampened the growth in UL and other products in force. Excluding the effects of face amount reductions, the general level of policy lapsation was in line with segment expectations. It is important to view the in force growth separately for term products versus the universal life and other products (permanent products) as term products by design have a lower profitability to face amount relationship than do permanent products. Growth in account values reflects positive net flows, net of fees assessed to the policyholders of approximately $300 million, interest earned on UL and interest sensitive whole life and the effect of a strong equity market recovery on VUL account values. The increase in net flows was driven by the sales of UL products. Estate Tax Reform Permanent repeal of the estate tax after 2010 continues to be debated by the federal legislature. The outlook for permanent repeal remains highly uncertain. To date, LNC has not experienced any significant change in life insurance sales as a result of the changes in estate tax laws enacted in 2001. Total survivorship sales as a percent of overall sales were flat at 22% of total retail first year premiums in 2002 and 2003. LNCs life insurance products are designed to support a wide variety of financial planning needs such as business succession, charitable giving and fringe benefit planning, not just management of estate tax exposure. Guideline AXXX The Application of the Valuation of Life Insurance Policies Model Regulation (AXXX) was developed to clarify statutory reserve requirements for particular policy designs under the NAIC Valuation of Life Insurance 45 Table of Contents Policies Model Regulation (Regulation XXX). AXXX was effective for UL policies sold beginning in 2003 and increases statutory reserves for UL policies with secondary guarantees using shadow accounts and for specified premium guarantees that are prefunded. The secondary guarantee promises to keep a policy in force as long as certain conditions are met. Regardless of whether the policy has any cash value, the policy will not lapse as long as the shadow account is positive. A shadow account is a hypothetical account that accumulates actual premium payments and interest less fees based on the secondary guarantee assumptions. However, the shadow account does not provide any cash value to the policyholder. In addition to secondary guarantees using shadow accounts, all companies offering secondary guarantees that allow prefunding are impacted by AXXX to a greater or lesser degree depending on product design. A prefunded policy is one where premiums are paid earlier than is necessary to maintain the policys benefits. LNCs single life and survivorship UL products offer secondary guarantees using shadow accounts. Use of this design provides more flexibility to policyholders than a premium based approach. In 2003, these products were redesigned twice to reflect both the financial requirements of AXXX and a changing competitive landscape. LNC expects secondary guarantees to be critical to LNCs target affluent market and expects that the AXXX version of these products will continue to be competitive. LNC also markets many life insurance products that do not offer secondary guarantees and which were not impacted by AXXX. LNL is actively exploring strategies to lesson the burden of increased AXXX reserves. Strategies include both reinsurance and capital markets solutions that provide for risk transfer and associated reserve and surplus relief. (See Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Part II page 77.) Split Dollar New regulations have set forth the IRS views regarding the tax treatment of split dollar funding arrangements. Split dollar is a premium funding mechanism that has been used for many years, with IRS approval, to provide life insurance benefits to a firms key executives, or to provide life insurance benefits to family members of closely held firms, etc. The final IRS regulations issued in 2003 are effective for arrangements entered into or materially modified after September 17, 2003. The new regulations do not eliminate split dollar arrangements, but clarify certain issues. As a result of the final regulation, some split dollar plans may not be as attractive as before, but some plans may be better. Accounting reforms under Sarbanes Oxley, which prohibit publicly traded companies from extending credit to their directors or executives, affect some split dollar programs. However, most of the products sold by LNC for use in split dollar arrangements are sold to closely held companies, limited partnerships and family owned businesses, not publicly traded companies. Given LNCs target market, and the fact that the amount of LNCs split dollar sales in relationship to the level of total first year life premium sold is insignificant, these changes are expected to have minimal overall effect on LNCs sales. COLI LNCs COLI products are only marketed to organizations for coverage of officers and require the prospective permission of the officers to be covered under the COLI policy. In February 2004, the Senate Finance Committee approved a COLI provision which provides that the death benefits from a COLI contract are not taxable if the deceased individual was an employee within 12 months of death; or the death benefits are payable to the employees family, beneficiary, estate, or are used to purchase an equity interest in the employer (buy sell agreement); or the employee is a key person defined as either a highly compensated employee (currently income over $90K), or is a highly compensated individual (salary in the top 35% for employer); or is a director. In all cases, the employee must receive notice of coverage and provide written consent. Passage of this legislation is uncertain, but the recent action of the Senate Finance Committee, which has shown the most interest in the issue, should provide more certainty to the market. If the existing proposal becomes law, it is not expected to have a detrimental effect on COLI markets in which LNC participates. 46 Table of Contents Outlook LNC expects 2004 will be another challenging year for the Life Insurance Segment. On the positive side, the improvement in the equity and credit markets seen in 2003 should bode well for sales to the affluent market (an area of focus for LNC) as well as the degree to which policyholders seek reductions in coverage. However, current new money rates are approximately 150 basis points below existing portfolio yields. As a result, the segment may need to take further action to lower crediting rates to reduce the impact on interest rate margins. As stated earlier, with approximately 25% of fixed account values for interest sensitive lines of business already at their minimum guaranteed interest rate, LNCs ability to lower crediting rates is somewhat limited. There was substantial pricing pressure in 2003, particularly with respect to products with secondary guarantees. It is uncertain as to whether there will be a return to more rational pricing in the market in 2004. As discussed above, the segment uses reinsurance to manage the mortality risk. There was also pricing pressure in 2003 in the reinsurance market. While the segment has, for the most part, factored the higher reinsurance prices into product pricing, all indications are that the reinsurance marketplace may continue to tighten. Further price increases to cover this would only add to existing competitive pressures. Despite this difficult operating environment, LNC believes the segment has sustainable competitive advantages to continue to grow profitably into the future. LNCs balanced portfolio of products should be positioned to take advantage of the demand among the affluent for sophisticated life products to meet a variety of tax, business and family needs. In addition, the segment has taken the necessary rate actions to manage investment margins, has aggressively managed expenses, and expects to maintain a strong in force management discipline to maintain favorable persistency. LNC believes the segments underwriting capabilities are well respected in the reinsurance marketplace, which should enable LNC to remain well positioned relative to the competition. INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT The Investment Management segment, with principal operations in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, offers a variety of asset management services to retail and institutional clients located throughout the United States and certain foreign countries. Its product offerings include mutual funds and managed accounts. It also provides investment management and account administration services for variable annuity products, 401(k), 529 college savings plans, pension, endowment, trust and other institutional accounts. The primary operating companies within this segment are the subsidiaries of Delaware Management Holdings, Inc. (Delaware). The segment employs the services of The Lincoln National Life Insurance Company for its 401(k) Director product. Retail products are primarily marketed by LFD through financial intermediaries, including LFA. Institutional asset management products are marketed by a separate sales force within Delaware, which works closely with pension consultants. Diversity of investment styles, as well as diversity of clients served, are prudent ways to manage risk in varying market environments. Delaware has evolved into an investment manager with strong and diversified offerings across all major asset classes, including value and growth equity investment styles; high grade, high yield and municipal fixed income investment styles; balanced and quantitative investment styles; and international and global equity and fixed income investment styles. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES DAC During the first quarter of 2003, the Investment Management segment implemented a new system for calculating the amortization of DAC consistent with the system and methodology utilized by the Lincoln Retirement and Life Insurance segments. The DAC is related to the annuity based 401(k) Director product. The segments DAC asset was $91.8 million as of December 31, 2003. 47 Table of Contents Deferred Dealer Commission Asset The Investment Management segment has a deferred dealer commission asset of approximately $39.3 million as of December 31, 2003 relating to upfront sales commissions paid to brokers for the sale of Class B shares of Delaware retail mutual funds. The asset is amortized over the estimated period of time that it is expected to be realized or recovered from future cash flows in the form of asset based distribution (12b 1) fees from the mutual funds or contingent deferred sales charges (CDSCs) from shareholders who redeem shares during the CDSC period. The estimate of future cash flows from these sources was positively impacted by the equity markets improvement in 2003. In accordance with SFAS 144 Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets, should the estimated undiscounted future cash flows from 12b 1 fees and CDSCs drop below the carrying value of the deferred dealer commission asset, then an impairment write down would be required to be recognized. In that event, the amount of the impairment write down would be computed by comparing the carrying value of the deferred dealer commission asset to the discounted value of the future 12b 1 and CDSC cash flows. As of December 31, 2003, the estimated undiscounted future 12b 1 and CDSC cash flows exceeded the carrying value of the deferred dealer commission asset. LNC monitors the Net Asset Values (NAVs) of the underlying retail mutual funds to determine if a write down of the deferred dealer commission asset would be required. LNC is also monitoring potential regulatory changes concerning 12b 1 fees, and possible effects on the recoverability of the deferred dealer commission asset. EQUITY MARKETS The Investment Management segments net income is significantly affected by volatility in the equity markets. Changes in the equity markets impact the segments earnings through the level of assets managed and their effect on fees that the segment earns. Refer to the Results of Operations discussion provided below for an analysis of the comparative effects that movements in the equity markets have had on the Investment Managements segment earnings. Within the segment there are two items, in addition to the fees from assets under management, which are affected by changes in the equity markets. These are two unrelated items that currently tend to move in opposite directions. First, the segment has invested capital, referred to as seed capital, for the start up of products. These investments are accounted for in a method consistent with trading securities with changes in market value reported through net income. After the funds reach a certain threshold, the seed capital will be returned to LNC. The second item, moving in an opposite direction to the changes in value of the seed capital, are the changes in value of the deferred compensation liability for Delaware employees. Deferred compensation is further discussed within Note 6 Employee Benefit Plans in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. 48 Table of Contents Results of Operations: The Investment Management segments financial results were as follows: Increase(Decrease)Over PriorYear Year Ended December 31 (in millions) 2003 2002 2001 2003 2002 Total Revenue $ 474.0 $ 418.5 $ 455.0 13.3 % (8.0 )% Total Investment Advisory Fees (Included in Total Revenue) 306.2 281.0 302.2 9.0 % (7.0 )% Net Income (Loss) 30.2 (1.4 ) (8.9 ) Items Included in Net Income (Loss) (after tax): Realized gain (loss) on investments 0.3 (3.5 ) (2.3 ) Restructuring charges (4.6 ) 0.3 (0.4 ) Cumulative effect of accounting change (1) (0.1 ) Goodwill amortization (16.2 ) Net Income Variances Increase (Decrease) (in millions after tax) 2003 to2002 2002 to2001 Net Income Increase $ 31.6 $ 7.5 Significant Changes in Net Income: Realized loss on investments 3.8 (1.2 ) Restructuring charges (4.9 ) 0.7 Goodwill amortization 16.2 Effects of financial markets/net flows, variable expenses and other 12.4 (12.5 ) Critical accounting policies Deferred acquisition costs 11.5 Other financial markets related variances Seed capital 9.4 (3.0 ) Deferred compensation liability (5.7 ) 1.3 Compensation impact for resignation of CEO (4.2 ) 4.2 Tax benefit on UK stock compensation 9.1 1) Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change relates to 2001 adoption of EITF 99 20. Comparison of Net Income Comparison of 2003 to 2002 The favorable equity market performance combined with positive net flows during 2003 resulted in a significant improvement in earnings for the Investment Management segment primarily due to the increased fees generated from higher assets under management. As discussed in the critical accounting policies section, the segment implemented a new system for calculating changes in DAC. Included in the impact from 2003 DAC unlocking is $2.6 million of positive unlocking from refinement of the methodology during 2003. As described in the equity markets section, the segments net income was positively impacted in 2003 by the equity markets through an increase in value of the seed capital, which was partially offset by increased expense on the deferred compensation liability. Managing expenses is important to the success of the Investment Management segment. The increase in operating and administrative expenses in 2003 over 2002 was primarily related to incentive compensation and 49 Table of Contents expenses impacted by both net flows and markets. In 2002, the segment benefited from a release of accrued compensation of $4.2 million resulting from the resignation of the segments CEO. As part of LNCs overall expense management initiatives the segment incurred restructuring charges in 2003. Additional details on this activity are provided in the Restructuring Charges section. The segment benefited from a change in tax laws in the United Kingdom permitting a deduction for stock compensation expense. The tax benefit recognized in the fourth quarter of 2003 reflects a deduction for the fair value of options granted in current and prior years that remained outstanding at the beginning of the year. Comparison of 2002 to 2001 Excluding the effect of goodwill amortization in 2001, net income decreased approximately $8.6 million in 2002. The decrease in income was primarily a result of declines in the equity markets reducing retail and institutional assets under management and the resulting lower revenues earned on the assets under management. Positive net cash flows in 2002 partially offset the negative effect of the equity markets on assets under management and revenues. Additional positives were reduced operating and administrative expenses from cost containment efforts and the release of the former CEOs accrued compensation. 50 Table of Contents Assets Under Management and Client Net Flows Increase (Decrease) December 31 (in billions) 2003 2002 2001 2003 2002 Assets Under Management Regular Operations: Retail Equity $ 20.9 $ 14.9 $ 18.0 40 % (17 )% Retail Fixed 8.2 7.6 7.1 8 % 7 % Total Retail 29.1 22.5 25.1 29 % (10 )% Institutional Equity 25.3 16.7 17.8 51 % (6 )% Institutional Fixed 8.4 7.3 5.5 15 % 33 % Total Institutional 33.7 24.0 23.3 40 % 3 % Insurance Assets 43.0 41.1 38.1 5 % 8 % Total Assets Under Management $ 105.8 $ 87.6 $ 86.5 21 % 1 % Increase (Decrease) Year Ended December 31 (in billions) 2003 2002 2001 2003 2002 Retail: Equity Sales $ 3.8 $ 4.5 $ 2.8 (16 )% 61 % Equity Redemptions and Transfers (2.7 ) (3.9 ) (3.4 ) 31 % (15 )% Net Flows 1.1 0.6 (0.6 ) 83 % % Fixed Sales 1.8 1.2 0.9 50 % 33 % Fixed Redemptions and Transfers (1.7 ) (1.0 ) (0.7 ) (70 )% (43 )% Net Flows 0.1 0.2 0.2 (50 )% % Total Retail Sales 5.6 5.7 3.7 (2 )% 54 % Redemptions and Transfers (4.4 ) (4.9 ) (4.1 ) 10 % (20 )% Net Flows 1.2 0.8 (0.4 ) 50 % % Institutional: Equity Inflows 3.9 2.9 3.2 34 % (9 )% Equity Withdrawals and Transfers (2.1 ) (1.9 ) (2.8 ) (11 )% 32 % Net Flows 1.8 1.0 0.4 80 % 150 % Fixed Inflows 1.9 2.3 0.6 (17 )% 283 % Fixed Withdrawals and Transfers (1.2 ) (1.2 ) (1.2 ) % % Net Flows 0.7 1.1 (0.6 ) (36 )% % Total Institutional Inflows 5.8 5.2 3.8 12 % 37 % Withdrawals and Transfers (3.3 ) (3.1 ) (4.0 ) (6 )% 23 % Net Flows 2.5 2.1 (0.2 ) 19 % % Combined Retail and Institutional: Sales and Inflows 11.4 10.9 7.5 5 % 45 % Redemptions, Withdrawals and Transfers (7.7 ) (8.0 ) (8.1 ) 4 % 1 % Total Retail and Institutional Net Flows $ 3.7 $ 2.9 $ (0.6 ) 28 % % The increase in assets under management reflects market value gains in the retail and institutional equity assets under management. Market value gains in 2003 were $5.3 billion in retail and $7.3 billion in institutional. Positive net flows across equity and fixed accounts for both institutional and retail assets under management also 51 Table of Contents contributed to the growth. Retail net flows reflect favorable retention partially offset by lower sales. The combined sales of retail and institutional were the second highest since LNC acquired Delaware in 1995. Net flows for the segment have been positive for two consecutive years. Sales of Delawares mutual funds by LFA improved during 2003 to approximately 8% of LFAs total mutual fund sales compared to 4% in 2002. Sales of mutual funds, managed accounts, 401(k) products and 529 plans through LFD increased 15% in 2003 over 2002. Investment Performance Investment performance is a key driver of Delawares ability to attract new sales, retain existing assets and improve net flows. On the institutional side, for the 12 months ended December 31, 2003, 4 of the 8 largest product composites met or outperformed their respective indices, which was consistent with performance for the 12 months ended December 31, 2002. Investment performance has shown strong improvement in Delawares retail business. According to the 2003 annual Barrons/Lipper mutual fund family survey published in February 2004, Delaware finished in the middle of the group of companies for the ten year ranking, close to the top quartile for the five year results and number 4 out of 75 fund families for the one year rankings. Delawares ranking in 2002 was 20 out of 81. In addition to overall fund family performance, Delaware closely monitors the relative performance of individual funds. Fund performance is compared to a benchmark group of peer funds having similar investment characteristics and objectives. In addition, performance in various key categories as independently evaluated by Lipper is also used by Delaware in measuring its funds performance. The following table summarizes the 2003 performance for the largest 25 retail funds in the Delaware Investments Family of Funds (the Delaware Investments Family of Funds does not include mutual funds managed by Delaware for certain LNC affiliates or other third parties). For the Year Ended December 31, 2003 2002 Number of Top 25 Largest Funds performed in the top half of their Respective Universes 19 17 Percentage of total assets in 25 largest retail funds 76 % 63 % Number of total retail funds in Lipper Leader Category Consistent Return 18 15 Capital Preservation 13 8 Total Return 19 10 Expense 6 7 Tax Efficiency 26 22 Number labeled Lipper Leader in at least one category 43 41 Number labeled Lipper Leader in multiple categories 26 17 Outlook Over the last few years, the Investment Management segment has been focused on five key areas for improving the performance of the business; attracting and retaining a strong team of investment and research professionals, improving the investment process, improving and sustaining strong investment performance, achieving positive net flows and improving profitability. The Investment Management segment has made significant progress on these initiatives, and will continue to focus on sustaining and improving the results. The Investment Management segment may also be affected by legislative or regulatory changes made in response to current industry wide matters of concern, such as market timing, late trading, access payments and soft dollar arrangements. 52 Table of Contents LINCOLN UK The Lincoln UK segment is headquartered in Barnwood, Gloucester, England, and is licensed to do business throughout the United Kingdom (UK). The segment is primarily involved in managing a closed block of business in the UK. The segment has not written any significant new business since 2000, except for accepting new deposits on the existing block of business as well as offering new products to existing policyholders. The segment is focused on retaining its existing customers and managing its expenses. The segments product portfolio principally consists of unit linked life and pension products, which are similar to U.S. produced variable life and annuity products CRITICAL ACCO UNTING POLICIES Equity Market Sensitivity As discussed in the results of operations below, the Lincoln UK segments earnings are sensitive to swings in the equity markets. Movements in the equity markets results in changes in average unit linked assets under management on which the segment earns fees. In addition, as described in more detail below, changes in the equity markets have an impact on the amortization of the segments DAC and PVIF assets, and DFEL deferred revenue. The performance of the equity markets for the Lincoln UK segment is measured by the FTSE 100 index and this index declined 16% in 2001, declined 24% in 2002 and increased 14% in 2003. Refer to the Results of Operations discussion provided below for an analysis of the comparative effects that movements in the equity markets have had on Lincoln UKs segment earnings. DAC, PVIF and DFEL The amortization of the Lincoln UK segments DAC and PVIF assets, and deferred revenue, DFEL, is impacted by the change in the market value of unit linked contracts. As required under FAS 97, acquisition costs for unit linked contracts are amortized over the lives of the contracts in relation to the incidence of estimated gross profits. Estimated gross profits on unit linked contracts vary based on surrenders, fee income, expenses and realized gains/losses on investments. The amortization is adjusted retrospectively when estimates of current or future gross profits to be realized from unit linked contracts are revised. Because equity market movement has such a significant impact on fee income, estimated future profits will go up or down accordingly. On a quarterly basis, Lincoln UK reviews the assumptions of its DAC amortization model and records a retrospective adjustment to the amount expensed (i.e.,unlocks the DAC and PVIF), or earned (i.e.,unlocks the DFEL). On an annual basis, Lincoln UK reviews and adjusts as necessary its assumptions for prospective amortization of DAC, PVIF and DFEL. Exchange Rates LNCs subsidiary in the UK has its balance sheets and income statements translated at the current spot exchange rate as of the year end and average spot exchange rate for the year, respectively. From time to time, LNC will hedge its exposure to foreign currency as it relates to its net investment in Lincoln UK. OUTSOURCING AGREEMENT During 2002, Lincoln UK entered into an agreement to outsource its customer service and policy administration functions to the Capita Group Plc. The agreement involved the transfer of approximately 500 employees to Capita. The purpose of the outsourcing was to reduce the operational risk and variability of future costs associated with administering the business by taking advantage of Capitas proven expertise in providing outsourcing solutions to a variety of industries including general insurance companies. The relationship through 2003 has provided the segment with results in line with expectations. During 2003, the initial 10 year contract with Capita was converted to an arrangement that automatically renews. 53 Table of Contents Result of Operations: Lincoln UKs financial results, account values, in force and exchange rates were as follows: Increase (Decrease) Year Ended December 31 (in millions) 2003 2002 2001 2003 2002 Net Income $ 42.9 $ 37.7 $ 66.8 14 % (44 )% Items Included in Net Income (after tax): Realized gain (loss) on investments (0.7 ) 1.3 8.7 Restructuring charges 1.7 Goodwill amortization (0.6 ) Increase (Decrease) December 31 (in billions) 2003 2002 2001 2003 2002 Unit Linked Assets $ 6.4 $ 5.1 $ 5.6 25 % (9 )% Individual Life Insurance In Force 20.4 18.9 20.9 8 % (10 )% Exchange Rate Ratio U.S. Dollars to Pounds Sterling Average for the Year 1.638 1.503 1.441 End of Year 1.786 1.610 1.456 Net Income Variances Increase (Decrease) (in millions, after tax) 2003 to2002 2002 to2001 Net Income Variance Increase (Decrease) $ 5.2 $ (29.1 ) Significant Changes in Net Income: Realized loss on investments (2.0 ) (7.4 ) Restructuring charges (1.7 ) 1.7 Effects of Equity Markets* Fee income from equity linked assets (2.1 ) (4.2 ) DAC/PVIF/DFEL 26.7 (14.4 ) Change in effective U.S. Federal income tax rate (18.7 ) Tax benefit on UK options 1.0 * The above table excludes the effects of equity markets on realized gains (losses) on investments and derivative investments. Comparison of Net Income Comparison of 2003 to 2002 Net income for 2003 benefited from the increase in the FTSE 100 index during 2003. The market improvement drove a net improvement in earnings for the combined effects on DAC/PVIF/DFEL amortization. However, average equity linked account values and the related fee revenue earned by the segment, were lower in 2003 than in 2002, reflecting the timing of equity market movements over the two year period. Offsetting the favorable effects from the market was the recording of U.S. Federal income taxes in 2003. Prior to 2003, the segment was able to utilize excess foreign tax credits to offset the U.S. Federal tax liability. These tax credits were fully utilized in 2002, resulting in an effective tax rate of approximately 35% for 2003. The segment also benefited from a change in tax laws in the United Kingdom permitting a deduction for stock options exercised after January 1, 2003. The tax benefit recognized in the fourth quarter of 2003 reflects a deduction for the fair value of options granted in current and prior years that vested in prior periods and were outstanding as of January 1, 2003. 54 Table of Contents Comparison of 2002 to 2001 The decline in the UK equity markets described in the critical accounting policies resulted in lower average unit linked account values and lower fee revenue. The equity market decline also increased the amortization of DAC and PVIF assets and deferred revenue, DFEL. In 2002, Lincoln UK sold its former Uxbridge home office and recognized a realized gain on the transaction of $5.5 million ($7.9 million pre tax) which is included in realized gain on investments. Excluding this gain, Lincoln UKs realized gains (losses) decreased $12.9 million from 2001. The impact of realized gains (losses) in both years was a result of sales relating to the realignment of the investment portfolio in order to better match invested assets with the liabilities they support. Net income for 2002 included releases of $1.7 million related to liabilities established for restructuring activities reported in 2000 related to the plan to exit all direct sales and sales support operations and to consolidate the Uxbridge home office with the Barnwood home office. Outlook During 2004, Lincoln UK will continue to focus on protecting and enhancing the value of its customer base, evaluating new income streams and delivering business excellence through quality people and business processes. The segment continues to maintain reserves established in 1997 and 1999 for misselling activities. Payments and expenses for these activities have generally been in line with the established reserves. During 2003, the regulatory authority in the UK confirmed that there is a time limit for policyholders to make claims which should further limit Lincoln UKs exposure to this issue. The segment remains subject to volatility in the equity markets and changes in the foreign currency exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the British pound sterling. Significant changes in either could cause net income to fluctuate period to period. OTHER OPERATIONS Activity that is not included in the major business segments is reported in Other Operations. Other Operations includes the operations of LFA and LFD and operations not directly related to the business segments, unallocated corporate items (i.e., corporate investment income, interest expense on corporate debt, unallocated overhead expenses, and the amortization of the gain on the sale of the reinsurance business). Prior to the fourth quarter of 2001, LNC had a Reinsurance segment (Lincoln Re). LNCs reinsurance business was acquired by Swiss Re in December 2001. As the majority of the business acquired by Swiss Re was via indemnity reinsurance agreements, LNC is not relieved of its legal liability to the ceding companies for this business. This means that the liabilities and obligations associated with the reinsured contracts remain on the balance sheets of LNC with a corresponding reinsurance receivable from Swiss Re. In addition, the gain resulting from the indemnity reinsurance portion of the transaction was deferred and is being amortized into earnings at the rate that earnings on the reinsured business are expected to emerge, over a period of 15 years. The ongoing management of the indemnity reinsurance contracts and the reporting of the deferred gain will be within LNCs Other Operations. Given the lengthy period of time over which LNC is amortizing the deferred gain, and the fact that related assets and liabilities will continue to be reported within LNCs financial statements, the historical results for the Reinsurance segment prior to the close of the transaction with Swiss Re are not reported as discontinued operations, but as a separate line in Other Operations. The results for 2001 included eleven months of Reinsurance segment operations through the period ended November 30, 2001. Critical Accounting Policy FAS 113 Reserve Development on Business Sold through Indemnity Reinsurance The reinsurance business sold to Swiss Re includes a block of personal accident and disability income business. Refer to the Acquisition and Divestiture section for discussion of this critical accounting policy and how changes in reserves for these businesses have an ongoing impact on LNCs net income. 55 Table of Contents Results of Operations: Other Operations financial results were as follows: Increase(Decrease) Year Ended December 31 (in millions) 2003 2002 2001 2003 2002 Net Income (Loss) by Source: LFA $ (37.0 ) $ (31.4 ) $ (20.1 ) (18 )% (56 )% LFD (33.4 ) (35.2 ) (36.9 ) 5 % 5 % LNC Financing (60.4 ) (41.1 ) (77.9 ) (47 )% 47 % Other Corporate (6.2 ) (1.7 ) (25.8 ) Reinsurance Operations 128.8 Amortization of deferred gain on indemnity reinsurance 47.0 48.9 12.9 FAS 113 reserve development on business sold through indemnity reinsurance (18.5 ) (199.1 ) Gain (loss) on sale of reinsurance subsidiaries (9.4 ) 15.0 Gain on sale of equity investment in reinsurance marketing company 21.7 Market adjustment for reinsurance embedded derivative/trading securities 1.3 Market adjustment for reclassification to trading securities 185.6 Cumulative effect of accounting changes (1) (192.2 ) (2.7 ) Net Income $ (113.8 ) $ (247.3 ) $ (6.7 ) 54 % N/A Items included in net income ( in millions) Realized gain (loss) on investments and derivative instruments (excluding gain on sale of equity investment in reinsurance marketing company) LNC Financing $ $ 1.9 $ Other Corporate 0.3 (6.1 ) (0.4 ) Restructuring charges LFA (3.8 ) LFD (3.7 ) Other Corporate (0.9 ) 1.1 (15.8 ) Loss on early retirement of subordinated debt (included within LNC Financing) (3.7 ) (1) Cumulative Effect of Accounting Changes for 2003 results from the recording in the fourth quarter of 2003 the embedded derivative for Modco reinsurance arrangements resulting from implementation of DIG B36. The cumulative effect of accounting changes for 2001 relates to the transition adjustment of $(0.5) million recorded upon adoption of FAS No. 133 and the adjustment of $(2.2) million recorded upon adoption of EITF 99 20. (Refer to page 23 for further discussion of these items.) COMPARISON OF NET LOSS Comparison of 2003 to 2002 The net loss for 2003 was lower than 2002 due primarily to smaller reserve adjustments for the personal accident and disability income business sold to Swiss Re. These adjustments are described in more detail within the Acquisition and Divestiture section. The net loss in 2003 also includes the effects of fourth quarter implementation of DIG B36, which required the recording of an embedded derivative of $295.7 million pre tax related to modified coinsurance and coinsurance with funds withheld reinsurance arrangements included within 56 Table of Contents the reinsurance operation that LNC sold to Swiss Re. Investment securities supporting these arrangements were reclassified at the beginning of the fourth quarter from available for sale to trading, resulting in pre tax income of $285.5 million. LNC Financing benefited in 2002 from investment income on the proceeds from the sale to Swiss Re. During 2002, the proceeds were used to repurchase stock and during the fourth quarter, the remaining proceeds were reinvested in LNCs business segments. Excluding the investment income on the proceeds, LNC financing benefited from lower interest rates due to the changes made to LNCs outstanding debt during 2003 as described in the liquidity and cash flow section. Within Other Corporate in 2003, there were costs associated with LNCs realignment activities. These costs totaled $3.4 million, including $0.9 million reported as a restructuring charge. LFD experienced a reduction in net losses in 2003. However, included in LFDs 2002 net loss were expenses of $5.0 million resulting from a decision to expense previously deferred costs related to specific initiatives to expand life insurance sales. Excluding this expense, LFDs net loss increased by $3.2 million in 2003. Expenses primarily associated with the expansion of the wholesaling force were the main contributor to the additional loss in 2003. Increased sales in life insurance (16% increase in retail and 43% increase in COLI), variable annuity (9% increase) and investment products (15% increase) partially offset the increase in expenses. As discussed within the Retirement Segment, LFD did experience a decrease in fixed annuity sales (32% decrease). LFD expects to continue to focus in 2004 on strengthening its strategic alliances and increasing the number and effectiveness of wholesalers across all distribution channels. LFAs net losses in 2003 include $6.1 million of realignment costs, of which $3.8 million were reported as restructuring charges. The significant improvement in the equity markets resulted in an increase to LFAs deferred compensation liability and increased LFAs loss by $9.1 million. However, this loss was more than offset by equity market related gains of $9.5 million in the variable annuity purchased in 2001 to provide an economic hedge of the deferred compensation liability. This compared to a combined loss on the deferred compensation liability and the annuity contract of $1.9 million in 2002. LFA experienced strong sales growth in all business lines in 2003. A key to LFAs ability to reduce its net losses is related to the success of the realignment activities initiated in 2003 to enhance productivity and operational efficiencies. Comparison of 2002 to 2001 The net loss in 2002 includes charges required by FAS 113 for increases in personal accident and disability income reserves for the business sold through indemnity reinsurance to Swiss Re. Amortization of the deferred gain on indemnity reinsurance increased due to a full years amortization in 2002 compared to one months amortization in 2001. Net income for 2001 included eleven months of income from the operations of the former Reinsurance segment. In 2002, LNC reported a gain on the sale of its investment (included in realized gains on investments) in an international marketing company associated with LNCs former Reinsurance segment, which was partially offset by a true up in 2002 of estimated taxes related to the gain on sale of reinsurance subsidiaries sold in 2001. The improvement in LNCs financing net loss from 2001 was due in part to investment income from the proceeds of the sale of LNCs reinsurance business to Swiss Re. In addition to the investment income, there was a decrease in long term debt expense associated with various long term financing activities that occurred in the second half of 2001 and third quarter of 2002 as described in the Liquidity and Cash Flow section of the Review of Consolidated Financial Condition. Short term borrowing costs were also lower due to lower interest rates and lower daily average borrowings under the commercial paper program in the U.K. The net loss in 2001 in Other Corporate included a restructuring charge related to the consolidation of operations and the reduction of excess space in LNCs Fort Wayne, Indiana operations resulting from LNCs divestiture of its reinsurance operations. 57 Table of Contents LFAs increased net loss for 2002 included the effects of changes in the value of LFAs liability for deferred compensation and variable annuity contract. The combined effect was an increased loss of $6.7 million in 2002 compared to 2001. In addition, in 2002 the Fringe Benefit operation (FBD) was moved from LFA to the Retirement segment. In 2001, FBD had a loss of $2.2 million that was included in LFAs results. Excluding the net effect of the deferred compensation liability, the annuity and FBD, LFAs net loss for 2002 increased $6.7 million over 2001. One of the contributors to the increased loss was that LFAs sales during the fourth quarter 2002 did not reflect the typical seasonal fourth quarter increase over the prior three quarters of the year as had been seen during the fourth quarter of the previous four years. This deviation from the prior trend in sales resulted in a decrease in revenues for 2002 relative to 2001. LFD experienced a reduction in net losses in 2002. However, included in LFDs 2002 net losses were expenses of $5.0 million described in the 2003 to 2002 comparison above. Excluding this expense, LFDs net losses improved from a combination of increased sales in all of its product categories including life insurance, annuity and investment products and a reduction in fixed operating costs primarily due to lower expenses following two restructuring activities occurring in 2001. Litigation In 2001, LNL concluded the settlement of all class action lawsuits alleging fraud in the sale of LNL non variable universal life and participating whole life policies issued between January 1, 1981 and December 31, 1998. Since 2001, LNL has reached settlements with a substantial number of the owners of policies that opted out of the class action settlement. LNL continues to defend a small number of opt out claims and lawsuits. While there is continuing uncertainty about the ultimate costs of settling the remaining opt out cases, it is managements opinion that established reserves are adequate and future developments will not materially affect the consolidated financial position of LNC. LNC and LNL have pursued claims with their liability insurance carriers for reimbursement of certain costs incurred in connection with the class action settlement and the settlement of claims and litigation brought by owners that opted out of the class action settlement. During the fourth quarter of 2002, LNC and LNL settled their claims against three liability carriers on a favorable basis. LNC and LNL continue to pursue similar claims against a fourth liability insurance carrier. CONSOLIDATED INVESTMENTS The following table presents consolidated invested assets, net investment income and investment yield. Increase/(Decrease) December 31 (in billions) 2003 2002 2001 2003 2002 Total Consolidated Investments (at Fair Value) $ 42.8 $ 40.0 $ 36.1 7 % 11 % Average Invested Assets (at Amortized Cost) $ 41.0 $ 38.8 $ 37.6 5.7 % 3 % Adjusted Net Investment Income (1) 2.6 2.6 2.7 % (4 )% Investment Yield (ratio of net investment income to average invested assets) 6.45 % 6.80 % 7.22 % (35 )bp (42 )bp Year ended December 31 (in millions) 2003 2002 2001 Items Included in Net Investment Income: Limited partnership investment income (loss) $ 6.5 $ (2.4 ) $ 29.2 N/M N/M Prepayments and makewholes 12.8 7.8 6.7 64 % 16 % (1) Includes tax exempt income on a tax equivalent basis. 58 Table of Contents Investment Objective: Invested assets are an integral part of the Lincoln Retirement, Life Insurance and Lincoln UK segments operations. For discussion of external assets under management, i.e., retail and institutional assets, see the Investment Management segment discussion starting on page 47. LNC follows a balanced approach of investment for both current income and prudent risk management, with an emphasis on generating sufficient current income to meet LNCs obligations. This approach requires the evaluation of risk and expected return of each asset class utilized, while still meeting the income objectives of LNC. This approach also permits LNC to be more effective in its asset liability management, since decisions can be made based upon both the economic and current investment income considerations affecting assets and liabilities. Investment Portfolio Composition and Diversification: Fundamental to LNCs investment policy is diversification across asset classes. LNCs investment portfolio, excluding cash and invested cash, is composed of fixed maturity securities; mortgage loans on real estate; real estate either wholly owned or in joint ventures and other long term investments. LNC purchases investments for its segmented portfolios that have yield, duration and other characteristics that take into account the liabilities of the products being supported. The dominant investments held are fixed maturity securities available for sale, which represent approximately 77% of the investment portfolio. Trading securities, which are primarily fixed maturity securities, represent approximately 7.3% of the investment portfolio. The total investment portfolio increased $2.8 billion in 2003 and $3.9 billion in 2002. The increase in 2003 was due to the purchase of investments from cash flow generated by the business units, positive net flows for fixed annuity and life insurance portfolios and market value appreciation of fixed maturity securities resulting from overall improvements in the credit markets. The increase in 2002 was due to the purchase of investments from cash flow generated by the business units, positive net flows for fixed annuity portfolios and market value appreciation of fixed maturity securities due to the significant decline in interest rates during 2002. The quality of LNCs available for sale fixed maturity securities portfolio, as measured at fair value and by the percentage of fixed maturity securities invested in various ratings categories relative to the entire available for sale fixed maturity security portfolio, as of December 31, 2003 was as follows: AAA and Agencies 22.6 % BBB 34.1 % AA 6.3 % BB 4.4 % A 30.0 % Less Than BB 2.6 % The ratings data listed above have been determined by using the lowest of all publicly available ratings assigned to a particular fixed maturity security. If no public ratings exist, a rating is assigned based upon LNCs analysis of the inherent risks of the individual security. As of December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002, $2.3 billion, or 7.0%, and $2.1 billion, or 6.6%, respectively, of all fixed maturity securities available for sale were invested in below investment grade securities (less than BBB). This represents 5.4% and 5.3% of the total investment portfolio at December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002, respectively. When viewed on a cost basis, below investment grade securities held at December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002 represented 7.3% and 8.4%, respectively, of fixed maturity securities. Securities Available for Sale: Securities that are classified as available for sale make up 91% of LNCs fixed maturity and equity securities portfolio. These securities are carried at fair value on LNCs balance sheet. Because the general intent of the available for sale accounting rules is to reflect shareholders equity as if unrealized gains and losses were actually recognized, it is necessary for LNC to consider all related accounting adjustments that would occur upon such a hypothetical recognition of unrealized gains and losses. Such related balance sheet effects include adjustments to the balances of deferred acquisition costs, policyholder commitments and deferred income taxes. Adjustments to each of these balances are charged or credited directly to shareholders equity as part of LNCs available for sale accounting. For instance, deferred acquisition costs are adjusted upon the recognition of unrealized gains or losses since the amortization of deferred acquisition costs is 59 Table of Contents based upon an assumed emergence of gross profits on certain insurance business. In a similar manner, adjustments to the balances of policyholder reserves or commitments are made because LNC has either a contractual obligation or has a consistent historical practice of making allocations of investment gains or losses to certain policyholders. Deferred income tax balances are also adjusted, since unrealized gains or losses do not affect actual taxes currently paid. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for details of the gross unrealized gains and losses as of December 31, 2003 and 2002. Trading Securities: As discussed more fully in the discussion on accounting for modified coinsurance in the accounting changes section beginning on page 23, LNC reclassified fixed maturity and equity securities in designated portfolios that support Modco and CFW reinsurance arrangements from available for sale to trading. This was done in connection with the implementation of new accounting requirements that required the recording of an embedded derivative for these types of arrangements. Investment results for these portfolios, including gains and losses from sales, are passed directly to the reinsurers through the contractual terms of the reinsurance arrangements. Trading securities are carried at fair value and changes in fair value are recorded in net income as they occur. Offsetting these amounts are corresponding changes in the fair value of the embedded derivative liability associated with the underlying reinsurance arrangement. Mortgaged Backed Securities: LNCs fixed maturity securities include mortgage backed securities. The mortgage backed securities included in LNCs investment portfolio are subject to risks associated with variable prepayments. This may result in these securities having a different actual cash flow and maturity than expected at the time of purchase. Securities that have an amortized cost greater than par and are backed by mortgages that prepay faster than expected will incur a reduction in yield or a loss. Those securities with an amortized cost lower than par that prepay faster than expected will generate an increase in yield or a gain. In addition, LNC may incur reinvestment risks if market yields are lower than the book yields earned on the securities. Prepayments occurring slower than expected have the opposite impact. LNC may incur disinvestment risks if market yields are higher than the book yields earned on the securities and LNC is forced to sell the securities. The degree to which a security is susceptible to either gains or losses is influenced by 1) the difference between its amortized cost and par, 2) the relative sensitivity of the underlying mortgages backing the assets to prepayment in a changing interest rate environment and 3) the repayment priority of the securities in the overall securitization structure. LNC limits the extent of its risk on mortgage backed securities by prudently limiting exposure to the asset class, by generally avoiding the purchase of securities with a cost that significantly exceeds par, by purchasing securities backed by stable collateral, and by concentrating on securities with enhanced priority in their trust structure. Such securities with reduced risk typically have a lower yield (but higher liquidity) than higher risk mortgage backed securities. At selected times, higher risk securities may be purchased if they do not compromise the safety of the general portfolio. At December 31, 2003, LNC did not have a significant amount of higher risk mortgage backed securities. There are negligible default risks in the mortgage backed securities portfolio as a whole as the vast majority of the assets are either guaranteed by U.S. government sponsored entities or are supported in the securitization structure by junior securities enabling the assets to achieve high investment grade status. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for additional detail about the underlying collateral. Mortgage Loans on Real Estate and Real Estate: As of December 31, 2003, mortgage loans on real estate and investments in real estate represented 9.8% and 0.3% of the total investment portfolio. As of December 31, 2003, the underlying properties supporting the mortgage loans on real estate consisted of 39.3% in commercial office buildings, 22.1% in retail stores, 17.8% in industrial buildings, 10.4% in apartments, 6.7% in hotels/motels and 3.7% in other. In addition to the dispersion by property type, the mortgage loan portfolio is geographically diversified throughout the United States. However, mortgage loans on real estate in California and Texas accounted for approximately 29% of the total carrying value of mortgage loans at December 31, 2003. 60 Table of Contents The following summarizes key information on mortgage loans: (in millions) December 31, 2003 December 31, 2002 Total Portfolio (net of reserves) $ 4,195.0 $ 4,205.5 Impaired mortgage loans 120.2 72.3 Impaired mortgage loans as a percentage of total mortgage loans 2.9 % 1.7 % Mortgage loans two or more payments delinquent (including in process of foreclosure) $ $ 1.9 Restructured loans in good standing 63.6 4.6 Reserve for mortgage loans 17.5 11.9 All mortgage loans that are impaired have an established allowance for credit loss. Changing economic conditions impact LNCs valuation of mortgage loans. Increasing vacancies, declining rents and the like are incorporated into the discounted cash flow analysis that LNC performs for monitored loans and may contribute to the establishment of (or an increase in) an allowance for credit losses. In addition, LNC continues to monitor the entire commercial mortgage loan portfolio to identify risk. Areas of current emphasis are the hotel mortgage loan portfolio and retail, office and industrial properties that have deteriorating credits or have experienced debt coverage reduction. Where warranted, LNC has established or increased loss reserves based upon this analysis. Impaired mortgage loans as a percentage of total mortgage loans has deteriorated over the last two years as a result of increased credit losses in the sectors noted above. This percentage was 2.9%, 1.7%, 0.6%, 0.5%, 0.6%, 0.8%, 1.1% and 1.9% as of December 31, 2003, 2002, 2001, 2000, 1999, 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively. While the percentage of impaired mortgage loans has been increasing slightly over prior years, all commercial mortgage loans in the portfolio are current in principal and interest payments. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for additional detail regarding impaired mortgage loans. Limited Partnership Investments: As of December 31, 2003 and 2002, there were $259.8 million and $294.2 million, respectively, of limited partnership investments included in consolidated investments. These include investments in approximately 55 different partnerships that allow LNC to gain exposure to a broadly diversified portfolio of asset classes such as venture capital, hedge funds, and oil and gas. They are generally fairly large partnerships with several third party partners. These partnerships do not represent off balance sheet financing to LNC. Select partnerships contain capital calls which require LNC to contribute capital upon notification by the general partner. These capital calls are contemplated during the initial investment decision and are planned for well in advance of the call date. The capital calls are not material in size and pose no threat to LNCs liquidity. The capital calls are included on LNCs table of contingent commitments on page 78. Limited partnership investments are accounted for using the equity method of accounting and the majority of these investments are included in Other Investments in the consolidated balance sheets. Net Investment Income: Net investment income increased slightly in 2003 when compared to 2002. The favorable effects of asset growth from net flows, partnership income and prepayment and makewhole premiums were substantially offset by a declining portfolio yield, due to lower interest rates on new securities purchased as assets matured and net product sales flowed into the portfolio. Net investment income decreased 3% in 2002 compared to 2001 due to a decrease in the yield on investments and net losses on investment partnerships. The decrease in yield was primarily due to lower interest rates on new securities purchased along with higher than historical levels of defaults due to the weak economy in 2002. The following discussion addresses LNCs invested assets excluding trading account securities. As discussed above, investment results attributable to the trading securities are passed directly to the reinsurers under the terms of the reinsurance arrangements. Critical Accounting Policy Realized Gain (Loss) on Investments and Derivative Instruments: LNC had net pre tax realized losses on investments and derivatives of $19.2 million, $271.5 million and $114.5 61 Table of Contents million in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Prior to the amortization of acquisition costs, provision for policyholder commitments and investment expenses, net pre tax realized losses were $7.4 million, $401.5 million, and $212.0 million in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The gross realized gains on fixed maturity and equity securities were $364.5 million, $181.2 million and $223.2 million, in 2003, 2002, and 2001, respectively. Gross realized losses on fixed maturity and equity securities were $396.8 million, $609.9 million and $459.7 million, respectively. Included within losses are write downs for impairments of $252.8 million, $321.5 million and $252.9 million in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. While losses from sales and impairments occurred in a number of sectors, approximately 51.4% of gross realized losses for 2003 were attributable to losses incurred on asset backed securities (ABS), the electric utilities and airlines sectors, and Parmalat. Losses incurred on ABS investments included securities collateralized by manufactured housing receivables as well as Collateralized Debt Obligations (CDOs). ABSs secured by manufactured housing receivables have experienced deterioration in value following the bankruptcy filing of a major servicer in the industry. This servicer was granted changes to the existing servicing agreements by the bankruptcy court during the first quarter of 2003. Servicing fees were increased and moved to a more senior position in the capital structure. For those securities where the subordination was not at levels high enough to withstand this increase in fees without impairing value, write downs of $14.1 million were recorded in 2003. Deterioration in the underlying collateral pools of other ABS investments during 2003 led to decreased expectations of future cash flows. As a result, additional losses of $66.3 million were realized on various ABS holdings, including CDOs. This deterioration in collateral pools primarily occurred in the first half of 2003 and quarterly losses on CDOs decreased throughout 2003. Amortization, sales and impairments have reduced LNCs CDO exposure from 1.6% of invested assets at December 31, 2002 to 1.3% of LNCs invested assets at December 31, 2003 as measured on a cost basis, with over 90% of the CDOs remaining investment grade. The unrealized loss position on the CDO portfolio has been reduced to approximately $12.0 million, compared to $47.2 million at the end of 2002. Any further deterioration or additional realized losses in the CDO portfolio will depend on economic factors such as economic growth, corporate profitability and future asset default rates. Cash flow testing of the CDO portfolio as required under EITF 99 20 supports the conclusion that these unrealized losses are temporary. A full recovery of principal and interest is expected under the current economic environment. Electric utility sector losses were taken on selected issuers whose securities had not recovered with the rest of the electric utility issues in the market. The deterioration of these securities, along with a lack of improvement in the underlying credit, led to the determination that the declines in value of these securities were other than temporary. Losses taken in this sector totaled $68.2 million for 2003. LNCs exposure to the airline sector is primarily equipment trust certificates (ETCs) and enhanced equipment trust certificates (EETCs). Aircraft owned or operated by domestic air carriers collateralize these securities. The war in Iraq, intense competition in the industry and the sale of several aircraft by a domestic carrier all put downward pressure on valuations of securities issued by domestic carriers. The sale of aircraft in the first quarter of 2003 provided a market clearing price for used aircraft at levels lower than what the market had previously anticipated. This resulted in a re evaluation of the underlying collateral in ETC and EETC structures. The combination of these factors, along with increased concerns reflected in the market during the first quarter of 2003 relating to the potential bankruptcy filing for AMR Corporation, resulted in a write down on AMR Corporations ETCs to the fair market value at that time. The change in valuation of the underlying collateral and continued economic pressures on the sector also led to an additional write down of UAL Corporations ETCs of $9.0 million. 62 Table of Contents Parmalat, an Italian dairy producer, sought bankruptcy court protection in December 2003 after it was revealed that a previously reported bank account did not exist. As a result of this and other fraudulent disclosures by company management, LNC realized a gross loss of $18.8 million in December 2003 for the write down of securities issued by Parmalat. This write down reduced LNCs Parmalat holdings to their fair value of $4.3 million at December 31, 2003. LNC has considered economic factors and circumstances within countries and industries where recent write downs have occurred in its assessment of the status of securities owned by LNC of similarly situated issuers. While it is possible for realized or unrealized losses on a particular investment to affect other investments, LNCs risk management has been designed to identify correlation risks and other risks inherent in managing an investment portfolio. Once identified, strategies and procedures are developed to effectively monitor and manage these risks. The areas of risk correlation that LNCs investment management group pays particular attention to are risks that may be correlated within specific financial and business markets, risks within specific industries and risks associated with related parties. Critical Accounting Policy Write Downs and Allowance for Losses: Securities available for sale that were deemed to have declines in fair value that were other than temporary were written down to fair value. The fixed maturity securities to which these write downs apply were generally of investment grade at the time of purchase, but were subsequently down graded by rating agencies to below investment grade. Factors considered by LNC in determining whether declines in the fair value of fixed maturity securities are other than temporary include 1) the significance of the decline; 2) LNCs ability and intent to retain the investment for a sufficient period of time for it to recover; 3) the time period during which there has been a significant decline in value; and 4) fundamental analysis of the liquidity, business prospects and overall financial condition of the issuer. Based upon these factors, securities that have indications of potential impairment are subject to intensive review. Where such analysis results in a conclusion that declines in fair values are other than temporary, the security is written down to fair value. See Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements (Fair Value of Financial Instruments) for a general discussion of the methodologies and assumptions used to determine estimated fair values. Fair values for private securities are estimated by (1) a matrix process that employs discounting expected future cash flows using a current market rate applicable to the coupon rate, credit quality, industry sector and maturity of the investments; (2) third party supplied prices or secondary market transactions; and (3) applying professional judgment to arrive at the fair value based upon prices of public or non public securities of similarly situated issuers. The fair value for all private securities was $4,875.8 million and $4,601.3 million at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively, representing about 11.4% and 11.5% of total invested assets, respectively. As the discussion above indicates, there are risks and uncertainties associated with determining whether declines in the fair value of investments are other than temporary. These include subsequent significant changes in general overall economic conditions, as well as specific business conditions affecting particular issuers, future financial market effects such as interest rate spreads, stability of foreign governments and economies, future rating agency actions and significant accounting, fraud or corporate governance issues that may adversely affect certain investments. In addition, there are often significant estimates and assumptions required by LNC to estimate the fair values of securities, including projections of expected future cash flows and pricing of private securities. LNC is continuously monitoring developments and updating underlying assumptions and financial models based upon new information. Provided below are additional facts concerning the potential effect upon LNCs future earnings and financial position should management later conclude that some of the current declines in fair value of securities are other than temporary declines. EITF 99 20 changed the manner in which impairment of certain investments in collateralized securities is determined. The cumulative effect adjustment that LNC recorded in connection with the adoption of EITF 99 20 in the second quarter of 2001 was a net realized loss on investments of $11.3 million after tax ($17.3 million pre tax). 63 Table of Contents Write downs and allowances for losses on select mortgage loans on real estate, real estate and other investments were established when the underlying value of the property was deemed to be less than the carrying value. These write downs and provisions for losses, as well as the provisions for write downs on fixed maturity and equity securities are disclosed within the notes to the accompanying consolidated financial statements (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements). Unrealized Gains and Losses Available for Sale Securities: At December 31, 2003 and 2002, gross unrealized gains on securities available for sale were $2,054.4 million and $2,402.5 million, respectively, and gross unrealized losses on securities available for sale were $218.8 million and $735.4 million, respectively. At December 31, 2003, gross unrealized gains and losses on fixed maturity securities available for sale were $2,027.1 million and $217.1 million, respectively, and gross unrealized gains and losses on equity securities available for sale were $27.3 million and $1.7 million, respectively. At December 31, 2002, gross unrealized gains and losses on fixed maturity securities available for sale were $2,355.3 million and $690.9 million, respectively, and gross unrealized gains and losses on equity securities available for sale were $47.2 million and $44.5 million, respectively. Part of the change in unrealized gains and losses from December 31, 2002 to December 31, 2003 resulted from the reclassification of securities from available for sale to trading that was previously discussed. The great majority of the remaining unrealized gains and losses can be attributed to changes in interest rates, which have created temporary price fluctuations. However, within the portfolio of securities with unrealized losses are certain securities that LNC has identified as exhibiting indications that the decline in fair value may be other than a temporary decline in value. Where detailed analysis by LNC credit analysts and investment portfolio managers leads to the conclusion that a securitys decline in fair value is other than temporary, the security is written down to fair value. In instances where declines are considered temporary, the security will continue to be carefully monitored. The following information is applicable to unrealized loss securities that were subject to enhanced analysis and monitoring processes as of the relevant balance sheet date. In viewing this information, it is important to realize that LNC is continuously reviewing and updating the status of its investment portfolios. Accordingly, the information presented below relates to the status of securities that were being monitored at a particular point in time, and may not be indicative of the status of LNCs investment portfolios subsequent to the balance sheet date. Further, since the timing of the recognition of realized investment gains and losses through the selection of which securities are sold is largely at managements discretion, it is important to consider the information provided below within the context of the overall unrealized gain or loss position of LNCs investment portfolios. These are important considerations that should be included in any evaluation of the potential impact of unrealized loss securities upon LNCs future earnings. LNC had an overall net unrealized gain (after the amortization of acquisition costs, provision for policyholder commitments, investment expenses and taxes) on securities available for sale under FAS 115 of $793.1 million and $753.3 million at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. 64 Table of Contents For publicly traded and private securities held by LNC at December 31, 2003 and 2002 that were subject to enhanced analysis and monitoring for potential changes in unrealized loss status, the fair value, amortized cost, unrealized loss and total time period that the security has been in an unrealized loss position are presented in the table below. (000s omitted) Fair Value %FairValue AmortizedCost % AmortizedCost UnrealizedLoss % UnrealizedLoss 2003 90 days $ 6,089 3.1 % $ 6,606 2.9 % $ (518 ) 1.5 % &gt; 90 days but 180 days 39,887 20.4 % 43,328 18.8 % (3,441 ) 9.9 % &gt; 180 days but 270 days 6,550 3.3 % 6,751 2.9 % (201 ) 0.6 % &gt; 270 days but 1 year 20,280 10.4 % 22,066 9.6 % (1,786 ) 5.1 % &gt; 1 year 123,036 62.8 % 151,811 65.8 % (28,774 ) 82.9 % Total $ 195,842 100.0 % $ 230,562 100.0 % $ (34,720 ) 100.0 % 2002 90 days $ 13,595 4.8 % $ 14,627 3.1 % $ (1,032 ) 0.5 % &gt; 90 days but 180 days 27,026 9.5 % 38,118 8.0 % (11,092 ) 5.8 % &gt; 180 days but 270 days 23,448 8.2 % 39,151 8.2 % (15,702 ) 8.2 % &gt; 270 days but 1 year 24,827 8.7 % 37,898 7.9 % (13,071 ) 6.8 % &gt; 1 year 195,644 68.8 % 346,954 72.8 % (151,311 ) 78.7 % Total $ 284,540 100.0 % $ 476,748 100.0 % $ (192,208 ) 100.0 % For total publicly traded and private securities held by LNC at December 31, 2003 and 2002 that were in unrealized loss status, the fair value, amortized cost, unrealized loss and total time period that the security has been in an unrealized loss position are presented in the table below. (000s omitted) Fair Value %FairValue AmortizedCost % AmortizedCost UnrealizedLoss % UnrealizedLoss 2003 90 days $ 1,975,203 39.8 % $ 1,995,639 38.5 % $ (20,436 ) 9.3 % &gt; 90 days but 180 days 1,342,624 27.1 % 1,382,841 26.7 % (40,217 ) 18.4 % &gt; 180 days but 270 days 536,887 10.8 % 565,322 10.9 % (28,435 ) 13.0 % &gt; 270 days but 1 year 148,057 3.0 % 153,286 3.0 % (5,229 ) 2.4 % &gt; 1 year 957,206 19.3 % 1,081,730 20.9 % (124,524 ) 56.9 % Total $ 4,959,977 100.0 % $ 5,178,818 100.0 % $ (218,841 ) 100.0 % 2002 90 days $ 1,910,152 38.1 % $ 1,981,327 34.5 % $ (71,175 ) 9.7 % &gt; 90 days but 180 days 607,070 12.1 % 684,139 11.9 % (77,069 ) 10.5 % &gt; 180 days but 270 days 349,872 7.0 % 421,977 7.3 % (72,105 ) 9.8 % &gt; 270 days but 1 year 358,915 7.2 % 426,758 7.4 % (67,843 ) 9.2 % &gt; 1 year 1,782,873 35.6 % 2,230,058 38.8 % (447,185 ) 60.8 % Total $ 5,008,882 100.0 % $ 5,744,259 100.0 % $ (735,377 ) 100.0 % 65 Table of Contents LNC has no concentrations of issuers or guarantors of fixed maturity and equity securities. The composition by industry categories of securities subject to enhanced analysis and monitoring for potential changes in unrealized loss status, held by LNC at December 31, 2003 is presented in the table below. (000s omitted) Fair Value % FairValue AmortizedCost % AmortizedCost UnrealizedLoss % UnrealizedLoss 2003 Airlines $ 30,014 15.2 % $ 39,369 17.2 % $ (9,356 ) 26.9 % Electric Power 56,707 29.0 % 65,509 28.4 % (8,802 ) 25.4 % Asset Backed Securities 56,007 28.6 % 62,828 27.2 % (6,821 ) 19.6 % Chemicals 20,245 10.3 % 26,994 11.7 % (6,749 ) 19.4 % Media Cable 17,934 9.2 % 19,932 8.6 % (1,998 ) 5.8 % Industrial Other 6,783 3.5 % 7,295 3.2 % (513 ) 1.5 % Finance Companies 4,415 2.3 % 4,683 2.0 % (268 ) 0.8 % CMBS 3,737 1.9 % 3,952 1.7 % (213 ) 0.6 % Total $ 195,842 100.0 % $ 230,562 100.0 % $ (34,720 ) 100.0 % 2002 Electric Power $ 96,797 34.0 % $ 173,008 36.3 % $ (76,211 ) 39.7 % Asset Backed Securities 67,138 23.6 % 100,650 21.1 % (33,512 ) 17.4 % Chemicals 7,565 2.7 % 30,000 6.3 % (22,435 ) 11.7 % Oil Field Services 9,530 3.3 % 28,387 6.0 % (18,857 ) 9.8 % Pharmaceuticals 15,069 5.3 % 28,450 6.0 % (13,381 ) 7.0 % Technology 11,880 4.2 % 22,294 4.7 % (10,414 ) 5.4 % Pipelines 26,688 9.4 % 32,689 6.9 % (6,000 ) 3.1 % Airlines 19,881 7.0 % 25,433 5.3 % (5,552 ) 2.9 % Consumer Non Cyclical 7,488 2.6 % 9,386 2.0 % (1,898 ) 1.0 % Sovereigns 3,452 1.2 % 4,961 1.0 % (1,509 ) 0.8 % Textile 7,813 2.7 % 8,672 1.8 % (859 ) 0.4 % Non Captive Consumer 4,050 1.4 % 4,646 1.0 % (596 ) 0.3 % Wirelines 1,080 0.4 % 1,629 0.3 % (549 ) 0.3 % Retailers 423 0.1 % 780 0.2 % (358 ) 0.2 % CMBS 1,934 0.7 % 2,009 0.4 % (75 ) % Other 3,752 1.3 % 3,754 0.8 % (2 ) % Total $ 284,540 100.00 % $ 476,748 100.00 % $ (192,208 ) 100.00 % 66 Table of Contents The composition by industry categories of all securities in unrealized loss status, held by LNC at December 31, 2003 is presented in the table below. (000s omitted) Fair Value % Fair Value AmortizedCost % AmortizedCost UnrealizedLoss % UnrealizedLoss Airlines $ 185,821 3.7 % $ 218,222 4.2 % $ (32,401 ) 14.8 % Asset Backed Securities 589,787 11.9 % 619,188 11.9 % (29,401 ) 13.4 % Electric Power 379,160 7.6 % 399,330 7.7 % (20,170 ) 9.2 % Banking 549,785 11.1 % 565,864 10.9 % (16,079 ) 7.3 % Sovereigns 275,603 5.6 % 290,396 5.6 % (14,793 ) 6.8 % Collateralized Mortgage Backed Securities 200,622 4.0 % 213,970 4.1 % (13,348 ) 6.1 % Collateralized Mortgage Obligations 604,074 12.2 % 613,065 11.8 % (8,991 ) 4.1 % Automotive 62,303 1.3 % 71,086 1.4 % (8,783 ) 4.0 % Chemicals 78,404 1.6 % 87,063 1.7 % (8,659 ) 4.0 % Retailers 117,362 2.4 % 125,740 2.4 % (8,378 ) 3.8 % Transportation Services 41,707 0.8 % 47,895 0.9 % (6,188 ) 2.8 % Industrial Other 27,902 0.6 % 33,035 0.6 % (5,133 ) 2.3 % Food and Beverage 151,571 3.1 % 155,587 3.0 % (4,016 ) 1.8 % Consumer Products 83,027 1.7 % 86,474 1.7 % (3,447 ) 1.6 % Technology 84,777 1.7 % 87,773 1.7 % (2,996 ) 1.4 % Metals and Mining 46,879 0.9 % 49,591 1.0 % (2,712 ) 1.2 % P&C 95,622 1.9 % 97,920 1.9 % (2,298 ) 1.1 % Media Cable 28,155 0.6 % 30,317 0.6 % (2,162 ) 1.0 % Pipelines 45,047 0.9 % 46,910 0.9 % (1,863 ) 0.9 % Wirelines 104,662 2.1 % 106,493 2.1 % (1,831 ) 0.8 % Non Captive Consumer 38,915 0.8 % 40,150 0.8 % (1,235 ) 0.6 % Captive 18,676 0.4 % 19,877 0.4 % (1,201 ) 0.5 % Mortgage 11,924 0.2 % 12,986 0.3 % (1,062 ) 0.5 % Industries with U/R Losses &lt; $1MM 856,196 17.3 % 868,853 16.8 % (12,657 ) 5.8 % Lincoln UK Fixed Maturity Securities 277,772 5.6 % 285,701 5.5 % (7,929 ) 3.6 % Lincoln UK Equity Securities 4,224 0.1 % 5,332 0.1 % (1,108 ) 0.5 % Total $ 4,959,977 100.0 % $ 5,178,818 100.0 % $ (218,841 ) 100.0 % The composition by industry categories of all securities in unrealized loss status, held by LNC at December 31, 2002 is presented in the table below. (000s omitted) Fair Value % Fair Value AmortizedCost % AmortizedCost UnrealizedLoss % UnrealizedLoss Electric Power $ 692,086 13.8 % $ 856,740 14.9 % $ (164,654 ) 22.4 % Airlines 240,684 4.8 % 339,997 5.9 % (99,313 ) 13.5 % Asset Backed Securities 566,568 11.3 % 633,628 11.0 % (67,060 ) 9.1 % Pipelines 157,596 3.1 % 199,625 3.5 % (42,029 ) 5.7 % Banking 319,051 6.4 % 354,941 6.2 % (35,890 ) 4.9 % Chemicals 66,657 1.3 % 96,285 1.7 % (29,628 ) 4.0 % Wirelines 144,079 2.9 % 170,803 3.0 % (26,724 ) 3.6 % Sovereigns 266,654 5.3 % 289,079 5.0 % (22,425 ) 3.1 % Oil Field Services 43,253 0.9 % 62,945 1.1 % (19,692 ) 2.7 % Media Cable 57,937 1.2 % 74,174 1.3 % (16,237 ) 2.2 % 67 Table of Contents (000s omitted) Fair Value % Fair Value AmortizedCost % AmortizedCost UnrealizedLoss % UnrealizedLoss Automotive 116,021 2.3 % 131,566 2.3 % (15,545 ) 2.1 % Pharmaceuticals 39,983 0.8 % 53,450 0.9 % (13,467 ) 1.8 % Retailers 49,183 1.0 % 61,416 1.1 % (12,233 ) 1.7 % Collateralized Mortgage Backed Securities 67,330 1.3 % 79,316 1.4 % (11,986 ) 1.6 % Industrial Other 39,719 0.8 % 51,178 0.9 % (11,459 ) 1.6 % Technology 18,566 0.4 % 29,152 0.5 % (10,586 ) 1.4 % P&C 82,308 1.6 % 90,840 1.6 % (8,532 ) 1.1 % Refining 38,307 0.8 % 46,758 0.8 % (8,451 ) 1.1 % Other 680,255 13.6 % 688,168 12.0 % (7,913 ) 1.1 % Foreign Agencies 22,425 0.4 % 29,385 0.5 % (6,960 ) 1.0 % Metals and Mining 124,446 2.5 % 130,646 2.3 % (6,200 ) 0.8 % Integrated 60,547 1.2 % 66,425 1.2 % (5,878 ) 0.8 % Supermarkets 31,598 0.6 % 37,145 0.6 % (5,547 ) 0.8 % Wireless 98,502 2.0 % 104,010 1.8 % (5,508 ) 0.8 % Transportation Services 64,921 1.3 % 69,801 1.2 % (4,880 ) 0.7 % Paper 36,883 0.7 % 41,453 0.7 % (4,570 ) 0.6 % Utility Other 27,578 0.6 % 31,166 0.5 % (3,588 ) 0.5 % Consumer Cyclical Services 21,657 0.4 % 24,933 0.4 % (3,276 ) 0.5 % Building Materials 41,614 0.8 % 44,320 0.8 % (2,706 ) 0.4 % Railroads 25,666 0.5 % 28,005 0.5 % (2,339 ) 0.3 % Tennessee Valley Authority 32,862 0.7 % 35,133 0.6 % (2,271 ) 0.3 % Food and Beverage 28,166 0.6 % 30,349 0.5 % (2,183 ) 0.3 % Consumer Non Cyclical 7,488 0.1 % 9,386 0.2 % (1,898 ) 0.3 % Mortgage 51,291 1.0 % 53,025 0.9 % (1,734 ) 0.2 % Aerospace/Defense 20,791 0.4 % 22,280 0.4 % (1,489 ) 0.2 % Life 34,893 0.7 % 35,947 0.6 % (1,054 ) 0.1 % Industries with U/R Losses &lt; $1MM 280,648 5.6 % 288,767 5.0 % (8,119 ) 1.1 % Lincoln UK Fixed Maturity Securities 181,758 3.6 % 187,086 3.3 % (5,328 ) 0.7 % Lincoln UK Equity Securities 128,911 2.6 % 164,936 2.9 % (36,025 ) 4.9 % Total $ 5,008,882 100.0 % $ 5,744,259 100.0 % $ (735,377 ) 100.0 % * The unrealized losses for Lincoln UK Equity Securities are primarily related to participation policies in the Lincoln UK segment. Gain and losses on securities supporting this business are credited to the policyholder when incurred and do not affect net income of LNC. Unrealized Loss on All Below Investment Grade Available for Sale Fixed Maturity Securities: Gross unrealized losses on all available for sale below investment grade securities were $86.0 million at December 31, 2003, representing 39.3% of total gross unrealized losses on all available for sale securities. Generally, below investment grade fixed maturity securities are more likely than investment grade securities to develop credit concerns. The remaining $132.8 million or 60.7% of the gross unrealized losses relates to investment grade available for sale securities. The ratios of market value to amortized cost reflected in the table below are not necessarily indicative of the market value to amortized cost relationships for the securities throughout the entire time that the securities have been in an unrealized loss position nor are they necessarily indicative of these ratios subsequent to December 31, 2003. 68 Table of Contents For Fixed Maturity Securities held by LNC at December 31, 2003 and 2002 that are below investment grade and in an unrealized loss position, the fair value, amortized cost, unrealized loss and the ratios of market value to amortized cost are presented in the table below (000s omitted). 2003 Aging Category Bk Mkt Ratio Fair Value Amortized Cost Unrealized Loss &lt; 90 days 70% to 100% $ 62,336 $ 63,181 $ (845 ) 40% to 70% Below 40% &lt; 90 days Total 62,336 63,181 (845 ) &gt;90 days but &lt; 180 days 70% to 100% 119,444 124,352 (4,908 ) 40% to 70% Below 40% 3 (3 ) &gt;90 days but &lt; 180 days Total 119,444 124,355 (4,911 ) &gt;180 days but &lt; 270 days 70% to 100% 87,256 95,425 (8,169 ) 40% to 70% Below 40% &gt;180 days but &lt; 270 days Total 87,256 95,425 (8,169 ) &gt;270 days but &lt; 1 year 70% to 100% 58,407 60,231 (1,824 ) 40% to 70% Below 40% &gt;270 days but &lt; 1 year Total 58,407 60,231 (1,824 ) &gt;1 year 70% to 100% 421,959 481,338 (59,379 ) 40% to 70% 15,907 26,732 (10,825 ) Below 40% 42 107 (65 ) &gt;1 year Total 437,908 508,177 (70,269 ) Total Below Investment Grade $ 765,351 $ 851,369 $ (86,018 ) 2002 Aging Category Bk Mkt Ratio FairValue Amortized Cost Unrealized Loss &lt; 90 days 70% to 100% 293,908 328,263 (34,356 ) 40% to 70% 5,128 8,487 (3,358 ) Below 40% &lt; 90 days Total 299,036 336,750 (37,714 ) &gt;90 days but &lt; 180 days 70% to 100% 155,229 170,199 (14,970 ) 40% to 70% 40,406 69,230 (28,823 ) Below 40% 2,260 9,463 (7,204 ) &gt;90 days but &lt; 180 days Total 197,895 248,892 (50,997 ) &gt;180 days but &lt; 270 days 70% to 100% 168,877 194,594 (25,717 ) 40% to 70% 37,819 63,729 (25,910 ) Below 40% 8,062 21,096 (13,034 ) &gt;180 days but &lt; 270 days Total 214,758 279,419 (64,661 ) &gt;270 days but &lt; 1 year 70% to 100% 135,906 151,594 (15,688 ) 40% to 70% 43,034 72,008 (28,974 ) Below 40% 1,625 4,221 (2,596 ) &gt;270 days but &lt; 1 year Total 180,565 227,823 (47,258 ) &gt;1 year 70% to 100% 508,243 596,307 (88,065 ) 40% to 70% 173,353 322,149 (148,795 ) Below 40% 22,330 75,399 (53,069 ) &gt;1 year Total 703,926 993,855 (289,929 ) Total Below Investment Grade $ 1,596,180 $ 2,086,739 $ (490,559 ) 69 Table of Contents At December 31, 2003 and 2002, less than 34.6% and 9.0%, respectively, of the publicly traded and private securities held that were subject to enhanced analysis and monitoring for potential changes in unrealized loss status were rated as investment grade. At December 31, 2003, the range of maturity dates for these securities varies, with about 49.2% of these securities maturing between 5 and 10 years, about 44.0% maturing in greater than 10 years and the remaining maturity dates maturing in less than 5 years. At December 31, 2003 and 2002, 84.4% and 65.3%, respectively of total publicly traded and private securities in unrealized loss status were rated as investment grade. At December 31, 2003, the range of maturity dates for total publicly traded and private securities in unrealized loss status varies, with about 26.0% maturing between 5 and 10 years, 56.3% maturing after 10 years and the remaining securities maturing in less than 5 years. At December 31, 2002, the range of maturity dates for these securities varies, with about 22% maturing between 5 and 10 years, 46% maturing after 10 years and the remaining securities maturing in less than 5 years. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for ratings and maturity date information for LNCs fixed maturity investment portfolio. As of December 31, 2003, gross unrealized losses including assets held at Lincoln UK totaled $218.8 million, a 70% improvement over gross unrealized losses of $735.4 million at December 31, 2002. This improvement occurred, despite a rise in interest rates over the year, as a result of a sustained rally in credit spreads in 2003. As of December 31, 2003, there were gross unrealized losses of $98.1 million in the airline, ABS, electric utility and banking sectors, representing 44.8% of total unrealized losses. LNCs view of risk factors at December 31, 2003 with respect to these industries is presented below. Airline holdings ended 2003 with an unrealized loss of $32.4 million, an improvement of $66.9 million over year end 2002. Airline securities issued by relatively stronger carriers improved in market value significantly throughout 2003. For those relatively stronger airlines, LNC believes the unrealized loss positions at December 31, 2003, are temporary, and LNC expects an ultimate recovery of full principal and interest as these securities mature. All of LNCs airline holdings in an unrealized loss position are secured as either ETC or EETC structures. For the portion of the airline sector exposure that is invested in EETC structures, LNC holds securities that are enhanced through the liquidity facilities present in these securities and their relatively higher quality aircraft collateral pools. The ABS exposure of the LNC portfolio ended 2003 with a gross unrealized loss of $29.4 million, an improvement of $41.8 million from year end 2002. Of this amount, $12.0 million relates to CDOs and $8.2 million relates to ABS secured by manufactured housing receivables. CDOs had experienced pressure due to the nature of the assets, poor historical experience and the risk of downgrade for individual tranches held by LNC. Overall improvements in the underlying collateral pools of CDOs have driven up market pricing of these securities and helped to improve the gross unrealized loss. The electric utility sector had $20.2 million of unrealized losses at December 31, 2003, compared with $164.7 million at December 31, 2002. During the first half of 2003, several utilities were able to complete asset sales and secure the financing needed in order to maintain operations through the energy cycle. LNC believes that as the over capacity in the market for electricity is rectified by increased economic activity and as old, inefficient power plants are taken off line, margins should begin to revert to mid cycle valuations. As this cycle progresses, LNC expects to see further improvement in this sector and believes that the unrealized losses are temporary. The banking sector had $16.1 million in unrealized losses at December 31, 2003. The majority of this unrealized loss is economically offset by unrealized gains in the derivative portfolio for hedging that is related to these securities. Although $2.9 million of the unrealized losses relates to securities with offsetting derivative gains, the unrealized gains on the derivative position was $16.7 million at December 31, 2003. All the underlying credits that have been swapped have an average rating of A+ and LNC does not anticipate any credit related losses on these securities. 70 Table of Contents Unrealized Loss on Fixed Maturity Securities Available for Sale in Excess of $10 million: As of December 31, 2003, LNC held fixed maturity securities available for sale with gross unrealized losses of $10 million, or greater, as discussed below: For fixed maturity securities available for sale with gross unrealized losses of $10 million held by LNC at December 31, 2003 and 2002, the fair value, amortized cost, unrealized loss and length of time in a loss position are presented in the table below. 2003 (000s omitted) Fair Value AmortizedCost UnrealizedLoss Length of Timein Loss Position Investment Grade Total Investment Grade Non Investment Grade U.S Based International Airline $ 50,113 $ 62,516 $ (12,403 ) &gt;1 year Total Non Investment Grade $ 50,113 $ 62,516 $ (12,403 ) 2002 Investment Grade ABS Secured by Manufactured Housing Receivables $ 40,943 $ 52,497 $ (11,554 ) &lt; 90 days Senior Notes Backed by Pool of High Yield Bonds 15,000 30,000 (15,000 ) &gt; 1 year Total Investment Grade 55,943 82,497 (26,554 ) Non Investment Grade Power Generation Project Finance 53,663 67,012 (13,349 ) &lt; 90 days US Utility Company 30,369 43,619 (13,250 ) &gt; 90 days but &lt; 180 days Sovereign Debt Issued by South American Country 49,803 61,909 (12,106 ) &gt;180 days but &lt; 270 days Foreign Pharmaceutical Company 15,069 28,450 (13,381 ) &gt;270 days but &lt; 1 year US Based International Airline Company 38,099 69,396 (31,297 ) &gt;1 year US Utility Company 24,550 52,156 (27,606 ) &gt;1 year US Utility Company 24,028 50,441 (26,413 ) &gt;1 year US Based International Airline Company 50,308 76,226 (25,918 ) &gt;1 year Foreign Agricultural Chemical Project Debt 7,565 30,000 (22,435 ) &gt;1 year US Telecommunications Company 51,659 72,562 (20,903 ) &gt;1 year Foreign Oil Field Services Company 9,530 28,387 (18,857 ) &gt;1 year US Utility Company 55,159 73,331 (18,172 ) &gt;1 year US Based International Airline Company 30,857 46,870 (16,013 ) &gt;1 year US Utility Company 45,981 61,045 (15,064 ) &gt;1 year US Media/Cable Company 10,513 24,170 (13,657 ) &gt;1 year US Utility Company 33,912 47,224 (13,312 ) &gt;1 year US Utility Company 12,403 25,503 (13,100 ) &gt;1 year US Telecommunication Equipment Manufacturer 11,880 22,294 (10,414 ) &gt;1 year Total Non Investment Grade $ 555,348 $ 880,595 $ (325,247 ) The information presented above is subject to rapidly changing conditions. As such, LNC expects that the level of securities with overall unrealized losses will fluctuate, as will the level of unrealized loss securities that are subject to enhanced analysis and monitoring. The recent volatility of financial market conditions has resulted 71 Table of Contents in increased recognition of both investment gains and losses, as portfolio risks are adjusted through sales and purchases. As discussed below, this is consistent with LNCs classification of its investment portfolios as available for sale. During the year ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, LNC sold securities at gains and at losses. As discussed earlier, in the process of evaluating whether a security with an unrealized loss reflects an other than temporary decline, LNC considers its ability and intent to hold the security until its value recovers. However, subsequent decisions on securities sales are made within the context of overall risk monitoring, assessing value relative to other comparable securities and overall portfolio maintenance. Although LNCs portfolio managers may, at a given point in time, believe that the preferred course of action is to hold securities with unrealized losses that are considered temporary until such losses are recovered, the dynamic nature of portfolio management may result in a subsequent decision to sell. These subsequent decisions are consistent with the classification of LNCs investment portfolio as available for sale. In the future, LNC expects to continue to manage all non trading invested assets within its portfolios in a manner that is consistent with the available for sale classification. Use of Derivatives: The primary use of derivatives at LNC is to hedge interest rate risk that is embedded in either life insurance and annuity product liabilities or investment portfolios. To a lesser extent, derivatives are also used to hedge exposures to foreign currency and equity market risks. Derivatives held at December 31, 2003 contain industry standard terms and are entered into with financial institutions with long standing, superior performance records. REVIEW OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL CONDITION Liquidity and Cash Flow Liquidity refers to the ability of an enterprise to generate adequate amounts of cash from its normal operations to meet cash requirements with a prudent margin of safety. The consolidated statements of cash flows on page 95 indicate that operating activities provided cash of $1.0 billion, $0.3 billion and $1.3 billion in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. This statement also classifies the other sources and uses of cash by investing activities and financing activities and discloses the amount of cash available at the end of the year to meet LNCs obligations. When considering LNCs liquidity and cash flow it is important to distinguish between the needs of LNCs principal insurance subsidiary, The Lincoln National Life Insurance Company (LNL) and its insurance subsidiaries, and the needs of the holding company, LNC. Insurance Company Liquidity and Cash Flow Liquidity Considerations Because of the interval of time from receipt of deposit or premium until payment of benefits or claims, LNL and other insurers employ investment portfolios as an integral element of operations. By segmenting its investment portfolios along product lines, LNL enhances the focus and discipline it can apply to managing the liquidity, as well as the interest rate and credit risk of each portfolio commensurate with the profile of the related product liabilities. For example, portfolios backing products with less certain cash flows and or withdrawal provisions are generally kept more liquid than portfolios backing products with more predictable cash flows. LNL monitors its liquidity position via weekly conference calls between the product actuaries and investment portfolio managers. Additionally, the liquidity position and liquidity targets by portfolio are reviewed at monthly Asset Liability Committee meetings. The Committee includes actuarial and asset management professionals and is chaired by LNLs Appointed Actuary. The Committee utilizes various measures of liquidity, including liquidity ratios (measure of liquid assets to liquid liabilities) and more comprehensive liquidity studies to monitor the insurance companys liquidity at specific points in time. Rating agencies also monitor LNLs liquidity through a variety of approaches. LNL sets target levels for each of these measures consistent with current ratings. Quarterly, LNL computes the actual rating agency measures versus targets and reviews potential action steps as needed. 72 Table of Contents The asset liability management process is more concentrated within the annuity blocks of business given market sensitive liabilities. The retail and employer sponsored orientation of LNCs core products reduces liquidity risk as liabilities tend to be less sensitive to movements in the markets. LNC does not manufacture or distribute institutional spread products such as guaranteed investment contracts, the direct sale of funding agreements, and the issuance of medium term notes secured by insurance company funding agreements. Capital, Regulatory and Dividend Considerations Capital considerations for LNL are impacted by factors influencing LNLs risk based capital and statutory earnings performance. The most common measure of risk based capital (RBC) is the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) RBC formula. The NAIC RBC formula requires a company to hold minimum capital against the quality and liquidity of assets, insurance risk, interest rate risk, and general business risk. LNL currently targets a NAIC RBC ratio of three times the NAICs defined Company Action Level. The Company Action Level is the minimum level of capital required before necessitating a plan of action filed with the regulators. LNC believes this target to be consistent with maintaining or increasing its current financial strength ratings. LNC revisits RBC and other key financial ratio targets as the company risk profile, environmental conditions, and or rating agency views of industry risk change. In addition, merger and acquisition activity may give rise to short term fluctuations in RBC and other key financial ratios. At December 31, 2003 LNLs reported NAIC RBC was 323% of Company Action Level. In addition, LNCs insurance subsidiaries are subject to certain insurance department regulatory restrictions as to the transfer of funds and payment of dividends to the holding company. In general, dividends are not subject to prior approval from the Indiana Insurance Commissioner (Commissioner) provided LNLs statutory earned surplus is positive and such dividends do not exceed the standard limitation of the greater of 10% of total statutory earned surplus or the amount of statutory earnings in the prior calendar year. Generally, these restrictions pose no short term liquidity concerns for the holding company. However, as discussed in detail within Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements, the acquisition of two blocks of business in 1998 resulted in negative statutory earned surplus for LNL, which triggered certain approval requirements in order for LNL to declare and pay dividends to LNC. As a result of negative earned surplus, LNL was required to obtain the prior approval of the Commissioner before paying any dividends to LNC until its statutory earned surplus became positive. 2001 LNL Dividends: LNL paid dividends of $495 million to LNC during 2001. In the first quarter 2002, LNL received approval from the Commissioner to reclassify total dividends of $495 million paid to LNC in 2001 from LNLs earned surplus to paid in capital. This change plus the increase in statutory earned surplus from the indemnity reinsurance transaction with Swiss Re resulted in positive statutory earned surplus for LNL at December 31, 2001. 2002 LNL Dividends: Dividends of $710 million were paid by LNL to LNC in the second quarter of 2002. These distributions were made in two installments. As both installments exceeded the standard limitation noted above, a special request was made for each payment and each was approved by the Commissioner. Both distributions represented a portion of the proceeds received from the indemnity reinsurance transaction with Swiss Re. As a result of the payment of dividends and net statutory losses generated in 2002, LNLs statutory earned surplus was negative at December 31, 2002. 2003 LNL Dividends: During 2003, LNL received prior approval from the Commissioner and paid dividends of $200 million. As occurred in 2001, the dividends approved and paid while statutory earned surplus was negative were classified as a reduction to paid in capital. Statutory earnings for 2003 together with a reduced dividend payment, resulted in a positive earned surplus position at December 31, 2003. 73 Table of Contents LNL is recognized as an accredited reinsurer in the state of New York, which effectively enables it to conduct reinsurance business with unrelated insurance companies that are domiciled within the state of New York. As a result, in addition to regulatory restrictions imposed by the state of Indiana, LNL is also subject to the regulatory requirements that the State of New York imposes upon accredited reinsurers. Holding Company Liquidity and Cash Flow LNCs liquidity and cash flow position is driven principally by dividends and interest payments from subsidiaries augmented by holding company short term investments, bank lines of credit, a commercial paper program, and the ongoing availability of long term financing under a SEC shelf registration. These sources of liquidity and cash flow support the general corporate needs of the holding company including its common stock dividends, interest and debt service, funding of callable securities, securities repurchases, and acquisitions. LNC Debt Financing and Related Activity Although LNC generates adequate cash flow to meet the needs of its normal operations, periodically LNC may issue debt or equity securities to fund internal expansion, acquisitions, and the retirement of LNCs debt and equity. In April 2002, a shelf registration statement was declared effective by the SEC. The new shelf registration totaled $1.2 billion (including $402.5 million of registered but unissued securities from previous registration statements). After giving consideration to $600 million in securities issued in 2002 through 2004 detailed below, LNC has $600 million of remaining authorization under the shelf registration to issue various securities, including debt securities, preferred stock, common stock, warrants, stock purchase contracts and stock purchase units of LNC and trust preferred securities of four subsidiary trusts. The net proceeds from the sale of the securities offered by this shelf registration are expected to be used by LNC for general corporate purposes, including repurchases of outstanding common stock, repayment or redemption of outstanding debt or preferred stock, the possible acquisition of financial services businesses or assets thereof, and working capital needs. Cash funds are also available from LNCs revolving credit agreements and through LNCs commercial paper program (see Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements). The following summarizes debt and financing activity during the three year period ended December 31, 2003. On September 13, 2001, LNC redeemed all 8.6 million shares of the $215 million 8.75% Cumulative Quarterly Income Preferred Securities issued by Lincoln National Capital I and guaranteed by LNC. On November 19, 2001, LNC issued 6.9 million shares of 7.65% Trust Preferred Securities (TRUPS) ($172.5 million) through Lincoln National Capital V. In conjunction with the $172.5 million TRUPS issue, LNC executed a $172.5 million notional amount interest rate swap that effectively converted the 7.65% fixed rate coupon on the TRUPS into a LIBOR based floating rate obligation. On December 7, 2001, LNC issued $250 million 6.20% ten year senior notes. On January 7, 2002, LNC redeemed all 4 million shares of the $100 million 8.35% Trust Originated Preferred Securities (TOPrS) issued by Lincoln Capital II and guaranteed by LNC. On June 3, 2002, LNC issued $250 million 5.25% five year senior notes. In conjunction with the $250 million debt issue, LNC executed a $100 million notional amount interest rate swap that effectively converted the 5.25% fixed rate coupon for that portion of the bond into a LIBOR based floating rate obligation the bond. In July 2003, LNC redeemed the $200 million 7.40% TOPrS issued by Lincoln Capital III and guaranteed by LNC. A loss of $3.7 million related to unamortized issuance costs was reported in 2003 related to the redemption. On September 4, 2003, LNC issued 6 million shares of 6.75% Trust Preferred Securities ($150 million) through Lincoln National Capital VI. On January 28, 2004, LNC issued $200 million 4.75% ten year senior notes. 74 Table of Contents Trust preferred securities issued through Lincoln National Capital V and VI are reported in the financial statements in the caption Junior subordinated debentures issued to affiliated trusts. LNC Return of Capital to Shareholders One of the principal liquidity and capital requirements for LNC is providing a return to its shareholders. Through dividends and stock repurchases, LNC has an established record of providing significant cash returns to its shareholders. The following table summarizes this activity over the most recent three years. (in millions) 2003 2002 2001 Dividends to shareholders $ 243.5 $ 234.3 $ 231.8 Repurchase of common stock 474.5 503.7 Total Cash Returned to Shareholders $ 243.5 $ 708.8 $ 735.5 Number of shares repurchased 12.088 11.278 Average Price Per Share $ $ 39.25 $ 44.66 LNC has established a 20 year track record of increasing its dividend. In determining its dividend payout, LNC balances the desire to increase dividends against capital needs, rating agency considerations, and requirements for financial flexibility. Stock Repurchase and Issuance Activity Repurchase Activity: The table below details LNCs share repurchase activity and the status of existing Board authorizations. Repurchase activity in 2001 and 2002 reflects the decision to use a portion of the proceeds from the sale of Lincoln Re to Swiss Re for share repurchases. LNC suspended its stock repurchase program during 2003 and focused on building capital and protecting the companys strong credit ratings after experiencing difficult capital market conditions in 2002. LNC expects to return to share repurchase in 2004 with the amount and timing dependent on trends in key capital ratios, rating agency expectations, the generation of free cash flow, and the relative attractiveness of alternative uses for the capital. Repurchase Authorizations and Availability (in millions) Stock Repurchase Activity AmountRemaining Authorizations 2003 2002 2001 $500 May, 1999 $ $ $ 53.3 Closed 2001 $500 November 2000 49.6 450.4 Closed 2002 $500 July 2001 424.9 $ 75.1 $600 August 2002 600.0 Total $ $ 474.5 $ 503.7 $ 675.1 Issuance Activity: In 2001 LNC settled mandatory stock purchase contracts issued in conjunction with the FELINE PRIDES financing. This action resulted in the issuance of 4.6 million shares of LNC stock at $49.67 per share. Investors had the option of settling the purchase contract with separate cash or by having the collateral securing their purchase obligations sold. Investors who held the Trust Originated Preferred Securities (TOPrS) as collateral for the purchase contracts were permitted to enter into a remarketing process with proceeds used to settle the contracts. The 2001 remarketing failed, resulting in the retirement of $225 million of the TOPrS. A total of $5 million of two year TOPrS remained outstanding, representing investors who chose to settle with separate cash and hold onto their TOPrS until maturity on August 2003. The remaining $5 million in TOPrS were retired August 2003. 75 Table of Contents Acquisition and Divestiture Activity On December 7, 2001, Swiss Re acquired LNCs reinsurance operation for $2.0 billion. In addition, LNC retained the capital supporting the reinsurance operation. After giving affect to the increased levels of capital needed within the Life Insurance and Lincoln Retirement segments that results from the change in the ongoing mix of business under LNCs internal capital allocation models, the disposition of LNCs reinsurance operation freed up approximately $100 million of capital. The transaction structure involved a series of indemnity reinsurance transactions combined with the sale of certain stock companies that comprised LNCs reinsurance operation. Approximately $560 million of the proceeds from the transaction were used to pay taxes and associated deal costs and approximately $1.0 billion was used to repurchase stock, reduce debt, and support holding company cash flow needs. LNC used $295 million to pay the fourth quarter 2002 settlement with Swiss Re (see the Divestiture disclosure on page 30 for details regarding the settlement with Swiss Re). The remaining proceeds were dedicated to the ongoing capital needs of LNL. Holding Company Sources and Uses of Cash Flow The following tables highlight significant sources and uses of cash flow at the holding company during 2001 through 2003. The tables focus on significant and recurring cash flow items and exclude the effects of certain financing activities, namely the periodic issuance and retirement of debt and cash flows related to LNCs intercompany cash management account (see Alternative Sources of Liquidity page 80). Taxes have been eliminated from the analysis as a tax sharing agreement is in place with LNCs primary subsidiaries resulting in a modest impact on net cash flows at the holding company. Also excluded from this analysis is the modest amount of investment income on short term investments of the holding company. (See also Schedule II LNC Parent Company Only Statement of Cash Flows.) The following table summarizes the primary sources of LNC cash flow. (in millions) 2003 2002 2001 Dividends from LNC Subsidiaries LNL $ 200.0 $ 710.0 $ 495.0 Delaware Investments 51.0 36.0 36.0 Subsidiary Loan Repayments & Interest LNL Interest on Surplus Notes (1) 78.0 78.0 78.0 Lincoln UK 112.7 18.5 Proceeds from Sale of Subsidiaries 141.7 Total $ 441.7 $ 842.5 $ 750.7 (1) Represents interest on LNCs $1.25 billion in surplus note investments into LNL. The following table summarizes the primary uses of LNC cash flow. (in millions) 2003 2002 2001 LNC Debt Service (Interest Expense) $ 93.5 $ 96.6 $ 123.1 LNC Common Dividends 240.3 234.6 230.1 Common Stock Repurchase 474.5 503.7 Total $ 333.8 $ 805.7 $ 856.9 Significant Trends in Sources and Uses of Cash Flow LNC cash flow is driven largely by the dividend capacity and surplus note interest payments of LNL. LNL dividend capacity is impacted by factors influencing LNLs risk based capital and statutory earnings performance. As risk based capital and statutory earnings improve, the insurance subsidiarys dividend capacity 76 Table of Contents to the holding company increases. See the discussion in the Insurance Company Liquidity and Cash Flow section on LNL dividends to LNC. In recent periods, Delaware Investments and LNCs UK operations have contributed significant free cash flow. Improved financial performance at Delaware and LNCs decision to run off significant blocks of business in the UK are driving improved cash flow and the return of capital to the holding company. 2004 Dividend Capacity LNL ended the year with statutory Net Gain From Operations of $375.3 million and a positive Unassigned Surplus of $155 million. LNL now qualifies for the ordinary dividend process with the Indiana Department of Insurance (IDOI) requiring only notification to the IDOI of dividend payments as opposed to requiring formal approval for the dividend. Dividend capacity is largely dictated by insurance regulations in the companys state of domicile, for LNL the Indiana Department of Insurance. Insurance companies domiciled in the state of Indiana follow the so called greater of rule on statutory dividend capacity. Provided Unassigned Surplus is positive (after giving effect for the dividend request), the cumulative total of all dividends paid in the past 12 months cannot exceed the greater of 10% of Statutory Capital and Surplus (LNL capital and surplus was $2.76 billion at December 31, 2003) or statutory operating earnings for the previous year end (2003 statutory operating earnings were $375.3 million for LNL). LNL paid $200 million in cumulative dividends for the 12 months ended December 31, 2003. It is important to note that, regardless of the particular state regulations, LNC takes into account the overall health of the business, capital quality, and business and environmental risk in determining statutory dividend strategy. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The tables below summarize LNCs obligations and commitments to make future payments under contracts in place at December 31, 2003, as well as contingent commitments in place at December 31, 2003. Contractual Obligations (in millions) 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Thereafter Total Future Amortization/ Adjustment AmountPer BalanceSheet Short term Debt $ 44.0 $ $ $ $ $ $ 44.0 $ $ 44.0 Long term Debt 193.0 250.0 100.0 570.3 1,113.3 4.2 1,117.5 Junior Subordinated Debentures Issued to Affiliated Trusts 322.5 322.5 (18.8 ) 341.3 Operating Leases 61.4 58.7 53.0 49.8 41.2 65.3 329.4 Stadium Naming Rights (1) 5.6 5.7 5.8 6.0 6.1 100.2 129.4 Lincoln UK Administration Contract (2) 35.2 33.4 32.5 31.4 30.0 87.7 250.2 Information Technology Contract (3) 60.0 60.0 60.0 60.0 60.0 70.0 370.0 HR OutsourcingAgreement (4) 5.3 5.3 5.0 4.8 4.5 21.1 46.0 Totals $ 211.5 $ 356.1 $ 156.3 $ 402.0 $ 241.8 $ 1,237.1 $ 2,604.8 $ (14.6 ) $ 1,502.8 77 Table of Contents Contingent Commitments Total Amount Committed Amount of Commitment Expiring per Period (in millions) Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 4 5 Years After 5 Years Lines of Credit (amount outstanding at 12/31/2003 $ ) $ 500.0 $ $ 300.0 $ 200.0 $ Standby Letters of Credit (amount outstanding at12/31/2003 $455.7) 550.0 550.0 Guarantees 14.2 0.1 1.3 7.3 5.5 Investment Commitments (5) 372.3 215.4 119.2 22.9 14.8 Standby Commitments to Purchase Real Estate Upon Completion and Leasing 205.8 51.1 154.7 Total $ 1,642.3 $ 266.6 $ 575.2 $ 780.2 $ 20.3 (1) The amount includes a maximum annual increase related to the CPI. (2) The annual cost is based on a per policy charge plus an amount for other services provided. The amounts quoted above are the estimated fees as the actual cost will depend on the number of policies in force and the applicable inflation rate for the each period. During 2003 this contract was converted to an evergreen arrangement, cancelable upon a six month notice. The total cost shown relates to the next ten years. (3) LNCs information technology contract with IBM was renegotiated and expires on February 8, 2010. The future minimum annual costs range from $40.5 million $53.3 million per year. However, based upon usage, the fees are estimated to be $60.0 million per year (4) Contract calls for a per employee and per paycheck charge. Estimates are based on headcount and actual number of checks processed in 2002. Cost of living adjustments are not included in the estimates. (5) Total includes $102.8 million of capital calls on limited partnership investments, $147.0 million of real estate pre buys and $77.5 million and $45.0 million of commitments for mortgage loans and private placement securities, respectively. Cash Flows Related to Employee Benefit Plans In addition to the contractual commitments outlined in the table above, LNC periodically funds the employees defined benefit plans. For 2003 and 2002, LNC contributed $56.6 million and $66.5 million respectively to U.S. pension plans. LNC expects to contribute between $9 million and $27 million to its U.S. defined benefit pension plans and $6 million to its U.S. post retirement benefit plans during 2004. These amounts include anticipated benefit payments for non qualified plans. The majority of contributions/benefit payments are made at the insurance company subsidiary level with little holding company cash flow impact. (See Note 6 Employee Benefit Plans to the consolidated financial statements.) LNC Credit Ratings As of December 31, 2003, LNCs senior debt ratings were Moodys at A3 (Upper Medium Grade), Standard and Poors at A (Strong), Fitch at A (Strong) and A.M. Best at a (Strong), and LNCs commercial paper ratings included Moodys at P 2 (Strong), Standard and Poors at A 2 (Satisfactory) and Fitch at F 1 (Very Strong). In September 2002, Fitch lowered LNCs senior debt ratings from A+ to A and the trust preferred security ratings for Lincoln Capital III, IV, and V from A to A both on stable outlook. Fitchs action did not impact LNCs commercial paper rating or the insurance financial strength ratings of LNCs insurance subsidiaries. The move was part of industry wide action on several life insurance companies given the recent market environment and, in the case of LNC, reflects Fitchs desire to maintain a traditional three notch separation between debt and insurance financial strength ratings. The rating action had no effect on LNCs liquidity, access to capital, or cost of capital. 78 Table of Contents In September 2003, A.M. Best lowered LNCs senior debt ratings from a to a and the trust preferred security ratings for Lincoln Capital IV, and V from a to bbb+ with both on stable outlook. A.M. Bests action did not impact LNCs commercial paper rating or the insurance financial strength ratings of LNCs insurance subsidiaries. The move was part of industry wide action to address the notching practices between insurance company financial strength and senior debt. The ratings action was described as an affirmation of Lincolns ratings rather than a downgrade, as the adjustment was unrelated to Lincolns financial condition. The rating action had no effect on LNCs liquidity, access to capital, or cost of capital. Although there are less investors for A 2/P 2 commercial paper and there are periods in which there is weak investor interest in A 2/P 2 commercial paper, through December 31, 2003, LNCs liquidity has not been adversely impacted by the lack of A 1/P 1 rating. LNC can draw upon alternative short term borrowing facilities such as revolving bank lines of credit. LNC Bank Lines and Commercial Paper Program At December 31, 2003, LNC maintained three revolving credit agreements with a group of domestic and foreign banks totaling $536 million. LNCs commercial paper is supported by two facilities, a $200 million three year revolving credit facility maturing in February 2007 and a $300 million revolving credit facility maturing in December 2005. The UK facility was renewed in January 2004 for $18 million maturing in January 2005. At December 31, 2003, LNC did not have any loans outstanding under any of the bank lines. On average, LNCs commercial paper borrowing rates have increased 0.20% per annum since LNC was downgraded to an A 2/P 2 issuer. However, historically there have been times of greater volatility in commercial paper borrowing rates for an A 2/P 2 issuer with the spread above A 1/P 1 rates ranging from 0.10% to 0.50%. During such times of greater volatility, LNC may experience difficulty in placing longer term commercial paper (defined as 30 90 day maturities), and as a result, experience increased short term financing costs. As a result of increased cash flow from operations, Lincoln National (UK) PLC was able to retire its remaining outstanding commercial paper in the second quarter of 2002 and LNC eliminated the bank lines and ratings associated with this program. Bank Line Covenants, Ratings, and Liquidity Under all three agreements, LNC must maintain senior unsecured long term debt ratings of at least S&P A and Moodys A3 or be restricted by an adjusted debt to capitalization ratio. In addition, LNC must maintain a minimum level of capitalization. LNC completes a quarterly compliance certificate for its banks computing each financial covenant. At December 31, 2003 LNC was in compliance with all such covenants. If current debt ratings and claims paying ratings were downgraded in the future, certain covenants of various contractual obligations may be triggered which could negatively impact overall liquidity. In addition, contractual selling agreements with intermediaries could be negatively impacted which could have an adverse impact on overall sales of annuities, life insurance and investment products. At December 31, 2003, LNC maintains adequate current financial strength and senior debt ratings and does not anticipate any ratings based impact to future liquidity. Guideline AXXX Reserves and Standby Letters of Credit LNL is actively exploring strategies to lessen the burden of increased AXXX reserves. Strategies include both reinsurance and capital markets solutions that provide for risk transfer and associated reserve and surplus relief. Of the $455.7 million in outstanding letters of credit as of December 31, 2003, approximately $150 million in standby letters of credit are dedicated for this purpose. LNC and LNL are exploring alternative capital market solutions. It is likely LNL will apply a mix of letters of credit, reinsurance, and capital market strategies in addressing long term AXXX and XXX needs. 79 Table of Contents Alternative Sources of Liquidity In order to maximize the use of available cash, the holding company maintains a facility where subsidiaries can borrow from the holding company to meet their short term needs and can invest their short term funds with the holding company. Depending on the overall cash availability or need, the holding company invests excess cash in short term investments or borrows funds in the financial markets. Capital Resources Total shareholders equity increased $464.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2003. The table below provides a reconciliation of shareholders equity from December 31, 2002 to December 31, 2003 (in millions). Balance at December 31, 2002 $ 5,347.5 Changes to Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income Unrealized gains on securities available for sale and derivative instruments 33.6 Foreign Currency Translation Adjustment 58.2 Minimum Pension Liability Adjustments 42.7 Total Changes to Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income 134.5 Net Income 511.9 Issuance of Common Stock Related to Stock Compensation and Benefit Plans 61.2 Dividends Declared to Shareholders (243.5 ) Total Changes to Shareholders Equity 464.1 Balance at December 31, 2003 $ 5,811.6 As noted above, shareholders equity includes accumulated other comprehensive income. At December 31, 2003, the book value of $32.56 per share included $4.87 of accumulated other comprehensive income. At December 31, 2002, the book value of $30.10 per share included $4.13 of accumulated other comprehensive income. Contingencies See Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding contingencies. Proposed Legislation The Bush Administrations 2005 budget includes various proposals, which, if enacted, could have an effect on LNCs business. The more significant of these include the Presidents proposals to make permanent recent reductions in individual tax rates, to permanently repeal the estate tax, and to reintroduce the modified proposals for the Lifetime Savings Accounts (LSAs) and the Retirement Savings Accounts (RSAs). With the increasing focus on the projections for growing federal budget deficits, and the significant tax revenue costs associated with these particular proposals, the legislative outlook for these elements of the Administrations 2005 budget is extremely uncertain. Until such time that an indication of the likely form of what may evolve from the ongoing legislative process emerges, it will not be possible for LNC to predict the potential effects of these proposals. In the meantime, LNC continues to support reductions in the tax burden imposed on its businesses, employees and policyholders. 80 Table of Contents Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Market Risk Exposures of Financial Instruments LNC analyzes and manages the risks arising from market exposures of financial instruments, as well as other risks, in an integrated asset liability management process that takes diversification into account. By aggregating the potential effect of market and other risks of the entire enterprise, LNC estimates, reviews and in some cases manages the risk to its earnings and shareholder value. LNC has exposures to several market risks including interest rate, default risk, foreign currency exchange, liquidity and equity price risks. The exposures of financial instruments to market risks, and the related risk management processes, are most important in the Lincoln Retirement and Life Insurance segments. It is within these segments where most of the invested assets support accumulation and investment oriented insurance products. As an important element of its integrated asset liability management process, LNC uses derivatives to minimize the effects of changes in interest levels and the shape of the yield curve. In this context, derivatives are designated as a hedge and serve to reduce interest rate risk by mitigating the effect of significant increases in interest rates on LNCs earnings. Additional market exposures exist in LNCs other general account insurance products and in its debt structure and derivatives positions. The primary sources of market risk are: 1) substantial, relatively rapid and sustained increases or decreases in interest rates, 2) fluctuations in currency exchange rates or 3) a sharp drop in equity market values. Each of these market risks are discussed in detail in the following pages. 1) Interest Rate Risk Accumulation and Investment Oriented Insurance Products. General account assets supporting accumulation and investment oriented insurance products total $33.5 billion or 78% and $31.2 billion or 78% of total invested assets at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. With respect to these products, LNC seeks to earn a stable and profitable spread between investment income and interest credited to account values. If LNC has adverse experience on investments that cannot be passed onto customers, its spreads are reduced. Alternatively, LNC may seek to maintain spreads and this may result in crediting rates that are not competitive in the market place. This strategy could result in adverse surrender experience on policies and could force LNC to liquidate a portion of its portfolio to fund cash surrender value benefits. Provided interest rates continue to gradually return to levels that are more typical from a long term perspective, LNC does not view the near term risk to spreads over the next twelve months to be material. The combination of a probable range of interest rate changes over the next twelve months, asset liability management strategies, flexibility in adjusting policy crediting rate levels and protection afforded by policy surrender charges and other switching costs all work together to mitigate this risk. The interest rate scenarios of concern are those in which there is a substantial, relatively rapid increase or decrease in interest rates that is then sustained over a long period. Fixed Deferred Annuities. Assets of $21.1 billion and $19.9 billion at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively, support the largest category of accumulation and investment oriented insurance products, fixed deferred annuities. For these products, LNC may adjust renewal crediting rates monthly or quarterly, subject to guaranteed minimums ranging from 3% to 5%. The higher minimums apply to in force blocks of older products that no longer are sold. Annuity insurance customers have the right to surrender their policies at account value less a surrender charge that grades to zero over periods ranging from 5 to 10 years from policy issue date or, in some cases, the date of each premium received. In some cases, a market value adjustment may also apply. Due to LNCs ability to change crediting rates to reflect investment experience on the majority of its traditional annuity products, the underlying assets are assumed to be a good proxy for the interest rate risk inherent in these liabilities. This assumption is appropriate for probable movements in interest rates over the next 12 months. This assumption may not be appropriate for a substantial, relatively rapid increase or decrease in interest rates that is then sustained over a long period. 81 Table of Contents Universal Life and Interest Sensitive Whole Life. LNC had $10.4 billion and $9.4 billion in assets at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively, supporting universal life and interest sensitive whole life insurance on which it has the right to adjust renewal crediting rates. The credited rates are subject to guaranteed minimums ranging from 3.0% to 4.5% for universal life and 4.0% to 7.0% for interest sensitive whole life at December 31, 2003. At December 31, 2003, 77% of these assets support universal life insurance products. Similar to annuities, universal life insurance customers have the right to surrender their policies at account value less a surrender charge that grades to zero over periods ranging from 10 to 20 years from policy issue date or, in some cases, the date of each premium received. Group Pension Annuities and Guaranteed Interest Contracts. LNC had assets totaling $2.0 billion at December 31, 2003 and 2002 that support guaranteed interest contracts, group pension immediate and deferred annuities. Generally, the cash flows expected on these liabilities do not vary with fluctuations in market interest rates and are not adjustable by LNC. Accordingly, if experience on the assets supporting these products is more adverse than the assumptions used in pricing the products, spreads will tend to be below expectations. LNC limits exposure to interest rate risk by managing the duration and maturity structure of each investment portfolio in relation to the liabilities it supports. Guaranteed investment contracts supported by these assets were approximately $66 million at December 31, 2003, Other General Account Insurance Products. LNC had $9.4 billion and $8.8 billion of assets at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively, supporting general account products, including term life insurance. For these products, the liability cash flows may have actuarial uncertainty. However, their amounts and timing do not vary significantly with interest rates. LNC limits interest rate risk by analyzing the expected cash flows of the products and structuring investment portfolios with similar cash flows. Interest Rate Risk Falling Rates. Interest rates have generally been declining in recent years. For instance, the five year Treasury yield stood at 6.3% at the end of 1999, declined to 5.0% at the end of 2000, declined to 4.3% at the end of 2001, declined to 2.7% at the end of 2002 and then rose slightly to 3.3% at the end of 2003. Should interest rates remain at levels that are significantly lower than those existing prior to the declines of recent years, the average earned rate of return on LNCs annuity and universal life insurance investment portfolios will continue to decline. Relative to the book yield at December 31, 2002, the book yield at December 31, 2003 on annuity investment portfolios declined from 6.8% to 6.2%, while the book yield on universal life insurance portfolios declined from 7.3% to 6.6%. Declining portfolio yields may cause the spreads between investment portfolio yields and the interest rate credited to policyholders to deteriorate, as LNCs ability to manage spreads can become limited by minimum guaranteed rates on annuity and universal life insurance policies. Minimum guaranteed rates on annuity and universal life insurance policies generally range from 3% to 5%, with an average guaranteed rate of approximately 4%. The following table provides detail on the percentage differences between the current interest rates being credited to policyholders and the respective minimum guaranteed policy rate, broken out by policyholder account values reported within the Retirement and Life segments at December 31, 2003. 82 Table of Contents Excess of Crediting Rates over Contract Minimums As of December 31, 2003 RetirementSegment AccountValues Life SegmentAccountValues TotalAccountValues Percentof TotalAccountValues (In millions) CD and On Benefit type annuities $ 5,006 $ $ 5,006 15.43 % Discretionary rate setting products* No difference 6,934 2,743 9,677 29.82 % up to .1% 126 460 586 1.81 % .11% to .20% 5,603 217 5,820 17.94 % .21% to .30% 315 378 693 2.14 % .31% to .40% 95 421 516 1.59 % .41% to .50% 126 1,379 1,505 4.64 % .51% to .60% 84 13 97 0.30 % .61% to .70% 706 1,328 2,034 6.27 % .71% to .80% 970 1,157 2,127 6.56 % .81% to .90% 129 657 786 2.42 % .91% to 1.0% 322 1,537 1,859 5.73 % 1.01% to 1.50% 475 551 1,026 3.16 % 1.51% to 2.00% 289 378 667 2.06 % 2.01% to 2.50% 27 6 33 0.10 % 2.51% to 3.00% 3 0 3 % 3.01% and above 11 0 11 0.03 % Total Discretionary rate setting products 16,215 11,225 27,440 84.57 % Grand Total Account Values $ 21,221 $ 11,225 $ 32,446 100.00 % * For purposes of this table, contracts currently within new money rate bands are grouped according to the corresponding portfolio rate band in which they will fall upon their first anniversary. The maturity structure and call provisions of the related portfolios are structured to afford protection against erosion of investment portfolio yields during periods of declining interest rates. LNC devotes extensive effort to evaluating the risks associated with falling interest rates by simulating asset and liability cash flows for a wide range of interest rate scenarios. LNC seeks to manage these exposures by maintaining a suitable maturity structure and by limiting its exposure to call risk in each respective investment portfolio. LNC believes that the portfolios supporting its accumulation and investment oriented insurance products have a prudent degree of call protection individually and on a consolidated basis. For instance, as of December 31, 2003, the mortgage backed securities (MBS) and asset backed securities (ABS) portion represented a total of $5.5 billion or 16% of the $33.4 billion of general account assets supporting such products. Of this portfolio, 10% of general account assets or $3.2 billion is subject to residential prepayment risk from investments made in Collateralized Mortgage Obligations (CMOs), mortgage pass throughs, manufactured housing and home equity loans. As of December 31, 2002, the MBS and ABS portion of the portfolio represented a total of $5.0 billion or 17% of the $31.2 billion of general account assets supporting such products. LNCs MBS portfolio has equal to or slightly less prepayment risk than the MBS pass through market in general primarily due to holding more seasoned securities in the portfolio. 83 Table of Contents Interest Rate Risk Rising Rates. For both annuities and universal life insurance, a rapid and sustained rise in interest rates poses risks of deteriorating spreads and high surrenders. The portfolios supporting these products have fixed rate assets laddered over maturities generally ranging from one to ten years or more. Accordingly, the earned rate on each portfolio lags behind changes in market yields. As rates rise, the lag may be increased by slowing MBS prepayments. The greater and faster the rise in interest rates, the more the earned rate will tend to lag behind market rates. If LNC sets renewal crediting rates to earn the desired spread, the gap between its renewal crediting rates and competitors new money rates may be wide enough to cause increased surrenders. If LNC credits more competitive renewal rates to limit surrenders, its spreads will narrow. LNC devotes extensive effort to evaluating these risks by simulating asset and liability cash flows for a wide range of interest rate scenarios. Such analysis has led to adjustments in the target maturity structure and to hedging the risk of rising rates by buying out of the money interest rate cap agreements and swaptions (see discussion below). With these instruments in place, the potential adverse impact of a rapid and sustained rise in rates is kept within corporate risk tolerances. Debt. As of December 31, 2003, LNC had short term debt, long term debt and junior subordinated debentures issued to affiliated trusts totaling $1.5 billion ($1.17 billion with fixed rates and $0.33 billion with floating rates) on the balance sheet. As of December 31, 2002, LNC had short term debt, long term debt and junior subordinated debentures issued to affiliated trusts totaling $1.67 billion ($1.22 billion with fixed rates and $0.45 billion with floating rates) on the balance sheet. LNC manages the timing of maturities and the mixture of fixed rate and floating rate debt as part of the process of integrated management of interest rate risk for the entire enterprise. Derivatives. As indicated in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements, LNC has entered into derivative transactions to reduce its exposure to rapid rises in interest rates. The five programs discussed below are used to help LNC achieve more stable margins while providing competitive crediting rates to policyholders during periods when interest rates are rising. Failure to maintain competitive crediting rates could cause policyholders to withdraw their funds and place them in more competitive products. LNC uses interest rate cap agreements to hedge against the negative impact of a significant and sustained rise in interest rates. Interest rate caps are contracts that require counterparties to pay LNC at specified future dates the amount, if any, by which a specified market interest rate exceeds the cap rate stated in the agreements, applied to a notional amount. As of December 31, 2003 and 2002, LNC had agreements with notional amounts of 2.6 billion and 1.3 billion, respectively. At December 31, 2003, the agreements had cap rates ranging from 150 to 650 basis points above prevailing interest rates. The cap rates in some contracts increase over time. These agreements expire in 2006 through 2008. LNC also uses swaptions to hedge against the negative impact of a significant and sustained rise in interest rates. Swaptions are options to enter into a swap at a specified future date. If the option is exercised at expiration, the option is either settled in cash or exercised into a swap agreement. LNC purchases swaptions to be settled in cash. At expiration, the counterparty is required to pay LNC the amount, if any, of the present value of the difference between the fixed rate on a market rate swap and the strike rate stated in the agreement, applied to a notional amount. As of December 31, 2002, LNC had agreements outstanding with notional amounts of 0.2 billion. There were no swaptions outstanding at December 31, 2003. For future periods, the fair value of LNCs interest rate caps and swaptions depends on the levels of future U.S. Treasury and U.S. dollar swap interest rates. The table below shows estimates of fair value levels for the cap and swaption portfolio at December 31, 2003 for future time periods and selected potential future interest rate levels. Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 No change $ 13.2 $ 6.8 $ 1.6 $ 0.1 $ $ Up 2% 67.9 38.1 14.8 2.3 Up 4% 162.2 104.7 52.7 15.5 1.3 0.1 Up 6% 288.6 208.9 127.2 61.1 19.8 4.8 84 Table of Contents LNC uses interest rate swap agreements to hedge its exposure to floating rate bond coupon payments, replicating a fixed rate bond. An interest rate swap is a contractual agreement to exchange payments at one or more times based on the actual or expected price level, performance or value of one or more underlying interest rates. LNC is required to pay the counterparty the stream of variable interest payments based on the coupon payments from the hedged bonds, and in turn, receives a fixed payment from the counterparty, at a predetermined interest rate. In addition, LNC uses interest rate swap agreements to hedge its exposure to interest rate fluctuations related to the forecasted purchase of assets to support newly acquired blocks of business or certain other portfolios of assets. Finally, LNC uses interest rate swap agreements to hedge the risk of paying a higher fixed rate interest on junior subordinated debentures issued to affiliated trusts holding solely junior subordinated debentures and on senior debt than can be paid on long term debt based on current interest rates in the marketplace. As of December 31, 2003 and 2002, LNC had swap agreements with a notional amount of $694.8 million and $701.6 million, respectively. The agreements expire in 2004 through 2050. LNC used a treasury lock agreement to hedge its exposure to variability in future semi annual interest payments, attributable to changes in the benchmark interest rate, related to the issuance of its 10 year $250 million senior debt in December 2001 and its 5 year $250 million senior debt in 2002. A treasury lock is an agreement that allows the holder to lock in a benchmark interest rate, so that if the benchmark interest rate increases, the holder is entitled to receive a payment from the counterparty equal to the present value of the difference in the benchmark interest rate at the determination date and the locked in benchmark interest rate. If the benchmark interest rate decreases, the holder must pay the counterparty an amount equal to the present value of the difference in the benchmark interest rate at the determination date and the locked in benchmark interest rate. As of December 31, 2003, LNC did not have any open treasury locks. In addition to continuing existing programs, LNC may use derivative products in other strategies to limit risk and enhance returns, particularly in the management of investment spread businesses. LNC has established policies, guidelines and internal control procedures for the use of derivatives as tools to enhance management of the overall portfolio of risks assumed in LNCs operations. Annually, LNCs Board of Directors reviews LNCs derivatives policy. 85 Table of Contents Table of Significant Exposures. The table below provides a general measure of LNCs significant interest rate risk (principal amounts are shown by year of maturity and include amortization of premiums and discounts); notional amounts for interest rate caps and swaptions are shown by amount outstanding at the year end given) as of December 31, 2003. (in millions) 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 There after Total Fair Value Rate Sensitive Assets Fixed interest rate securities $ 795.7 $ 1,374.2 $ 1,449.8 $ 2,061.0 $ 2,406.1 $ 24,311.9 $ 32,398.7 $ 33,152.5 Average interest rate 5.50 % 6.88 % 6.30 % 6.31 % 5.85 % 6.44 % 6.38 % Variable interest rate securities $ 70.6 $ 135.0 $ 21.2 $ 59.6 $ 146.0 $ 3,239.3 $ 3,671.7 $ 2,734.9 Average interest rate 5.66 % 9.96 % 5.83 % 6.10 % 4.61 % 4.85 % 5.15 % Mortgage loans $ 385.0 $ 187.6 $ 322.8 $ 274.0 $ 180.9 $ 2,861.8 $ 4,212.1 $ 4,556.0 Average interest rate 7.81 % 8.53 % 7.98 % 7.65 % 6.99 % 7.30 % 7.46 % Rate Sensitive Liabilities Guaranteed Interest Contracts: Interest paid at maturity $ 40.0 $ 26.0 $ $ $ $ $ 66.0 $ 72.0 Average interest rate 10.71 % 10.72 % 10.71 % Investment type insurance contracts, excluding guaranteed interest contracts (1) $ 582.1 $ 847.0 $ 1,095.3 $ 1,435.3 $ 1,443.7 $ 15,458.7 $ 20,862.1 $ 21,315.1 Average interest rate 6.93 % 6.75 % 6.40 % 6.17 % 5.69 % 6.34 % 6.31 % Debt (2) $ 44.0 $ 193.0 $ $ 250.0 $ 100.0 $ 892.8 $ 1,479.8 $ 1,597.1 Average interest rate 1.19 % 7.25 % 5.25 % 6.50 % 7.15 % 6.62 % Rate Sensitive Derivative Financial Instruments: Interest Rate and Foreign Currency Swaps: Pay variable/receive fixed 5.0 42.8 12.9 224.6 108.5 318.9 712.7 $ 54.0 Average pay rate 1.2 % 4.7 % 1.7 % 1.2 % 1.6 % 1.7 % 1.7 % Average receive rate 5.9 % 6.9 % 6.5 % 4.9 % 5.4 % 7.2 % 6.2 % Interest Rate Caps: Outstanding notional 2,550.0 2,550.0 2,300.0 450.0 $ 13.2 Average strike rate (3) 7.7 % 7.8 % 7.8 % 8.5 % Forward CMT curve (4) 4.4 % 5.1 % 5.5 % 5.7 % (1) The information shown is for the fixed maturity securities and mortgage loans that support these insurance contracts. (2) Includes junior subordinated debentures issued to affiliated trusts. (3) The indexes are a mixture of five year Constant Maturity Treasury (CMT) and Constant Maturity Swap (CMS). (4) The CMT curve is the five year constant maturity treasury forward curve. 86 Table of Contents The table shows the principal amounts and fair values of assets, liabilities and derivatives having significant interest rate risks as of December 31, 2002. (in millions) PrincipalAmount Fair Value Fixed interest rate securities $ 30,585.4 $ 30,726.5 Variable interest rate securities 3,041.7 2,041.0 Mortgage loans 4,218.5 4,678.8 Guaranteed interest contracts 83.0 95.0 Investment type insurance contracts (1) 19,941.6 20,283.3 Debt (2) 1,643.8 1,727.7 Interest rate and foreign currency swaps 763.1 72.7 Interest rate caps 4.7 (1) The information shown is for the fixed maturity securities and mortgage loans that support these insurance contracts. (2) Includes junior subordinated debentures issued to affiliated trusts. 2) Foreign Currency Risk Foreign Currency Denominated Investments. LNC invests in foreign currency securities for incremental return and risk diversification relative to United States Dollar Denominated (USD) securities. The fair value of foreign securities totaled $1,091.3 million as of December 31, 2003. LNC periodically uses foreign exchange forward contracts and foreign currency swaps to hedge some of the foreign exchange risk related to its investment in securities denominated in foreign currencies. The currency risk is hedged using foreign currency derivatives of the same currency as the bonds. The table below shows LNCs exposure to foreign currency securities. Also included is the relevant information relating to the foreign currency derivatives that are hedging the currency risk of these securities. The table below presents the principal or notional amount in U.S. dollar equivalents by expected maturity for LNCs foreign currency denominated investments and foreign currency swaps as of December 31, 2003. (in millions) 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 There After Total Fair Value Currencies: Canadian Dollar 5.2 20.0 9.7 34.9 28.7 Interest Rate 6.37 % 4.65 % 4.89 % 4.97 % British Pound 73.4 55.7 54.4 46.9 99.2 613.3 942.9 1,059.7 Interest Rate 6.69 % 7.51 % 6.96 % 7.26 % 6.62 % 6.84 % 6.87 % French Franc 14.7 14.7 2.9 Interest Rate 7.43 % 7.43 % Total Currencies 73.4 55.7 59.6 81.6 108.9 613.3 992.5 1,091.3 Derivatives: Foreign Currency Swaps 15.0 2.9 17.9 (1.5 ) The table below presents the principal or notional amount in U.S. dollar equivalents of LNCs foreign currency denominated investments and foreign currency swaps as of December 31, 2002. (in millions) Principal/ Notional Fair Value Currencies British Pound $ 854.0 $ 950.7 Canadian Dollar 18.7 19.8 French Franc 2.8 2.9 All other currencies 1.7 1.7 Total Currencies 877.2 975.1 Derivatives Foreign Currency Swaps 2.5 (2.4 ) 87 Table of Contents Foreign Currency Forward Contracts. LNC uses foreign currency forward contracts to hedge some of the foreign exchange risk related to its investments in fixed maturity securities denominated in foreign currencies. LNC typically engages in short term currency forward contracts of less than six months and actively monitors currency markets in determining those currencies to hedge, the duration of the hedge and the nominal amount to hedge. A foreign currency forward contract obligates LNC to deliver a specified amount of currency at a future date at a specified exchange rate. The value of the foreign exchange forward contracts at any given point fluctuates according to the underlying level of exchange rate and interest rate differentials. During 2002, LNC entered into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge its net investment in Lincoln UK. At December 31, 2003, the total notional and fair value for these contracts was $15.1 million and $(0.9) million, respectively. These contracts expire in 2004. Foreign Currency Swaps. A foreign currency swap is a contractual agreement to exchange the currencies of two different countries at a specified rate of exchange in the future. LNC uses foreign currency swaps to convert the cash flow of foreign currency securities to U.S. dollars. 3) Equity Market Exposures LNCs revenues, assets, liabilities and derivatives are exposed to equity market risk. Refer to the section captioned First Quarter 2004 Guidance for the Estimated Effect of Equity Market Volatility for additional discussion of equity market risk. Fee Revenues. The fee revenues of LNCs Investment Management segment and fees earned from variable annuities and variable life insurance products are exposed to the risk of a decline in equity market values. These fees are generally a fixed percentage of the market value of assets under management. In a severe equity market decline, fee income could be reduced by not only reduced market valuations but also by customer withdrawals and redemptions. Such withdrawals and redemptions from equity funds and accounts might be partially offset by transfers to LNCs fixed income accounts and the transfer of funds to LNC from its competitors customers. Assets. While LNC invests in equity assets with the expectation of achieving higher returns than would be available in its core fixed income investments, the returns on, and values of, these equity investments are subject to somewhat greater market risk than its fixed income investments. These investments, however, add diversification benefits to LNCs fixed income investments. The table below shows the sensitivity of price changes to LNCs equity assets owned. December 31, 2003 December 31, 2002 (in millions) Carrying Value Fair Value 10% Fair Value Increase 10% Fair Value Decrease Carrying Value Fair Value U.S. Equities $ 60.6 $ 60.6 $ 66.7 $ 54.5 $ 133.7 $ 133.7 Foreign Equities 132.4 132.4 145.6 119.2 198.6 198.6 Emerging Market Equities 6.1 6.1 6.7 5.5 4.9 4.9 Subtotal 199.1 199.1 219.0 179.2 337.2 337.2 Real Estate 112.9 126.0 138.6 113.4 279.7 312.0 Other Equity Interests 298.1 297.9 327.7 268.1 300.5 279.2 Total $ 610.1 $ 623.0 $ 685.3 $ 560.7 $ 917.4 $ 928.4 Liabilities. LNC has exposure to U.S. equity markets through stock appreciation rights (SARs) issued in 2000 through 2003. The aggregate value for vested and non vested SARs was $9.8 million and $6.6 million at December 31, 2003, respectively. The aggregate value for vested and non vested SARs was $3.7 million and $4.1 million at December 31, 2002, respectively. This program is being hedged with equity derivatives as discussed below. 88 Table of Contents Derivatives Hedging Equity Risks. LNC uses OTC equity call options on LNC stock to hedge against the increase in its liabilities arising from stock appreciation rights granted on LNC stock in 2000 through 2003. These call options require the counterparty to pay LNC at specified future expiration dates the amount, if any, of the increase in LNCs stock price over the strike price of the option, applied to the number of contracts. LNC had 1.5 million and 1.3 million call options on an equal number of shares of LNC stock at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The call options expirations are matched to the liabilities and expire in 2005 through 2008. Default Risk. LNCs portfolio of invested assets was $42.8 billion as of December 31, 2003. Of this total, $28.1 billion consists of corporate bonds and $4.2 billion consists of commercial mortgages. LNC manages the risk of adverse default experience on these investments by applying disciplined credit evaluation and underwriting standards, prudently limiting allocations to lower quality, higher yielding investments, and diversifying exposures by issuer, industry, region and property type. For each counterparty or borrowing entity and its affiliates, LNCs exposures from all transactions are aggregated and managed in relation to formal limits set by rating quality and industry group. LNC remains exposed to occasional adverse cyclical economic downturns during which default rates may be significantly higher than the long term historical average used in pricing. As of December 31, 2002, LNC had a portfolio of invested assets of $40.0 billion. LNC is depending on the ability of derivative product dealers and their guarantors to honor their obligations to pay the contract amounts under various derivatives agreements. In order to minimize the risk of default losses, LNC diversifies its exposures among several dealers and limits the amount of exposure to each in accordance with the credit rating of each dealer or its guarantor. LNC generally limits its selection of counterparties that are obligated under these derivative contracts to those with an A credit rating or above. Credit Related Derivatives. LNC uses various credit related derivatives to minimize exposure to various credit related risks. LNC uses credit default swaps to hedge against a drop in bond prices due to credit concerns of certain bond issuers. A credit swap allows LNC to put the bond back to the counterparty at par upon a credit event by the bond issuer. A credit event is defined as bankruptcy, failure to pay, or obligation acceleration. As of December 31, 2003 and 2002, LNC had credit swaps with a notional amount of 8.0 million and 26.0 million, respectively. The credit swaps expire in 2006. Other credit related derivatives used periodically by LNC include spread lock agreements to hedge a portion of the value of its fixed maturity investments against the risk of widening in the spreads between their yields and the yields of comparable maturity U.S. or other government obligations, put options, combined with various perpetual fixed income securities and interest rate swaps to replicate fixed income, fixed maturity investments, and total return swaps to hedge its exposure to interest rate and spread risk resulting from the forecasted sale of assets in a securitization of certain LNC mortgage loans. As of December 31, 2003, LNC did not have any open amounts for these derivatives. Ratings based Termination Events. LNC and LNL are required to maintain minimum ratings as a matter of routine practice in negotiating ISDA agreements. Under the majority of ISDA agreements and as a matter of policy, LNL has agreed to maintain financial strength or claims paying ratings above S&P BBB and Moodys Baa2. A downgrade below these levels would result in termination of the derivatives contract at which time any amounts payable by LNC would be dependent on the market value of the underlying derivative contract. In certain transactions, LNC and the counterparty have entered into a collateral support agreement requiring LNC to post collateral upon significant downgrade. LNC is required to maintain long term senior debt ratings above S&P BBB and Moodys Baa2. LNC also requires for its own protection minimum rating standards for counterparty credit protection. LNL is required to maintain financial strength or claims paying ratings above S&P A and Moodys A3 under certain ISDA agreements, which collectively do not represent material notional exposure. LNC does not believe the inclusion of termination or collateralization events poses any material threat to its liquidity position. 89 Table of Contents 
 
