FILE:PPG/PPG-8K-20050223170928.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On February 16, 2005, the Officers-Directors Compensation Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of PPG Industries, Inc. (the "Company") approved annual incentive awards for 2004 payable to each of the Company's executive officers and the aggregate award pool for 2004 annual incentive awards payable to certain other key employees of the Company. The awards were made pursuant to the PPG Industries, Inc. Executive Officers' Annual Incentive Compensation Plan, the PPG Industries, Inc. Incentive Compensation and Deferred Income Plan for Key Employees and the PPG Industries, Inc. Management Award and Deferred Income Plan. The Committee also approved the performance criteria for determination of awards under such plans for 2005. The performance criteria applicable to all awards under such plans for 2005 are earnings per share, return on equity and return on capital. The actual awards payable for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2005, if any, will vary depending on the extent to which actual performance meets, exceeds, or falls short of the performance criteria approved by the Committee. Target awards for 2005 have been set in accordance with past practice. Information regarding the compensation paid to the Company's executive officers during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004, will be contained in the Company's 2005 proxy statement, anticipated to be filed on March 4, 2005.
The Committee also approved long-term incentive awards to be granted to the Company's executive officers pursuant to the PPG Industries, Inc. Executive Officers' Long Term Incentive Plan and to certain other key employees of the Company pursuant to the PPG Industries, Inc. Long Term Incentive Plan. In addition, the Committee approved grants of stock options under the PPG Industries, Inc. Stock Plan to each of the Company's executive officers and non-employee directors and approved the aggregate pool of stock option grants that may be made to certain other key employees of the Company.
Lastly, the Committee approved certain amendments to the PPG Industries, Inc. Executive Officers' Long Term Incentive Plan, the PPG Industries, Inc. Long Term Incentive Plan and the Form of TSR Share Award Agreement used in connection with such plans. These plans, as amended, and the Form of TSR Share Award Agreement pursuant to which TSR Share Awards may be made thereunder are filed herewith and are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits
10.1 PPG Industries, Inc. Executive Officers' Long Term Incentive Plan, as amended February 16, 2005. 10.2 PPG Industries, Inc. Long Term Incentive Plan, as amended February 16, 2005. 10.3 Form of TSR Share Award Agreement, as amended February 16, 2005.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

EXHIBIT 10.1 ExecutiveOfficersLongTermIncentivePlan Revised 02/16/05 PPG INDUSTRIES, INC. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS' LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS Statement of Purpose Section I Definitions Section II Awards Section III Retirement/Disability/Death/Job Elimination/Other Termination Section IV Specific Provisions Related to Benefits Section V Administration & Claims Section VI Amendment & Termination Section VII Miscellaneous Section VIII Change in Control
STATEMENT OF PURPOSE The PPG Industries Executive Officers' Long Term Incentive Plan is intended to further the long-term growth of the Corporation by providing incentive, in addition to current compensation, to certain executive officers of the Corporation who will have a substantial opportunity to influence such long-term growth. Specifically the Plan: o Associates the personal interests of executive officers with the shareholders of the Corporation by relating capital accumulation to objective business or financial criteria, such as the returns to shareholders, return on capital, cash return on capital, return on equity, earnings (pre-tax or after-tax) and earnings growth; o Provides a compensation program to executive officers which is competitive with compensation opportunities in competing industries; o Encourages executive officers to continue as employees of the Corporation. -1-
SECTION I - DEFINITIONS 1.01 ADMINISTRATOR means the senior Human Resources officer of the Company, and any person(s) designated by such Administrator to assist in the administration of the Plan. 1.02 AFFILIATE means any business entity, other than a Subsidiary Corporation, in which PPG has an equity interest. 1.03 AWARD means the TSR Shares or Restricted Stock Units granted to a Covered Employee in accordance with Section 2.02. 1.04 AWARD AGREEMENT means the agreement executed by the Corporation and a Covered Employee, in such form as the Administrator determines, which sets forth the number of TSR Shares or Restricted Stock Units awarded and terms and conditions applicable to the Award. 1.05 AWARD GOALS means the specific performance-based goals relating to an Award set by the Committee no later than 90 days after the commencement of an Award Period which determine the amount of a Payment, as defined in Section 2.04(a), if any, which would be paid upon the achievement of such goals at the end of an Award Period. 1.06 AWARD PERIOD means the three-year period commencing with January 1 of the year in which an Award is made. 1.07 BENEFICIARY means the person or persons designated by a Covered Employee to receive benefits hereunder following the Covered Employee's death, in accordance with section 3.02; provided, however, in the event a Covered Employee fails to designate a Beneficiary in accordance with Section 4.02, his/her Beneficiary shall be the Beneficiary designated under the Deferred Compensation Plan. For purposes of this Section 1.05, "person or persons" is limited to an individual, a Trustee or a Covered Employee's estate. 1.08 BOARD means the Board of Directors of PPG Industries, Inc. 1.09 COMMITTEE means the Officers-Directors Compensation Committee (or any successor) of the Board. 1.10 COMMON STOCK means the common stock of PPG Industries, Inc. 1.11 COMPANY OR PPG means PPG Industries, Inc. -2-
1.12 CORPORATION means PPG and any Subsidiary designated by the Committee as eligible to participate in the Plan, and which, by proper authorization of the Board of Directors or other governing body of such Subsidiary, elects to participate in the Plan. 1.13 COVERED EMPLOYEE means any Executive Officer who may be deemed to be a "covered employee" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. 1.14 DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN means the PPG Industries, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan. 1.15 DISABILITY means any long-term disability. The Administrator, in his complete and sole discretion, shall determine a Covered Employee's Disability; provided, however, that a Covered Employee who is approved to receive Long-Term Disability benefits pursuant to the PPG Industries, Inc. Long-Term Disability Plan shall be considered to have a Disability. The Administrator may require that a Covered Employee submit to an examination from time to time, but no more often than annually, at the expense of the Company, by a competent physician or medical clinic, selected by the Administrator, to confirm Disability. On the basis of such medical evidence, the determination of the Administrator as to whether or not a condition of Disability exists or continues shall be conclusive. 1.16 DIVIDEND EQUIVALENT means a hypothetical dividend on TSR Shares or Restricted Stock Units, granted on the same date as dividends are paid on the Company's Common Stock and having a value on the date granted equal to the value of actual dividends paid on a share of the Company's Common Stock on the same date. 1.17 ERISA means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended. 1.18 FAIR MARKET VALUE of the Common Stock means the average of the closing sale prices reported on the New York Stock Exchange-Composite Tape for the Common Stock for all days in the month of December during which the New York Stock Exchange is open in the last year of the Award Period to which the Award being paid wholly or partly in shares of Common Stock relates. 1.19 PAYMENT has the meaning set forth in Section 2.04(a). 1.20 PLAN means the PPG Industries, Inc. Executive Officers' Long Term Incentive Plan, as set forth herein and as amended from time to time. 1.21 PRIOR PLAN means the PPG Industries, Inc. Long Term Incentive Plan for Key Employees, formerly the PPG Industries, Inc. Total Shareholder Return Plan for Key Employees. -3-
1.22 RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT means a unit which is equivalent to one share of Common Stock. 1.23 RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT ACCOUNT means an account maintained for a Covered Employee to which Restricted Stock Units are credited. 1.24 SUBSIDIARY means any corporation of which fifty percent (50%) or more of the outstanding voting stock or voting power is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company and any partnership or other entity in which the Company has a fifty percent (50%) or more ownership interest. 1.25 TSR ACCOUNT means an account maintained for a Covered Employee to which TSR Shares are credited. 1.26 TSR SHARE means a hypothetical share of stock which is equivalent to one share of Common Stock. SECTION II - PARTICIPATION & AWARDS 2.01 Participation All Covered Employees shall be eligible to receive one or more Awards for each Award Period. Such determination shall be at the total discretion of the Committee based on the Committee's estimation of those Covered Employees who will have a substantial opportunity to influence the long-term growth of the Corporation. 2.02 Awards (a) The Committee may grant one or more Awards to any Covered Employee in a given year, subject to the limits in clause (f) below. No later than 90 days after the commencement of the relevant Award Period, the Committee shall determine or approve: (1) The Award Period; (2) The number of TSR Shares or Restricted Stock Units to be awarded to each Covered Employee in connection with each Award; (3) The Award Goals for each Award based on one or more of the following business or financial criteria: (i) A comparison of where the total shareholder return of PPG Common Stock (stock price plus accumulated dividends) ranks among the total shareholder return for companies in a relevant stock index; (ii) Return on Capital; (iii) Cash -4-
Return on Capital; (iv) Return on Equity; (v) Earnings (pre-tax or after-tax); and (vi) Earnings Growth; (4) Any terms and conditions applicable to the Awards, including, but not limited to, the imposition of restrictions on the right to transfer shares of Common Stock delivered to Covered Employees. Such terms and conditions may differ for each Award Period. (b) The Committee may grant Awards at any time during an Award Period; and, when made, such grant shall be effective for the entire Award Period, subject to Section 2.02(g) below; provided, that such Awards granted after the 90-day period described in paragraph (a) above (which may not be entirely tax deductible) shall not affect the tax deductibility of any Awards granted pursuant to paragraph (a). (c) An Award under the Plan shall be granted to Covered Employees in the form of TSR Shares or Restricted Stock Units, which shall be reflected in a TSR Share Account or Restricted Stock Unit account, as applicable, maintained by the Company for each Covered Employee. (d) Each Award shall be made in writing in an Award Agreement which shall set forth the terms and conditions established by the Committee for the Award. (e) The Committee shall have the negative discretion to reduce or eliminate any Award for any Award Period as it deems equitable. (f) The maximum aggregate Awards that may be granted to an individual who is Chief Executive Officer is limited to an aggregate amount of TSR Shares and Restricted Stock Units equivalent to 250,000 shares of Common Stock for any Award Period. The maximum aggregate Awards that may be granted to either of the next two most highly compensated Covered Employees is limited to an aggregate amount of TSR Shares and Restricted Stock Units equivalent to 150,000 shares of Common Stock for any Award Period. The maximum aggregate Awards that may be granted to any other Covered Employee is limited to an aggregate amount of TSR Shares and Restricted Stock Units equivalent to 100,000 shares of Common Stock for any Award Period. (g) The Committee may terminate an Award at any time during an Award Period if, in its sole discretion, the Committee determines that the Participant is no longer in a position to have a substantial opportunity to influence the long-term growth of the Corporation. -5-
2.03 Dividend Equivalents (a) Subject to paragraph (c) below, the Committee may determine that each Covered Employee shall be entitled to receive a Dividend Equivalent during the Award Period on any TSR Share or Restricted Stock Unit in his/her TSR Account or Restricted Stock Unit Account. (b) Unless provided otherwise in the Covered Employee's Award Agreement, Dividend Equivalents shall be credited into the Covered Employee's account in the Deferred Compensation Plan and credited to the PPG Stock Account or other Investment Account(s) in the Deferred Compensation Plan as designated by the Covered Employee under the provisions of the Deferred Compensation Plan. (c) Dividend Equivalent payments shall not be made on any TSR Shares or Restricted Stock Units following the date of a Covered Employee's retirement, Disability, job elimination, death or other termination of employment. (d) A Covered Employee shall be entitled to payment of Dividend Equivalents in accordance with the provisions of the Deferred Compensation Plan, or as otherwise specified in the applicable Award Agreement, without regard to the actual payment or non-payment of the Award to which the Dividend Equivalents relate. 2.04 Payment of Awards (a) In accordance with the provisions of this Plan and the conditions set forth in the Award Agreement, a Covered Employee shall be entitled to a payment on account of an Award at the end of the Award Period ("Payment"). (b) Payments to Covered Employees will be made in the form of Common Stock, or cash or a combination of both, as the Committee may determine. (c) The amount of any cash to be paid in lieu of Common Stock shall be determined on the basis of the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock. As to shares of Common Stock which constitute all or any part of a Payment, the Committee may impose such restrictions concerning their transferability and/or their forfeitability as provided in the Award Agreement. (d) Payments shall be made to Covered Employees as soon as practicable after the Committee has determined that the terms and conditions with respect to the Award have been satisfied - i.e.: generally, within two and one-half months after the end of the Award Period. -6-
(e) If any dividends are declared on the Common Stock portion of a Payment on a date subsequent to the close of a Award Period but prior to the delivery of Common Stock shares to a Covered Employee, an amount equivalent to such dividends shall be paid in cash to the Covered Employee. (f) Any Award granted to a Covered Employee under the Prior Plan may be adopted by the Committee and paid out under this Plan if the Committee determines that (1) objective Award Goals were established under the Prior Plan no later than 90 days after the commencement of the relevant Award Period, (2) the Awards granted under the Prior Plan do not exceed the maximums set forth in Section 2.02(f), (3) the Award Goals have been met, (4) the material terms of the Awards granted under the Prior Plan do not differ from this Plan, as approved by the Company's shareholders, and (5) payment of such Awards satisfies the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Code. (g) Prior to the payment of any Award under this Plan, the Committee shall certify that the Award Goals for such Award have been met. (h) The Committee shall have the negative discretion to reduce or eliminate any Payment made for any Award Period. (i) A Covered Employee may be permitted to elect to defer receipt of a Payment in accordance and subject to the provisions of the Deferred Compensation Plan. SECTION III - RETIREMENT/DISABILITY/DEATH/ JOB ELIMINATION/OTHER TERMINATION 3.01 Retirement, Disability or Job Elimination If a Covered Employee's employment with the Corporation terminates during an Award Period because of retirement, Disability or job elimination, and after the Covered Employee has been an eligible participant for at least 12 months of the Award Period, the Covered Employee shall be entitled to (a) in the case of Restricted Stock Units, the same Award to which the Covered Employee would have been entitled had the Covered Employee's employment continued to the end of the Award Period; provided, however, that the Committee may determine pursuant to Sections 2.02(e), 2.02(g) or 2.04(h) to reduce or eliminate any Payment made or to be made to such Covered Employee in respect of his or her Restricted Stock Unit Award, and (b) in the case of TSR Shares, a prorated Award which shall be determined at the end of the Award Period by multiplying the Award to which the Covered Employee would otherwise have been entitled by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of months the Covered Employee was employed during the Award Period and the denominator of which is the total number of calendar months in the Award Period; -7-
provided, however, that the Committee, in its sole discretion, may determine that a greater Payment, not to exceed the full amount of the original Award, shall be made to such Covered Employee in respect of his or her TSR Share Award or may determine pursuant to Sections 2.02(e), 2.02(g) or 2.04(h) to reduce or eliminate any Payment made or to be made to such Covered Employee in respect of his or her TSR Share Award. 3.02 Death If a Covered Employee's employment with the Corporation terminates during an Award Period because of the Covered Employee's death, and after the Covered Employee has been an eligible participant for at least 12 months of the Award Period, then (a) in the case of Restricted Stock Units, the Covered Employee's Award shall be deemed fully earned and such Award shall be paid as promptly as practicable to the Covered Employee's Beneficiary; provided, however, that the Committee, in its sole discretion, may determine pursuant to Sections 2.02(e), 2.02(g) or 2.04(h) to reduce or eliminate any Payment made or to be made for any Award Period, and (b) in the case of TSR Shares, the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall determine the timing and amount of the Payment, if any, not to exceed the full amount of the original Award, that shall be made in respect of such Covered Employee's TSR Share Award. 3.03 Other Termination If a Covered Employee's employment with the Corporation terminates during an Award Period for any reason other than retirement, Disability, job elimination or death, or for any reason before the Covered Employee has been an eligible participant for at least 12 months of the Award Period, the Covered Employee's Award shall be forfeited on the date of such termination; provided, however, that the Committee, in its sole discretion, may determine that the Covered Employee will be entitled to a full or partial Payment with respect to the Covered Employee's Award. SECTION IV - SPECIFIC PROVISIONS RELATED TO BENEFITS 4.01 Nonassignability (a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) below and in section 5.02, no person shall have any power to encumber, sell, alienate, or otherwise dispose of his/her interest under the Plan prior to actual payment to and receipt thereof by such person; nor shall the Administrator recognize any assignment in derogation of the foregoing. No interest hereunder of any person shall be subject to attachment, execution, garnishment or any other legal, equitable, or other process. -8-
(b) Paragraph (a) above shall not apply to the extent that a Covered Employee's interest under the Plan is alienated pursuant to a "Qualified Domestic Relations Order" ("QDRO") as defined in Section 414(p) of the Code. (1) The administrator is authorized to adopt such procedural and substantive rules and to take such procedural and substantive actions as the Administrator may deem necessary or advisable to provide for the payment of amounts from the Plan to an Alternate Payee as provided in a QDRO. Such rules and actions shall be consistent with the principal purposes of the Plan. (2) Under no circumstances may the Administrator accept an order as a QDRO following a Covered Employee's death. (3) No Payment shall be made to an Alternate Payee until such Payment would otherwise be payable to a Covered Employee. 4.02 Beneficiary Designation (a) The Covered Employee shall have the right, at any time, to designate any person(s) as Beneficiary. The designation of a Beneficiary shall be effective on the date it is received by the Administrator, provided the Covered Employee is alive on such date. (b) Each time a Covered Employee submits a new Beneficiary designation form to the Administrator, such designation shall cancel all prior designations. (c) In the case of a Covered Employee who does not have a valid Beneficiary designation on file at the time of his/her death, or in the case the designated Beneficiary predeceases the Covered Employee, any Payment to which the Covered Employee would have been entitled shall be paid to the Covered Employee's estate at the end of the Award Period. 4.03 Limited Right to Assets of the Corporation (a) No Covered Employee or other person shall have any claim or right to be granted an Award under the Plan. (b) The Benefits paid under the Plan shall be paid from the general funds of the Company, and the Covered Employees and any Beneficiary shall be no more than unsecured general creditors of the Company with no special or prior right to any assets of the Company for payment of any obligations hereunder. -9-
4.04 Forfeiture Provision Notwithstanding any other provisions herein: (a) If at any time within the Award Period or within one year after the Award Period, the Covered Employee engages in any activity in competition with any activity of the Corporation, or contrary or harmful to the interests of the Corporation, including, but not limited to: (1) Conduct related to the Covered Employee's employment for which either criminal or civil penalties against the Covered Employee may be sought; or (2) Violation of the Corporation's Business Conduct Policies; or (3) Accepting employment with or serving as a consultant, advisor or in any other capacity to an employer that is in competition with or acting against the interests of the Corporation, including employing or recruiting any present, former or future employee of the Corporation; or (4) Disclosing or misusing any confidential information or material concerning the Corporation; or (5) Participating in a hostile take over attempt; then the Award shall terminate effective on the date on which the Committee determines that Covered Employee has engaged in such activity. Any "Award Gain" realized by the Covered Employee shall be paid by the Covered Employee to the Company. For purposes of this Section 4.04, "Award Gain" shall mean the cash and the closing market price of the Common Stock delivered to the Covered Employee pursuant to an Award. Any portion of a Payment which was deferred shall be forfeited from the Covered Employee's account in the Deferred Compensation Plan in accordance with this Section 4.04. (b) By executing the Award Agreement, the Covered Employee shall agree to a deduction from any amounts the Corporation owes the Covered Employee from time to time (including amounts owed to the Covered Employee as wages or other compensation, fringe benefits or vacation pay, as well as any other amounts owed to the Covered Employee), to the extent of amounts owed to the Corporation in accordance with paragraph (a) above. Whether or not the Corporation elects to make any set-off in whole or in part, if the Corporation does not recover by means of set-off the full amount the Covered Employee owes in accordance with paragraph (a), the Covered Employee agrees to pay the unpaid balance to the Corporation immediately upon notification by the Administrator. -10-
(c) The Covered Employee may be released from the Covered Employee's obligations under paragraphs (a) and (b) above only if the Committee determines, in its sole discretion, that such action is in the best interest of the Corporation. 4.05 Taxes The Corporation shall have the right to deduct, or to require the Covered Employee or other person receiving a payment under the Plan to pay to the Corporation any Federal or state taxes required by law to be withheld or paid. SECTION V - ADMINISTRATION & CLAIMS 5.01 Administration (a) The Committee shall designate the Administrator to administer the Plan and interpret, construe and apply its provisions in accordance with its terms. Subject to the terms of the Plan the Administrator shall have the complete authority to: (1) Construe the terms of the Plan; and (2) Control and manage the operation of the Plan. (b) The Administrator shall have the authority to establish rules for the administration and interpretation of the Plan and the transaction of its business. The determination of the Administrator as to any disputed question shall be conclusive. (c) The Administrator may employ counsel and other agents and may procure such clerical, accounting and other services as the Administrator may require in carrying out the provisions of the Plan. (d) The Administrator shall not receive any compensation from the Plan for his services. (e) The Corporation shall indemnify and save harmless the Administrator against all expenses and liabilities arising out of the Administrator's service as such, excepting only expenses and liabilities arising from the Administrator's own gross negligence or willful misconduct, as determined by the Committee. -11-
5.02 Claims (a) Every person receiving or claiming benefits under the Plan shall be conclusively presumed to be mentally and physically competent and of age. If the Administrator determines that such person is mentally or physically incompetent or is a minor, payment shall be made to the legally appointed guardian, conservator, or other person who has been appointed by a court of competent jurisdiction to care for the estate of such person, provided that proper proof of such appointment is furnished in a form and manner suitable to the Administrator. Any payment made under the provisions of the paragraph (a) shall be a complete discharge of any liability therefor under the Plan. The Administrator shall not be required to see to the proper application of any such payment. (b) Claims Procedure Claims for benefits by a Covered Employee or Beneficiary shall be filed, in writing, with the Administrator. If the Administrator denies the claim, in whole or in part, the Administrator shall furnish a written notice to the claimant setting forth a statement of the specific reasons for the denial of the claim, references to the specific provisions of the Plan on which the denial is based, a description of any additional material or information necessary to perfect the claim and an explanation of why such material or information is necessary, and an explanation of the review procedure. Such notice shall be written in a way calculated to be understandable by the claimant. The written notice from the Administrator shall be furnished to the claimant within ninety (90) days following the date on which the claim was filed, except that if special circumstances require an extension of time, the Administrator shall notify the claimant of this need within such 90-day period. Such notice shall inform the claimant the nature of the circumstances necessitating the need for additional time and the date by which the claimant will be furnished with the decision regarding the claim. Such extension may provide for up to an additional 90 days. (c) Review Procedure Within sixty (60) days of the date the Administrator denies a claim, in whole or in part, the claimant, or his/her authorized representative, may request that the decision be reviewed. Such request shall be in writing, shall be filed with the Administrator, and shall contain the following information: (1) The date on which the denial was received by the claimant; (2) The date on which the claimant's request for review was filed with the Administrator; -12-
(3) The specific portions of the denial which the claimant requests the Administrator to review; (4) A statement setting forth the basis on which the claimant believes that a review of the decision is required; (5) Any written material which the claimant desires the Administrator to take into consideration in reviewing the claim. The Administrator shall afford the claimant, or his/her authorized representative, an opportunity to review documents pertinent to the claim, and shall conduct a full and fair review of the claim and its denial. The Administrator's decision on such review shall be furnished to the claimant in writing, and shall be written in a manner calculated to be understandable to the claimant. Such decision shall include a statement of the specific reason(s) for the decision, including references to the specific provision(s) of the Plan relied upon. The written notice from the Administrator shall be furnished to the claimant within sixty (60) days following the date on which the request for review was received by the Administrator, except that if special circumstances require an extension of time, the Administrator shall notify the claimant of this need within such 60-day period. Such notice shall inform the claimant the nature of the circumstances necessitating the need for additional time and the date by which the claimant will be furnished with the decision regarding the claim. Such extension may provide for up to an additional 60 days. 5.03 Plan Expenses The cost of administering the Plan shall be paid by the Corporation. SECTION VI - AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION 6.01 Amendment of the Plan (a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) below, the Board or the Committee may amend the Plan, in whole or in part, at any time. (b) No amendment may, without shareholder approval, (1) expand the class of eligible employees, (2) increase either the maximum award to an individual Covered Employee or the maximum aggregate number of shares payable, or (3) change the list of business or financial criteria to be used to establish Award Goals. -13-
6.02 Termination of the Plan The Plan shall terminate when all TSR Shares or Restricted Stock Units subject to Award under the Plan or all Common Stock available for delivery under the Plan have been paid out or delivered or on such earlier date as may be determined by the Board or the Committee 6.03 Company Action The Company's power to amend or terminate the Plan shall be exercisable by the Board or by the Committee, or by any individual authorized by the Board to exercise such powers. SECTION VII - MISCELLANEOUS 7.01 Share and Award Authorization (a) Awards of TSR Shares or Restricted Stock Units which are determined by the Committee to be entitled to Dividend Equivalents shall entitle Covered Employees to Dividend Equivalents but not to actual dividends, voting or other rights of shareholders. TSR Shares or Restricted Stock Units covered by Awards which are not earned or are forfeited for any reason shall, unless the Plan has been terminated, again be available for other Awards under the Plan. The maximum number to TSR Shares or Restricted Stock Units which may be awarded under the Plan on and after the date hereof shall not exceed the number of shares authorized and available for award as approved by shareholders as set forth in paragraph (d) below, subject to adjustment as provided in paragraph (c) below. (b) The maximum number of shares of Common Stock which shall be available for issuance and delivery to Covered Employees under this Plan on and after this date shall not exceed the number of shares authorized and available for issuance as approved by shareholders, as set forth in paragraph (d) below, subject to adjustment as provided in paragraph (c) below. (c) In the event of any change in the number of outstanding shares of Common Stock by reason of any stock dividend, stock split, reorganization, merger, consolidation, exchange of shares or similar change, a corresponding change shall be made in: (i) The number of TSR Shares or Restricted Stock Units available for grant pursuant to Section 2.02; (ii) The number of shares of Common Stock available for issuance and delivery pursuant to paragraph (b) above; -14-
(iii) The number of TSR Shares or Restricted Stock Units contingently held by any Covered Employee unless the Committee makes a contrary determination, which it may do in its sole discretion and which, if done, shall be final and binding. (d) The maximum aggregate number of shares of Common Stock that may be paid out for all Covered Employees under this Plan shall not exceed 1,000,000 shares without shareholder approval. 7.02 Successors of the Company The rights and obligations of the Company under the Plan shall inure to the benefit of, and shall be binding upon, the successors and assigns of the Company. 7.03 ERISA Plan The Plan is intended to be an unfunded plan maintained primarily to provide deferred compensation benefits for "a select group of management or highly compensated employees" within the meaning of Sections 201, 301 and 401 of ERISA and therefore to be exempt from Parts 2, 3 and 4 of Title I of ERISA. 7.04 Trust The Company shall be responsible for the payment of all benefits under the Plan. At its discretion, the Company may establish one or more grantor trusts for the purpose of providing for payment of benefits under the Plan. Such trust(s) may be irrevocable, but the assets thereof shall be subject to the claims of the Company's creditors. Benefits paid to the Covered Employee from any such trust shall be considered paid by the Company for purposes of meeting the obligations of the Company under the Plan. 7.05 Employment Not Guaranteed Nothing contained in the Plan nor any action taken hereunder shall be construed as a contract of employment or as giving any Covered Employee any right to continued employment with the Corporation. 7.06 Gender, Singular and Plural All pronouns and variations thereof shall be deemed to refer to the masculine, feminine, or neuter, as the identity of the person(s) requires. As the context may require, the singular may be read as the plural and the plural as the singular. -15-
7.07 Headings The headings of the Sections, subsections and paragraphs of the Plan are for convenience only and shall not control or affect the meaning or construction of any of its provisions. 7.08 Validity If any provision of the Plan is held invalid, void or unenforceable, the same shall not affect, in any respect, the validity of any other provision(s) of the Plan. 7.09 Waiver of Breach The waiver by the Company of any breach of any provision of the Plan by a Covered Employee or Beneficiary shall not operate or be construed as a waiver of any subsequent breach. 7.10 Applicable Law The Plan is intended to conform and be governed by ERISA. In any case where ERISA does not apply, the Plan shall be governed and construed in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. 7.11 Notice Any notice required or permitted to be given to the Administrator under the Plan shall be sufficient if in writing and either hand-delivered, or sent by first class mail to the principal office of the Company at One PPG Place, Pittsburgh, PA 15272, directed to the attention of the Administrator. Such notice shall be deemed given as of the date of delivery. SECTION VIII - CHANGE IN CONTROL 8.01 Payments to a Trustee Upon, or in reasonable anticipation of a Change in Control, as defined in Section 8.02, all contingent Awards outstanding shall be deemed to have been earned on such basis as the Committee shall prescribe and then paid to a trustee or otherwise on such terms as the Committee may prescribe or permit and any deferred amounts shall be paid to a trustee or otherwise in such form and on such terms as the Committee may prescribe or permit. 8.02 Definition: Change in Control A "Change in Control" shall mean: -16-
(a) The acquisition by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act")) (a "Person") of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 20% or more of either (i) the then outstanding shares of common stock of the Company (the "Outstanding Company Common Stock") or (ii) the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Outstanding Company Voting Securities"). For purposes of this subsection (a) the following acquisitions shall not constitute a Change in Control: Any acquisition directly from the Company; Any acquisition by the Company; Any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any corporation controlled by the Company; or Any acquisition by any corporation pursuant to a transaction which complies with clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of paragraph (c) of this section 8.02. (b) Individuals who, as of January 1, 1999, constitute the Board (the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board; provided, however, that any individual becoming a director subsequent to such date whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's shareholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board; or (c) Approval by the shareholders of the Company of a reorganization, merger or consolidation or sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company (a "Business Combination"), in each case, unless, following such Business Combination: (i) All or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners, respectively, of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially own, directly or indirectly, -17-
more than 60% of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of Common Stock and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the case may be, of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination (including, without limitation, a corporation which as a result of such transaction owns the Company or all or substantially all of the Company's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such Business Combination of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities, as the case may be; (ii) No Person (excluding any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of the Company or such corporation resulting from such Business Combination) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of Common Stock of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination or the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of such corporation except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the Business Combination; and (iii) At least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement, or of the action of the Board, providing for such Business Combination; or (d) Approval by the shareholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company; or (e) A majority of the Board otherwise determines that a Change in Control shall have occurred. -18-

EXHIBIT 10.2 LongTermIncentivePlan Revised 02/16/05 PPG INDUSTRIES, INC. LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Statement of Purpose Section I Definitions Section II Awards Section III Retirement/Disability Death/Job Elimination/Other Termination Section IV Specific Provisions Related to Benefits Section V Administration & Claims Section VI Amendment & Termination Section VII Miscellaneous Section VIII Change in Control
STATEMENT OF PURPOSE The PPG Industries Long Term Incentive Plan is intended to further the long-term growth of the Corporation by providing incentive, in addition to current compensation, to those key executives of the Corporation who will have a substantial opportunity to influence such long-term growth. Specifically the Plan: o Associates the personal interests of key executives with the shareholders of the Corporation by relating capital accumulation to specified Award Goals; o Provides a compensation program to key executives which is competitive with compensation opportunities in competing industries; o Encourages key executives to continue as employees of the Corporation. - 1 -
SECTION I - DEFINITIONS 1.01 ADMINISTRATOR means the senior Human Resources officer of the Company, and any person(s) designated by such Administrator to assist in the administration of the Plan. 1.02 AFFILIATE means any business entity, other than a Subsidiary Corporation, in which PPG has an equity interest. 1.03 AWARD means the TSR Shares or Restricted Stock Units granted to a Participant in accordance with Section 2.02. 1.04 AWARD AGREEMENT means the agreement executed by the Corporation and a Participant, in such form as the Administrator determines, which sets forth the number of TSR Shares or Restricted Stock Units awarded and terms and conditions applicable to the Award. 1.05 AWARD GOALS means the employment and/or performance goals relating to an Award set by the Committee which determine the amount of a Payment, as defined in Section 2.04(a), if any, which will be paid at the end of an Award Period. 1.06 AWARD PERIOD means, as to the Corporation as a whole, the three-year period commencing with January 1 of the year in which an Award is made, or, as to a Subsidiary or a particular unit of the Corporation, such period as the Committee determines. 1.07 BENEFICIARY means the person or persons designated by a Participant to receive benefits hereunder following the Participant's death, in accordance with section 3.03; provided, however, in the event a Participant fails to designate a Beneficiary in accordance with Section 4.02, his/her Beneficiary shall be the Beneficiary designated under the Deferred Compensation Plan. For purposes of this Section 1.05, "person or persons" is limited to an individual, a Trustee or a Participant's estate. 1.08 BOARD means the Board of Directors of PPG Industries, Inc. 1.09 COMMITTEE means the Officers-Directors Compensation Committee (or any successor) of the Board. 1.10 COMMON STOCK means the common stock of PPG Industries, Inc. 1.11 COMPANY OR PPG means PPG Industries, Inc. 1.12 CORPORATION means PPG and any Subsidiary Corporation designated by the Committee as eligible to participate in the Plan, and which, by proper authorization of - 2 -
the Board of Directors or other governing body of such Subsidiary, elects to participate in the Plan. 1.13 DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN means the PPG Industries, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan. 1.14 DESIGNEE means the person or persons to whom the Committee has delegated the authority to determine and approve Participants who will receive Awards and the number of TSR Shares or Restricted Stock Units awarded to a Participant as set forth in Section 2.02(a). 1.15 DISABILITY means any long-term disability. The Administrator, in his complete and sole discretion, shall determine a Participant's Disability; provided, however, that a Participant who is approved to receive Long-Term Disability benefits pursuant to the PPG Industries, Inc. Long-Term Disability Plan shall be considered to have a Disability. The Administrator may require that a Participant submit to an examination from time to time, but no more often than annually, at the expense of the Company, by a competent physician or medical clinic, selected by the Administrator, to confirm Disability. On the basis of such medical evidence, the determination of the Administrator as to whether or not a condition of Disability exists or continues shall be conclusive. 1.16 DIVIDEND EQUIVALENT means a hypothetical dividend on TSR Shares or Restricted Stock Units, granted on the same date as dividends are paid on the Company's Common Stock and having a value on the date granted equal to the value of actual dividends paid on a share of the Company's Common Stock on the same date. 1.17 EMPLOYEE means any key executive of the Corporation. 1.18 ERISA means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended. 1.19 FAIR MARKET VALUE of the Common Stock means the average of the closing sale prices reported on the New York Stock Exchange-Composite Tape for the Common Stock for all days in the month of December during which the New York Stock Exchange is open in the last year of the Award Period to which the Award being paid wholly or partly in shares of Common Stock relates. 1.20 ORIGINAL PLAN means the 1984 Earnings Growth Plan, as amended, which was amended and restated as the Total Shareholder Return Plan, and is being further amended and restated as this Long Term Incentive Plan. 1.21 PARTICIPANT means an Employee who is selected by the Committee to receive an Award. 1.22 PAYMENT has the meaning set forth in Section 2.04(a). - 3 -
1.23 PLAN means the PPG Industries, Inc. Long Term Incentive Plan , as set forth herein and as amended from time to time. 1.24 RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT means a unit which is equivalent to one share of Common Stock. 1.25 RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT ACCOUNT means an account maintained for a Participant to which Restricted Stock Units are credited. 1.26 SUBSIDIARY means any corporation of which fifty percent (50%) or more of the outstanding voting stock or voting power is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company and any partnership or other entity in which the Company has a fifty percent (50%) or more ownership interest. 1.27 TSR ACCOUNT means an account maintained for a Participant to which TSR Shares are credited. 1.28 TSR SHARE means a hypothetical share of stock which is equivalent to one share of Common Stock. SECTION II - PARTICIPATION & AWARDS 2.01 Participation The Committee shall select the Participants or eligible group of Participants for each Award Period. Such selection shall be at the total discretion of the Committee based on the Committee's estimation of those Employees who will have a substantial opportunity to influence the long-term growth of the Corporation, or a particular unit of the Corporation. 2.02 Awards (a) For each Award Period, the Committee shall determine or approve: (1) The Award Period; (2) The Participants or eligible group of Participants; (3) The number of TSR Shares or Restricted Stock Units for each Award granted to each Participant; (4) The Award Goals; - 4 -
(5) Any terms and conditions applicable to the Awards, including, but not limited to, the imposition of restrictions on the right to transfer shares of Common Stock delivered to Participants. Such terms and conditions may differ for each Award Period; provided, however, that the Committee may delegate to another person or persons (its "Designee") the authority to determine or approve the Participants who will receive Awards (from the group of eligible Participants approved by the Committee), the number of TSR Shares or Restricted Stock Units awarded to a Participant and any terms and conditions applicable to the Award which differ from any terms and conditions approved by the Committee. (b) The Committee or its Designee may grant one or more Awards to a Participant at any time during an Award Period; and, when made, such grant shall be effective for the entire Award Period, subject to Section 2.02(f) below. (c) An Award under the Plan shall be granted to Participants in the form of TSR Shares or Restricted Stock Units which shall be reflected in a TSR Account or Restricted Stock Unit Account, maintained by the Company for each Participant. (d) Each Award shall be made in writing in an Award Agreement which shall set forth the terms and conditions established by the Committee or its Designee for the Award. (e) The Committee shall have the authority to adjust the Award Goal for any Award Period as it deems equitable in recognition of unusual or unforeseen circumstances experienced by the Corporation or a particular unit of the Corporation or changes in accounting principles or practices instituted during an Award Period. (f) The Committee (and its Designee, with respect to an Award granted by the Designee) may terminate an Award at any time during an Award Period if, in its sole discretion, the Committee, or its Designee, if applicable, determines that the Participant is no longer in a position to have a substantial opportunity to influence the long-term growth of the Corporation. 2.03 Dividend Equivalents (a) Subject to paragraph (c) below, the Committee, or its Designee, if applicable, may determine that each Participant shall be entitled to receive a Dividend Equivalent on any TSR Share or Restricted Stock Unit in his/her TSR Account or Restricted Stock Unit Account during the Award Period. - 5 -
(b) Unless provided otherwise in the Participant's Award Agreement, Dividend Equivalents shall be credited into the Participant's account in the Deferred Compensation Plan and credited to the PPG Stock Account or other Investment Account(s) in the Deferred Compensation Plan as designated by the Participant under the provisions of the Deferred Compensation Plan. (c) Dividend Equivalent payments shall not be made on any TSR Shares or Restricted Stock Units following the date of a Participant's retirement, Disability, job elimination, death or other termination of employment. (d) A Participant shall be entitled to payment of Dividend Equivalents in accordance with the provisions of the Deferred Compensation Plan or as otherwise specified in the applicable Award Agreement without regard to the actual payment or non-payment of the Award to which the Dividend Equivalents relate. 2.04 Payment of Awards (a) In accordance with the provisions of this Plan and the conditions set forth in the Award Agreement, a Participant shall be entitled to a payment on account of an Award at the end of the Award Period ("Payment"). (b) Payments to Participants will be made in the form of Common Stock, or cash or a combination of both, as the Committee may determine. (c) The amount of any cash to be paid in lieu of Common Stock shall be determined on the basis of the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock. As to shares of Common Stock which constitute all or any part of a Payment, the Committee, or its Designee, with respect to an Award granted by the Designee, may impose such restrictions concerning their transferability and/or their forfeitability as provided in the Award Agreement. (d) Payments shall be made to Participants as soon as practicable after the Committee, or its Designee, with respect to an Award granted by the Designee, has determined that the terms and conditions with respect to the Award have been satisfied - i.e. generally, within two and one-half months after the end of the Award Period. (e) If any dividends are declared on the Common Stock portion of a Payment on a date subsequent to the close of an Award Period but prior to the delivery of Common Stock shares to a Participant, an amount equivalent to such dividends shall be paid in cash to the Participant. - 6 -
(f) The Committee, or its Designee, with respect to an Award granted by the Designee, shall have the negative discretion to reduce or eliminate any Payment made or to be made for any Award Period. (g) A Participant may be permitted to elect to defer receipt of a Payment in accordance and subject to the provisions of the Deferred Compensation Plan. SECTION III - RETIREMENT/DISABILITY/DEATH/ JOB ELIMINATION/OTHER TERMINATION 3.01 Retirement, Disability or Job Elimination If a Participant's employment with the Corporation terminates during an Award Period because of retirement, Disability or job elimination, and after the Employee has been a Participant for at least 12 months of the Award Period, the Participant shall be entitled to (a) in the case of Restricted Stock Units, the same Award to which the Participant would have been entitled had the Participant's employment continued to the end of the Award Period; provided, however, that the Committee, or its Designee, with respect to an Award granted by the Designee, in its sole discretion, may determine pursuant to Section 2.02(f) or 2.04(f) to reduce or eliminate any Payment made or to be made to such Participant in respect of his or her Restricted Stock Unit Award, and (b) in the case of TSR Shares, a prorated Award which shall be determined at the end of the Award Period by multiplying the Award to which the Participant would otherwise have been entitled by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of months the Participant was employed during the Award Period and the denominator of which is the total number of calendar months in the Award Period; provided, however, that the Committee, or its Designee, with respect to an Award granted by the Designee, in its sole discretion, may determine that a greater Payment, not to exceed the full amount of the original Award, shall be made to such Participant in respect of his or her TSR Share Award or may determine pursuant to Section 2.02(f) or 2.04(f) to reduce or eliminate any Payment made or to be made to such Participant in respect of his or her TSR Share Award. 3.02 Death If a Participant's employment with the Corporation terminates during an Award Period because of the Participant's death, and after the Employee has been a Participant for at least 12 months of the Award Period, then (a) in the case of Restricted Stock Units, the Participant's Award shall be deemed fully earned and such Award shall be paid as promptly as practicable to the Participant's Beneficiary; provided, however, that the Committee, or its Designee, with respect to an Award granted by the Designee, in its sole discretion, may determine pursuant to Section 2.04(f) to reduce or eliminate any Payment made or to be made for any Award Period, and (b) in the case of TSR Shares, the Committee, or its Designee, with respect to an - 7 -
Award granted by the Designee, in its sole discretion, shall determine the timing and amount of the Payment, if any, not to exceed the full amount of the original Award, that shall be made in respect of such Participant's TSR Share Award. 3.03 Other Termination If a Participant's employment with the Corporation terminates during an Award Period for any reason other than retirement, Disability, job elimination or death, or for any reason before the Participant has been a Participant for at least 12 months of the Award Period, the Participant's Award shall be forfeited on the date of such termination; provided, however, that the Committee, or its Designee, with respect to an Award granted by the Designee, in its sole discretion, may determine that the Participant will be entitled to a full or partial Payment with respect to the Participant's Award. SECTION IV - SPECIFIC PROVISIONS RELATED TO BENEFITS 4.01 Nonassignability (a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) below and in section 5.02, no person shall have any power to encumber, sell, alienate, or otherwise dispose of his/her interest under the Plan prior to actual payment to and receipt thereof by such person; nor shall the Administrator recognize any assignment in derogation of the foregoing. No interest hereunder of any person shall be subject to attachment, execution, garnishment or any other legal, equitable, or other process. (b) Paragraph (a) above shall not apply to the extent that a Participant's interest under the Plan is alienated pursuant to a "Qualified Domestic Relations Order" ("QDRO") as defined in Section 414(p) of the Code. (1) The administrator is authorized to adopt such procedural and substantive rules and to take such procedural and substantive actions as the Administrator may deem necessary or advisable to provide for the payment of amounts from the Plan to an Alternate Payee as provided in a QDRO. Such rules and actions shall be consistent with the principal purposes of the Plan. (2) Under no circumstances may the Administrator accept an order as a QDRO following a Participant's death. (3) No Payment shall be made to an Alternate Payee until such Payment would otherwise be made to a Participant. - 8 -
4.02 Beneficiary Designation (a) The Participant shall have the right, at any time, to designate any person(s) as Beneficiary. The designation of a Beneficiary shall be effective on the date it is received by the Administrator, provided the Participant is alive on such date. (b) Each time a Participant submits a new Beneficiary designation form to the Administrator, such designation shall cancel all prior designations. (c) In the case of a Participant who does not have a valid Beneficiary designation on file at the time of his/her death, or in the case the designated Beneficiary predeceases the Participant, any Payment to which the Participant would have been entitled shall be paid to the Participant's estate at the end of the Award Period. 4.03 Limited Right to Assets of the Corporation (a) No Employee or other person shall have any claim or right to be granted an Award under the Plan. (b) The Benefits paid under the Plan shall be paid from the general funds of the Company and from shares authorized and available for issuance under the Original Plan, and the Participants and any Beneficiary shall be no more than unsecured general creditors of the Company with no special or prior right to any assets of the Company for payment of any obligations hereunder. 4.04 Forfeiture Provision Notwithstanding any other provisions herein: (a) If at any time within the Award Period or within one year after the Award Period, the Participant engages in any activity in competition with any activity of the Corporation, or contrary or harmful to the interests of the Corporation, including, but not limited to: (1) Conduct related to the Participant's employment for which either criminal or civil penalties against the Participant may be sought; or (2) Violation of the Corporation's Business Conduct Policies; or (3) Accepting employment with or serving as a consultant, advisor or in any other capacity to an employer that is in competition with or acting against the interests of the Corporation, including employing or recruiting any present, former or future employee of the Corporation; or - 9 -
(4) Disclosing or misusing any confidential information or material concerning the Corporation; or (5) Participating in a hostile take over attempt; then the Award shall terminate effective on the date on which the Committee determines that Participant has engaged in such activity. Any "Award Gain" realized by the Participant shall be paid by the Participant to the Company. For purposes of this Section 4.04, "Award Gain" shall mean the cash and the closing market price of the Common Stock delivered to the Participant pursuant to an Award. Any portion of a Payment which was deferred shall be forfeited from the Participant's account in the Deferred Compensation Plan in accordance with this Section 4.04. (b) By executing the Award Agreement, the Participant shall agree to a deduction from any amounts the Corporation owes the Participant from time to time (including amounts owed to the Participant as wages or other compensation, fringe benefits or vacation pay, as well as any other amounts owed to the Participant), to the extent of amounts owed to the Corporation in accordance with paragraph (a) above. Whether or not the Corporation elects to make any set-off in whole or in part, if the Corporation does not recover by means of set-off the full amount the Participant owes in accordance with paragraph (a), the Participant agrees to pay the unpaid balance to the Corporation immediately upon notification by the Administrator. (c) The Participant may be released from the Participant's obligations under paragraphs (a) and (b) above only if the Committee determines, in its sole discretion, that such action is in the best interest of the Corporation. 4.05 Taxes The Corporation shall have the right to deduct, or to require the Participant or other person receiving a payment under the Plan to pay to the Corporation any Federal or state taxes required by law to be withheld or paid. SECTION V - ADMINISTRATION & CLAIMS 5.01 Administration (a) The Administrator shall administer the Plan and interpret, construe and apply its provisions in accordance with its terms. Subject to the terms of the Plan the Administrator shall have the complete authority to: - 10 -
(1) Construe the terms of the Plan; and (2) Control and manage the operation of the Plan. (b) The Administrator shall have the authority to establish rules for the administration and interpretation of the Plan and the transaction of its business. The determination of the Administrator as to any disputed question shall be conclusive. (c) The Administrator may employ counsel and other agents and may procure such clerical, accounting and other services as the Administrator may require in carrying out the provisions of the Plan. (d) The Administrator shall not receive any compensation from the Plan for his services. (e) The Corporation shall indemnify and save harmless the Administrator against all expenses and liabilities arising out of the Administrator's service as such, excepting only expenses and liabilities arising from the Administrator's own gross negligence or willful misconduct, as determined by the Committee. 5.02 Claims (a) Every person receiving or claiming benefits under the Plan shall be conclusively presumed to be mentally and physically competent and of age. If the Administrator determines that such person is mentally or physically incompetent or is a minor, payment shall be made to the legally appointed guardian, conservator, or other person who has been appointed by a court of competent jurisdiction to care for the estate of such person, provided that proper proof of such appointment is furnished in a form and manner suitable to the Administrator. Any payment made under the provisions of the paragraph (a) shall be a complete discharge of any liability therefor under the Plan. The Administrator shall not be required to see to the proper application of any such payment. (b) Claims Procedure Claims for benefits by a Participant or Beneficiary shall be filed, in writing, with the Administrator. If the Administrator denies the claim, in whole or in part, the Administrator shall furnish a written notice to the claimant setting forth a statement of the specific reasons for the denial of the claim, references to the specific provisions of the Plan on which the denial is based, a description of any additional material or information necessary to perfect the claim and an explanation of why such material or information is necessary, - 11 -
and an explanation of the review procedure. Such notice shall be written in a way calculated to be understandable by the claimant. The written notice from the Administrator shall be furnished to the claimant within ninety (90) days following the date on which the claim was filed, except that if special circumstances require an extension of time, the Administrator shall notify the claimant of this need within such 90-day period. Such notice shall inform the claimant the nature of the circumstances necessitating the need for additional time and the date by which the claimant will be furnished with the decision regarding the claim. Such extension may provide for up to an additional 90 days. (c) Review Procedure Within sixty (60) days of the date the Administrator denies a claim, in whole or in part, the claimant, or his/her authorized representative, may request that the decision be reviewed. Such request shall be in writing, shall be filed with the Administrator, and shall contain the following information: (1) The date on which the denial was received by the claimant; (2) The date on which the claimant's request for review was filed with the Administrator; (3) The specific portions of the denial which the claimant requests the Administrator to review; (4) A statement setting forth the basis on which the claimant believes that a review of the decision is required; (5) Any written material which the claimant desires the Administrator to take into consideration in reviewing the claim. The Administrator shall afford the claimant, or his/her authorized representative, an opportunity to review documents pertinent to the claim, and shall conduct a full and fair review of the claim and its denial. The Administrator's decision on such review shall be furnished to the claimant in writing, and shall be written in a manner calculated to be understandable to the claimant. Such decision shall include a statement of the specific reason(s) for the decision, including references to the specific provision(s) of the Plan relied upon. The written notice from the Administrator shall be furnished to the claimant within sixty (60) days following the date on which the request for review was received by the Administrator, except that if special circumstances require an - 12 -
extension of time, the Administrator shall notify the claimant of this need within such 60-day period. Such notice shall inform the claimant the nature of the circumstances necessitating the need for additional time and the date by which the claimant will be furnished with the decision regarding the claim. Such extension may provide for up to an additional 60 days. 5.03 Plan Expenses The cost of administering the Plan shall be paid by the Corporation. SECTION VI - AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION 6.01 Amendment of the Plan (a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) below, the Board or the Committee may amend the Plan, in whole or in part, at any time. (b) No amendment may, without shareholder approval, increase the number of shares of Common Stock which may be delivered under the Plan. 6.02 Termination of the Plan The Plan shall terminate when all TSR Shares or Restricted Stock Units subject to Award under the Plan or all Common Stock available for delivery under the Plan have been paid out or delivered or on such earlier date as may be determined by the Board or the Committee 6.03 Company Action The Company's power to amend or terminate the Plan shall be exercisable by the Board or by the Committee, or by any individual authorized by the Board to exercise such powers. SECTION VII - MISCELLANEOUS 7.01 Share and Award Authorization (a) Awards of TSR Shares or Restricted Stock Units which are determined to be entitled to Dividend Equivalents shall entitle the Participant to Dividend Equivalents but not to actual dividends, voting or other rights of shareholders. TSR Shares or Restricted Stock Units covered by Awards which are not earned or are forfeited for any reason shall, unless the Plan has been terminated, again be available for other Awards under the Plan. The maximum number to TSR Shares or Restricted Stock Units which may be - 13 -
awarded under the Plan on and after the date hereof shall not exceed the number of shares authorized and available for award on this date under the Original Plan, subject to adjustment as provided in paragraph (c) below. (b) The maximum number of shares of Common Stock which shall be issued and delivered to Participants under this Plan on and after this date shall not exceed the number of shares authorized and available for issuance on this date under the Original Plan, subject to adjustment as provided in paragraph (c) below. Shares of Common Stock which are not paid out pursuant to an Award because payment has been deferred by the Participant pursuant hereto, shall not be included in calculating the number of shares of Common Stock issued and delivered under this Plan. (c) In the event of any change in the number of outstanding shares of Common Stock by reason of any stock dividend, stock split, reorganization, merger, consolidation, exchange of shares or similar change, a corresponding change shall be made in: (i) The number of TSR Shares or Restricted Stock Units available for grant pursuant to Section 2.02; (ii) The number of shares of Common Stock available for issuance and delivery pursuant to paragraph (b) above; (iii) The number of TSR Shares or Restricted Stock Units contingently held by any Participant unless the Committee makes a contrary determination, which it may do in its sole discretion and which, if done, shall be final and binding. 7.02 Successors of the Company The rights and obligations of the Company under the Plan shall inure to the benefit of, and shall be binding upon, the successors and assigns of the Company. 7.03 ERISA Plan The Plan is intended to be an unfunded plan maintained primarily to provide deferred compensation benefits for "a select group of management or highly compensated employees" within the meaning of Sections 201, 301 and 401 of ERISA and therefore to be exempt from Parts 2, 3 and 4 of Title I of ERISA. - 14 -
7.04 Trust The Company shall be responsible for the payment of all benefits under the Plan. At its discretion, the Company may establish one or more grantor trusts for the purpose of providing for payment of benefits under the Plan. Such trust(s) may be irrevocable, but the assets thereof shall be subject to the claims of the Company's creditors. Benefits paid to the Participant from any such trust shall be considered paid by the Company for purposes of meeting the obligations of the Company under the Plan. 7.05 Employment Not Guaranteed Nothing contained in the Plan nor any action taken hereunder shall be construed as a contract of employment or as giving any Participant any right to continued employment with the Corporation. 7.06 Gender, Singular and Plural All pronouns and variations thereof shall be deemed to refer to the masculine, feminine, or neuter, as the identity of the person(s) requires. As the context may require, the singular may be read as the plural and the plural as the singular. 7.07 Headings The headings of the Sections, subsections and paragraphs of the Plan are for convenience only and shall not control or affect the meaning or construction of any of its provisions. 7.08 Validity If any provision of the Plan is held invalid, void or unenforceable, the same shall not affect, in any respect, the validity of any other provision(s) of the Plan. 7.09 Waiver of Breach The waiver by the Company of any breach of any provision of the Plan by a Participant or Beneficiary shall not operate or be construed as a waiver of any subsequent breach. 7.10 Applicable Law The Plan is intended to conform and be governed by ERISA. In any case where ERISA does not apply, the Plan shall be governed and construed in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania without reference to any choice of law principles. - 15 -
7.11 Notice Any notice required or permitted to be given to the Administrator under the Plan shall be sufficient if in writing and either hand-delivered, or sent by first class mail to the principal office of the Company at One PPG Place, Pittsburgh, PA 15272, directed to the attention of the Administrator. Such notice shall be deemed given as of the date of delivery. SECTION VIII - CHANGE IN CONTROL 8.01 Payments to a Trustee Upon, or in reasonable anticipation of a Change in Control, as defined in Section 8.02, all contingent Awards outstanding shall be deemed to have been earned on such basis as the Committee shall prescribe and then paid to a trustee or otherwise on such terms as the Committee may prescribe or permit and any deferred amounts shall be paid to a trustee or otherwise in such form and on such terms as the Committee may prescribe or permit. 8.02 Definition: Change in Control A "Change in Control" shall mean: (a) The acquisition by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act")) (a "Person") of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 20% or more of either (i) the then outstanding shares of common stock of the Company (the "Outstanding Company Common Stock") or (ii) the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Outstanding Company Voting Securities"). For purposes of this subsection (a) the following acquisitions shall not constitute a Change in Control: Any acquisition directly from the Company; Any acquisition by the Company; Any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any corporation controlled by the Company; or - 16 -
Any acquisition by any corporation pursuant to a transaction which complies with clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of paragraph (c) of this section 8.02. (b) Individuals who, as of January 1, 1999, constitute the Board (the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board; provided, however, that any individual becoming a director subsequent to such date whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's shareholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board; or (c) Approval by the shareholders of the Company of a reorganization, merger or consolidation or sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company (a "Business Combination"), in each case, unless, following such Business Combination: (i) All or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners, respectively, of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 60% of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of Common Stock and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the case may be, of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination (including, without limitation, a corporation which as a result of such transaction owns the Company or all or substantially all of the Company's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such Business Combination of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities, as the case may be; (ii) No Person (excluding any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of the Company or such corporation resulting from such Business Combination) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of Common Stock of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination or the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of such corporation except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the Business Combination; and - 17 -
(iii) At least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement, or of the action of the Board, providing for such Business Combination; or (d) Approval by the shareholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company; or (e) A majority of the Board otherwise determines that a Change in Control shall have occurred. - 18 -

EXHIBIT 10.3 TSR SHARE AWARD AGREEMENT _____________ __, 20__ This TSR SHARE AWARD AGREEMENT (this "Agreement") is entered into as of the date first written above by and between PPG Industries, Inc. (the "Company") and ______________ (the "Participant"). The Company maintains the PPG Industries, Inc. Long Term Incentive Plan (the "Key Executive LTIP") and the PPG Industries, Inc. Executive Officers' Long Term Incentive Plan (the "Executive Officers' LTIP," and, together with the Key Executive LTIP, the "LTIPs"), each of which is incorporated into and forms a part of this Agreement, and the Participant has been deemed to be a Covered Employee or has otherwise been selected by the Officers-Directors Compensation Committee or its Designee (as applicable, the "Committee") to receive an Award under the Key Executive LTIP or the Executive Officers' LTIP, as determined in accordance with paragraph 1.C hereof. Capitalized terms used in this Agreement shall have the respective meanings given to such terms in the Key Executive LTIP or the Executive Officers' LTIP, as the context dictates, or elsewhere in this Agreement. The Award of TSR Shares shall be confirmed by a separate Grant Notice ("Grant Notice"), specifying the date of grant of the Award (the "Grant Date"), the number of TSR Shares granted and the Award Goals applicable to such TSR Shares. Such Award shall be subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement and such Grant Notice shall be deemed incorporated by reference into this Agreement. NOW, THEREFORE, the Company and the Participant, intending to be legally bound, agree as follows: 1. Terms and Conditions of the Award. A. This Agreement sets forth the terms and conditions applicable to the Award of TSR Shares confirmed in the Grant Notice. B. The Committee may terminate the Award at any time during the Award Period if, in its sole discretion, the Committee determines that the Participant is no longer in a position to have a substantial opportunity to influence the long-term growth of the Company. C. If the Participant is deemed to be a Covered Employee as of the last day of an Award Period, the Participant's Award for that Award Period will be made under the Executive Officers' LTIP; provided, that: (1) Awards under the Executive Officers' LTIP will only be made if the Committee certifies that the Award Goals set forth in the Grant Notice have been achieved, and (2) the Committee reserves the right to exercise negative discretion in reducing or eliminating any Award that
would otherwise be payable. If the Participant is not deemed to be a "Covered Employee," the Participant's Award will be made under the Key Executive LTIP; provided, that the Committee may, in its sole discretion, adjust the amount of an Award Goal during an Award Period for any such Participant. The LTIP that is determined to be applicable to the Participant under the provision set forth above is referred to in this agreement as the "applicable LTIP." D. On each date that the Company pays a dividend on its Common Stock during the Award Period, the Participant shall be entitled to a Dividend Equivalent on each TSR Share in the Participant's TSR Account. Unless prohibited under applicable law or otherwise determined by the Committee in its discretion, the value of such Dividend Equivalents shall be automatically deferred, on behalf of the Participant, into the PPG Stock Account of the Deferred Compensation Plan. E. If the Participant's employment with the Company terminates during the Award Period but after the first anniversary of the Grant Date because of retirement or Disability (as determined in accordance with the applicable LTIP) or job elimination, the Participant shall be entitled to a prorated Award which shall be determined at the end of the Award Period by multiplying the Award to which the Participant would otherwise have been entitled by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of months the Participant was employed during the Award Period and the denominator of which is the total number of calendar months in the Award Period; provided, however, that the Committee, in its sole discretion, may determine that a greater Payment, not to exceed the full amount of the original Award, shall be made to such Participant in respect of his or her Award or may determine pursuant to the provisions of the applicable LTIP to reduce or eliminate any Payment made or to be made to such Participant in respect of his or her Award. If the Participant's employment with the Company terminates during the Award Period but after the first anniversary of the Grant Date because of the Participant's death, the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall determine the timing and amount of the Payment, if any, not to exceed the full amount of the original Award, that shall be made in respect of the Participant's Award. F. If the Participant's employment with the Company terminates during the Award Period for any reason other than retirement, Disability, job elimination or death, or for any reason before the first anniversary of the Grant Date, the Participant's Award shall be forfeited on the date of such termination; provided, however, that the Committee, in its sole discretion, may determine that the Participant will be entitled to a full or partial Payment with respect to the Award. G. Promptly following the end of the Award Period, the Committee shall determine the extent, if any, to which the applicable Award Goals have been attained and the extent, if any, to which the Award has been earned by the Participant. The Committee shall have the negative discretion to reduce or eliminate any Payment for the Award. H. The Award shall be subject to the provisions of the applicable LTIP concerning Change in Control of the Company. 2
2. Payment on Account of Awards. A. Upon attainment of the Award Goals, and subject to this Agreement and the terms of the applicable LTIP, the Participant shall, at the end of the Award Period, earn a Payment determined by reference to the number of shares of Common Stock constituting the earned Award as determined by the Committee in accordance with paragraph 1.G. The Participant shall receive payment in the form of cash and/or shares of Common Stock as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion. The amount of any cash to be paid in lieu of Common Stock shall be determined on the basis of the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock. B. Any shares of Common Stock issued to the Participant with respect to his or her Award shall be subject to such restrictions as the Committee may deem advisable under the rules, regulations and other requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the New York Stock Exchange and any applicable state or foreign securities laws, and the Committee may cause a legend or legends to be endorsed on any stock certificates for such shares making appropriate references to such legal restrictions. C. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, and except in the event the Participant is permitted and elects to defer payment, the payment of cash and shares of Common Stock in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 will be delivered not later than March 15 of the year following the end of the Award Period. 3. Continuing Conditions. Notwithstanding any other provisions herein, the Participant, by execution of this Agreement, agrees and acknowledges that in return for the Award granted by the Company in this Agreement, the following continuing conditions shall apply: A. If at any time within the Award Period or within one (1) year after the Award Period the Participant engages in any activity in competition with any activity of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or contrary or harmful to the interests of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, including, but not limited to: (1) conduct related to the Participant's employment for which either criminal or civil penalties against the Participant may be sought; (2) violation of Company (or Subsidiary) Business Conduct Policies; (3) accepting employment with or serving as a consultant, advisor or in any other capacity to an employer that is in competition with or acting against the interests of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, including employing or recruiting any present, former or future employee of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries; (4) disclosing or misusing any confidential information or material concerning the Company or any of its Subsidiaries; or (5) participating in a hostile takeover attempt, then this Award shall terminate effective the date on which the Participant enters into such activity, unless terminated sooner by operation of another term or condition of this Agreement, 3
and any "Award Gain" realized by the Participant shall be paid by the Participant to the Company. "Award Gain" shall mean the cash and the closing market price of the Common Stock delivered to the Participant pursuant to paragraph 2 on the date of such delivery times the number of shares so delivered. Any shares of Common Stock deferred by the Participant shall be considered to have been delivered for the purpose of this paragraph 3. B. By accepting this Agreement, the Participant consents to a deduction from any amounts the Company or any of its Subsidiaries owes the Participant from time to time (including amounts owed the Participant as wages or other compensation, fringe benefits or vacation pay, as well as any other amounts owed to the Participant by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries), to the extent of the amounts payable to the Company by the Participant under paragraph 3.A. above. Whether or not the Company elects to make any set-off in whole or in part, if the Company does not recover by means of set-off the full amount payable by the Participant, calculated as set forth above, the Participant agrees to pay immediately the unpaid balance to the Company. C. The Participant may be released from the Participant's obligations under paragraphs 3.A and 3.B above only if the Committee determines, in its sole discretion, that such action is in the best interest of the Company. 4. Nonassignability. Except as provided in the applicable LTIP with respect to a "Qualified Domestic Relations Order" ("QDRO") as defined in Section 414(p) of the Internal Revenue Code, neither the Participant nor his/her Beneficiary shall have the power to encumber, sell, alienate, or otherwise dispose of his/her interest under the this Agreement prior to actual payment to and receipt thereof by such person; nor shall the Administrator of the applicable LTIP recognize any assignment in derogation of the foregoing. No interest hereunder of any person shall be subject to attachment, execution, garnishment or any other legal, equitable, or other process. 5. Beneficiary Designation. In the event of the Participant's death, any amount payable under this Agreement shall be paid to the Participant's Beneficiary as determined in accordance the applicable LTIP. 6. Limited Right to Assets of the Corporation. Any amounts payable under this Agreement shall be paid from the general funds of the Company and from shares authorized and available for issuance under the applicable LTIP, and the Participant and any Beneficiary shall be no more than unsecured general creditors of the Company with no special or prior right to any assets of the Company for payment of any obligations hereunder. 7. Certain Adjustments. In the event of any change in the number of outstanding shares of Common Stock by reason of any stock dividend, stock split, reorganization, merger, consolidation, exchange of shares or similar change, a corresponding change shall be made in the number of TSR Shares subject to this Agreement unless the Committee 4
makes a contrary determination, which it may do in its sole discretion and which, if done, shall be final and binding. 8. Applicable Law. This Agreement is intended to be governed by ERISA. In any case where ERISA does not apply, this Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania without reference to any choice of law principles. 9. Severability. If any provision of this Agreement shall be held to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable, that provision will be enforced to the maximum extent permissible and the legality, validity and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby. 10. Applicable LTIP Governs. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, the terms of this Agreement shall be subject to the terms of the applicable LTIP, a copy of which may be obtained by the Participant from the office of the Secretary of the Company. 11. Entire Agreement. This Agreement, including without limitation all documents incorporated by reference herein, contains all terms and conditions with respect to the subject matter hereof. 12. Amendment. Subject to the terms of the applicable LTIP, including any limitations on amendments thereof, this Agreement may be amended by written agreement of the Participant and the Company without the consent of any other person. 13. No Right to Further Awards. Neither this Agreement nor the grant of an Award to the Participant under the LTIPs shall confer upon the Participant any claim of right to be granted further Awards under the LTIPs or any other compensation plan or program of the Company. 14. No Rights as Shareholder. The Participant shall have no rights as a shareholder of the Company, including without limitation voting or dividend rights, with respect to an Award under the applicable LTIP unless and until shares of Common Stock are actually issued to the Participant with respect to such Award. 15. Taxes. The Company shall have the right to deduct, or to require the Participant or other person receiving a Payment under this Agreement to pay to the Company any Federal or state taxes required by law to be withheld or paid. 16. Successors of the Company. The rights and obligations of the Company under this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and shall be binding upon, the successors and assigns of the Company. PPG INDUSTRIES, INC. - ------------------------------------------------ By: C. W. Wise, Vice President, Human Resources 5


