FILE:PPG/PPG-8K-20050926170702.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
 
On September 26, 2005, PPG Industries, Inc. issued the press release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, which press release is incorporated by reference in its entirety into this Item 8.01.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
PPG declares force majeure for products at Lake Charles, La., chemicals complex
 
PITTSBURGH, Sept. 26, 2005  As a result of Hurricane Rita, PPG Industries' Lake Charles chemicals complex is temporarily not operating and PPG today declared a force majeure condition for all of its products manufactured at, and businesses located at, the facility.
 
The products affected by this force majeure condition include liquid caustic soda, chlorine,dry caustic soda beads, vinyl chloride, ethylene dichloride, ethyl chloride, perchloroethylene, trichloroethylene, 111 trichloroethane, chlorinated solvents and hydrogen.
Pels
VersaTRANS
 
The force majeure condition also affects all silica products and liquid sodium silicate produced at the facility.
 
At present, PPG is assessing the condition of the facility, its ability to obtain needed operational services and materials such as power and water, and the status of third-party logistics providers that have been affected by Hurricane Rita. As a result, the potential duration of this force majeure condition and its impact are unknown.
 
PPG sales and customer service representatives will be contacting customers to keep them informed of the status of this situation, and to discuss the impact of this situation on PPG's ability to meet customers' future product requirements.
 
and are trademarks of PPG Industries.
Pels
VersaTRANS
 


