FILE:PPG/PPG-8K-20050609150402.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On Wednesday, June 8, 2005, PPG Industries, Inc. issued the press releases filed herewith as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits
Exhibit 99.1 Press release of PPG Industries, Inc. dated June 8, 2005. Exhibit 99.2 Press release of PPG Industries, Inc. dated June 8, 2005.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
PPG Industries, Inc. announces preliminary results of tender offers
     PITTSBURGH, June 8, 2005  PPG Industries, Inc. (NYSE: PPG) today announced that as of 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on June 3, 2005 (the "Early Tender Date"), $101,506,000 in aggregate principal amount of its outstanding 6.500% notes due November 1, 2007 (the "2007 Notes"), $158,557,000 in aggregate principal amount of its outstanding 7.050% notes due August 15, 2009 (the "2009 Notes") and $52,225,000 of its outstanding 6.875% notes due February 15, 2012 (the "2012 Notes") had been tendered. Based on the 2007 Notes and 2009 Notes tendered as of the Early Tender Date, PPG expects to accept for purchase not more than $16,443,000 in aggregate principal amountof the 2012 Notes tendered pursuant to the contingent tender offer.
     The tender offers will expire at 11:59 p.m., New York City time, on Friday, June 17, 2005, unless extended and PPG will determine the exact number of 2012 Notes it will accept as soon as practicable thereafter. Notes of any series that have been tendered and not accepted for purchase by PPG in its sole discretion will be promptly returned.
     PPG's tender offers in respect of its 2007 Notes, 2009 Notes and 2012 Notes are being made upon and are subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Offer to Purchase dated May 20, 2005, and the related Letter of Transmittal. The total consideration, which will be paid for Notes validly tendered prior to 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on Friday, June 3, 2005, includes an early tender premium in the amount of $20 per $1,000 in principal amount of Notes. Consideration to be paid for Notes validly tendered at or after 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on Friday, June 3, 2005, and prior to 11:59 p.m., New York City time, on Friday, June 17, 2005, unless extended, will not include the early tender premium. The yield to maturity of the relevant U.S. Treasury Reference Security used in the applicable fixed spread formula will be set at 2 p.m., New York City time, on Wednesday, June 15, 2005, unless the offers are extended.
 
     The Dealer Managers for the offers are as follows:
     D.F. King & Co., Inc. is the Information Agent and can be contacted at (212) 269-5550 (collect) or (800) 628-8532 (toll free).
     PPG Industries, Inc. is a global supplier of coatings, glass, fiber glass and chemicals, with 108 manufacturing facilities and equity affiliates in more than 20 countries. PPG is the world's largest producer of transportation coatings and a leading maker of industrial, packaging and architectural coatings, aircraft transparencies, flat and fabricated glass, continuous-strand fiber glass, chlor-alkali and specialty chemicals.
     
This communication is for informational purposes only. It is not intended as an offer or solicitation for the purchase or sale of any financial instrument or as an official confirmation of any transaction. Any comments or statements made herein do not necessarily reflect those of Credit Suisse First Boston LLC, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Goldman, Sachs & Co., D.F. King & Co., Inc., or their respective subsidiaries and affiliates.
Statements contained herein relating to matters that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements reflecting PPG's current view with respect to future events and financial performance. These matters involve risks and uncertainties that may affect PPG's operations, as discussed in PPG's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Sections 13(a), 13(c) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. Accordingly, many factors may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements contained herein.
Such factors include increasing price and product competition by foreign and domestic competitors, fluctuations in cost and availability of raw materials, the ability to maintain favorable supplier relationships and arrangements, economic and political conditions in international markets, the ability to penetrate existing, developing and emerging foreign and domestic markets, which also depends on economic and political conditions, foreign exchange rates and fluctuations in such rates, and the unpredictability of existing and possible future litigation, including litigation that could result if the asbestos settlement discussed in PPG's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission does not become effective. However, it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, while the list of factors presented here is considered representative, no such list should be considered to be a complete statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. Unlisted factors may present significant additional obstacles to the realization of forward-looking statements.
Consequences of material differences in results compared with those anticipated in the forward-looking statements could include, among other things, business disruption, operational problems, financial loss, legal liability to third parties and similar risks, any of which could have a material adverse effect on PPG's consolidated financial condition, operations or liquidity.

 
Exhibit 99.2
PPG Industries, Inc. announces a 300 million international debt offering
PITTSBURGH, June 8, 2005  PPG Industries, Inc. (NYSE: PPG), today announced that it intends to offer 300,000,000 aggregate principal amount of senior notes due 2015. The notes will be offered and sold in offshore transactions outside the United States in reliance on Regulation S under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"). The sale of the notes is expected to close on or about June 23, 2005, subject to customary closing conditions. PPG has applied to list the notes on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange.
PPG intends to use the proceeds of the offering to satisfy any obligations incurred in connection with its offers to purchase for cash up to $275 million in aggregate principal amount of its 6.50% Notes due 2007, 7.05% Notes due 2009 and 6.875% Notes due 2012 pursuant to tender offers announced May 20, 2005, and for general corporate purposes.
This announcement is neither an offer to sell nor a solicitation of an offer to buy any securities and shall not constitute an offer, solicitation or sale in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale is unlawful.
The securities have not been registered under the Securities Act or any state securities laws, and unless so registered, may not be offered or sold in the United States except pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act and applicable state laws.
Statements contained herein relating to matters that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements (as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) reflecting PPG's current view with respect to future events and financial performance. These matters involve risks and uncertainties that may affect PPG's operations, as discussed in PPG's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Sections 13(a), 13(c) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
 
Accordingly, many factors may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements contained herein.
These forward-looking statements may include, but are not limited to, statements containing words such as "anticipate," "believe," "plan," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "target," "appears" and similar expressions. The forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that are, in some cases, beyond our control. Such factors include increasing price and product competition by foreign and domestic competitors, fluctuations in cost and availability of raw materials, the ability to maintain favorable supplier relationships and arrangements, economic and political conditions in international markets, the ability to penetrate existing, developing and emerging foreign and domestic markets, which also depends on economic and political conditions, foreign exchange rates and fluctuations in such rates, and the unpredictability of existing and possible future litigation, including litigation that could result if the asbestos settlement discussed in PPG's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission does not become effective. However, it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, while the list of factors presented here is considered representative, no such list should be considered to be a complete statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. Unlisted factors may present significant additional obstacles to the realization of forward-looking statements.
Consequences of material differences in results compared with those anticipated in the forward-looking statements could include, among other things, business disruption, operational problems, financial loss, legal liability to third parties and similar risks, any of which could have a material adverse effect on PPG's consolidated financial condition, operations or liquidity.
We caution investors that any forward-looking statements made by us are not guarantees of future performance. In particular, there can be no assurance that the proposed offering will be completed or that the proceeds will be used as presently intended. We disclaim any obligation to update any such factors or to announce publicly the results of any revisions to any of the forward-looking statements to reflect future events or developments.


