FILE:PPG/PPG-8K-20061226165102.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 5.04. Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans.
PPG Industries, Inc. (the "Company") previously sent a notice to participants in the Company's Employee Savings Plan (the "Savings Plan") informing them that the Savings Plan would be changing its recordkeeper. The notice stated that while this conversion is being made, participants in the Savings Plan would not be able access their accounts to direct or diversify their investments, obtain a loan from the Savings Plan or obtain a distribution from the Savings Plan. The notice also stated that participants would not be able to make investment changes in the Savings Plan starting on December 28, 2006 and ending on January 5, 2007. However, the Company has received notice from the administrators that the plan blackout period will not begin until 4:00 p.m. on December 29, 2006 and the Savings Plan participants have been informed of this change. This period is referred to as the "Blackout Period."
On December 26, 2006, pursuant to Section 306(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the SEC's rules promulgated thereunder, the Company sent an updated blackout trading restriction notice (the ""), which revised and updated the previous sent on December 13, 2006, informing its executive officers and directors of the change in the start of the Blackout Period from December 28 to December 29. Because the restrictions during the Blackout Period include restrictions on investment changes involving the Company's common stock held in the Savings Plan, the reiterates that the affected officers and directors will be prohibited during the Blackout Period from purchasing and selling shares of the Company's common stock (including derivative securities pertaining to such shares) acquired in connection with their employment as an executive officer or service as a director.
BTR Notice
BTR Notice
BTR Notice
A copy of the revised is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
BTR Notice
A participant in the Savings Plan, a security holder or other interested person may obtain, without charge, information regarding the Blackout Period, including the actual ending date of the Blackout Period, by contacting the Office of the General Counsel, PPG Industries, Inc., One PPG Place, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15272, at (412) 434-3131, before and during the Blackout Period and for a period of two years thereafter.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
You were previously informed of significant restrictions on your ability to trade any equity securities of PPG Industries, Inc. (the "Company") during an upcoming "blackout period" that will apply to the Company's Employee Savings Plan (the "Savings Plan"). The Savings Plan blackout period is being imposed because of the conversion to a new recordkeeper for the Savings Plan. The prior notice stated that the Savings Plan blackout period would begin on December 28, 2006 and end on January 5, 2007. (the "Savings Plan Blackout Period").
This updated notice is intended to inform you that the start of the Savings Plan blackout period has been changed to 4:00 p.m. on Friday, December 29, 2006
This special "blackout period" is imposed on executive officers and directors of the Company by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation BTR (Blackout Trading Restriction) and is in addition to the Company's blackout periods related to its earnings releases.
As described in the prior notice you received, during the Savings Plan Blackout Period, participants in the Savings Plan will not be able to access their accounts to direct or diversify their investments, obtain a loan from the Savings Plan or obtain a distribution from the Savings Plan.
In accordance with Section 306(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and Rule 104 of Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation BTR, the Company's directors and executive officers are prohibited  during the Savings Plan Blackout Period  from purchasing, selling, or otherwise acquiring or transferring, directly or indirectly, any equity security of the Company acquired in connection with his or her employment as an executive officer or services as a director with the Company.
Please note the following:
 
These rules apply in addition to the trading restrictions under the Company's insider trading policy. If you engage in a transaction that violates these rules, you may be required to disgorge your profits from the transaction, and you may be subject to civil and criminal penalties.
Because of the complexity of these rules and the severity of the penalties and other remedies, please contact the Office of the General Counsel before engaging in
any
transaction involving the Company's equity securities during the Savings Plan Blackout Period or if you have any questions about the Savings Plan Blackout Period and the information contained in this notice.


