FILE:PPG/PPG-8K-20071102163215.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
 
 
 
 
 
In the third quarter of 2007, PPG Industries, Inc. ("the Company") announced that it had entered into separate agreements to sell both its automotive glass and automotive replacement glass and services businesses and its fine chemicals business. Based on the third quarter commitments to sell these businesses, the Company determined that the accounting requirements of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets" for classifying these businesses as assets held for sale and reporting their results of operations and cash flows as discontinued operations were met. The condensed consolidated financial statements filed in the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2007 presented these businesses as assets held for sale and reported their results as discontinued operations. The financial information below presents the sales and earnings of the Company and of its reportable segments for the year ended December 31, 2006 and for all quarters in 2006 after adjustment to reclassify the results of operations of the automotive glass and automotive replacement glass and services businesses and fine chemicals business to discontinued operations.
Note A:
Legacy costs include current costs related to former operations of the Company, including certain environmental remediation, pension and other postretirement benefit costs and certain charges which are considered to be unusual or non-recurring. For the three months ended September 30, 2006, these costs included a pretax charge of $165 million for environmental remediation and a charge for the settlement of a legal matter of $23 million.
Note B:
Unallocated stock based compensation includes the cost of stock options, restricted stock units and contingent share grants which are not allocated to the operating segments.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


