FILE:PPG/PPG-8K-20071004142646.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
     On October 4, 2007, PPG Industries, Inc. ("PPG"), announced that its previously disclosed offer to acquire SigmaKalon (BC) HoldCo B.V. ("SigmaKalon") from global private investment firm Bain Capital had been accepted. Following the acceptance of the offer, PPG on October 4, 2007 entered into a definitive Agreement for the Sale and Purchase of SigmaKalon (the "SPA") with SigmaKalon LuxCo. 2, S.a.r.l. (the "Seller"), pursuant to which PPG will purchase the entire issued share capital of SigmaKalon. The total consideration to be paid by PPG is approximately 2.2 billion, consisting of cash in the amount of 717,000,000 and cash in the amount of US $617,400,000, and the assumption of existing indebtedness. A copy of the Company's press release announcing the SPA is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report and is incorporated by reference in this Item 1.01.
     The SPA contains certain limited warranties of the Seller customary in a stock purchase transaction in the secondary buyout market in Europe, and various covenants, regarding the conduct of SigmaKalon pending closing and certain steps to be taken by the Seller relating to the reorganization of certain interests at or around the time of closing. The SPA provides that in the event of a breach of any warranty by Seller under the SPA, PPG must submit any claim related to such breach within three months following closing and the aggregate liability of the Seller shall not exceed the total consideration received. Closing of the transactions contemplated by the SPA is subject to the receipt of regulatory approvals within 120 days of the date of the SPA (the "Outside Date"). In the event regulatory approvals have not been received by the Outside Date, the Seller, at its election, may take a number of actions, including terminating the SPA and requiring PPG to pay a termination fee of 50,000,000. PPG anticipates the closing will occur promptly after the receipt of regulatory approvals.
     The foregoing is a summary of the material terms of the SPA and not a complete discussion of the document. Accordingly, the foregoing is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the SPA, which will be filed as an exhibit to PPG's Annual Report on Form 10-K for its fiscal year ending December 31, 2007.
Item 1.02. Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
     On October 4, 2007, as a result of the execution of the SPA, the offer announced on July 19, 2007 by PPG to acquire SigmaKalon has been superseded by the SPA.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
Exhibit 99.1      Press release of PPG Industries, Inc. dated October 4, 2007.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
JOINT NEWS RELEASE
PPG Industries (NYSE:PPG) today announced that its offer to acquire SigmaKalon Group, a worldwide coatings producer, from global private investment firm Bain Capital has been accepted. PPG and Bain Capital signed a Sale and Purchase Agreement upon the completion of discussions with appropriate employee representative bodies.
PITTSBURGH, October 4, 2007 
The total transaction value, including assumed debt, is approximately 2.2 billion. The acquisition continues to be subject to receipt of regulatory approvals.
"The process of consulting with and obtaining advice from the relevant employee representative bodies was cooperative and constructive," said Michael H. McGarry, Vice President, Coatings, and Managing Director, PPG Europe. "As a result, we completed this phase of the process and are now seeking approvals from several regulatory agencies in Europe and elsewhere."
Based in Uithoorn, Netherlands, SigmaKalon produces architectural, protective, marine and industrial coatings, and is a leading coatings supplier in Europe and other key markets across the globe. The acquisition would give PPG a stronger, more balanced coatings business in Europe.
"We are pleased with how the sale process has progressed, and continue to be pleased with management's efforts to move the business forward," said Steve Barnes, Managing Director at Bain Capital based in Boston. "SigmaKalon has very successfully developed over the last four years into a best-in-class global coatings company, and we believe the combination with PPG will allow the company to continue  and in some areas accelerate  its successful strategy," added Walid Sarkis, a Managing Director at Bain Capital based in London.
Pittsburgh-based PPG is a global supplier of paints, coatings, chemicals, optical products, specialty materials, glass and fiber glass. The company employs more than 34,000 people and has 125 manufacturing facilities and equity affiliates in more than 25 countries. Sales in 2006 were $11 billion. PPG shares are traded on the New York and Philadelphia stock exchanges (symbol: PPG). For more information, visit .
About PPG
www.ppg.com
Bain Capital () is a global private investment firm that manages several pools of capital including private equity, venture capital, public equity and leveraged debt assets with approximately $50 billion in total assets under management. Since its inception in 1984, Bain Capital has made private equity investments and add-on acquisitions in over 250 companies around the world including such industrial and consumer products manufacturing companies as Brenntag, FCI, Sealy, Bombardier Recreational Products, Novacap, Innophos, Boart Longyear and FCI. Headquartered in Boston, Bain Capital has offices in London, New York, Munich, Tokyo, Hong Kong and Shanghai.
About Bain Capital
www.baincapital.com
 
Statements in this news release relating to matters that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements reflecting the company's current view with respect to future events or objectives and financial or operational performance or results. These matters involve risks and uncertainties as discussed in PPG Industries' periodic reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q, and its current reports on Form 8-K, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Accordingly, many factors could cause actual results to differ materially from the company's forward-looking statements.
Forward-Looking Statements
Among these factors are increasing price and product competition by foreign and domestic competitors, fluctuations in cost and availability of raw materials and energy, the ability to maintain favorable supplier relationships and arrangements, economic and political conditions in international markets, foreign exchange rates and fluctuations in such rates, the impact of environmental regulations, unexpected business disruptions and the unpredictability of possible future litigation, including litigation that could result if the asbestos settlement discussed in PPG's filings with the SEC does not become effective. However, it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, while the list of factors presented here is considered representative, no such list should be considered to be a complete statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. Unlisted factors may present significant additional obstacles to the realization of forward-looking statements.
Consequences of material differences in results as compared with those anticipated in the forward-looking statements could include, among other things, business disruption, operational problems, financial loss, legal liability to third parties and similar risks, any of which could have a material adverse effect on PPG's consolidated financial condition, operations or liquidity.
CONTACTS:
Media: Jack Maurer; (412) 434-2181; Investors: Vince Morales; (412) 434-3740;
For PPG:
jmaurer@ppg.com
vmorales@ppg.com
Alex Stanton, Stanton Crenshaw Communications; (212) 780-0701;
For Bain Capital :
alex@stantoncrenshaw.com


