FILE:PPG/PPG-8K-20070103165041.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 5.04. Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans.
PPG Industries, Inc. (the "Company") previously sent a notice to participants in the Company's Employee Savings Plan (the "Savings Plan") informing them that the Savings Plan would be changing its recordkeeper. The notice stated that while this conversion is being made, participants in the Savings Plan would not be able access their accounts to direct or diversify their investments, obtain a loan from the Savings Plan or obtain a distribution from the Savings Plan. The notice also stated that participants would not be able to make investment changes in the Savings Plan starting at 4:00 P.M. EST on December 29, 2006 and ending on January 5, 2007 (the "Blackout Period"). However, the Company has received notice from the administrators that the conversion process has been completed prior to the scheduled termination of the plan Blackout Period and the Savings Plan participants will have full access to their accounts for investment, loan and distribution purposes beginning on January 2, 2007, although due to closure of the markets any changes in investment elections or other plan account activity will not be effective until January 3, 2007.
On January 3, 2007, pursuant to Section 306(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the SEC's rules promulgated thereunder, the Company sent a revised blackout trading restriction notice (the ""), which revised and updated the previous sent on December 26, 2006, informing its executive officers and directors of the change in the ending date of the Blackout Period from January 5 to January 2. Accordingly, the revised informs the affected officers and directors that the prohibitions during the Blackout Period from purchasing and selling shares of the Company's common stock (including derivative securities pertaining to such shares) acquired in connection with their employment as an executive officer or service as a director are deemed to have ended as of January 3, 2007.
BTR Notice
BTR Notice
BTR Notice
A copy of the revised is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
BTR Notice
A participant in the Savings Plan, a security holder or other interested person may obtain, without charge, information regarding the Blackout Period, including the actual ending date of the Blackout Period, by contacting the Office of the General Counsel, PPG Industries, Inc., One PPG Place, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15272, at (412) 434-3131, before and during the Blackout Period and for a period of two years thereafter.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
You were previously informed of significant restrictions on your ability to trade any equity securities of PPG Industries, Inc. (the "Company") during a "blackout period" applicable to the Company's Employee Savings Plan (the "Savings Plan"). This special "blackout period" is imposed on executive officers and directors of the Company by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation BTR and is in addition to the Company's blackout periods related to its earnings releases.
The Savings Plan blackout period was imposed because of the conversion to a new recordkeeper for the Savings Plan. The Savings Plan blackout period was scheduled to begin at 4:00 PM EST on December 29, 2006 and end on January 5, 2007 (the "Savings Plan Blackout Period"). However, the Plan administrators have notified the Company that the recordkeeper conversion has been completed and the Plan blackout period was terminated as of January 2, 2007. However, due to the closure of markets on Tuesday, January 2, any changes to investment elections or other plan account activity will not be effective until January 3, 2007.
Accordingly, as of January 3, 2007, the Company's directors and executive officers are no longer prohibited solely as a result of the Savings Plan Blackout Period from purchasing, selling, or otherwise acquiring or transferring, directly or indirectly, any equity security of the Company acquired in connection with his or her employment as an executive officer or services as a director with the Company.
Please note that the expiration of the Savings Plan Blackout Period has no effect on the trading restrictions under the Company's insider trading policy, which continue to apply.
If you have any questions about this notice, please contact the Office of the General Counsel.


