FILE:PPG/PPG-8K-20070917164931.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On September 13, 2007, PPG Industries, Inc. announced that it had agreed to sell to Platinum Equity, a California-based private equity firm, the Company's original equipment manufacture (OEM) glass and automotive replacement glass and services businesses for approximately $500 million.
On September 17, 2007, the Company announced it had agreed to sell to ZaCh Systems S.p.A., the fine chemicals subsidiary of Zambon Company S.p.A., Milan, Italy, the Company's fine chemicals business for approximately $65 million.
Copies of the Company's press releases announcing these transactions are attached hereto as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively, and are incorporated by reference in this Item 8.01.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
PPG to sell auto glass businesses to Platinum Equity for approximately $500 million
Divestiture reinforces PPG focus on coatings, specialty products
PITTSBURGH, Sept. 13, 2007  PPG Industries (NYSE: PPG) has signed an agreement with Platinum Equity of Beverly Hills, Calif., under which the company would divest its automotive original equipment manufacture (OEM) glass and automotive replacement glass (ARG) and services businesses. The total sales price for the businesses being divested is approximately $500 million before minority interest. The transaction is expected to result in a slight book gain upon closing and charges to income totaling $0.20 to $0.25 per share to be recorded over the next few quarters.
Under the terms of the agreement, an affiliate of Platinum Equity will acquire the businesses' assets. Completion of the transaction is expected in the fourth quarter and is subject to customary closing conditions, including receipt of required regulatory approvals.
"This transaction is a significant milestone in PPG's continued transformation to focus on coatings and specialty products, and it will significantly reduce PPG's exposure to the U.S. automotive market," said Charles E. Bunch, PPG chairman and chief executive officer. "This sale will also provide us with more resources to pursue profitable growth in coatings, aerospace, optical products and opportunities in Asia."
Bunch added that the divestiture puts the auto glass businesses in a better position to compete by providing a strong platform from which they can maximize profitable growth.
"Moving ahead," Bunch noted, "we will continue the strategic review our portfolio of businesses with the ongoing objectives of maximizing profitable growth, cash generation and shareholder value."
The automotive OEM glass business unit supplies windshields, rear and side windows, sunroofs and assemblies for auto and truck manufacturers. The ARG and services business unit supplies and distributes replacement automotive glass products for use in the aftermarket. It also provides insurance claim services through its LYNX Services subsidiary, glass management software through its GTS subsidiary, and e-business solutions through its GLAXIS subsidiary.
The automotive glass businesses manufacture and fabricate automotive glass products in nine North American plants located in Berea, Ky.; Creighton, Meadville and Tipton, Pa.; Crestline, Ohio; Evansville, Ind.; Evart, Mich.; and Hawkesbury and Oshawa, Ont., Canada. In addition, there are nine satellite parts assembly plants, and there are LYNX Services claims management centers in Fort Myers, Fla., and Paducah, Ky. Combined, the businesses employ approximately 4,400 people.
 
About PPG
Pittsburgh-based PPG is a global supplier of industrial coatings, applied coatings, specialty chemicals, commodity chemicals and glass. The company employs nearly 34,000 people and has 125 manufacturing facilities and equity affiliates in more than 25 countries. Sales in 2006 were $11 billion. PPG shares are traded on the New York and Philadelphia stock exchanges (symbol: PPG). For more information, visit www.ppg.com.
About Platinum Equity
Platinum Equity is a global M&A&O firm specializing in the merger, acquisition and operation of companies that provide services and solutions to customers in a broad range of business markets, including information technology, telecommunications, industrials, logistics, manufacturing and entertainment distribution. Since its founding in 1995 by Tom Gores, Platinum Equity has completed more than 70 acquisitions with more than $17 billion in aggregate annual revenue at the time of acquisition. For more information, visit www.platinumequity.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
Statements in this news release relating to matters that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements reflecting the company's current view with respect to future events or objectives and financial or operational performance or results. These matters involve risks and uncertainties as discussed in PPG Industries' periodic reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q, and its current reports on Form 8-K, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Accordingly, many factors could cause actual results to differ materially from the company's forward-looking statements.
Among these factors are increasing price and product competition by foreign and domestic competitors, fluctuations in cost and availability of raw materials and energy, the ability to maintain favorable supplier relationships and arrangements, economic and political conditions in international markets, foreign exchange rates and fluctuations in such rates, the impact of environmental regulations, unexpected business disruptions and the unpredictability of possible future litigation, including litigation that could result if the asbestos settlement discussed in PPG's filings with the SEC does not become effective. However, it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, while the list of factors presented here is considered representative, no such list should be considered to be a complete statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. Unlisted factors may present significant additional obstacles to the realization of forward-looking statements.
Consequences of material differences in results as compared with those anticipated in the forward-looking statements could include, among other things, business disruption, operational problems, financial loss, legal liability to third parties and similar risks, any of which could have a material adverse effect on PPG's consolidated financial condition, operations or liquidity.

 
Exhibit 99.2
ZaCh System S.p.A., subsidiary of Zambon Company, to acquire business assets
PPG to sell fine chemicals business for approximately $65 million
PITTSBURGH, Sept. 17, 2007  PPG Industries (NYSE: PPG) has signed an agreement with ZaCh System S.p.A., the fine chemicals subsidiary of Zambon Company S.p.A., Milan, Italy, under which the company would divest its fine chemicals business for approximately $65 million. The transaction would include a book charge to income of less than $0.15 per share. Completion of the transaction is expected in the fourth quarter and is subject to customary closing conditions, including discussions with appropriate employee representative bodies in Europe and receipt of required regulatory approvals.
"Following last week's announcement of our potential divestiture of our auto glass businesses, this transaction is yet another step toward achieving PPG's vision of continuing to be the leading coatings and specialty products and services company," said Charles E. Bunch, PPG chairman and chief executive officer.
"The acquisition of PPG's fine chemicals business is consistent with Zambon Company's continuing desire to expand its global presence," said Gianni Marini, ZaCh System board chairman and Zambon Company board member. "We are quite pleased to acquire a PPG business that is recognized as a technology leader, with manufacturing locations in Europe and the United States, reinforcing our custom synthesis business strategy and the value of Zambon research competence."
PPG facilities included in the agreement are a pharmaceutical fine chemicals plant in LaPorte, Texas, and the PPG-Sipsy facility in Avrille, France. The pharmaceutical fine chemicals plant in LaPorte operates separately from PPG's adjacent phosgene derivatives facility there, of which PPG will retain operation. The fine chemicals business employs approximately 360 people.
Pittsburgh-based PPG is a global supplier of paints, coatings, chemicals, optical products, specialty materials, glass and fiber glass. The company employs nearly 34,000 people and has 125 manufacturing facilities and equity affiliates in more than 25 countries. Sales in 2006 were $11 billion. PPG shares are traded on the New York and Philadelphia stock exchanges (symbol: PPG). For more information, visit www.ppg.com.
About PPG
Milan-based ZaCh System S.p.A., with manufacturing in Lonigo (Vicenza), is the fine chemicals subsidiary of Zambon Company S.p.A. Zambon Company is a leading pharmaceutical and chemical multinational with a reputation for inventive and innovative thinking, flexibility and customer focus. Operating directly on three continents  Europe, South America and Asia  with
About ZaCh System S.p.A., and Zambon Company S.p.A.
 
more than 2,300 employees in 16 countries and consolidated sales of 480m, Zambon is a multicultural group with close links to its local markets and the international research community. These strengths, combined with diversified research, product and distribution-channel strategies, ensure that the Zambon Company consistently outperforms its competitors and the market. Founded in Vicenza in 1906, the company values its track record of having initiated trends on the leading edge of the industry and is proud of the rich portfolio of products with which it improves the quality of life of thousands of people worldwide. Zambon's leading brand names are Flumicil, Monuril and Spedifen.
Statements in this news release relating to matters that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements reflecting the company's current view with respect to future events or objectives and financial or operational performance or results. These matters involve risks and uncertainties as discussed in PPG Industries' periodic reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q, and its current reports on Form 8-K, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Accordingly, many factors could cause actual results to differ materially from the company's forward-looking statements.
Forward-Looking Statements
Among these factors are increasing price and product competition by foreign and domestic competitors, fluctuations in cost and availability of raw materials and energy, the ability to maintain favorable supplier relationships and arrangements, economic and political conditions in international markets, foreign exchange rates and fluctuations in such rates, the impact of environmental regulations, unexpected business disruptions and the unpredictability of possible future litigation, including litigation that could result if the asbestos settlement discussed in PPG's filings with the SEC does not become effective. However, it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, while the list of factors presented here is considered representative, no such list should be considered to be a complete statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. Unlisted factors may present significant additional obstacles to the realization of forward-looking statements.
Consequences of material differences in results as compared with those anticipated in the forward-looking statements could include, among other things, business disruption, operational problems, financial loss, legal liability to third parties and similar risks, any of which could have a material adverse effect on PPG's consolidated financial condition, operations or liquidity.


