FILE:PPG/PPG-8K-20080924120703.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.05. Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities.
On September 18, 2008, the Board of Directors of PPG Industries, Inc. (the "Company") approved a restructuring plan which is expected to result in approximately $100 million in pre-tax annual cost savings for the Company. The restructuring initiative is part of PPG's global transformation and the integration of its acquisition of SigmaKalon completed on January 2, 2008. The restructuring actions will streamline the Company's worldwide manufacturing footprint and staffing levels which have grown following its recent acquisitions, the most notable of which is SigmaKalon. Elements of the restructuring initiative are part of the Company's plan to achieve the cost synergies it set in acquiring SigmaKalon, adjust the Company's cost structure and better align it with geographic changes in its customer base, enabling the Company to maintain its competitive strengths in the end-markets in which it participates.
A pre-tax charge of approximately $160 million, or $0.65 per share, will be recorded in the Company's third quarter 2008 financial results. The $160 million is comprised of employee severance costs of approximately $73 million, asset write-offs of approximately $67 million and pension curtailment losses of approximately $20 million.
In addition, the actions related to the integration of the SigmaKalon businesses have a cost of approximately $25 million, and will result in an increase in goodwill. The combination of these actions is expected to result in pre-tax cost savings at an annual run-rate of approximately $100 million by the end of 2009. The cash outlay for these actions is expected to total approximately $100 million.
The Company will also incur additional expenses of approximately $15 million that are directly associated with the restructuring actions but, based on U. S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, these costs will be charged to expense as incurred and therefore not part of a restructuring reserve. The company expects to incur these additional, related expenses in the second half of 2009.
As part of the restructuring initiative, several of the Company's manufacturing facilities in the United States, Canada and Europe will be impacted as detailed is the Company's September 24, 2008 press release, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference in this Item 2.05.
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On September 24, 2008, the Company issued a press release regarding its earnings for the third quarter of 2008. A copy of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated by reference in this Item 8.01.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
 
Company will take pretax charge of approximately $160 million in third quarter
PPG to restructure manufacturing, reduce staffing to save $100 million annually
     PITTSBURGH, Sept. 24, 2008  PPG Industries (NYSE:PPG) today announced a restructuring plan that is expected to result in approximately $100 million in pretax annual cost savings for the company. The restructuring initiative is part of PPG's global transformation and the integration of its acquisition of SigmaKalon, completed Jan. 2. The company stated its intent to pursue restructuring actions in its latest 10-Q filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. As part of the initiative, several PPG manufacturing units and facilities in the United States, Canada and Europe will be impacted.
     "The actions we are taking will streamline our worldwide manufacturing footprint and staffing levels following our recent acquisitions, the most notable of which is SigmaKalon," said Charles E. Bunch, PPG chairman and chief executive officer. "Elements of this initiative are part of our plan to achieve the cost synergies we set in acquiring SigmaKalon. We will also adjust our cost structure and better align it with geographic changes in our customer base, enabling us to maintain our competitive strengths in the end markets in which we participate."
     As part of the restructuring, PPG will close several coatings manufacturing facilities, including those in Clarkson, Ont., Canada, and Geldermalsen, Netherlands, which are anticipated to close in the second and third quarters 2009, respectively. The Geldermalsen closure will be implemented following consultation with the applicable works council. Other staffing reductions will occur in PPG's coatings businesses in North America and Europe.
     PPG also will close its Owen Sound, Ont., Canada, glass manufacturing facility in early 2009, and will idle one float glass production line at its Mt. Zion, Ill., facility in the second quarter next year. Other actions will include writing off idle production assets in PPG's fiber glass and chemicals businesses.
     A pretax charge of approximately $160 million, or 65 cents per share, will be recorded in the company's third quarter 2008 financial results. In addition, actions related to the integration of the SigmaKalon businesses have a cost of approximately $25 million and will result in an increase in goodwill. The combination of these actions is expected to result in pretax cost savings at an annual run-rate of about $100 million by the end of 2009. The cash outlay for these actions is expected to total approximately $100 million.
     Bunch said PPG continues to evaluate opportunities to strengthen its global businesses, which may result in additional restructuring actions and related cost savings in 2009.
 
     The company also will incur additional expenses of approximately $15 million directly associated with the restructuring actions but, based on U. S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, these costs will be charged to expense as incurred and therefore are not part of a restructuring reserve. The company expects to incur these additional, related expenses in the second half of 2009.
      Pittsburgh-based PPG is a global supplier of paints, coatings, chemicals, optical products, specialty materials, glass and fiber glass. The company has more than 150 manufacturing facilities and equity affiliates and operates in more than 60 countries. PPG shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange (symbol: PPG). For more information, visit www.ppg.com.
About PPG
      Statements in this news release relating to matters that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements reflecting the company's current view with respect to future events or objectives and financial or operational performance or results. These matters involve risks and uncertainties as discussed in PPG Industries' periodic reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q, and its current reports on Form 8-K, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Accordingly, many factors could cause actual results to differ materially from the company's forward-looking statements.
Forward-Looking Statements
     Among these factors are increasing price and product competition by foreign and domestic competitors, fluctuations in cost and availability of raw materials and energy, the ability to maintain favorable supplier relationships and arrangements, difficulties in integrating acquired businesses and achieving expected synergies therefrom, economic and political conditions in international markets, foreign exchange rates and fluctuations in such rates, the impact of environmental regulations, unexpected business disruptions and the unpredictability of possible future litigation, including litigation that could result if the asbestos settlement discussed in PPG's filings with the SEC does not become effective. However, it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, while the list of factors presented here is considered representative, no such list should be considered to be a complete statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. Unlisted factors may present significant additional obstacles to the realization of forward-looking statements.
     Consequences of material differences in results as compared with those anticipated in the forward-looking statements could include, among other things, business disruption, operational problems, financial loss, legal liability to third parties and similar risks, any of which could have a material adverse effect on PPG's consolidated financial condition, operations or liquidity.

Exhibit 99.2
 
PPG provides information on third quarter 2008 financial results
PITTSBURGH, Sept. 24, 2008  PPG Industries (NYSE:PPG) announced today that its third quarter 2008 financial results will be affected negatively by several non-recurring items, including impacts from weather-related events, and by further deterioration in the automotive original equipment manufacture (OEM) market. The company said these items will likely affect its third quarter aftertax earnings negatively by between $35 million and $40 million, or 20 cents and 25 cents per share.
During the quarter, PPG declared force majeure twice for chlor-alkali products due to shutdowns at its Lake Charles, La., chemicals complex from hurricanes Gustav and Ike. PPG completed a facility shutdown Aug. 30, in preparation for Hurricane Gustav and returned to normal operations Sept. 8, but it remained under force majeure for several major products, including caustic soda, due in part to low inventory. The path of Hurricane Ike prompted a second shutdown of the facility Sept. 11, and while weather damage at the facility was minimal, production startup and operating rates were notably impacted due to customer facility startup and logistics issues stemming from the hurricane plus availability of key raw materials. Production recently reached rates slightly below normal.
The company also declared force majeure on architectural, residential and specialty glass manufactured at its Wichita Falls, Texas, facility. Heavy rains caused significant flooding at the plant and damaged one of the two flat glass production lines, which requires repairs anticipated to take several months. Weather issues also resulted in the shutdown of the company's La Porte, Texas, facility, which resulted in a force majeure declaration for phosgene derivative products. That force majeure declaration was recently rescinded.
In addition, The Boeing Company, a PPG aerospace products customer, is currently experiencing an employee work stoppage that began Sept. 6. This is resulting in delayed orders for coatings and transparencies.
"Several non-recurring items, including the effect from two hurricanes in the U.S. Gulf Coast, combined with softness in the automotive OEM market will negatively impact our third quarter financial results," said William H. Hernandez, PPG senior vice president, finance, and chief financial officer. "Our restructuring initiative detailed today will, in part, enable our automotive coatings business to lower its cost structure in response to fundamental shifts in the industry. We expect the majority of the financial impact stemming from the non-recurring items to be isolated to our third quarter results, and we remain satisfied with the expected third quarter performance of the rest of our portfolio."
 
PPG will report third quarter earnings Oct. 16.
Pittsburgh-based PPG is a global supplier of paints, coatings, chemicals, optical products, specialty materials, glass and fiber glass. The company has more than 150 manufacturing facilities and equity affiliates and operates in more than 60 countries. PPG shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange (symbol: PPG). For more information, visit www.ppg.com.
About PPG
Statements in this news release relating to matters that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements reflecting the company's current view with respect to future events or objectives and financial or operational performance or results. These matters involve risks and uncertainties as discussed in PPG Industries' periodic reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q, and its current reports on Form 8-K, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Accordingly, many factors could cause actual results to differ materially from the company's forward-looking statements.
Forward-Looking Statements
Among these factors are increasing price and product competition by foreign and domestic competitors, fluctuations in cost and availability of raw materials and energy, the ability to maintain favorable supplier relationships and arrangements, difficulties in integrating acquired businesses and achieving expected synergies therefrom, economic and political conditions in international markets, foreign exchange rates and fluctuations in such rates, the impact of environmental regulations, unexpected business disruptions and the unpredictability of possible future litigation, including litigation that could result if the asbestos settlement discussed in PPG's filings with the SEC does not become effective. However, it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, while the list of factors presented here is considered representative, no such list should be considered to be a complete statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. Unlisted factors may present significant additional obstacles to the realization of forward-looking statements.
Consequences of material differences in results as compared with those anticipated in the forward-looking statements could include, among other things, business disruption, operational problems, financial loss, legal liability to third parties and similar risks, any of which could have a material adverse effect on PPG's consolidated financial condition, operations or liquidity.


