FILE:PPG/PPG-8K-20080428140358.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On April 28, 2008, PPG Industries, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that Kevin F. Sullivan, Senior Vice President, Chemicals will retire from the Company. A copy of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.
In connection with his decision to retire from the Company, on April 24, 2008, the Company entered into a verbal retirement arrangement with Mr. Sullivan, the material terms of which are set forth on Exhibit 10 attached hereto and incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
r
Exhibit 10
The retirement arrangement between PPG Industries, Inc. and Kevin F. Sullivan, entered into as of April 24, 2008, was a verbal agreement. The material terms of the agreement are set forth below.

 
Exhibit 99
PPG Senior Vice President Sullivan to retire
PITTSBURGH, April 28, 2008  Kevin Sullivan, senior vice president, chemicals, announced today that he will retire from PPG Industries (NYSE:PPG). He will transition his responsibilities as of July 1.
"Kevin's contributions to both our chemicals and fiber glass businesses over the years have been significant and his natural business acumen will be missed," said Charles E. Bunch, chairman and chief executive officer. "On the personal side, I am happy for him and wish him the best in his well-earned retirement."
Sullivan joined PPG's fiber glass business in 1973 as a management trainee and worked as a sales representative in Atlanta and Cleveland before returning to Pittsburgh in 1981 as reinforcements marketing manager. He was named Cincinnati zone sales manager the following year, and director of fiber glass sales in 1985.
In 1990, Sullivan was appointed general manager, fiber glass reinforcements, and in 1997 he was elected vice president, fiber glass. He became vice president, chemicals, in 2002 and senior vice president, chemicals, in 2005.
A native of Baltimore, Sullivan graduated from Franklin and Marshall College, Lancaster, Pa., and received a master's degree in business administration from Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland.
About PPG
Pittsburgh-based PPG is a global supplier of paints, coatings, chemicals, optical products, specialty materials, glass and fiber glass. The company has more than 150 manufacturing facilities and equity affiliates and operates in more than 60 countries. PPG's sales in 2007 were $11.2 billion. SigmaKalon, a worldwide coatings producer based in Uithoorn, Netherlands, that PPG acquired Jan. 2, 2008, had 2007 sales of $2.9 billion. PPG shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange (symbol: PPG). For more information, visit
www.ppg.com.


