FILE:PPG/PPG-8K-20080318091830.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into Material Definitive Agreement.
     On March 18, 2008, PPG Industries, Inc. (the "Company") completed a public offering of $600,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of its 5.75% Notes due 2013 (the "2013 Notes"), $700,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of its 6.65% Notes due 2018 (the "2018 Notes") and $250,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of its 7.70% Notes due 2038 (the "2038 Notes" and, together with the 2013 Notes and the 2018 Notes, the "Notes"). The Notes were offered by the Company pursuant to its Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-145063), filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 2, 2007 and supplemented by the Prospectus Supplement dated March 13, 2008.
     The Company entered into an Underwriting Agreement, dated March 13, 2008, among the Company and Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, as representatives of the underwriters named therein (the "Underwriters"), in connection with the issuance and sale by the Company of the Notes. Pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement and subject to the terms and conditions expressed therein, the Company agreed to sell the Notes to the Underwriters, and the Underwriters agreed to purchase the Notes for resale to the public. The Company sold the 2013 Notes to the Underwriters at an issue price of 99.400% of the principal amount thereof, and the Underwriters offered the 2013 Notes to the public at a price of 99.949% of the principal amount thereof. The Company sold the 2018 Notes to the Underwriters at an issue price of 99.350% of the principal amount thereof, and the Underwriters offered the 2018 Notes to the public at a price of 99.950% of the principal amount thereof. The Company sold the 2038 Notes to the Underwriters at an issue price of 99.125% of the principal amount thereof, and the Underwriters offered the 2038 Notes to the public at a price of 99.433% of the principal amount thereof. Interest is payable on the Notes on each March 15 and September 15, commencing on September 15, 2008. Pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement, the Company has also agreed to indemnify the Underwriters and certain controlling persons against certain liabilities, including certain liabilities under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and to contribute to payments if the Underwriters are required to make any payments in respect of any of these liabilities.
     The Notes were issued pursuant to an Indenture, dated as of March 18, 2008 (the "Original Indenture"), between the Company and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (the "Trustee"), as supplemented by a Supplemental Indenture as to the Notes, dated as of March 18, 2008, between the Company and the Trustee (the "Supplemental Indenture" and, together with the Original Indenture, the "Indenture"). The Company may issue additional debt from time to time pursuant to the Original Indenture. The Indenture governing the Notes contains covenants that limit the Company's ability to, among other things, incur certain liens securing indebtedness, engage in certain sale-leaseback transactions, and enter into certain consolidations, mergers, conveyances, transfers or leases of all or substantially all the Company's assets. The terms of the Notes also require the Company to make an offer to repurchase Notes upon a Change of Control Triggering Event (as defined in the Supplemental Indenture) at a price equal to 101% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest.
     The Company intends to use the net proceeds from the offering of the Notes to repay the 1 billion bridge loan entered into with multiple lenders and Credit Suisse as administrative agent for those lenders, in connection with the recently completed acquisition of the SigmaKalon Group and for other general corporate purposes of the Company.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 1.1
March 13, 2008
Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, As Representatives of the Several Underwriters, c/o Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC,           Eleven Madison Avenue,           New York, N.Y. 10010-3629
Dear Sirs:
          1. . PPG Industries, Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation (""), agrees with the several Underwriters named in Schedule A hereto ("") to issue and sell to the several Underwriters $600,000,000 principal amount of its 5.75% Senior Notes due 2013 (the ""), $700,000,000 principal amount of its 6.65% Senior Notes due 2018 (the "") and $250,000,000 principal amount of its 7.70% Senior Notes due 2038 (the "") (collectively, the "" or ""), all to be issued under an indenture, dated as of March 18, 2008 and as supplemented through the Closing Date (""), between the Company and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee.
Introductory
Company
Underwriters
2013 Notes
2018 Notes
2038 Notes
Securities
Offered Securities
Indenture
          2. . The Company represents and warrants to, and agrees with, the several Underwriters that:
Representations and Warranties of the Company
     (a) . The Company has filed with the Commission a registration statement on Form S-3 (No. 333 - 145063), including a related prospectus or prospectuses, covering the registration of the Offered Securities under the Act, which has become effective. "" at any particular time means such registration statement in the form then filed with the Commission, including any amendment thereto, any document incorporated by reference therein and all 430B Information and all 430C Information with respect to such registration statement, that in any case has not been superseded or modified. "" without reference to a time means the Registration Statement as of the Effective Time. For purposes of this definition, 430B Information shall be considered to be included in the Registration Statement as of the time specified in Rule 430B.
Filing and Effectiveness of Registration Statement; Certain Defined Terms
Registration Statement
Registration Statement
     For purposes of this Agreement:
 
     "" means information included in a prospectus then deemed to be a part of the Registration Statement pursuant to Rule 430B(e) or retroactively deemed to be a part of the Registration Statement pursuant to Rule 430B(f).
430B Information
     "" means information included in a prospectus then deemed to be a part of the Registration Statement pursuant to Rule 430C.
430C Information
     "" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Act
     "" means 2:15 pm (Eastern time) on the date of this Agreement.
Applicable Time
     "" has the meaning defined in Section 3 hereof.
Closing Date
     "" means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Commission
     "" of the Registration Statement relating to the Offered Securities means the time of the first contract of sale for the Offered Securities.
Effective Time
     "" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
     "" means the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder.
FCPA
     "" means the Statutory Prospectus that discloses the public offering price, other 430B Information and other final terms of the Offered Securities and otherwise satisfies Section 10(a) of the Act.
Final Prospectus
     "" means any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus that is intended for general distribution to prospective investors, as evidenced by its being so specified in Schedule B to this Agreement.
General Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
     "" means any "issuer free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 433, prepared by or on behalf of the Company relating to the Offered Securities in the form filed or required to be filed with the Commission or, if not required to be filed, in the form retained in the Company's records pursuant to Rule 433(g).
Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
     "" means any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus that is not a General Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus.
Limited Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
     "" means SigmaKalon (BC) Holdco B.V.; PPG Industries Ohio, Inc.; PPG Industries Securities, Inc.; PRC-DeSoto International, Inc.; PPG Luxembourg Finance S.aR.L.; PPG Industries Europe SarL and PPG Architectural Finishes, Inc.
Material Subsidiary
     "" means the rules and regulations of the Commission.
Rules and Regulations
     "" means, collectively, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (""), the Act, the Exchange Act, the Trust Indenture Act, the Rules and Regulations, the auditing principles, rules, standards and practices applicable to auditors of "issuers" (as defined in Sarbanes-Oxley) promulgated or approved by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board to the extent such principles, rules, standards and practices apply to the "issuer" as opposed to the auditor and, as applicable, the rules of the New York Stock Exchange and the NASDAQ Stock Market ("").
Securities Laws
Sarbanes-Oxley
Exchange Rules
     "" with reference to any particular time means the prospectus relating to the Offered Securities that is included in the Registration Statement immediately prior to that time, including all 430B Information and all 430C Information with respect to the Registration Statement. For purposes of the foregoing definition, 430B Information shall be considered to be included in the Statutory Prospectus only as of the actual time that form of prospectus (including a prospectus supplement) is filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b) or Rule 462(c) and not retroactively.
Statutory Prospectus
     "" means the consolidated subsidiaries of the Company.
subsidiary
 
     "" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939.
Trust Indenture Act
     Unless otherwise specified, a reference to a "rule" is to the indicated rule under the Act.
     (b) . (i) (A) At the time the Registration Statement initially became effective, (B) at the time of each amendment thereto for the purposes of complying with Section 10(a)(3) of the Act (whether by post-effective amendment, incorporated report or form of prospectus), (C) at the Effective Time relating to the Offered Securities and (D) on the Closing Date, the Registration Statement conformed and will conform in all respects to the requirements of the Act, the Trust Indenture Act and the Rules and Regulations and did not and will not include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading and (ii) (A) on its date, (B) at the time of filing the Final Prospectus pursuant to Rule 424(b) and (C) on the Closing Date, the Final Prospectus will conform in all respects to the requirements of the Act, the Trust Indenture Act and the Rules and Regulations, and will not include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The first sentence of this Section 1(b) does not apply to (i) that part of the Registration Statement which constitutes the Statement of Eligibility and Qualification ("") of the Trustee under the Trust Indenture Act or (ii) statements in or omissions from any such document based upon written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information is that described as such in Section 8(b) hereof.
Compliance with Securities Act Requirements
Form T-1
     (c) . (i) . (A) At the time of initial filing of the Registration Statement, (B) at the time of the most recent amendment thereto for the purposes of complying with Section 10(a)(3) of the Act (whether such amendment was by post-effective amendment, incorporated report filed pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act or form of prospectus), and (C) at the time the Company or any person acting on its behalf (within the meaning, for this clause only, of Rule 163(c)) made any offer relating to the Offered Securities in reliance on the exemption of Rule 163, the Company was a "well known seasoned issuer" as defined in Rule 405, including not having been an "ineligible issuer" as defined in Rule 405.
Automatic Shelf Registration Statement
Well-Known Seasoned Issuer Status
     (ii) . The Registration Statement is an "automatic shelf registration statement," as defined in Rule 405, that initially became effective within three years of the date of this Agreement.
Effectiveness of Automatic Shelf Registration Statement
     (iii) . The Company has not received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form. If at any time when Offered Securities remain unsold by the Underwriters the Company receives from the Commission a notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) or otherwise ceases to be eligible to use the automatic shelf registration statement form, the Company will (i) promptly notify the Lead Underwriter, (ii) promptly file a new registration statement or post-effective amendment on the proper form relating to the Offered Securities, in a form satisfactory to the Lead Underwriter, (iii) use its best efforts to cause such registration statement or post-effective amendment to be declared effective as soon as practicable, and (iv) promptly notify the Lead Underwriter of such effectiveness. The Company will take all other action necessary or appropriate to permit the public offering and sale of the Offered Securities to continue as contemplated in the registration statement that was the subject of the Rule 401(g)(2) notice or for which the Company has otherwise become ineligible. References herein to the Registration Statement shall include such new registration statement or post-effective amendment, as the case may be.
Eligibility to Use Automatic Shelf Registration Form
 
     (iv) . The Company has paid or shall pay the required Commission filing fees relating to the Offered Securities within the time required by Rule 456(b)(1) and otherwise in accordance with Rules 456(b) and 457(r).
Filing Fees
     (d) . (i) At the earliest time after the filing of the Registration Statement that the Company or another offering participant made a bona fide offer (within the meaning of Rule 164(h)(2)) of the Offered Securities and (ii) at the date of this Agreement, the Company was not and is not an "ineligible issuer," as defined in Rule 405, including (x) the Company or any other subsidiary in the preceding three years not having been convicted of a felony or misdemeanor or having been made the subject of a judicial or administrative decree or order as described in Rule 405 and (y) the Company in the preceding three years not having been the subject of a bankruptcy petition or insolvency or similar proceeding, not having had a registration statement be the subject of a proceeding under Section 8 of the Act and not being the subject of a proceeding under Section 8A of the Act in connection with the offering of the Securities, all as described in Rule 405.
Ineligible Issuer Status
     (e) . As of the Applicable Time, neither (i) the General Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus(es) issued at or prior to the Applicable Time and, the preliminary prospectus supplement, dated March 12, 2008, including the base prospectus, dated August 2, 2007 (which is the most recent Statutory Prospectus distributed to investors generally), and the other information, if any, stated in Schedule B to this Agreement to be included in the General Disclosure Package, all considered together (collectively, the ""), nor (ii) any individual Limited Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, when considered together with the General Disclosure Package, included any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The preceding sentence does not apply to statements in or omissions from the General Disclosure Package, any Statutory Prospectus or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter consists of the information described as such in Section 8(b) hereof.
General Disclosure Package
General Disclosure Package
     (f) . Each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, as of its issue date and at all subsequent times through the completion of the public offer and sale of the Offered Securities or until any earlier date that the Company notified or notifies Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC ("") as described in the next sentence, did not, does not and will not include any information that conflicted, conflicts or will conflict with the information then contained in the Registration Statement. If at any time following issuance of an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus there occurred or occurs an event or development as a result of which such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus conflicted or would conflict with the information then contained in the Registration Statement or as a result of which such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, if republished immediately following such event or development, would include an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or would omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, (i) the Company has promptly notified or will promptly notify Credit Suisse and (ii) the Company has promptly amended or will promptly amend or supplement such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus to eliminate or correct such conflict, untrue statement or omission.
Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses
Credit Suisse
     (g) . The Company has been duly incorporated and is existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Pennsylvania, with power and authority (corporate and other) to own its properties and conduct its business as described in the General Disclosure Package; and the Company is duly qualified to do business as a foreign corporation in good standing in all other jurisdictions in which its ownership or lease of property
Good Standing of the Company
 
or the conduct of its business requires such qualification, other than where the failure to be so qualified or in good standing would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the condition (financial or otherwise), results of operations, business or properties of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole ("").
Material Adverse Effect
     (h) . Each of the Company's Material Subsidiaries has been duly incorporated and is validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation (where such concept is recognized under such laws or under the equivalent standards where such concept is not recognized under such laws), with power and authority (corporate and other) to own its properties and conduct its business as described in the General Disclosure Package; and each Material Subsidiary of the Company is duly qualified to do business as a foreign corporation in good standing in all other jurisdictions in which its ownership or lease of property or the conduct of its business requires such qualification, other than where the failure to be so qualified or in good standing would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect; all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of each Material Subsidiary of the Company has been duly authorized and validly issued and is fully paid and nonassessable; and the capital stock of each Material Subsidiary owned by the Company, directly or through subsidiaries, is owned free from liens, encumbrances and defects. All of the subsidiaries of the Company which are material to the condition (financial or otherwise), results of operations, business or properties of the Company are listed in the definition of "Material Subsidiary", as set forth in Section 2(a) hereof.
Subsidiaries
     (i) . The Indenture has been duly authorized and has been duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act; the Offered Securities have been duly authorized and, when the Offered Securities are delivered and paid for pursuant to this Agreement on the Closing Date, the Indenture will have been duly executed and delivered, such Offered Securities will have been duly executed, authenticated, issued and delivered, will conform to the information in the General Disclosure Package and to the description of such Offered Securities contained in the Final Prospectus and the Indenture and such Offered Securities will constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company, enforceable in accordance with their terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium and similar laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors' rights and to general equity principles.
Execution and Delivery of Indenture
     (j) . No consent, approval, authorization, or order of, or filing or registration with, any person (including any governmental agency or body or any court) is required for the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or the Indenture in connection with the offering, issuance and sale of the Offered Securities by the Company, except such as have been obtained, or made and such as may be required under applicable state securities laws.
Absence of Further Requirements
     (k) . Except as disclosed in the General Disclosure Package, or such as do not and would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect, the Company and its subsidiaries have good and marketable title to all real properties and all other properties and assets owned by them, in each case free from liens, charges, encumbrances and defects that would affect the value thereof or interfere with the use made or to be made thereof by them and, except as disclosed in the General Disclosure Package, or such as do not and would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect, the Company and its subsidiaries hold any leased real or personal property under valid and enforceable leases with no terms or provisions that would materially interfere with the use made or to be made thereof by them.
Title to Property
     (l) . The execution, delivery and performance of the Indenture, and this Agreement, and the issuance and sale of the Offered Securities and compliance with the terms and provisions thereof will not result in a breach or violation of any of the terms and provisions of, or constitute a default or a Debt Repayment
Absence of Defaults and Conflicts Resulting from Transaction
 
Triggering Event (as defined below) under, or result in the imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries pursuant to, (i) the charter or by-laws of the Company or any of its Material Subsidiaries, (ii) any statute, rule, regulation or order of any governmental agency or body or any court, domestic or foreign, having jurisdiction over the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any of their properties, or (iii) any agreement or instrument to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or by which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is bound or to which any of the properties of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is subject; except with respect to clauses (ii) and (iii) of this paragraph only, such breaches, defaults, liens, charges, encumbrances or violations that would not result in a Material Adverse Effect; a "" means any event or condition that gives, or with the giving of notice or lapse of time would give, the holder of any note, debenture, or other evidence of indebtedness (or any person acting on such holder's behalf) the right to require the repurchase, redemption or repayment of all or a portion of such indebtedness by the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Debt Repayment Triggering Event
     (m) . Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is in violation of its respective charter or by-laws or in default (or with the giving of notice or lapse of time would be in default) under any existing obligation, agreement, covenant or condition contained in any indenture, loan agreement, mortgage, lease or other agreement or instrument to which any of them is a party or by which any of them is bound or to which any of the properties of any of them is subject, except such defaults that would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Absence of Existing Defaults and Conflicts
     (n) . This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
Authorization of Agreement
     (o) . The Company and its subsidiaries possess, and are in compliance with the terms of, all adequate certificates, authorizations, franchises, licenses and permits ("") necessary to the conduct of the business now conducted or proposed in the General Disclosure Package to be conducted by them, except where the failure to possess such Licenses would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect, and have not received any notice of proceedings relating to the revocation or modification of any Licenses that, if determined adversely to the Company or any of its subsidiaries, would individually or in the aggregate have a Material Adverse Effect.
Possession of Licenses and Permits
Licenses
     (p) . No labor dispute with the employees of the Company or any of its subsidiaries exists or, to the knowledge of the Company, is imminent that could have a Material Adverse Effect.
Absence of Labor Dispute
     (q) . The Company and its subsidiaries own, possess or can acquire on reasonable terms, adequate trademarks, trade names and other rights to inventions, know-how, patents, copyrights, confidential information and other intellectual property (collectively, "") necessary to conduct the business now operated by them, or presently employed by them, and have not received any notice of infringement of or conflict with asserted rights of others with respect to any intellectual property rights that, if determined adversely to the Company or any of its subsidiaries, would individually or in the aggregate have a Material Adverse Effect.
Possession of Intellectual Property
intellectual property rights
     (r) . Except as disclosed in the General Disclosure Package, (a)(i) neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is in violation of, or has any liability under, any federal, state, local or non-U.S. statute, law, rule, regulation, ordinance, code, other requirement or rule of law (including common law), or decision or order of any domestic or foreign governmental agency, governmental body or court, relating to pollution, to the use,
Environmental Laws
 
handling, transportation, treatment, storage, discharge, disposal or release of Hazardous Substances, to the protection or restoration of the environment or natural resources (including biota), to health and safety including as such relates to exposure to Hazardous Substances, and to natural resource damages (collectively, ""), (ii) neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries owns, occupies, operates or uses any real property contaminated with Hazardous Substances, (iii) neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is conducting or funding any investigation, remediation, remedial action or monitoring of actual or suspected Hazardous Substances in the environment, (iv) neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is liable or allegedly liable for any release or threatened release of Hazardous Substances, including at any off-site treatment, storage or disposal site, (v) neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is subject to any claim by any governmental agency or governmental body or person relating to Environmental Laws or Hazardous Substances, and (vi) the Company and its subsidiaries have received and are in compliance with all, and have no liability under any, permits, licenses, authorizations, identification numbers or other approvals required under applicable Environmental Laws to conduct their respective businesses, except in each case covered by clauses (i)  (vi) such as would not individually or in the aggregate have a Material Adverse Effect; (b) to the knowledge of the Company there are no facts or circumstances that would reasonably be expected to result in a violation of, liability under, or claim pursuant to any Environmental Law that would have a Material Adverse Effect; (c) to the knowledge of the Company there are no requirements proposed for adoption or implementation under any Environmental Law that would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; and (d) in the ordinary course of its business, the Company periodically evaluates the effect, including associated costs and liabilities, of Environmental Laws on the business, properties, results of operations and financial condition of it and its subsidiaries, and, on the basis of such evaluation, the Company has reasonably concluded that such Environmental Laws will not, singly or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect. For purposes of this subsection "" means (A) petroleum and petroleum products, by-products or breakdown products, radioactive materials, asbestos-containing materials, polychlorinated biphenyls and mold, and (B) any other chemical, material or substance defined or regulated as toxic or hazardous or as a pollutant, contaminant or waste under Environmental Laws.
Environmental Laws
Hazardous Substances
     (s) . The statements in the General Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus under the headings "Certain Material United States Federal Tax Considerations", and "Description of the Notes" insofar as such statements summarize legal matters, agreements, documents or proceedings discussed therein fairly present and summarize the matters referred to therein.
Accurate Disclosure
     (t) . The Company has not taken, directly or indirectly, any action that is designed to or that has constituted or that would reasonably be expected to cause or result in the stabilization or manipulation of the price of any of the securities of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Offered Securities, , that this paragraph shall not apply to any stabilization activities conducted by the Underwriters.
Absence of Manipulation
provided however
     (u) . Except as set forth below and in the General Disclosure Package, the Company, its subsidiaries and, to the Company's knowledge, the Company's Board of Directors (the "") are in compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley and all applicable Exchange Rules. The Company maintains effective internal controls over financial reporting and effective disclosure controls and procedures, each as defined in Rule 13a-15 under the Exchange Act (collectively, "") that are sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that (i) records are maintained that accurately and fairly reflect in reasonable detail the transactions and the dispositions of the assets of the Company, (ii) transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, (iii) receipts and expenditures of the Company are
Internal Controls and Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
Board
Internal Controls
 
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the Company, and (iv) unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements are prevented or timely detected. The Internal Controls are overseen by the Audit Committee (the "") of the Board in accordance with Exchange Rules. Except for the processes, systems and controls relating to the integration of the SigmaKalon Group, since the date of the Company's latest audited financial statements included in the General Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, there have been no changes in the Company's internal controls over financial reporting that occurred during the Company's most recent fiscal quarter that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control over financial reporting. The Company has not publicly disclosed or reported to the Audit Committee or the Board, and as of the date hereof, it has no knowledge of (and as of the date hereof does not reasonably expect to publicly disclose or report to the Audit Committee or the Board within the next 60 days), a significant deficiency, material weakness, change in Internal Controls (not including any change in connection with the integration of the SigmaKalon Group) or fraud involving management or other employees who have a significant role in Internal Controls, any violation of, or failure to comply with, the Securities Laws, or other matter, any of which, if determined adversely, would have a Material Adverse Effect.
Audit Committee
     (v) . Except as disclosed in the General Disclosure Package, there are no pending actions, suits or proceedings (including any inquiries or investigations by any court or governmental agency or body, domestic or foreign) against or affecting the Company, any of its subsidiaries or any of their respective properties that, if determined adversely to the Company or any of its subsidiaries, would reasonably be expected to individually or in the aggregate have a Material Adverse Effect, or would materially and adversely affect the ability of the Company to perform its obligations under the Indenture or this Agreement, or which are otherwise material in the context of the sale of the Offered Securities; and no such actions, suits or proceedings (including any inquiries or investigations by any court or governmental agency or body, domestic or foreign) are to the Company's knowledge threatened.
Litigation
     (w) . The financial statements included in the Registration Statement and the General Disclosure Package present fairly in all material respects the financial position of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries as of the dates shown and their results of operations and cash flows for the periods shown, and, except as otherwise disclosed in the General Disclosure Package, such financial statements have been prepared in conformity with the generally accepted accounting principles in the United States applied on a consistent basis and the schedules included in the Registration Statement present fairly the information required to be stated therein; and the assumptions used in preparing the pro forma financial statements included in the Registration Statement and the General Disclosure Package provide a reasonable basis for presenting the significant effects directly attributable to the transactions or events described therein, the related pro forma adjustments give appropriate effect to those assumptions, and the pro forma columns therein reflect the proper application of those adjustments to the corresponding historical financial statement amounts.
Financial Statements
     (x) . Except as disclosed in the General Disclosure Package, since the end of the period covered by the latest audited financial statements included in the General Disclosure Package (i) there has been no change, nor any development or event involving a prospective change, in the condition (financial or otherwise), results of operations, business, properties or prospects of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole that is material and adverse, (ii) except as publicly disclosed in or contemplated by the General Disclosure Package, there has been no dividend or distribution of any kind declared, paid or made by the Company on any class of its capital stock and (iii) except as disclosed in or contemplated by the General Disclosure Package, there has been no material adverse change in the capital stock,
No Material Adverse Change in Business
 
short-term indebtedness, long-term indebtedness, net current assets or net assets of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole.
     (y) . No "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" as such term is defined for purposes of Rule 436(g)(2) (i) has imposed (or has informed the Company that it is considering imposing) any condition (financial or otherwise) on the Company's retaining any rating assigned to the Company or any securities of the Company or (ii) has indicated to the Company that it is considering any of the actions described in Section 7(c)(ii) hereof.
Ratings
     (z) . The Company is not and, after giving effect to the offering and sale of the Offered Securities and the application of the proceeds thereof as described in the General Disclosure Package, will not be an "investment company" as defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the "").
Investment Company Act
Investment Company Act
     (aa) Neither the Company nor, to the best of its knowledge, any of its subsidiaries, directors, officers, agents, employees or affiliates is aware of or has taken any action, directly or indirectly, that would result in a violation by such persons of the FCPA, including, without limitation, making use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce corruptly in furtherance of an offer, payment, promise to pay or authorization of the payment of any money, or other property, gift, promise to give, or authorization of the giving of anything of value to any "foreign official" (as such term is defined in the FCPA) or any foreign political party or official thereof or any candidate for foreign political office, in contravention of the FCPA and the Company and, to the best of its knowledge, its subsidiaries and affiliates have conducted their businesses in compliance with the FCPA and have devised or instituted policies and procedures designed to ensure, and which are reasonably expected to continue to ensure, continued compliance therewith.
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.
     (bb) To the best of the Company's knowledge, the operations of the Company and its subsidiaries are and have been conducted at all times in compliance in all material respects with applicable financial recordkeeping and reporting requirements of the Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act of 1970, as amended, the money laundering statutes of all applicable jurisdictions, the rules and regulations thereunder and any related or similar rules, regulations or guidelines issued, administered or enforced by any governmental agency.
Compliance with Money Laundering Laws.
     (cc) Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries nor, to the knowledge of the Company, any director, officer, agent, employee or affiliate of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is currently subject to any U.S. sanctions administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Treasury Department (""); and the Company will not directly or indirectly use the proceeds of the offering, or lend, contribute or otherwise make available such proceeds to any subsidiary, joint venture partner or other person or entity, for the purpose of financing the activities of any person currently subject to any U.S. sanctions administered by OFAC.
Compliance with OFAC.
OFAC
     (dd) The Company and its subsidiaries have filed all federal, state, local and non-U.S. tax returns that are required to be filed or have requested extensions thereof (except in any case in which the failure so to file would not have a Material Adverse Effect); and, except as set forth in the General Disclosure Package, the Company and its subsidiaries have paid all taxes (including any assessments, fines or penalties) required to be paid by them, except for any such taxes, assessments, fines or penalties currently being contested in good faith or as would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
Taxes.
 
     (ee) The Company and its subsidiaries are insured by insurers with appropriately rated claims paying abilities against such losses and risks and in such amounts as are prudent and customary for the businesses in which they are engaged; all policies of insurance insuring the Company or any of its subsidiaries or their respective businesses, assets, employees, officers and directors are in full force and effect; the Company and its subsidiaries are in compliance with the terms of such policies and instruments in all material respects; and there are no claims by the Company or any of its subsidiaries under any such policy or instrument as to which any insurance company is denying liability or defending under a reservation of rights clause; neither the Company nor any such subsidiary has been refused any insurance coverage sought or applied for; and neither the Company nor any such subsidiary has any reason to believe that it will not be able to renew its existing insurance coverage as and when such coverage expires or to obtain similar coverage from similar insurers as may be necessary to continue its business at a cost that would not have a Material Adverse Effect, except as set forth in or contemplated in the General Disclosure Package.
Insurance.
          3. . On the basis of the representations, warranties and agreements and subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Company agrees to sell to the several Underwriters, and each of the Underwriters agrees, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company, at a (i) purchase price of 99.349% of the principal amount thereof, in the case of the 2013 Notes, (ii) purchase price of 99.300% of the principal amount thereof, in the case of the 2018 Notes and (iii) purchase price of 98.558% of the principal amount thereof, in the case of the 2038 Notes, plus, in each case, accrued interest from March 18, 2008 to the Closing Date (as hereinafter defined), the respective principal amounts of Securities set forth opposite the names of the Underwriters in Schedule A hereto.
Purchase, Sale and Delivery of Offered Securities
          The Company will deliver the Securities to or as instructed by the Representatives for the accounts of the several Underwriters in a form reasonably acceptable to the Representatives against payment of the purchase price by the Underwriters in Federal (same day) funds by wire transfer to an account at a bank acceptable to Credit Suisse drawn to the order of the Company, at 9:00 A.M., New York time, on March 18, 2008, or at such other time not later than seven full business days thereafter as the Representatives and the Company determine, such time being herein referred to as the "". For purposes of Rule 15c6-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Closing Date (if later than the otherwise applicable settlement date) shall be the settlement date for payment of funds and delivery of securities for all the Offered Securities sold pursuant to the offering. The Securities so to be delivered or evidence of their issuance will be made available for checking at the office of Davis Polk & Wardwell, 450 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York 10017 at least 24 hours prior to the Closing Date.
Closing Date
          4. . It is understood that the several Underwriters propose to offer the Offered Securities for sale to the public as set forth in the Final Prospectus.
Offering by Underwriters
          5. . The Company agrees with the several Underwriters that:
Certain Agreements of the Company
     (a) The Company has filed or will file each Statutory Prospectus (including the Final Prospectus) pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 424(b)(2) (or, if applicable and consented to by the Representatives, subparagraph (5)) not later than the second business day following the earlier of the date it is first used or the execution and delivery of this Agreement. The Company has complied and will comply with Rule 433.
Filing of Prospectuses.
     (b) . The Company will promptly advise the Representatives of any proposal to amend or supplement the Registration Statement or any Statutory Prospectus at any time and will offer the Representatives a reasonable opportunity to comment on any such amendment or supplement; and the Company will also advise the Representatives promptly of (i) the filing of any such amendment or supplement, (ii) any request by the Commission or its staff for any amendment to the Registration Statement, for any
Filing of Amendments; Response to Commission Requests
 
supplement to any Statutory Prospectus or for any additional information, (iii) the institution by the Commission of any stop order proceedings in respect of the Registration Statement or the threatening of any proceeding for that purpose, and (iv) the receipt by the Company of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification of the Offered Securities in any jurisdiction or the institution or threatening of any proceedings for such purpose. The Company will use its best efforts to prevent the issuance of any such stop order or the suspension of any such qualification and, if issued, to obtain as soon as possible the withdrawal thereof.
     (c) . If, at any time when a prospectus relating to the Offered Securities is (or but for the exemption in Rule 172 would be) required to be delivered under the Act by any Underwriter or dealer, any event occurs as a result of which the Final Prospectus as then amended or supplemented would include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, or if it is necessary at any time to amend the Registration Statement or supplement the Final Prospectus to comply with the Act, the Company will promptly notify the Representatives of such event and will promptly prepare and file with the Commission and furnish, at its own expense, to the Underwriters and the dealers and any other dealers upon request of the Representatives, an amendment or supplement which will correct such statement or omission or an amendment which will effect such compliance. Neither the Representatives' consent to, nor the Underwriters' delivery of, any such amendment or supplement shall constitute a waiver of any of the conditions set forth in Section 7 hereof.
Continued Compliance with Securities Laws
     (d) As soon as practicable, but not later than 16 months, after the date of this Agreement, the Company will make generally available to its securityholders an earnings statement covering a period of at least 12 months beginning after the date of this Agreement and satisfying the provisions of Section 11(a) of the Act and Rule 158.
Rule 158.
     (e) . The Company will furnish to the Representatives copies of the Registration Statement, including all exhibits, any Statutory Prospectus, the Final Prospectus and all amendments and supplements to such documents, in each case as soon as available and in such quantities as the Representatives reasonably request. The Company will pay the expenses of printing and distributing to the Underwriters all such documents.
Furnishing of Prospectuses
     (f) . The Company will cooperate with the Underwriters to qualify the Offered Securities for offering and sale under the applicable securities laws of such states and other jurisdictions (domestic or foreign) as the Representatives may designate and to maintain such qualifications in effect for as long as may be necessary to complete the distribution of the Offered Securities; , that the Company shall not be obligated to file any general consent to service of process or to qualify as a foreign corporation or as a broker or dealer in securities in any jurisdiction in which it is not so qualified or to subject itself to taxation in respect of doing business in any jurisdiction in which it is not otherwise so subject.
Blue Sky Qualifications
provided however
     (g) . During the period of three years hereafter, the Company will furnish to the Representatives and, upon request, to each of the other Underwriters, as soon as practicable after the end of each fiscal year, a copy of its annual report to stockholders for such year; and the Company will furnish to the Representatives (i) as soon as available, a copy of each report and any definitive proxy statement of the Company filed with the Commission under the Exchange Act or mailed to stockholders, and (ii) from time to time, such other information concerning the Company as the Representatives may reasonably request. However, so long as the Company is subject to the reporting requirements of either Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act and is timely filing reports with the Commission on its Electronic Data Gathering,
Reporting Requirements
 
Analysis and Retrieval system (""), it is not required to furnish such reports or statements to the Underwriters.
EDGAR
     (h) . The Company will pay all expenses incident to the performance of its obligations under this Agreement, including but not limited to any filing fees and other expenses (including fees and disbursements of counsel to the Underwriters) incurred in connection with qualification of the Offered Securities for sale under the laws of such jurisdictions as the Representatives designate and the preparation and printing of memoranda relating thereto, any fees charged by investment rating agencies for the rating of the Offered Securities, costs and expenses relating to investor presentations or any "road show" in connection with the offering and sale of the Offered Securities including, without limitation, any travel expenses of the Company's officers and employees and any other expenses of the Company including fees and expenses in connection with the registration of the Offered Securities under the Exchange Act, and expenses incurred in distributing preliminary prospectuses and the Final Prospectus (including any amendments and supplements thereto) to the Underwriters and for expenses incurred for preparing, printing and distributing any Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses to investors or prospective investors. Except as provided in this Agreement, including, without limitation, Section 5, Section 8 and Section 10 hereof, the Underwriters shall pay their own expenses, including the fees and disbursements of their counsel.
Payment of Expenses
     (i) . The Company will use the net proceeds received in connection with this offering in the manner described in the "Use of Proceeds" section of the General Disclosure Package.
Use of Proceeds
     (j) . The Company will not take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to or that would constitute or that might reasonably be expected to cause or result in, stabilization or manipulation of the price of any securities of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Offered Securities, , that this paragraph shall not apply to any stabilization activities conducted by the Underwriters.
Absence of Manipulation
provided however
     (k) The Company will not offer, sell, contract to sell, pledge or otherwise dispose of, directly or indirectly, or file with the Commission a registration statement under the Act relating to United States dollar-denominated debt securities issued or guaranteed by the Company and having a maturity of more than one year from the date of issue, or publicly disclose the intention to make any such offer, sale, pledge, disposition or filing, without the prior written consent of the Representatives for a period beginning on the date hereof and ending 30 days after the Closing Date.
Restriction on Sale of Securities.
          6. . (a) . The Company represents and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior consent of Credit Suisse, and each Underwriter represents and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior consent of the Company and Credit Suisse, it has not made and will not make any offer relating to the Offered Securities that would constitute an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, or that would otherwise constitute a "free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 405, required to be filed with the Commission. Any such free writing prospectus consented to by the Company and Credit Suisse is hereinafter referred to as a "." The Company represents that it has treated and agrees that it will treat each Permitted Free Writing Prospectus as an "issuer free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 433, and has complied and will comply with the requirements of Rules 164 and 433 applicable to any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus, including timely Commission filing where required, legending and record keeping. The prior consent of the Company and the Representatives shall be deemed to have been given in respect of the Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses included in Schedule B hereto.
Free Writing Prospectuses
Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses
Permitted Free Writing Prospectus
 
     (b) . The Company will prepare a final term sheet relating to the Offered Securities, containing only information that describes the final terms of the Offered Securities and otherwise in a form consented to by Credit Suisse, and will file such final term sheet within the period required by Rule 433(d)(5)(ii) following the date such final terms have been established for all classes of the offering of the Offered Securities. Any such final term sheet is an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus and a Permitted Free Writing Prospectus for purposes of this Agreement. The Company also consents to the use by any Underwriter of a free writing prospectus that contains only (i)(x) information describing the preliminary terms of the Offered Securities or their offering or (y) information that describes the final terms of the Offered Securities or their offering and that is included in the final term sheet of the Company contemplated in the first sentence of this subsection or (ii) other information that is not "issuer information," as defined in Rule 433, it being understood that any such free writing prospectus referred to in clause (i) or (ii) above shall not be an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus for purposes of this Agreement.
Term Sheets
          7. . The obligations of the several Underwriters to purchase and pay for the Securities on the Closing Date will be subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the Company herein (as though made on the Closing Date), to the accuracy of the statements of Company officers made pursuant to the provisions hereof, to the performance by the Company of its obligations hereunder and to the following additional conditions precedent:
Conditions of the Obligations of the Underwriters
          (a) . The Representatives shall have received letters, dated, respectively, the date hereof and the Closing Date, of each of Deloitte & Touche LLP and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLC confirming that they are a registered public accounting firm and independent public accountants within the meaning of the Securities Laws and substantially in the form of Schedule C-1 and Schedule C-2 hereto, respectively (except that, in the letter dated as of the Closing Date, the specified date referred to in Schedules C-1 and C-2 hereto shall be a date no more than three days prior to the Closing Date).
Accountants' Comfort Letter
          (b) The Final Prospectus shall have been filed with the Commission in accordance with the Rules and Regulations and Section 5(a) hereof. No stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or of any part thereof shall have been issued and no proceedings for that purpose shall have been instituted or, to the knowledge of the Company or any Underwriter, shall be threatened by the Commission.
Filing of Prospectus.
          (c) . Subsequent to the execution and delivery of this Agreement, there shall not have occurred (i) any change, or any development or event involving a prospective change, in the condition (financial or otherwise), results of operations, business, properties or prospects of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole which, in the judgment of the Representatives, is material and adverse and makes it impractical or inadvisable to market the Offered Securities; (ii) any downgrading in the rating of any debt securities of the Company by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" (as defined for purposes of Rule 436(g)), or any public announcement that any such organization has under surveillance or review its rating of any debt securities of the Company (other than an announcement with positive implications of a possible upgrading, and no implication of a possible downgrading, of such rating); (iii) any change in U.S. or international financial, political or economic conditions or currency exchange rates or exchange controls the effect of which is such as to make it, in the judgment of the Representatives, impractical to market or to enforce contracts for the sale of the Offered Securities, whether in the primary market or in respect of dealings in the secondary market; (iv) any suspension or material limitation of trading in securities generally on the New York Stock Exchange, or any setting of minimum or maximum prices for trading on such exchange; (v) or any suspension of trading of any securities of the Company on any exchange or in the over-the-counter market; (vi) any banking moratorium declared by any U.S. federal or, New York authorities; (vii) any major disruption of settlements of securities, payment, or clearance
No Material Adverse Change
 
services in the United States or any other country where such securities are listed or (viii) any attack on, outbreak or escalation of hostilities or act of terrorism involving the United States, any declaration of war by Congress or any other national or international calamity or emergency if, in the judgment of the Representatives, the effect of any such attack, outbreak, escalation, act, declaration, calamity or emergency is such as to make it impractical or inadvisable to market the Offered Securities or to enforce contracts for the sale of the Offered Securities.
          (d) . The Representatives shall have received opinions, dated as of the Closing Date, of James C. Diggs, General Counsel of the Company and of Linklaters LLP, counsel for the Company, substantially in the forms of Schedule D-1 and D-2, respectively.
Opinion of Counsel for Company
          (e) The Representatives shall have received from Davis Polk & Wardwell, counsel for the Underwriters, such opinion or opinions, dated as of the Closing Date, with respect to such matters as the Representatives may require, and the Company shall have furnished to such counsel such documents as they request for the purpose of enabling them to pass upon such matters. In rendering such opinion, Davis Polk & Wardwell may rely as to the incorporation of the Company and all other matters governed by Pennsylvania law upon the opinion of James C. Diggs, General Counsel of the Company.
Opinion of Counsel for Underwriters.
          (f) . The Representatives shall have received a certificate, dated as of the Closing Date, of an executive officer of the Company and a principal financial or accounting officer of the Company in which such officers shall state that: the representations and warranties of the Company in this Agreement are true and correct; the Company has complied with all agreements and satisfied all conditions on its part to be performed or satisfied hereunder at or prior to the Closing Date; no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or, to their knowledge, are threatened by the Commission; and, subsequent to the respective dates of the most recent financial statements in the General Disclosure Package, there has been no material adverse change, nor any development or event involving a prospective material adverse change, in the condition (financial or otherwise), results of operations, business or properties or prospects of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole except as set forth in the General Disclosure Package or as described in such certificate.
Officer's Certificate
The Company will furnish the Representatives with such conformed copies of such opinions, certificates, letters and documents as the Representatives reasonably request. Credit Suisse may in its sole discretion waive on behalf of the Underwriters compliance with any conditions to the obligations of the Underwriters hereunder.
          8. . (a) . The Company will indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter, its partners, members, directors, officers, employees, agents, affiliates and each person, if any, who controls such Underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act (each, an ""), against any and all losses, claims, damages or liabilities, joint or several, to which such Indemnified Party may become subject, under the Act, the Exchange Act, other Federal or state statutory law or regulation or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of any material fact contained in any part of the Registration Statement at any time, any Statutory Prospectus as of any time, the Final Prospectus or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, or arise out of or are based upon the omission or alleged omission of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, and will reimburse each Indemnified Party for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such Indemnified Party in connection with investigating or defending against any loss, claim, damage, liability, action, litigation, investigation or proceeding whatsoever (whether or not such Indemnified Party is a party thereto), whether
Indemnification and Contribution
Indemnification of Underwriters
Indemnified Party
 
threatened or commenced, and in connection with the enforcement of this provision with respect to any of the above as such expenses are incurred; provided, however, that the Company will not be liable in any such case to the extent that any such loss, claim, damage or liability arises out of or is based upon an untrue statement or alleged untrue statement in or omission or alleged omission from any of such documents in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter consists of the information described as such in subsection (b) below.
          (b) . Each Underwriter will severally and not jointly indemnify and hold harmless the Company, each of its directors and each of its officers who signs a Registration Statement and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act (each, an ""), against any losses, claims, damages or liabilities to which such Underwriter Indemnified Party may become subject, under the Act, the Exchange Act, other Federal or state statutory law or regulation or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of any material fact contained in any part of the Registration Statement at any time, any Statutory Prospectus as of any time, the Final Prospectus, or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, or arise out of or are based upon the omission or the alleged omission of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, in each case to the extent, but only to the extent, that such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission was made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by such Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, and will reimburse any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such Underwriter Indemnified Party in connection with investigating or defending against any such loss, claim, damage, liability, action, litigation, investigation or proceeding whatsoever (whether or not such Underwriter Indemnified Party is a party thereto), whether threatened or commenced, based upon any such untrue statement or omission, or any such alleged untrue statement or omission as such expenses are incurred, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter consists of the following information in the Final Prospectus furnished on behalf of each Underwriter: the concession and reallowance figures appearing in the 3rd, 4th and 5th paragraphs under the caption "Underwriting".
Indemnification of Company
Underwriter Indemnified Party
          (c) . Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under this Section of notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against the indemnifying party under subsection (a) or (b) above, notify the indemnifying party in writing of the commencement thereof; but the failure to notify the indemnifying party shall not relieve it from any liability that it may have under subsection (a) or (b) above except to the extent that it has been materially prejudiced (through the forfeiture of substantive rights or defenses) by such failure; and provided further that the failure to notify the indemnifying party shall not relieve it from any liability that it may have to an indemnified party otherwise than under subsection (a) or (b) above. In case any such action is brought against any indemnified party and it notifies the indemnifying party of the commencement thereof, the indemnifying party will be entitled to participate therein and, to the extent that it may wish, jointly with any other indemnifying party similarly notified, to assume the defense thereof, with counsel satisfactory to such indemnified party (who shall not, except with the consent of the indemnified party, be counsel to the indemnifying party), and after notice from the indemnifying party to such indemnified party of its election so to assume the defense thereof, the indemnifying party will not be liable to such indemnified party under this Section for any legal or other expenses subsequently incurred by such indemnified party in connection with the defense thereof other than reasonable costs of investigation. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified party, effect any settlement of any pending or threatened action in respect of which any indemnified party is or could have been a party and indemnity could have been sought hereunder by such indemnified party unless such settlement (i) includes an unconditional release of such indemnified party from all liability on any claims that are the subject matter of such action and (ii) does not include a statement as to, or an admission of, fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of an indemnified party.
Actions against Parties; Notification
 
          (d) . If the indemnification provided for in this Section is unavailable or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party under subsection (a) or (b) above, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such indemnified party as a result of the losses, claims, damages or liabilities referred to in subsection (a) or (b) above (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other from the offering of the Offered Securities or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) above is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, claims, damages or liabilities as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other shall be deemed to be in the same proportion as the total net proceeds from the offering (before deducting expenses) received by the Company bear to the total underwriting discounts received by the Underwriters. The relative fault of the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any such untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company or the Underwriters and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such untrue statement or omission. The amount paid or payable by an indemnified party as a result of the losses, claims, damages or liabilities referred to in the first sentence of this subsection (d) shall be deemed to include any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in connection with investigating or defending any action or claim which is the subject of this subsection (d). Notwithstanding the provisions of this subsection (d), no Underwriter shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which the Securities underwritten by it and distributed to the public were offered to the public exceeds the amount of any damages which such Underwriter has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission. No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. The Underwriters' obligations in this subsection (d) to contribute are several in proportion to their respective underwriting obligations and not joint. The Company and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 8(d) were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Underwriters were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in this Section 8(d).
Contribution
          9. . If any Underwriter or Underwriters default in their obligations to purchase Offered Securities hereunder on the Closing Date and the aggregate principal amount of Offered Securities that such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed to purchase does not exceed 10% of the total principal amount of Offered Securities that the Underwriters are obligated to purchase on the Closing Date, Credit Suisse may make arrangements satisfactory to the Company for the purchase of such Offered Securities by other persons, including any of the Underwriters, but if no such arrangements are made by the Closing Date, the non-defaulting Underwriters shall be obligated severally, in proportion to their respective commitments hereunder, to purchase the Offered Securities that such defaulting Underwriters agreed but failed to purchase on the Closing Date. If any Underwriter or Underwriters so default and the aggregate principal amount of Offered Securities with respect to which such default or defaults occur exceeds 10% of the total principal amount of Offered Securities that the Underwriters are obligated to purchase on the Closing Date and arrangements satisfactory to Credit Suisse and the Company for the purchase of such Offered Securities by other persons are not made within 36 hours after such default, this Agreement will terminate without liability on the part of any non-defaulting Underwriter or the Company, except as provided in Section 10. As used in this Agreement, the term "Underwriter" includes any person substituted for an Underwriter under this Section. Nothing herein will relieve a defaulting Underwriter from liability for its default.
Default of Underwriters
          10. . The respective indemnities, agreements, representations, warranties and other statements of the Company or its officers and of the
Survival of Certain Representations and Obligations
 
several Underwriters set forth in or made pursuant to this Agreement will remain in full force and effect, regardless of any investigation, or statement as to the results thereof, made by or on behalf of any Underwriter, the Company or any of their respective representatives, officers or directors or any controlling person, and will survive delivery of and payment for the Offered Securities. If the purchase of the Offered Securities by the Underwriters is not consummated for any reason other than solely because of the termination of this Agreement pursuant to Section 9 hereof, the Company will reimburse the Underwriters for all out-of-pocket expenses (including fees and disbursements of counsel) reasonably incurred by them in connection with the offering of the Offered Securities, and the respective obligations of the Company and the Underwriters pursuant to Section 8 hereof shall remain in effect. In addition, if any Offered Securities have been purchased hereunder, the representations and warranties in Section 2 and all obligations under Section 5 shall also remain in effect.
          11. . All communications hereunder will be in writing and, if sent to the Underwriters, will be mailed, delivered or telegraphed and confirmed to the Representatives, c/o Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, Eleven Madison Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10010-3629, Attention: LCD-IBD, or, if sent to the Company, will be mailed, delivered or telegraphed and confirmed to it at One PPG Place, Pittsburgh, PA 15272, Attention: General Counsel; provided, however, that any notice to an Underwriter pursuant to Section 8 will be mailed, delivered or telegraphed and confirmed to such Underwriter.
Notices
          12. . This Agreement will inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective successors and the officers and directors and controlling persons referred to in Section 8, and no other person will have any right or obligation hereunder.
Successors
          13. . The Representatives will act for the several Underwriters in connection with this financing, and any action under this Agreement taken by the Representatives jointly or by Credit Suisse will be binding upon all the Underwriters.
Representation of Underwriters
          14. . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute one and the same Agreement.
Counterparts
          15. The Company acknowledges and agrees that:
Absence of Fiduciary Relationship.
                    (a) . The Representatives have been retained solely to act as underwriters in connection with the sale of Offered Securities and that no fiduciary, advisory or agency relationship between the Company and the Representatives has been created in respect of any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or the Final Prospectus, irrespective of whether the Representatives have advised or is advising the Company on other matters;
No Other Relationship
                    (b) . The price of the Offered Securities set forth in this Agreement was established by the Company following discussions and arms-length negotiations with the Representatives and the Company is capable of evaluating and understanding and understands and accepts the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement;
Arms' Length Negotiations
                    (c) . The Company has been advised that the Representatives and their affiliates are engaged in a broad range of transactions which may involve interests that differ from those of the Company and that the Representatives have no obligation to disclose such interests and transactions to the Company by virtue of any fiduciary, advisory or agency relationship; and
Absence of Obligation to Disclose
                    (d) . The Company waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any claims it may have against the Representatives for breach of fiduciary duty or alleged breach of fiduciary duty and
Waiver
 
agrees that the Representatives shall have no liability (whether direct or indirect) to the Company in respect of such a fiduciary duty claim or to any person asserting a fiduciary duty claim on behalf of or in right of the Company, including stockholders, employees or creditors of the Company.
          
16.
Applicable Law
. This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
          The Company hereby submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the Federal and state courts in the Borough of Manhattan in The City of New York in any suit or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby. The Company irrevocably and unconditionally waives any objection to the laying of venue of any suit or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby in Federal and state courts in the Borough of Manhattan in The City of New York and irrevocably and unconditionally waives and agrees not to plead or claim in any such court that any such suit or proceeding in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum.
 
          If the foregoing is in accordance with the Representatives' understanding of our agreement, kindly sign and return to the Company one of the counterparts hereof, whereupon it will become a binding agreement between the Company and the several Underwriters in accordance with its terms.
 
 
          "General Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus" includes each of the following documents:
          1. Final term sheet, dated March 13, 2008, a copy of which is attached hereto.
          The following information is also included in the General Disclosure Package:
          None

 
Exhibit 4.1
 
 
 
 
INDENTURE, dated as of March 18, 2008, between PPG Industries, Inc., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of Pennsylvania (herein called the "Company"), having its principal office at One PPG Place, Pittsburgh, PA 15272, and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., a national banking association, as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee").
The Company has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Indenture to provide for the issuance from time to time of its unsecured debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness (herein called the "Securities"), to be issued in one or more series as in this Indenture provided.
All things necessary to make this Indenture a valid and legally binding agreement of the Company, in accordance with its terms, have been done.
NOW, THEREFORE, THIS INDENTURE WITNESSETH:
For and in consideration of the premises and the purchase of the Securities by the Holders thereof, it is mutually agreed, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders of the Securities or of series thereof, as follows:
Section 1.01 Definitions
For all purposes of this Indenture, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires:
 
 
"Event of Default" has the meaning specified in Section 5.01.
"Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time, and any statute successor thereto.
"GAAP" means generally accepted accounting principles set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board of the American Standards Board or in such other statements by such other entity as have been approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession.
"Global Security" means a Security that evidences all or part of the Securities of any series and is authenticated and delivered to, and registered in the name of, the Depositary for such Securities or a nominee thereof.
"Holder" means a Person in whose name a Security is registered in the Security Register.
"Indenture" means this instrument as originally executed or as it may from time to time be supplemented or amended by one or more indentures supplemental hereto entered into pursuant to the applicable provisions hereof, including, for all purposes of this instrument, and any such supplemental indenture, the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act that are deemed to be a part of and govern this instrument and any such supplemental indenture, respectively. The term "Indenture" shall also include the terms of particular series of Securities established as contemplated by Section 3.01.
"Interest", when used with respect to an Original Issue Discount Security which by its terms bears interest only after Maturity, means interest payable after Maturity.
"Interest Payment Date", when used with respect to any Security, means the Stated Maturity of an installment of interest on such Security.
"Maturity", when used with respect to any Security, means the date on which the principal of such Security or an installment of principal becomes due and payable as therein or herein provided, whether at the Stated Maturity or by declaration of acceleration, call for redemption or otherwise.
"Notice of Default" means a written notice of the kind specified in Section 5.01(4).
"Officers' Certificate" means a certificate signed by the Chairman of the Board, a Vice Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or a Vice President, and by the Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, of the Company, and delivered to the Trustee.
"Opinion of Counsel" means a written opinion of counsel, who may be counsel for the Company.
 
"Original Issue Discount Security" means any Security which provides for an amount less than the principal amount thereof to be due and payable upon a declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 5.02.
"Outstanding", when used with respect to Securities, means, as of the date of determination, all Securities theretofore authenticated and delivered under this Indenture, except:
(1) Securities theretofore cancelled by the Trustee or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation;
(2) Securities for whose payment or redemption money in the necessary amount has been theretofore deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent (other than the Company) in trust or set aside and segregated in trust by the Company (if the Company shall act as its own Paying Agent) for the Holders of such Securities; provided that, if such Securities are to be redeemed, notice of such redemption has been duly given pursuant to this Indenture or provision therefor satisfactory to the Trustee has been made;
(3) Securities as to which Defeasance has been effected pursuant to Section 13.02; and
(4) Securities which have been paid pursuant to Section 3.06 or in exchange for or in lieu of which other Securities have been authenticated and delivered pursuant to this Indenture, other than any such Securities in respect of which there shall have been presented to the Trustee proof satisfactory to it that such Securities are held by a bona fide purchaser in whose hands such Securities are valid obligations of the Company;
provided, however, that in determining whether the Holders of the requisite principal amount of the Outstanding Securities have given any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver hereunder, (A) the principal amount of an Original Issue Discount Security that shall be deemed to be Outstanding shall be the amount of the principal thereof that would be due and payable as of the date of such determination upon acceleration of the Maturity thereof to such date pursuant to Section 5.02, (B) the principal amount of a Security denominated in one or more foreign currencies or currency units shall be the U.S. dollar equivalent, determined in the manner provided as contemplated by Section 3.01 on the date of original issuance of such Security, of the principal amount (or, in the case of an Original Issue Discount Security, the U.S. dollar equivalent on the date of original issuance of such Security of the amount determined as provided in Clause (A) above) of such Security, and (C) Securities owned by the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or of such other obligor shall be disregarded and deemed not to be Outstanding, except that, in determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying upon any such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver, only Securities which a Responsible Officer of the Trustee actually knows to be so owned shall be so disregarded. Securities so owned which have been pledged in good faith may be regarded as Outstanding if the pledgee establishes to the satisfaction of the Trustee the pledgee's right so to act with respect to such Securities and that the pledgee is not the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or of such other obligor.
"Paying Agent" means any Person authorized by the Company to pay the principal of or any premium or interest on any Securities on behalf of the Company.
 
"Person" means any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company, joint stock company, trust, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof.
"Place of Payment", when used with respect to the Securities of any series, means the place or places where the principal of and any premium and interest on the Securities of that series are payable as specified as contemplated by Section 3.01.
"Predecessor Security" of any particular Security means every previous Security evidencing all or a portion of the same debt as that evidenced by such particular Security; and, for the purposes of this definition, any Security authenticated and delivered under Section 3.06 in exchange for or in lieu of a mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall be deemed to evidence the same debt as the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security.
"Redemption Date", when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed, means the date fixed for such redemption by or pursuant to this Indenture.
"Redemption Price", when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed, means the price at which it is to be redeemed pursuant to this Indenture.
"Regular Record Date" for the interest payable on any Interest Payment Date on the Securities of any series means the date specified for that purpose as contemplated by Section 3.01.
"Responsible Officer", when used with respect to the Trustee, means any officer of the Trustee with direct responsibility for the administration of this Indenture and also means, with respect to a particular corporate trust matter, any other officer of the Trustee to whom such matter is referred because of his knowledge and familiarity with the particular subject.
"Securities" has the meaning stated in the first recital of this Indenture and more particularly means any Securities authenticated and delivered under this Indenture.
"Securities Act" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission promulgated thereunder.
"Security Register" and "Security Registrar" have the respective meanings specified in Section 3.05.
"Special Record Date" for the payment of any Defaulted Interest means a date fixed by the Trustee pursuant to Section 3.07.
"Stated Maturity", when used with respect to any Security or any installment of principal thereof or interest thereon, means the date specified in such Security as the fixed date on which the principal of such Security or such installment of principal or interest is due and payable.
"Trust Indenture Act" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as in force at the date as of which this instrument was executed; provided, however, that in the event the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 is amended after such date, "Trust Indenture Act" means, to the extent required by any such amendment, the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as so amended.
"Trustee" means the Person named as the "Trustee" in the first paragraph of this instrument until a successor Trustee shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Trustee" shall mean or include each Person who is then a Trustee
 
hereunder, and if at any time there is more than one such Person, "Trustee" as used with respect to the Securities of any series shall mean each Trustee with respect to Securities of that series.
"U.S. Government Obligations" has the meaning specified in Section 13.04.
"Vice President", when used with respect to the Company or the Trustee, means any vice president, whether or not designated by a number or a word or words added before or after the title "vice president".
Section 1.02 Compliance Certificates and Opinions
Upon any application or request by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under any provision of this Indenture, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee such certificates and opinions as may be required under the Trust Indenture Act. Each such certificate or opinion shall be given in the form of an Officers' Certificate, if to be given by an officer of the Company, or an Opinion of Counsel, if to be given by counsel, and shall comply with the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act and any other requirements set forth in this Indenture.
Every certificate or opinion with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in this Indenture shall include
Section 1.03 Form of Documents Delivered to Trustee
In any case where several matters are required to be certified by, or covered by an opinion of, any specified Person, it is not necessary that all such matters be certified by, or covered by the opinion of, only one such Person, or that they be so certified or covered by only one document, but one such Person may certify or give an opinion with respect to some matters and one or more other such Persons as to other matters, and any such Person may certify or give an opinion as to such matters in one or several documents.
Any certificate or opinion of an officer of the Company may be based, insofar as it relates to legal matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, counsel, unless such officer knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to the matters upon which his certificate or opinion is based are erroneous. Any such certificate or opinion of counsel may be based, insofar as it relates to factual matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, an officer or officers of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company stating that the information with respect to such factual matters is in the possession of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company, unless such counsel knows, or in the exercise of
 
reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to such matters are erroneous.
Where any Person is required to make, give or execute two or more applications, requests, consents, certificates, statements, opinions or other instruments under this Indenture, they may, but need not, be consolidated and form one instrument.
Section 1.04 Acts of Holders; Record Dates
Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided or permitted by this Indenture to be given or taken by Holders may be embodied in and evidenced by one or more instruments of substantially similar tenor signed by such Holders in person or by agent duly appointed in writing; and, except as herein otherwise expressly provided, such action shall become effective when such instrument or instruments are delivered to the Trustee and, where it is hereby expressly required, to the Company. Such instrument or instruments (and the action embodied therein and evidenced thereby) are herein sometimes referred to as the "Act" of the Holders signing such instrument or instruments. Proof of execution of any such instrument or of a writing appointing any such agent shall be sufficient for any purpose of this Indenture and (subject to Section 6.01) conclusive in favor of the Trustee and the Company, if made in the manner provided in this Section.
The fact and date of the execution by any Person of any such instrument or writing may be proved by the affidavit of a witness of such execution or by a certificate of a notary public or other officer authorized by law to take acknowledgments of deeds, certifying that the individual signing such instrument or writing acknowledged to him the execution thereof. Where such execution is by a signer acting in a capacity other than his individual capacity, such certificate or affidavit shall also constitute sufficient proof of his authority. The fact and date of the execution of any such instrument or writing, or the authority of the Person executing the same, may also be proved in any other manner which the Trustee deems sufficient.
The ownership of Securities shall be proved by the Security Register.
Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act of the Holder of any Security shall bind every future Holder of the same Security and the Holder of every Security issued upon the registration of transfer thereof or in exchange therefor or in lieu thereof in respect of anything done, omitted or suffered to be done by the Trustee or the Company in reliance thereon, whether or not notation of such action is made upon such Security.
The Company may, in the circumstances permitted by the Trust Indenture Act, set any day as the record date for the purpose of determining the Holders of Outstanding Securities of any series entitled to give or take any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided or permitted by this Indenture to be given or taken by Holders of Securities of such series. With regard to any record date set pursuant to this paragraph, the Holders of Outstanding Securities of the relevant series on such record date (or their duly appointed agents), and only such Persons, shall be entitled to give or take the relevant action, whether or not such Holders remain Holders after such record date. With regard to any action that may be given or taken hereunder only by Holders of a requisite principal amount of Outstanding Securities of any series (or their duly appointed agents) and for which a record date is set pursuant to this paragraph, the Company may, at its option, set an expiration date after which no such action purported to be given or taken by any Holder shall be effective hereunder unless given or taken on or prior to such expiration date by Holders of the requisite principal amount of Outstanding Securities of such series on such record date (or their duly appointed
 
agents). On or prior to any expiration date set pursuant to this paragraph, the Company may, on one or more occasions at its option, extend such date to any later date. Nothing in this paragraph shall prevent any Holder (or any duly appointed agent thereof) from giving or taking, after any such expiration date, any action identical to, or, at any time, contrary to or different from, the action or purported action to which such expiration date relates, in which event the Company may set a record date in respect thereof pursuant to this paragraph. Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to render ineffective any action taken at any time by the Holders (or their duly appointed agents) of the requisite principal amount of Outstanding Securities of the relevant series on the date such action is so taken. Notwithstanding the foregoing or the Trust Indenture Act, the Company shall not set a record date for, and the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply with respect to, any notice, declaration or direction referred to in the next paragraph.
The Trustee may set any day as a record date for the purpose of determining the Holders of Outstanding Securities of any series entitled to join in the giving or making of (i) any Notice of Default, (ii) any declaration of acceleration referred to in Section 5.02, if an Event of Default with respect to Securities of such series has occurred and is continuing and the Trustee shall not have given such a declaration to the Company, (iii) any request to institute proceedings referred to in Section 5.07(2) or (iv) any direction referred to in Section 5.12, in each case with respect to Securities of such series. Promptly after any record date is set pursuant to this paragraph, the Trustee shall notify the Company and the Holders of Outstanding Series of such series of any such record date so fixed and the proposed action. The Holders of Outstanding Securities of such series on such record date (or their duly appointed agents), and only such Persons, shall be entitled to join in such notice, declaration or direction, whether or not such Holders remain Holders after such record date; provided that, unless such notice, declaration or direction shall have become effective by virtue of Holders of the requisite principal amount of Outstanding Securities of such series on such record date (or their duly appointed agents) having joined therein on or prior to the 90th day after such record date, such notice, declaration or direction shall automatically and without any action by any Person be cancelled and of no further effect. Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to prevent a Holder (or a duly appointed agent thereof) from giving, before or after the expiration of such 90-day period, a notice, declaration or direction contrary to or different from, or, after the expiration of such period, identical to, the notice, declaration or direction to which such record date relates, in which event a new record date in respect thereof shall be set pursuant to this paragraph. Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to render ineffective any notice, declaration or direction of the type referred to in this paragraph given at any time to the Trustee and the Company by Holders (or their duly appointed agents) of the requisite principal amount of Outstanding Securities of the relevant series on the date such notice, declaration or direction is so given.
Without limiting the foregoing, a Holder entitled hereunder to give or take any action hereunder with regard to any particular Security may do so with regard to all or any part of the principal amount of such Security or by one or more duly appointed agents each of which may do so pursuant to such appointment with regard to all or any different part of such principal amount.
Section 1.05 Notices, Etc., to Trustee and Company
Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or Act of Holders or other document provided or permitted by this Indenture to be made upon, given or furnished to, or filed with,
 
Section 1.06 Notice to Holders; Waiver
Where this Indenture provides for notice to Holders of any event, such notice shall be sufficiently given (unless otherwise herein expressly provided) if in writing and mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to each Holder affected by such event, at his address as it appears in the Security Register, not later than the latest date (if any), and not earlier than the earliest date (if any), prescribed for the giving of such notice. In any case where notice to Holders is given by mail, neither the failure to mail such notice, nor any defect in any notice so mailed, to any particular Holder shall affect the sufficiency of such notice with respect to other Holders. Where this Indenture provides for notice in any manner, such notice may be waived in writing by the Person entitled to receive such notice, either before or after the event, and such waiver shall be the equivalent of such notice. Waivers of notice by Holders shall be filed with the Trustee, but such filing shall not be a condition precedent to the validity of any action taken in reliance upon such waiver.
In case by reason of the suspension of regular mail service or by reason of any other cause it shall be impracticable to give such notice by mail, then such notification as shall be made with the approval of the Trustee shall constitute a sufficient notification for every purpose hereunder.
Section 1.07 Conflict with Trust Indenture Act
If any provision hereof limits, qualifies or conflicts with a provision of the Trust Indenture Act that is required under such Act to be a part of and govern this Indenture, the latter provision shall control. If any provision of this Indenture modifies or excludes any provision of the Trust Indenture Act that may be so modified or excluded, the latter provision shall be deemed to apply to this Indenture as so modified or to be excluded, as the case may be. Wherever this Indenture refers to a provision of the Trust Indenture Act, such provision is incorporated by reference in and made a part of this Indenture.
The following Trust Indenture Act terms used in this Indenture have the following meanings:
"commission" means the United States Securities and Exchange Commission;
"indenture securities" means the Securities;
"indenture security holder" means a Holder;
"indenture to be qualified" means this Indenture;
"indenture trustee" or "institutional trustee" means the Trustee; and
"obligor on the indenture securities" means the Company and any other obligor on the Securities.
 
All other Trust Indenture Act terms used in this Indenture that are defined by the Trust Indenture Act, defined by the Trust Indenture Act referenced to another statute or defined by any Commission Rule and not otherwise defined herein have the meanings defined to them thereby.
Section 1.08 Effect of Headings and Table of Contents
The Article and Section headings herein and the Table of Contents are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Section 1.09 Successors and Assigns
All covenants and agreements in this Indenture by the Company shall bind its successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not.
Section 1.10 Separability Clause
In case any provision in this Indenture or in the Securities shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Section 1.11 Benefits of Indenture
Nothing in this Indenture or in the Securities, express or implied, shall give to any Person, other than the parties hereto and their successors hereunder and the Holders, any benefit or any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Indenture.
Section 1.12 Governing Law
This Indenture and the Securities shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
Section 1.13 Legal Holidays
In any case where any Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date or Stated Maturity of any Security or the last date on which a Holder has the right to convert his Securities shall not be a Business Day at any Place of Payment, then (notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture or of the Securities (other than a provision of the Securities of any series which specifically states that such provision shall apply in lieu of this Section)) payment of interest or principal (and premium, if any) or conversion of the Securities need not be made at such Place of Payment on such date, but may be made on the next succeeding Business Day at such Place of Payment with the same force and effect as if made on the Interest Payment Date or Redemption Date, or at the Stated Maturity, or on such last day for conversion, provided that no interest shall accrue for the intervening period.
Section 1.14 Waiver of Jury Trial
EACH OF THE COMPANY AND THE TRUSTEE HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY AND ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS INDENTURE, THE NOTES OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY.
Section 1.15 Force Majeure
In no event shall the Trustee be responsible or liable for any failure or delay in the performance of its obligations hereunder arising out of or caused by, directly or indirectly, forces beyond its control, including, without limitation, strikes, work stoppages, accidents, acts of war or terrorism, civil or military disturbances, nuclear or natural catastrophes or acts of God, and interruptions, loss or malfunctions of
 
utilities, communications or computer (software and hardware) services; it being understood that the Trustee shall use reasonable efforts which are consistent with accepted practices in the banking industry to resume performance as soon as practicable under the circumstances.
Section 2.01 Forms Generally
The Securities of each series shall be in substantially the form set forth in this Article, or in such other form as shall be established by or pursuant to an Establishment Action or in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, in each case with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as are required or permitted by this Indenture, and may have such letters, numbers or other marks of identification and such legends or endorsements placed thereon as may be required to comply with the rules of any securities exchange or as may, consistently herewith, be determined by the officers executing such Securities, as evidenced by their execution of the Securities. If the form of Securities of any series is established by action taken pursuant to an Establishment Action, a copy of an appropriate record of such action shall be certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company and delivered to the Trustee at or prior to the delivery of the Company Order contemplated by Section 3.03 for the authentication and delivery of such Securities.
The definitive Securities shall be printed, lithographed or engraved on steel engraved borders or may be produced in any other manner, all as determined by the officers executing such Securities, as evidenced by their execution of such Securities.
Section 2.02 Form of Face of Security.
 
PPG Industries, Inc., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of Pennsylvania (herein called the "Company", which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to [], or registered assigns, the principal sum of [] Dollars on [] [ , and to pay interest thereon from [] or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually [] on and [] in each year, commencing [], at the rate of []% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment [ , and at the rate of []% per annum on any overdue principal and premium and on any overdue installment of interest]. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the [] or [] (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Securities of this series not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities of this series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture].
 - 
 - 
 - 
if the Security is to bear interest prior to Maturity, insert
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
if applicable, insert
 - 
 - 
 - 
[  The principal of this Security shall not bear interest except in the case of a default in payment of principal upon acceleration, upon redemption or at Stated Maturity and in such case the overdue principal of this Security shall bear interest at the rate of []% per annum, which shall accrue from the date of such default in payment to the date payment of such principal has been made or duly provided for. Interest on any overdue principal shall be payable on demand. Any such interest on any overdue principal that is not so paid on demand shall bear interest at the rate of []% per annum, which shall accrue from the date of such demand for payment to the date payment of such interest has been made or duly provided for, and such interest shall also be payable on demand.]
If the Security is not to bear interest prior to Maturity, insert
 - 
 - 
Payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and [  any such] interest on this Security will be made at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in [], in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts [ ; provided, however, that at the option of the Company payment of interest may be made by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register].
if applicable, insert
 - 
if applicable, insert
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed.
Dated: []
 - 
Attest:
[]
 - 
Section 2.03 Form of Reverse of Security
This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the "Securities"), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of [], 20[] (herein called the "Indenture"), between the Company and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee", which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Security is one of the series designated on the face hereof [ , limited in aggregate principal amount to $[]].
 - 
 - 
if applicable, insert
 - 
[  Subject to and upon compliance with the provisions of the Indenture, the Holder of this Security is entitled, at his option, at any time on or before the close of business on [], or in case this Security or a portion hereof is called for redemption, then in respect of this Security or such portion hereof until and including, but (unless the Company defaults in making the payment due upon redemption) not after, the close of business on the 10th calendar day before the Redemption Date, to convert this Security (or any portion of the principal amount hereof which is $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof), at the principal amount hereof, or of such portion, into fully paid and non-assessable shares (calculated as to each conversion to the nearest 1/100 of a share) of Common Stock of the Company at a conversion price per share of Common Stock equal to $[] per each share of Common Stock (or at the current adjusted conversion price if an adjustment has been made as provided in the Indenture) by surrender of this Security, duly endorsed or assigned to the Company or in blank, to the Company at its office or agency in [], accompanied by written notice to the Company that the Holder hereof elects to convert this Security, or if less than the entire principal amount hereof is to be converted, the portion hereof to be converted, and, in case such surrender shall be made during the period from the close of business on any Regular Record Date next preceding any Interest Payment Date to the opening of business on such Interest Payment Date (unless this Security or the portion thereof being converted has been called for redemption on a Redemption Date within such period), also accompanied by payment in funds acceptable to the Company of an amount equal to the interest payable on such Interest Payment Date on the principal amount of this Security then being converted. Subject to the aforesaid requirement for payment and, in the case of a conversion after the Regular Record Date next preceding any Interest Payment Date and on or before such Interest Payment Date, to the right of the Holder of this Security (or any Predecessor Security) of record at such Regular Record Date to receive an installment of interest (with certain exceptions provided in the
If applicable, insert
 - 
 - 
 - 
 
Indenture), no payment or adjustment is to be made on conversion for interest accrued hereon or for dividends on the Common Stock issued on conversion. No fractions of shares or scrip representing fractions of shares will be issued on conversion, but instead of any fractional interest the Company shall pay a cash adjustment as provided in the Indenture. The conversion price is subject to adjustment as provided in the Indenture. In addition, the Indenture provides that in case of certain consolidations or mergers to which the Company is a party or the transfer of substantially all of the assets of the Company, the Indenture shall be amended, without the consent of any Holders of Securities, so that this Security, if then outstanding, will be convertible thereafter, during the period this Security shall be convertible as specified above, only into the kind and amount of securities, cash and other property receivable upon the consolidation, merger or transfer by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which this Security might have been converted immediately prior to such consolidation, merger or transfer (assuming such holder of Common Stock failed to exercise any rights of election and received per share the kind and amount received per share by a plurality of non-electing shares).]
[  The Securities of this series are subject to redemption upon not less than 30 days' notice by mail, [if applicable, insert  (1) on [] in any year commencing with the year [] and ending with the year [] through operation of the sinking fund for this series at a Redemption Price equal to 100% of the principal amount, and (2)] at any time [if applicable, insert  on or after [], 20[]], as a whole or in part, at the election of the Company, at the following Redemption Prices (expressed as percentages of the principal amount): If redeemed [if applicable, insert  on or before [], []%, and if redeemed] during the 12-month period beginning [] of the years indicated,
If applicable, insert
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
and thereafter at a Redemption Price equal to []% of the principal amount, together in the case of any such redemption [if applicable, insert  (whether through operation of the sinking fund or otherwise)] with accrued interest to the Redemption Date, but interest installments whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to such Redemption Date will be payable to the Holders of such Securities, or one or more Predecessor Securities, of record at the close of business on the relevant Record Dates referred to on the face hereof, all as provided in the Indenture.
 - 
[  The Securities of this series are subject to redemption upon not less than 30 days' notice by mail, (1) on [] in any year commencing with the year [] and ending with the year [] through operation of the sinking fund for this series at the Redemption Prices for redemption through operation of the sinking fund (expressed as percentages of the principal amount) set forth in the table below, and (2) at any time [if applicable, insert  on or after []], as a whole or in part, at the election of the Company, at the Redemption Prices for redemption otherwise than through operation of the sinking fund (expressed as percentages of the principal amount) set forth in the table below: If redeemed during the 12-month period beginning [] of the years indicated,
If applicable, insert
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 
and thereafter at a Redemption Price equal to % of the principal amount, together in the case of any such redemption (whether through operation of the sinking fund or otherwise) with accrued interest to the Redemption Date, but interest installments whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to such Redemption Date will be payable to the Holders of such Securities, or one or more Predecessor Securities, of record at the close of business on the relevant Record Dates referred to on the face hereof, all as provided in the Indenture.]
[  The sinking fund for this series provides for the redemption on [] in each year beginning with the year [] and ending with the year [] of [if applicable, insert  not less than $[] ("mandatory sinking fund") and not more than] $[] aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series. Securities of this series acquired or redeemed by the Company otherwise than through [if applicable, insert mandatory] sinking fund payments [ and Securities surrendered for conversion] may be credited against subsequent [  mandatory] sinking fund payments otherwise required to be made [  in the inverse order in which they become due].
If applicable, insert
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
if applicable, insert
if applicable, insert
if applicable, insert
[  In the event of redemption or conversion of this Security in part only, a new Security or Securities of this series and of like tenor for the unredeemed or unconverted portion hereof will be issued in the name of the Holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof.]
If the Security is subject to redemption of any kind, insert
[  The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of [(1) the entire indebtedness of this Security or (2)] certain restrictive covenants and Events of Default with respect to this Security, in each case upon compliance with certain conditions set forth in the Indenture.]
If applicable, insert
[  If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.]
If the Security is not an Original Issue Discount Security, insert
[  If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, an amount of principal of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture. Such amount shall be equal to  insert formula for determining the amount. Upon payment (i) of the amount of principal so declared due and payable and (ii) of interest on any overdue principal and overdue interest all of the Company's obligations in respect of the payment of the principal of and interest, if any, on the Securities of this series shall terminate.]
If the Security is an Original Issue Discount Security, insert
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of each series to be affected. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the
 
Holders of specified percentages in principal amount of the Securities of each series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
As provided in and subject to the provisions of the Indenture, the Holder of this Security shall not have the right to institute any proceeding with respect to the Indenture or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee or for any other remedy thereunder, unless such Holder shall have previously given the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the Securities of this series, the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Securities of this series at the time Outstanding shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of such Event of Default as Trustee and offered the Trustee reasonable indemnity and the Trustee shall not have received from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of Securities of this series at the time Outstanding a direction inconsistent with such request, and shall have failed to institute any such proceeding, for 60 days after receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity. The foregoing shall not apply to any suit instituted by the Holder of this Security for the enforcement of any payment of principal hereof or any premium or interest hereon on or after the respective due dates expressed herein.
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on this Security at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed or to convert this Security as provided in the Indenture.
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registrable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in any place where the principal of and any premium and interest on this Security are payable, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities of this series and of like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
The Securities of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series and of like tenor of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company or the Security Registrar may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered
 
as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
All terms used in this Security which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
Section 2.04 Form of Legend for Global Securities
Unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 3.01 for the Securities evidenced thereby, every Global Security authenticated and delivered hereunder shall bear a legend in substantially the following form:
This Security is a Global Security within the meaning of the Indenture hereinafter referred to and is registered in the name of a Depositary or a nominee thereof. This Security may not be transferred to, or registered or exchanged for Securities registered in the name of, any Person other than the Depositary or a nominee thereof and no such transfer may be registered, except in the limited circumstances described in the Indenture. Every Security authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for or in lieu of, this Security shall be a Global Security subject to the foregoing, except in such limited circumstances.
Section 2.05 Form of Trustee's Certificate of Authentication.
The Trustee's certificates of authentication shall be in substantially the following form:
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
Section 3.01 Amount Unlimited; Issuable in Series.
The aggregate principal amount of Securities which may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture is unlimited.
The Securities may be issued in one or more series. There shall be established in or pursuant to an Establishment Action and, subject to Section 3.03, set forth, or determined in the manner provided, in an Officers' Certificate, or established in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, prior to the issuance of Securities of any series,
 
 
All Securities of any one series shall be substantially identical except as to denomination and except as may otherwise be provided in or pursuant to an Establishment Action referred to above and (subject to Section 3.03) set forth, or determined in the manner provided, in the Officers' Certificate referred to above or in any such indenture supplemental hereto.
If any of the terms of the series are established by action taken pursuant to an Establishment Action, a copy of an appropriate record of such action shall be certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company and delivered to the Trustee at or prior to the delivery of the Officers' Certificate setting forth the terms of the series.
The Company may, from time to time, by an Establishment Action and subject to compliance with any other applicable provisions of this Indenture, without the consent of the Holders, create and issue pursuant to this Indenture additional securities of any series of Securities ("Add On Securities") having terms and conditions identical to those of such series of Outstanding Securities, except that such Add On Securities:
Section 3.02 Denominations
The Securities of each series shall be issuable only in registered form without coupons in such denominations as shall be specified as contemplated by Section 3.01. In the absence of any such specified denomination with respect to the Securities of any series, the Securities of such series shall be issuable in denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof.
 
Section 3.03 Execution, Authentication, Delivery and Dating
The Securities shall be executed on behalf of the Company by its Chairman of the Board, its Vice Chairman of the Board, its President, one of its Vice Presidents or its Treasurer, and attested by its Secretary or one of its Assistant Secretaries or by its Chief Financial Officer. The signature of any of these officers on the Securities may be manual or facsimile.
Securities bearing the manual or facsimile signatures of individuals who were at any time the proper officers of the Company shall bind the Company, notwithstanding that such individuals or any of them have ceased to hold such offices prior to the authentication and delivery of such Securities or did not hold such offices at the date of such Securities.
At any time and from time to time after the execution and delivery of this Indenture, the Company may deliver Securities of any Series executed by the Company to the Trustee for authentication, together with a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of such Securities, and the Trustee in accordance with the Company Order shall authenticate and deliver such Securities. If the form or terms of the Securities of the series have been established in or pursuant to one or more Establishment Actions as permitted by Sections 2.01 and 3.01, in authenticating such Securities, and accepting the additional responsibilities under this Indenture in relation to such Securities, the Trustee shall be provided with, and (subject to Section 6.01) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel stating,
If such form or terms have been so established, the Trustee shall not be required to authenticate such Securities if the issue of such Securities pursuant to this Indenture will affect the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under the Securities and this Indenture or otherwise in a manner which is not reasonably acceptable to the Trustee.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 3.01 and of the preceding paragraph, if all Securities of a series are not to be originally issued at one time, it shall not be necessary to deliver the Officers' Certificate otherwise required pursuant to Section 3.01 or the Company Order and Opinion of Counsel otherwise required pursuant to such preceding paragraph at or prior to the time of authentication of each Security of such series if such documents are delivered at or prior to the authentication upon original issuance of the first Security of such series to be issued.
Each Security shall be dated the date of its authentication.
 
No Security shall be entitled to any benefit under this Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose unless there appears on such Security a certificate of authentication substantially in the form provided for herein executed by the Trustee by manual signature, and such certificate upon any Security shall be conclusive evidence, and the only evidence, that such Security has been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any Security shall have been authenticated and delivered hereunder but never issued and sold by the Company, and the Company shall deliver such Security to the Trustee for cancellation as provided in Section 3.09, for all purposes of this Indenture such Security shall be deemed never to have been authenticated and delivered hereunder and shall never be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture.
Section 3.04 Temporary Securities
Pending the preparation of definitive Securities of any series, the Company may execute, and upon Company Order the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, temporary Securities which are printed, lithographed, typewritten, mimeographed or otherwise produced, in any authorized denomination, substantially of the tenor of the definitive Securities in lieu of which they are issued and with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as the officers executing such Securities may determine, as evidenced by their execution of such Securities.
If temporary Securities of any series are issued, the Company will cause definitive Securities of that series to be prepared without unreasonable delay. After the preparation of definitive Securities of such series, the temporary Securities of such series shall be exchangeable for definitive Securities of such series upon surrender of the temporary Securities of such series at the office or agency of the Company in a Place of Payment for that series, without charge to the Holder. Upon surrender for cancellation of any one or more temporary Securities of any series the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor one or more definitive Securities of the same series, of any authorized denominations and of a like aggregate principal amount and tenor. Until so exchanged the temporary Securities of any series shall in all respects be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as definitive Securities of such series and tenor.
Section 3.05 Registration, Registration of Transfer and Exchange
The Company shall cause to be kept at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee a register (the register maintained in such office and in any other office or agency of the Company in a Place of Payment being herein sometimes collectively referred to as the "Security Register") in which, subject to such reasonable regulations as it may prescribe, the Company shall provide for the registration of Securities and of transfers of Securities. The Trustee is hereby appointed "Security Registrar" for the purpose of registering Securities and transfers of Securities as herein provided.
Upon surrender for registration of transfer of any Security of any series at the office or agency in a Place of Payment for that series, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in the name of the designated transferee or transferees, one or more new Securities of the same series, of any authorized denominations and of a like aggregate principal amount and tenor.
At the option of the Holder, Securities of any series may be exchanged for other Securities of the same series, of any authorized denominations and of a like aggregate principal amount and tenor, upon surrender of the Securities to be exchanged at such office or agency. Whenever any Securities are so surrendered for exchange, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, the Securities which the Holder making the exchange is entitled to receive.
 
All Securities issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities shall be the valid obligations of the Company, evidencing the same debt, and entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture, as the Securities surrendered upon such registration of transfer or exchange.
Every Security presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or for exchange shall (if so required by the Company or the Trustee) be duly endorsed, or be accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed, by the Holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing.
No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, but the Company or Security Registrar may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection with any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, other than exchanges pursuant to Section 3.04, 9.06 or 11.07 not involving any transfer.
The Company shall not be required (1) to issue, register the transfer of or exchange Securities of any series during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before the day of the mailing of a notice of redemption of Securities of that series selected for redemption under Section 11.03 and ending at the close of business on the day of such mailing, or (2) to register the transfer of or exchange any Security so selected for redemption in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any Security being redeemed in part.
Notwithstanding any other provision in this Indenture, no Global Security may be transferred to, or registered or exchanged for Securities registered in the name of, any Person other than the Depositary for such Global Security or any nominee thereof, and no such transfer may be registered, unless (1) such Depositary (A) notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for such Global Security or (B) has ceased to be a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act, (2) the Company executes and delivers to the Trustee a Company Order that such Global Security shall be so transferable, registrable and exchangeable, and such transfers shall be registrable, (3) there shall have occurred and be continuing an Event of Default with respect to the Securities evidenced by such Global Security or (4) there shall exist such other circumstances, if any, as have been specified for this purpose as contemplated by Section 3.01. Notwithstanding any other provision in this Indenture, a Global Security to which the restriction set forth in the preceding sentence shall have ceased to apply may be transferred only to, and may be registered and exchanged for Securities registered only in the name or names of, such Person or Persons as the Depositary for such Global Security shall have directed and no transfer thereof other than such a transfer may be registered.
Every Security authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for or in lieu of, a Global Security to which the restriction set forth in the first sentence of the preceding paragraph shall apply, whether pursuant to this Section, Section 3.04, 3.06, 9.06 or 11.07 or otherwise, shall be authenticated and delivered in the form of, and shall be, a Global Security.
Section 3.06 Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost and Stolen Securities
If any mutilated Security is surrendered to the Trustee, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor a new Security of the same series and of like tenor and principal amount and bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding.
If there shall be delivered to the Company and the Trustee (i) evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of any Security and (ii) such security or indemnity as may be required by
 
them to save each of them and any agent of either of them harmless, then, in the absence of notice to the Company or the Trustee that such Security has been acquired by a bona fide purchaser, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in lieu of any such destroyed, lost or stolen Security, a new Security of the same series and of like tenor and principal amount and bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding.
In case any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security has become or is about to become due and payable, the Company in its discretion may, instead of issuing a new Security, pay such Security.
Upon the issuance of any new Security under this Section, the Company may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto and any other expenses (including the fees and expenses of the Trustee) connected therewith.
Every new Security of any series issued pursuant to this Section in exchange for any mutilated Security or in lieu of any destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall constitute an original additional contractual obligation of the Company, whether or not the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall be at any time enforceable by anyone, and shall be entitled to all the benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all other Securities of that series duly issued hereunder.
The provisions of this Section are exclusive and shall preclude (to the extent lawful) all other rights and remedies with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities.
Section 3.07 Payment of Interest; Interest Rights Preserved
Except as otherwise provided as contemplated by Section 3.01 with respect to any series of Securities, interest on any Security which is payable, and is punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date shall be paid to the Person in whose name that Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest.
Any interest on any Security of any series which is payable, but is not punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date (herein called "Defaulted Interest") shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on the relevant Regular Record Date by virtue of having been such Holder, and such Defaulted Interest may be paid by the Company, at its election in each case, as provided in Clause (1) or (2) below:
 
Subject to the foregoing provisions of this Section, each Security delivered under this Indenture upon registration of transfer of or in exchange for or in lieu of any other Security shall carry the rights to interest accrued and unpaid, and to accrue, which were carried by such other Security.
In the case of any Security which is converted after any Regular Record Date and on or prior to the next succeeding Interest Payment Date, interest whose Stated Maturity is on such Interest Payment Date shall be payable on such Interest Payment Date notwithstanding such conversion, and such interest (whether or not punctually paid or duly provided for) shall be paid to the Person in whose name that Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on such Regular Record Date. Except as otherwise expressly provided in the immediately preceding sentence in the case of any Security which is converted, interest whose Stated Maturity is after the date of conversion of such Security, shall not be payable.
Section 3.08 Persons Deemed Owners
Prior to due presentment of a Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name such Security is registered as the owner of such Security for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of and any premium and (subject to Section 3.07) any interest on such Security and for all other purposes whatsoever, whether or not such Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
Section 3.09 Cancellation
All Securities surrendered for payment, redemption, registration of transfer or exchange or conversion or for credit against any sinking fund payment shall, if surrendered to any Person other than the Trustee, be delivered to the Trustee and shall be promptly cancelled by it. The Company may at any time deliver to the Trustee for cancellation any Securities previously authenticated and delivered hereunder which the Company may have acquired in any manner whatsoever, and may deliver to the Trustee (or to any other Person for delivery to the Trustee) for cancellation any Securities previously authenticated hereunder which the Company has not issued and sold, and all Securities so delivered shall be promptly cancelled by the Trustee. No Securities shall be authenticated in lieu of or in exchange for any Securities cancelled as provided in this Section, except as expressly permitted by
 
this Indenture. All cancelled Securities held by the Trustee shall be disposed of by the Trustee in its customary manner.
Section 3.10 Computation of Interest
Except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 3.01 for Securities of any series, interest on the Securities of each series shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
Section 3.11 CUSIP Numbers
The Company in issuing the Securities may use "CUSIP" numbers (if then generally in use), and, if so, the Trustee shall use "CUSIP" numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders; provided that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Securities or as contained in any notice of a redemption and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Securities, and any such redemption shall not be affected by any defect in or omission of such numbers. The Company will promptly notify the Trustee of any changes in the "CUSIP" numbers.
Section 4.01 Satisfaction and Discharge of Indenture
This Indenture shall upon Company Request cease to be of further effect (except as to any surviving rights of conversion, registration of transfer or exchange of Securities herein expressly provided for), and the Trustee, at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, when
and the Company, in the case of (i), (ii) or (iii) above, has deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee as trust funds in trust for the purpose an amount sufficient to pay and discharge the entire indebtedness on such Securities not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation, for principal and any premium and interest to the date of such deposit (in the case of Securities which have become due and payable) or to the Stated Maturity or Redemption Date, as the case may be;
 
Notwithstanding the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, the obligations of the Company to the Trustee under Section 6.07, and, if money shall have been deposited with the Trustee pursuant to subclause (B) of Clause (1) of this Section, the obligations of the Trustee under Section 4.02 shall survive such satisfaction and discharge.
Section 4.02 Application of Trust Money
All money deposited with the Trustee pursuant to Section 4.01 shall be held in trust and applied by it, in accordance with the provisions of the Securities and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Company acting as its own Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Persons entitled thereto, of the principal and any premium and interest for whose payment such money has been deposited with the Trustee.
Section 5.01 Events of Default
"Event of Default", wherever used herein with respect to Securities of any series, means any one of the following events (whatever the reason for such Event of Default and whether it shall be voluntary or involuntary or be effected by operation of law or pursuant to any judgment, decree or order of any court or any order, rule or regulation of any administrative or governmental body):
 
Section 5.02 Acceleration of Maturity; Rescission and Annulment
If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of any series at the time Outstanding occurs and is continuing, then in every such case the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series may declare the principal amount (or, if any of the Securities of that series are Original Issue Discount Securities, such portion of the principal amount of such Securities as may be specified in the terms thereof) of all of the Securities of that series to be due and payable immediately, by a notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if given by Holders), and upon any such declaration such principal amount (or specified amount) shall become immediately due and payable.
At any time after such a declaration of acceleration with respect to Securities of any series has been made and before a judgment or decree for payment of the money due has been obtained by the Trustee as hereinafter in this Article provided, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series, by written notice to the Company and the Trustee, may rescind and annul such declaration and its consequences if
 
No such rescission shall affect any subsequent default or impair any right consequent thereon.
Section 5.03 Collection and Suits for Enforcement by Trustee
The Company covenants that if:
the Company will, upon demand of the Trustee, pay to it, for the benefit of the Holders of such Securities, the whole amount then due and payable on such Securities for principal and any premium and interest and, to the extent that payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable, interest on any overdue principal and premium and on any overdue interest, at the rate or rates prescribed therefor in such Securities, and, in addition thereto, such further amount as shall be sufficient to cover the costs and expenses of collection, including the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel.
If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of any series occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may in its discretion proceed to protect and enforce its rights and the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series by such appropriate judicial proceedings as the Trustee shall deem necessary to protect and enforce any such rights, whether for the specific enforcement of any covenant or agreement in this Indenture or in aid of the exercise of any power granted herein, or to enforce any other proper remedy.
Section 5.04 Trustee May File Proofs of Claim
In case of any judicial proceeding relative to the Company (or any other obligor upon the Securities), its property or its creditors, the Trustee shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise, to take any and all actions authorized under the Trust Indenture Act in order to have claims of the Holders and the Trustee allowed in any such proceeding. In particular, the Trustee shall be authorized to collect and receive any moneys or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same; and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder to make such payments to the Trustee and, in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Holders, to pay to the Trustee any amount due it for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 6.07.
No provision of this Indenture shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Securities or the rights of any Holder thereof or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder in any such proceeding; , , that the Trustee
provided
however
 
may, on behalf of the Holders, vote for the election of a trustee in bankruptcy or similar official and be a member of a creditors' or other similar committee.
Section 5.05 Trustee May Enforce Claims Without Possession of Securities
All rights of action and claims under this Indenture or the Securities may be prosecuted and enforced by the Trustee without the possession of any of the Securities or the production thereof in any proceeding relating thereto, and any such proceeding instituted by the Trustee shall be brought in its own name as trustee of an express trust, and any recovery of judgment shall, after provision for the payment of the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, be for the ratable benefit of the Holders of the Securities in respect of which such judgment has been recovered.
Section 5.06 Application of Money Collected
Any money collected by the Trustee pursuant to this Article shall be applied in the following order, at the date or dates fixed by the Trustee and, in case of the distribution of such money on account of principal or any premium or interest, upon presentation of the Securities and the notation thereon of the payment if only partially paid and upon surrender thereof if fully paid:
FIRST: To the payment of all amounts due the Trustee under Section 6.07;
SECOND: To the payment of the amounts then due and unpaid for principal of and any premium and interest on the Securities in respect of which or for the benefit of which such money has been collected, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to the amounts due and payable on such Securities for principal and any premium and interest, respectively; and
THIRD: To the Company.
Section 5.07 Limitation on Suits
No Holder of any Security of any series shall have any right to institute any proceeding, judicial or otherwise, with respect to this Indenture, or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee, or for any other remedy hereunder, unless
it being understood and intended that no one or more of such Holders shall have any right in any manner whatever by virtue of, or by availing of, any provision of this Indenture to affect, disturb or
 
prejudice the rights of any other of such Holders, or to obtain or to seek to obtain priority or preference over any other of such Holders or to enforce any right under this Indenture, except in the manner herein provided and for the equal and ratable benefit of all of such Holders.
Section 5.08 Unconditional Right of Holders to Receive Principal, Premium and Interest
Notwithstanding any other provision in this Indenture, the Holder of any Security shall have the right, which is absolute and unconditional, to receive payment of the principal of and any premium and (subject to Section 3.07) interest on such Security on the respective Stated Maturities expressed in such Security (or, in the case of redemption, on the Redemption Date) and to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment, and such rights shall not be impaired without the consent of such Holder.
Section 5.09 Restoration of Rights and Remedies
If the Trustee or any Holder has instituted any proceeding to enforce any right or remedy under this Indenture and such proceeding has been discontinued or abandoned for any reason, or has been determined adversely to the Trustee or to such Holder, then and in every such case, subject to any determination in such proceeding, the Company, the Trustee and the Holders shall be restored severally and respectively to their former positions hereunder and thereafter all rights and remedies of the Trustee and the Holders shall continue as though no such proceeding had been instituted.
Section 5.10 Rights and Remedies Cumulative
Except as otherwise provided with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities in the last paragraph of Section 3.06, no right or remedy herein conferred upon or reserved to the Trustee or to the Holders is intended to be exclusive of any other right or remedy, and every right and remedy shall, to the extent permitted by law, be cumulative and in addition to every other right and remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or otherwise. The assertion or employment of any right or remedy hereunder, or otherwise, shall not prevent the concurrent assertion or employment of any other appropriate right or remedy.
Section 5.11 Delay or Omission Not Waiver
No delay or omission of the Trustee or of any Holder of any Securities to exercise any right or remedy accruing upon any Event of Default shall impair any such right or remedy or constitute a waiver of any such Event of Default or an acquiescence therein. Every right and remedy given by this Article or by law to the Trustee or to the Holders may be exercised from time to time, and as often as may be deemed expedient, by the Trustee or by the Holders, as the case may be.
Section 5.12 Control by Holders
The Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series shall have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee, with respect to the Securities of such series, that
provided
 
Section 5.13 Waiver of Past Defaults.
The Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series may on behalf of the Holders of all the Securities of such series waive any past default hereunder with respect to such series and its consequences, except a default
Upon any such waiver, such default shall cease to exist, and any Event of Default arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been cured, for every purpose of this Indenture; but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other default or impair any right consequent thereon.
Section 5.14 Undertaking for Costs
In any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture, or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken, suffered or omitted by it as Trustee, a court may require any party litigant in such suit to file an undertaking to pay the costs of such suit, and may assess costs against any such party litigant, including reasonable attorney's fees and expenses, in the manner and to the extent provided in the Trust Indenture Act; that neither this Section nor the Trust Indenture Act shall apply to any suit instituted by the Trustee, to any suit instituted by any Holders of the Securities, or group of Holders of the Securities, holding in the aggregate more than 10% of principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series, or to any suit instituted by any Holder of the Outstanding Securities for the enforcement of the payment of principal of or interest on any Outstanding Securities held by such Holder, on or after the respective due dates expressed in such Outstanding Securities; and , , that neither this Section nor the Trust Indenture Act shall be deemed to authorize any court to require such an undertaking or to make such an assessment in any suit instituted by the Company.
provided
provided
further
Section 5.15 Waiver of Usury, Stay or Extension Laws
The Company covenants (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) that it will not at any time insist upon, or plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any usury, stay or extension law wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, which may affect the covenants or the performance of this Indenture; and the Company (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law and covenants that it will not hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Trustee, but will suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law had been enacted.
The Trustee hereby accepts the trust imposed upon it by this Indenture and covenants and agrees to perform the same, as herein expressed.
 
Section 6.01 Duties of Trustee
Section 6.02 Rights of Trustee
Subject to Section 6.01:
 
Section 6.03 Individual Rights of Trustee
The Trustee in its individual or any other capacity may become the owner or pledgee of Securities and may otherwise deal with the Company or its Affiliates with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee. Any Paying Agent or Security Registrar may do the same with like rights. However, the Trustee must comply with Sections 6.08, 6.09 and 6.10.
 
Section 6.04 Trustee's Disclaimer
The Trustee makes no representation as to the validity or adequacy of this Indenture or the Securities and it shall not be accountable for the Company's use of the proceeds from the Securities, and it shall not be responsible for any statement in the Securities, other than the Trustee's certificate of authentication, or the use or application of any funds received by a Paying Agent other than the Trustee.
Section 6.05 Notice of Default
If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of any series occurs and is continuing and if it is known to a Responsible Officer of the Trustee, the Trustee shall mail to each Holder of Securities of such series notice of the uncured Event of Default within 90 days after such Event of Default occurs. Except in the case of an Event of Default in payment of principal (or premium, if any) of, or interest on, any Security, the Trustee may withhold the notice if and so long as a Responsible Officer in good faith determines that withholding the notice is in the interest of the Holders of Securities of such series.
Section 6.06 Reports by Trustee to Holders
Within 60 days after each February 15 beginning with the February 15 following the date of this Indenture, the Trustee shall mail to each Holder a brief report dated as of such February 15 that complies with Trust Indenture Act Section 313(a) if such report is required by such Trust Indenture Act Section 313(a). The Trustee also shall comply with Trust Indenture Act Sections 313(b) and 313(c).
The Company shall promptly notify the Trustee in writing if the Securities of any series become listed on any stock exchange or automatic quotation system.
A copy of each report at the time of its mailing to Holders shall be mailed to the Company and filed with the Commission and each stock exchange, if any, on which the Securities are listed.
Section 6.07 Compensation and Indemnity
The Company shall pay to the Trustee from time to time such compensation for its services as the Company and the Trustee shall from time to time agree in writing. The Trustee's compensation shall not be limited by any law on compensation of a trustee of an express trust. The Company shall reimburse the Trustee upon request for all reasonable disbursements, expenses and advances incurred or made by it. Such expenses shall include the reasonable compensation, disbursements and expenses of the Trustee's agents, accountants, experts and counsel.
The Company shall indemnify each of the Trustee (in its capacity as Trustee) and any predecessor Trustee and each of their respective officers, directors, attorneys-in-fact and agents for, and hold it harmless against, any claim, damage, demand, expense (including but not limited to reasonable compensation, disbursements and expenses of the Trustee's agents and counsel), loss, charges (including taxes (other than taxes based upon the income of the Trustee)) or liability incurred by them without negligence or bad faith on its part, arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of this trust and their rights or duties hereunder including the reasonable costs and expenses of defending themselves against any claim or liability in connection with the exercise or performance of any of its powers or duties hereunder. The Trustee shall notify the Company promptly of any claim asserted against the Trustee for which it may seek indemnity. The Company shall defend the claim and the Trustee shall provide reasonable cooperation at the Company's expense in the defense. The Trustee may have separate counsel and the Company shall pay the reasonable fees and expenses of such counsel. The Company need not pay for any settlement made without its written
 
consent which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. The Company need not reimburse any expense or indemnify against any loss or liability to the extent incurred by the Trustee as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to have been caused by its own negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct.
To secure the Company's payment obligations in this Section 6.07, the Trustee shall have a lien prior to the Securities on all assets held or collected by the Trustee, in its capacity as Trustee, except assets held in trust to pay principal and premium, if any, of or interest on particular Securities.
When the Trustee incurs expenses or renders services after an Event of Default specified in Section 5.01(5) or (6) occurs, the expenses and the compensation for the services are intended to constitute expenses of administration under any Bankruptcy Law.
The Company's obligations under this Section 6.07 and any lien arising hereunder shall survive the resignation or removal of the Trustee, the discharge of the Company's obligations pursuant to Article IV of this Indenture and any rejection or termination of this Indenture under any Bankruptcy Law.
Section 6.08 Replacement of Trustee
The Trustee may resign at any time with respect to the Securities of one or more series by so notifying the Company in writing. The Holder or Holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Securities of a series may remove the Trustee with respect to Securities of such series by so notifying the Company and the Trustee in writing and may appoint a successor trustee with respect to Securities of such series with the Company's consent. The Company may remove the Trustee if:
If the Trustee resigns or is removed or if a vacancy exists in the office of Trustee, with respect to the Securities of one or more series, for any reason, the Company shall promptly appoint a successor Trustee, with respect to Securities of that or those series. Within one year after the successor Trustee with respect to a series of Securities takes office, the Holder or Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities of such series may appoint a successor Trustee with respect to such series to replace the successor Trustee appointed by the Company.
A successor Trustee shall deliver a written acceptance of its appointment to the retiring Trustee and to the Company. Immediately after that and provided that all sums owing to the Trustee provided for in Section 6.07 have been paid, the retiring Trustee shall transfer all property held by it as Trustee with respect to such series of Securities to the successor Trustee, subject to the lien provided in Section 6.07, the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective, and the successor Trustee shall have all the rights, powers and duties of the Trustee under this Indenture. A successor Trustee with respect to one or more series of Securities shall mail notice of its succession to each Holder of Securities of that or those series.
If a successor Trustee with respect to a series of Securities does not take office within 60 days after the retiring Trustee resigns or is removed, the retiring Trustee, the Company or the Holder or Holders of at least 10% in principal amount of the outstanding Securities of that series may petition at the
 
expense of the Company any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to such series.
If the Trustee fails to comply with Section 6.10, any Holder of Securities of a series may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee with respect to such series and the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to such series.
Notwithstanding replacement of the Trustee pursuant to this Section 6.08, the Company's obligations under Section 6.07 shall continue for the benefit of the retiring Trustee.
Section 6.09 Successor Trustee by Merger, Etc.
If the Trustee consolidates with, merges or converts into, or transfers all or substantially all of its corporate trust business to, another corporation, the resulting, surviving or transferee corporation without any further act shall, if such resulting, surviving or transferee corporation is otherwise eligible hereunder, be the successor Trustee.
Section 6.10 Eligibility; Disqualification
The Trustee shall at all times satisfy the requirements of Trust Indenture Act Section 310(a)(1) and Trust Indenture Act Section 310(a)(5). The Trustee shall have a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000 as set forth in its most recent published annual report of condition. The Trustee shall comply with Trust Indenture Act Section 310(b).
Section 6.11 Preferential Collection of Claims against Company
The Trustee shall comply with Trust Indenture Act Section 311(a), excluding any creditor relationship listed in Trust Indenture Act Section 311(b). A Trustee who has resigned or been removed shall be subject to Trust Indenture Act Section 311(a) to the extent indicated.
Section 7.01 Company to Furnish Trustee Names and Addresses of Holders
The Company will furnish or cause to be furnished to the Trustee:
from any such list names and addresses received by the Trustee in its capacity as Security Registrar.
excluding
Section 7.02 Preservation of Information; Communications to Holders
The Trustee shall preserve, in as current a form as is reasonably practicable, the names and addresses of Holders contained in the most recent list furnished to the Trustee as provided in Section 7.01 and the names and addresses of Holders received by the Trustee in its capacity as Security
 
Registrar. The Trustee may destroy any list furnished to it as provided in Section 7.01 upon receipt of a new list so furnished.
The rights of the Holders to communicate with other Holders with respect to their rights under this Indenture or under the Securities, and the corresponding rights and privileges of the Trustee, shall be as provided by the Trust Indenture Act.
Every Holder of Securities, by receiving and holding the same, agrees with the Company and the Trustee that neither the Company nor the Trustee nor any agent of either of them shall be held accountable by reason of any disclosure of information as to names and addresses of Holders made pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act.
Section 7.03 Reports by Trustee
The Trustee shall transmit to Holders such reports concerning the Trustee and its actions under this Indenture as may be required pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act at the times and in the manner provided pursuant thereto.
A copy of each such report shall, at the time of such transmission to Holders, be filed by the Trustee with each stock exchange upon which any Securities are listed, with the Commission and with the Company. The Company will notify the Trustee when any Securities are listed on any stock exchange or delisted therefrom.
Section 7.04 Reports by Company
The Company shall file with the Trustee and the Commission, and transmit to Holders, such information, documents and other reports, and such summaries thereof, as may be required pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act at the times and in the manner provided pursuant to such Act; provided that any such information, documents or reports required to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 shall be filed with the Trustee within 15 days after the same is so required to be filed with the Commission. Delivery of such reports, information and documents to the Trustee is for informational purposes only and the Trustee's receipt of such shall not constitute constructive notice of any information contained therein or determinable from information contained therein, including the Company's compliance with any of its covenants hereunder (as to which the Trustee is entitled to rely exclusively on Officer's Certificates).
Section 8.01 When Company May Merge, Etc.
The Company may not, in a single transaction or through a series of related transactions, consolidate with or merge with or into any other person, or, directly or indirectly, sell or convey substantially all of its assets to another person or group of affiliated persons, unless:
 
For purposes of this Section 8.01, "substantially all of its assets" shall mean, at any date, a portion of the non-current assets reflected in the Company's consolidated balance sheet as of the end of the most recent quarterly period that represents at least sixty-six and two-thirds percent (66-2/3%) of the total reported value of such assets.
Section 8.02 Successor Substituted
Upon any consolidation or merger, or any transfer of assets in accordance with Section 8.01, the Surviving Person formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or to which such transfer is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Company under this Indenture with the same effect as if such Surviving Person had been named as the Company herein. When a Surviving Person duly assumes all of the obligations of the Company pursuant hereto and pursuant to the Securities, the predecessor shall be relieved of the performance and observance of all obligations and covenants of this Indenture and the Securities, including but not limited to the obligation to make payment of the principal of and interest, if any, on all the Securities then outstanding, and the Company may thereupon or any time thereafter be liquidated and dissolved.
Section 9.01 Supplemental Indentures Without Consent of Holders
Without the consent of any Holders, the Company, when authorized by an Establishment Action, and the Trustee, at any time and from time to time, may enter into one or more indentures supplemental hereto, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, for any of the following purposes:
(3) to add any additional Events of Default; or
 
Section 9.02 Supplemental Indentures with Consent of Holders
With the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of each series affected by such supplemental indenture, by Act of said Holders delivered to the Company and the Trustee, the Company, when authorized by an Establishment Action, and the Trustee may enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of this Indenture or of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series under this Indenture; provided, however, that no such supplemental indenture shall, without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security affected thereby,
 
A supplemental indenture which changes or eliminates any covenant or other provision of this Indenture which has expressly been included solely for the benefit of one or more particular series of Securities, or which modifies the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series with respect to such covenant or other provision, shall be deemed not to affect the rights under this Indenture of the Holders of Securities of any other series.
It shall not be necessary for any Act of Holders under this Section to approve the particular form of any proposed supplemental indenture, but it shall be sufficient if such Act shall approve the substance thereof.
Section 9.03 Execution of Supplemental Indentures
In executing, or accepting the additional trusts created by, any supplemental indenture permitted by this Article or the modifications thereby of the trusts created by this Indenture, the Trustee shall be provided with, and (subject to Section 6.01) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel stating that the execution of such supplemental indenture is authorized or permitted by this Indenture. The Trustee may, but shall not be obligated to, enter into any such supplemental indenture which affects the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise.
Section 9.04 Effect of Supplemental Indentures
Upon the execution of any supplemental indenture under this Article, this Indenture shall be modified in accordance therewith, and such supplemental indenture shall form a part of this Indenture for all purposes; and every Holder of Securities theretofore or thereafter authenticated and delivered hereunder shall be bound thereby.
Section 9.05 Conformity with Trust Indenture Act
Every supplemental indenture executed pursuant to this Article shall conform to the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act.
Section 9.06 Reference in Securities to Supplemental Indentures
Securities of any series authenticated and delivered after the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to this Article may, and shall if required by the Trustee, bear a notation in form approved by the Trustee as to any matter provided for in such supplemental indenture. If the Company shall so determine, new Securities of any series so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the Trustee and the Company, to any such supplemental indenture may be prepared and executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee in exchange for Outstanding Securities of such series.
 
Section 10.01 Payment of Securities
The Company covenants and agrees for the benefit of each series of Securities that it will pay the principal of and interest on the Securities of that series on the dates and in the manner provided in the Securities of that series and this Indenture. An installment of principal, premium, if any, or interest on the Securities shall be considered paid on the date it is due if the Trustee or Paying Agent (other than the Company or an Affiliate of the Company) holds for the benefit of the Holders, on that date, immediately available funds deposited and designated for and sufficient to pay the installment. The Company shall pay interest on overdue principal and on overdue installments of interest at the rate specified in the Securities compounded semi-annually, to the extent lawful.
Section 10.02 Maintenance of Office or Agency
The Company shall maintain in the Place of Payment for any series of Securities, an office or agency where Securities of that series may be presented or surrendered for payment, where Securities of that series may be surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities of that series and this Indenture may be served. The Company shall give prompt written notice to the Trustee of the location, and any change in the location, of such office or agency. If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain any such required office or agency or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust Office.
The Company may also from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies where the Securities of one or more series may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes and may from time to time rescind such designations; provided, however, that no such designation or rescission shall in any manner relieve the Company of its obligation to maintain an office or agency in each Place of Payment for Securities of any series for such purposes. The Company shall give prompt written notice to the Trustee of any such designation or rescission and of any change in the location of any such other office or agency. The Company hereby initially designates the principal corporate trust office of the Trustee as such office of the Company.
Section 10.03 Money for Securities Payments to Be Held in Trust
If the Company shall at any time act as its own Paying Agent with respect to any series of Securities, it will, on or before each due date of the principal of or any premium or interest on any of the Securities of that series, segregate and hold in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled thereto a sum sufficient to pay the principal and any premium and interest so becoming due until such sums shall be paid to such Persons or otherwise disposed of as herein provided and will promptly notify the Trustee of its action or failure so to act.
Whenever the Company shall have one or more Paying Agents for any series of Securities, it will, on or prior to each due date of the principal of or any premium or interest on any Securities of that series, deposit with a Paying Agent a sum sufficient to pay such amount, such sum to be held as provided by the Trust Indenture Act, and (unless such Paying Agent is the Trustee) the Company will promptly notify the Trustee of its action or failure so to act.
The Company will cause each Paying Agent for any series of Securities other than the Trustee to execute and deliver to the Trustee an instrument in which such Paying Agent shall agree with the
 
Trustee, subject to the provisions of this Section, that such Paying Agent will (1) comply with the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act applicable to it as a Paying Agent and (2) during the continuance of any default by the Company (or any other obligor upon the Securities of that series) in the making of any payment in respect of the Securities of that series, upon the written request of the Trustee, forthwith pay to the Trustee all sums held in trust by such Paying Agent for payment in respect of the Securities of that series.
The Company may at any time, for the purpose of obtaining the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture or for any other purpose, pay, or by Company Order direct any Paying Agent to pay, to the Trustee all sums held in trust by the Company or such Paying Agent, such sums to be held by the Trustee upon the same trusts as those upon which such sums were held by the Company or such Paying Agent; and, upon such payment by any Paying Agent to the Trustee, such Paying Agent shall be released from all further liability with respect to such money.
Any money deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent, or then held by the Company, in trust for the payment of the principal of or any premium or interest on any Security of any series and remaining unclaimed for two years after such principal, premium or interest has become due and payable shall be paid to the Company on Company Request, or (if then held by the Company) shall be discharged from such trust; and the Holder of such Security shall thereafter, as an unsecured general creditor, look only to the Company for payment thereof, and all liability of the Trustee or such Paying Agent with respect to such trust money, and all liability of the Company as trustee thereof, shall thereupon cease; provided, however, that the Trustee or such Paying Agent, before being required to make any such repayment, may at the expense of the Company cause to be published once, in a newspaper published in the English language, customarily published on each Business Day and of general circulation in New York City, notice that such money remains unclaimed and that, after a date specified therein, which shall not be less than 30 days from the date of such publication, any unclaimed balance of such money then remaining will be repaid to the Company.
Section 10.04 Compliance Certificate; Notice of Default
The Company shall deliver to the Trustee within 120 days after the end of its fiscal year an Officers' Certificate (one of the signatories of which shall be the Company's principal executive officer, principal financial officer or principal accounting officer) complying with Section 314(a)(4) of the Trust Indenture Act and stating that a review of its activities during the preceding fiscal year has been made under the supervision of the signing officers with a view to determining whether the Company has kept, observed, performed and fulfilled its obligations under this Indenture (all without regard to periods of grace, which shall be deemed fulfilled unless and until the expiration of such periods or notice requirements) and further stating, as to each such officer signing such certificate, whether or not the signer knows of any failure by the Company to comply with any conditions or covenants in this Indenture and, if such signer does know of such a failure to comply, the certificate shall describe such failure with particularity. The Officers' Certificate shall also notify the Trustee should the relevant fiscal year end on any date other than the current fiscal year end date.
Section 10.05 Corporate Existence
Subject to Article VIII, the Company shall do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect its corporate existence in accordance with its organizational documents and the rights (charter and statutory) and corporate franchises of the Company; provided, however, that the Company shall not be required to preserve, with respect to itself, any right or franchise, if (a)
 
the Board of Directors of the Company shall determine that the preservation thereof is no longer desirable in the conduct of the business of the Company and (b) the loss thereof is not disadvantageous in any material respect to the Holders.
Section 10.06 Waiver of Certain Covenants
Except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 3.01 for Securities of such series, the Company may, with respect to the Securities of any series, omit in any particular instance to comply with any term, provision or condition set forth in any covenant pursuant to Section 3.01(18), 9.01(2) or 9.01(7) for the benefit of the Holders of such series, if the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series shall, by Act of such Holders, either waive such compliance in such instance or generally waive compliance with such term, provision or condition, but no such waiver shall extend to or affect such term, provision or condition except to the extent expressly waived and, until such waiver shall become effective, the obligations of the Company and the duties of the trustee in respect of any such term, provision or condition shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 11.01 Applicability of Article
Securities of any series which are redeemable before their Stated Maturity shall be redeemable in accordance with their terms and (except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 3.01 for Securities of any series) in accordance with this Article.
Section 11.02 Election to Redeem; Notice to Trustee
The election of the Company to redeem any Securities shall be evidenced by an Establishment Action. In case of any redemption at the election of the Company of less than all the Securities of any series, the Company shall, at least 60 days prior to the Redemption Date fixed by the Company (unless a shorter notice shall be satisfactory to the Trustee), notify the Trustee of such Redemption Date, of the principal amount of Securities of such series to be redeemed and, if applicable, of the tenor of the Securities to be redeemed. In the case of any redemption of Securities prior to the expiration of any restriction on such redemption provided in the terms of such Securities or elsewhere in this Indenture, the Company shall furnish the Trustee with an Officers' Certificate evidencing compliance with such restriction.
Section 11.03 Selection by Trustee of Securities to Be Redeemed
If less than all the Securities of any series are to be redeemed (unless all of the Securities of such series and of a specified tenor are to be redeemed), the particular Securities to be redeemed shall be selected not more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date by the Trustee, from the Outstanding Securities of such series not previously called for redemption, by such method as the Trustee shall deem fair and appropriate and which may provide for the selection for redemption of portions (equal to the minimum authorized denomination for Securities of that series or any integral multiple thereof) of the principal amount of Securities of such series of a denomination larger than the minimum authorized denomination for Securities of that series. If less than all of the Securities of such series and of a specified tenor are to be redeemed, the particular Securities to be redeemed shall be selected not more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date by the Trustee, from the Outstanding
 
Securities of such series and specified tenor not previously called for redemption in accordance with the preceding sentence.
If any Security selected for partial redemption is converted in part before termination of the conversion right with respect to the portion of the Security so selected, the converted portion of such Security shall be deemed (so far as may be) to be the portion selected for redemption. Securities which have been converted during a selection of Securities to be redeemed shall be treated by the Trustee as Outstanding for the purpose of such selection.
The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company in writing of the Securities selected for redemption and, in the case of any Securities selected for partial redemption, the principal amount thereof to be redeemed.
For all purposes of this Indenture, unless the context otherwise requires, all provisions relating to the redemption of Securities shall relate, in the case of any Securities redeemed or to be redeemed only in part, to the portion of the principal amount of such Securities which has been or is to be redeemed.
Section 11.04 Notice of Redemption
Notice of redemption shall be given by first-class mail, postage prepaid, mailed not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date, to each Holder of Securities to be redeemed, at his address appearing in the Security Register.
All notices of redemption shall state:
Notice of redemption of Securities to be redeemed at the election of the Company shall be given by the Company or, at the Company's request, by the Trustee in the name and at the expense of the Company and shall be irrevocable.
Section 11.05 Deposit of Redemption Price
On or before the Redemption Date specified in the notice of redemption given as provided in Section 11.04, the Company shall deposit with the Trustee or with a Paying Agent (or, if the Company is acting as its own Paying Agent, segregate and hold in trust as provided in Section 10.03) an amount of money sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of, and (except if the Redemption Date shall be an
 
Interest Payment Date) accrued interest on, all the Securities which are to be redeemed on that date, other than any Securities called for redemption on that date which have been converted prior to the date of such deposit.
If any Security called for redemption is converted, any money deposited with the Trustee or with any Paying Agent or so segregated and held in trust for the redemption of such Security shall (subject to any right of the Holder of such Security or any Predecessor Security to receive interest as provided in the last paragraph of Section 3.07) be paid to the Company upon Company Request or, if then held by the Company, shall be discharged from such trust.
Section 11.06 Securities Payable on Redemption Date
Notice of redemption having been given as aforesaid, the Securities so to be redeemed shall, on the Redemption Date, become due and payable at the Redemption Price therein specified, and from and after such date (unless the Company shall default in the payment of the Redemption Price and accrued interest) such Securities shall cease to bear interest. Upon surrender of any such Security for redemption in accordance with said notice, such Security shall be paid by the Company at the Redemption Price, together with accrued interest to the Redemption Date; , , that, unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 3.01, installments of interest whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to the Redemption Date shall be payable to the Holders of such Securities, or one or more Predecessor Securities, registered as such at the close of business on the relevant Record Dates according to their terms and the provisions of Section 3.07.
provided
however
If any Security called for redemption shall not be so paid upon surrender thereof for redemption, the principal and any premium shall, until paid, bear interest from the Redemption Date at the rate prescribed therefor in the Security.
Section 11.07 Securities Redeemed in Part
Any Security which is to be redeemed only in part shall be surrendered at a Place of Payment therefor (with, if the Company or the Trustee so requires, due endorsement by, or a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Trustee duly executed by, the Holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing), and the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder of such Security without service charge, a new Security or Securities of the same series and of like tenor, of any authorized denomination as requested by such Holder, in aggregate principal amount equal to and in exchange for the unredeemed portion of the principal of the Security so surrendered.
Section 12.01 Applicability of Article
The provisions of this Article shall be applicable to any sinking fund for the retirement of Securities of a series except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 3.01 for Securities of such series.
The minimum amount of any sinking fund payment provided for by the terms of Securities of any series is herein referred to as a "mandatory sinking fund payment", and any payment in excess of such minimum amount provided for by the terms of Securities of any series is herein referred to as an "optional sinking fund payment". If provided for by the terms of Securities of any series, the cash amount of any sinking fund payment may be subject to reduction as provided in Section 12.02. Each
 
sinking fund payment shall be applied to the redemption of Securities of any series as provided for by the terms of Securities of such series.
Section 12.02 Satisfaction of Sinking Fund Payments with Securities
The Company (1) may deliver Outstanding Securities of a series (other than any previously called for redemption) and (2) may apply as a credit Securities of a series which have been redeemed either at the election of the Company pursuant to the terms of such Securities or through the application of permitted optional sinking fund payments pursuant to the terms of such Securities, in each case in satisfaction of all or any part of any sinking fund payment with respect to the Securities of such series required to be made pursuant to the terms of such Securities as provided for by the terms of such series; provided that such Securities have not been previously so credited. Such Securities shall be received and credited for such purpose by the Trustee at the Redemption Price specified in such Securities for redemption through operation of the sinking fund and the amount of such sinking fund payment shall be reduced accordingly.
Section 12.03 Redemption of Securities for Sinking Fund
Not less than 60 days prior to each sinking fund payment date for any series of Securities, the Company will deliver to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate specifying the amount of the next ensuing sinking fund payment for that series pursuant to the terms of that series, the portion thereof, if any, which is to be satisfied by payment of cash and the portion thereof, if any, which is to be satisfied by delivering and crediting Securities of that series pursuant to Section 12.02 and will also deliver to the Trustee any Securities to be so delivered. Not less than 30 days before each such sinking fund payment date the Trustee shall select the Securities to be redeemed upon such sinking fund payment date in the manner specified in Section 11.03 and cause notice of the redemption thereof to be given in the name of and at the expense of the Company in the manner provided in Section 11.04. Such notice having been duly given, the redemption of such Securities shall be made upon the terms and in the manner stated in Sections 11.06 and 11.07.
Section 13.01 Company's Option to Effect Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance
The Company may elect, at its option at any time, to have either Section 13.02 or Section 13.03 applied to the Outstanding Securities of any series designated pursuant to Section 3.01 as being defeasible pursuant to this Article XIII (hereinafter called a "Defeasible Series"), upon compliance with the conditions set forth below in this Article XIII; provided that Section 13.02 shall not apply to any series of Securities that is convertible into or exchangeable for any other securities pursuant to Section 3.01(16). Any such election shall be evidenced by an Establishment Action or in another manner specified as contemplated by Section 3.01 for such Securities.
Section 13.02 Defeasance and Discharge
Upon the Company's exercise of the option provided in Section 13.01 to have this Section 13.02 applied to the Outstanding Securities of any Defeasible Series and subject to Section 13.01, the Company shall be deemed to have been discharged from its obligations with respect to the Outstanding Securities of such series as provided in this Section on and after the date the conditions set forth in Section 13.04 are satisfied (hereinafter called "Defeasance"). For this purpose, such Defeasance means that the Company shall be deemed to have paid and discharged the entire
 
indebtedness represented by the Outstanding Securities of such series and to have satisfied all its other obligations under the Securities of such series and this Indenture insofar as the Securities of such series are concerned (and the Trustee, at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging the same), subject to the following which shall survive until otherwise terminated or discharged hereunder: (1) the rights of Holders of Securities of such series to receive, solely from the trust fund described in Section 13.04 and as more fully set forth in such Section, payments in respect of the principal of and any premium and interest on such Securities of such series when payments are due, (2) the Company's obligations with respect to the Securities of such series under Sections 3.04, 3.05, 3.06, 10.02 and 10.03, (3) the rights, powers, trusts, duties and immunities of the Trustee hereunder and (4) this Article XIII. Subject to compliance with this Article XIII, the Company may exercise its option provided in Section 13.01 to have this Section 13.02 applied to the Outstanding Securities of any Defeasible Series notwithstanding the prior exercise of its option provided in Section 13.01 to have Section 13.03 applied to the Outstanding Securities of such series.
Section 13.03 Covenant Defeasance
Upon the Company's exercise of the option provided in Section 13.01 to have this Section 13.03 applied to the Outstanding Securities of any Defeasible Series, (1) the Company shall be released from its obligations under Section 8.01 and any covenants provided pursuant to Section 3.01(18), 9.01(2) or 9.01(7) for the benefit of the Holders of such Securities, and (2) the occurrence of any event specified in Sections 5.01(3), 5.01(4) (with respect to Section 8.01 and any such covenants provided pursuant to Section 3.01(18), 9.01(2) or 9.01(7)) and 5.01(7) shall be deemed not to be or result in an Event of Default, in each case with respect to the Outstanding Securities of such series as provided in this Section on and after the date the conditions set forth in Section 13.04 are satisfied (hereinafter called "Covenant Defeasance"). For this purpose, such Covenant Defeasance means that the Company may omit to comply with and shall have no liability in respect of any term, condition or limitation set forth in any such specified Section (to the extent so specified in the case of Section 5.01(4)), whether directly or indirectly by reason of any reference elsewhere herein to any such Section or by reason of any reference in any such Section to any other provision herein or in any other document, but the remainder of this Indenture and the Securities of such series shall be unaffected thereby.
Section 13.04 Conditions to Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance
The following shall be the conditions to application of either Section 13.02 or Section 13.03 to the Outstanding Securities of any Defeasible Series:
 
 
Section 13.05 Deposited Money and U.S. Government Obligations to be Held in Trust; Other Miscellaneous Provisions
All money and U.S. Government Obligations (including the proceeds thereof) deposited with the Trustee or other qualifying trustee (solely for purposes of this Section and Section 13.06, the Trustee and any such other trustee are referred to collectively as the "Trustee") pursuant to Section 13.04 in respect of the Securities of any Defeasible Series shall be held in trust and applied by the Trustee, in accordance with the provisions of the Securities of such series and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any such Paying Agent (including the Company acting as its own Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Holders of Securities of such series, of all sums due and to become due thereon in respect of principal and any premium and interest, but money so held in trust need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.
The Company shall pay and indemnify the Trustee against any tax, fee or other charge imposed on or assessed against the U.S. Government Obligations deposited pursuant to Section 13.04 or the principal and interest received in respect thereof other than any such tax, fee or other charge that by law is for the account of the Holders of Outstanding Securities.
Anything in this Article XIII to the contrary notwithstanding, the Trustee shall deliver or pay to the Company from time to time upon Company Request any money or U.S. Government Obligations held by it as provided in Section 13.04 with respect to Securities of any Defeasible Series that, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, are in excess of the amount thereof that would then be required to be deposited to effect an equivalent Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance with respect to the Securities of such series.
Section 13.06 Reinstatement
If the Trustee or the Paying Agent is unable to apply any money in accordance with this Article XIII with respect to the Securities of any series by reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, then the Company's obligations under this Indenture and the Securities of such series shall be revived and reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to this Article XIII with respect to Securities of such series until such time as the Trustee or Paying Agent is permitted to apply all money held in trust pursuant to Section 13.05 with respect to Securities of such series in accordance with this Article XIII; provided, however, that if the Company makes any payment of principal of or any premium or interest on any Security of such series following the reinstatement of its obligations, the Company shall be
 
subrogated to the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series to receive such payment from the money so held in trust.
This instrument may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Indenture to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written.

 
Exhibit 4.2
 
          FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE (this "Supplemental Indenture"), dated as of March 18, 2008, between PPG INDUSTRIES, INC., a Pennsylvania corporation (the "Company") and THE BANK OF NEW YORK TRUST COMPANY, N.A., a national banking association, as trustee (the "Trustee").
          Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein have the meanings assigned to those terms in the Indenture unless otherwise indicated.
     WHEREAS, the Company executed and delivered an indenture dated as of March 18, 2008 (the "Indenture") between the Company and the Trustee;
     WHEREAS, Section 9.01 of the Indenture provides that the Company and the Trustee may enter into one or more indentures supplemental to the Indenture, without the consent of any Holders, to add, among other things, covenants and agreements of the Company to be observed thereafter for the protection of the Holders of all or any series of Securities and to establish the terms of any series of Securities;
     WHEREAS, the Company and the Trustee wish to enter into this Supplemental Indenture to add the covenants set forth in Article I hereof to the Indenture;
     WHEREAS, the Company desires to issue three series of Securities, the $600,000,000 5.75% Notes Due 2013 (the "2013 Notes"), the $700,000,000 6.65% Notes Due 2018 (the "2018 Notes" and the $250,000,000 7.70% Notes Due 2038 (the "2038 Notes", and together with the 2013 Notes and the 2018 Notes, the "Notes"); and
     WHEREAS, all requirements necessary to make this Supplemental Indenture a valid, binding and enforceable instrument in accordance with its terms have been done and performed, and the execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture has been duly authorized in all respects.
     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the covenants and agreements set forth herein, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
     Section 1.01. Section 1.01 of the Indenture is hereby amended by adding the following defined term:
Amendment of Section 1.01.
"Subsidiary" means a corporation more than 50% of the outstanding stock of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company or by one or more other Subsidiaries, or by the Company and one or more other Subsidiaries. For the purposes of this definition, "voting stock" means stock which ordinarily has voting power for the election of directors, whether at all times or only so long as no senior class of stock has such voting power by reason of any contingency.
     Section 1.02. Section 1.03 of the Indenture is hereby amended by replacing the term "subsidiary" used therein with the term "Subsidiary".
Amendment of Section 1.03.
     Section 1.03. Article X of the Indenture is hereby amended as follows to add Sections 10.07 and 10.08:
Amendment of Article X.
10.07.
Limitation on Liens.
 
          The Company covenants and agrees that it will not itself, and will not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, issue, assume, guarantee or incur any Secured Debt, without effectively providing that the Securities (together with, if the Company shall so determine, any other indebtedness of the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary then existing or thereafter created ranking equally with the Securities, including guaranty of indebtedness of others) shall be secured equally and ratably with (or prior to) such Secured Debt, so long as such Secured Debt shall be so secured, except that this Section 10.07 shall not apply to Secured Debt secured by:
          (a) mortgages on property of any corporation existing at the time such corporation becomes a Subsidiary;
          (b) mortgages on property existing at the time of acquisition thereof or to secure the payment of all or any part of the purchase price thereof or to secure any indebtedness incurred prior to, at the time of or within 90 days after the acquisition of such property for the purpose of financing all or any part of the purchase price thereof;
          (c) mortgages on particular property to secure indebtedness incurred in financing all or any part of the cost of exploration or development of such property, or to secure all or any part of the cost of improvements to such property which is, in the opinion of the Board of Directors, substantially unimproved, or to secure any indebtedness incurred to provide funds for such purpose;
          (d) mortgages on property in favor of the United States of America or any State thereof, or any other country, or any political subdivision of any of the foregoing, to secure payments pursuant to any contract or statute or to secure any indebtedness incurred for the purpose of financing all or any part of the purchase price or the cost of construction of the property subject to such mortgages;
          (e) mortgages which secure indebtedness owing to the Company or to a Wholly-owned Restricted Subsidiary by a Subsidiary; and
          (f) any extension, renewal or replacement (or successive extensions, renewals or replacements), in whole or in part, of any mortgage referred to in the foregoing clauses (a) to (e), inclusive, or of any indebtedness secured thereby; provided that such extension, renewal or replacement mortgage shall be limited to all or any part of the same property that secured the mortgage extended, renewed or replaced (plus improvements on such property).
     As used in clauses (a) through (f) above, the terms "mortgage" or "mortgages" shall include mortgages, pledges, liens and security interests.
          Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 10.07, the Company and any one or more Restricted Subsidiaries may, without equally and ratably securing the Securities, issue, assume, guarantee or incur Secured Debt which would otherwise be subject to the foregoing restrictions if, after giving effect to the Secured Debt to be issued, assumed, guaranteed or incurred, the sum of (i) the aggregate amount of all such Secured Debt of the
 
Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries (not including Secured Debt permitted under clauses (a) through (f) above) and (ii) the aggregate value of the Sale and Leaseback Transactions (as defined in Section 10.08) in existence at such time (except Sale and Leaseback Transactions the proceeds of which have been applied in accordance with Section 10.08(a)(ii)) does not exceed 10% of the Consolidated Net Tangible Assets.
          "Restricted Subsidiary" means:
          (a) any Subsidiary other than
          (i) a Subsidiary substantially all of the physical properties of which are located, or substantially all of the business of which is carried on, outside the United States of America ("United States of America" shall not include the territories and possessions thereof), or
          (ii) a Subsidiary the primary business of which consists of purchasing accounts receivable and/or making loans secured by accounts receivable or inventories and/or making investments in real estate or providing services directly related thereto, or which is otherwise primarily engaged in the business of a finance or real estate investment company, or
          (iii) a Subsidiary the primary business of which consists of leasing equipment, machinery, vehicles, rolling stock and other articles for use in the business of the Company, or
          (iv) a Subsidiary the stock of which is held primarily for the purpose of securing the investment of the Company in such Subsidiary, while the management of such Subsidiary is accumulating funds for the purchase of such stock pursuant to written contract
          and
          (b) any Subsidiary specified in clauses (i) through (iv) of paragraph (a) above which at the time of determination shall be a Restricted Subsidiary pursuant to designation by the Board of Directors hereinafter provided for.
          The Company may by resolution of the Board of Directors designate any Restricted Subsidiary to be an Unrestricted Subsidiary, provided that in the opinion of the Board of Directors it does not own a major manufacturing or research property, plant or facility of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries taken as a whole, and may designate any Unrestricted Subsidiary to be a Restricted Subsidiary. The Company may by resolution of the Board of Directors designate a newly acquired or formed Subsidiary to be an Unrestricted Subsidiary, provided such designation takes place within 90 days of such acquisition or formation.
          "Unrestricted Subsidiary" means any Subsidiary which is not a Restricted Subsidiary.
          "Consolidated Net Tangible Assets" means the aggregate amount of assets (less applicable reserves and other properly deductible items) included on a consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries after deducting therefrom (i) all goodwill,
 
tradenames, trademarks, patents, copyrights, unamortized debt discount and expense and other like intangibles and (ii) all current liabilities (excluding any current liabilities for money borrowed having a maturity of less than 12 months that by their terms are renewable or extendible beyond 12 months from such date at the option of the obligor, all as reflected in the Company's latest audited consolidated balance sheet contained in the Company's most recent annual report to its stockholders prior to the time as of which "Consolidated Net Tangible Assets" shall be determined.
          "Secured Debt" means indebtedness for money borrowed if such indebtedness is secured by a mortgage, pledge, lien, security interest or encumbrance on any of the present or future manufacturing or research property, plant or facilities of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary (but not including a property determined not to be a principal property of the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary by the Board of Directors in its discretion) or on any present or future shares of stock or indebtedness of any Restricted Subsidiary.
          "Wholly-owned Restricted Subsidiary" means a Restricted Subsidiary all of the outstanding capital stock of which, other than directors' qualifying shares, and all of the Funded Debt of which, shall at the time be owned by the Company or by one or more Wholly-owned Restricted Subsidiaries, or by the Company in conjunction with one or more Wholly-owned Restricted Subsidiaries.
          Section 10.08.
Limitation on Sale and Leaseback Transactions and Transfers of Assets to Unrestricted Subsidiaries.
          (a) The Company will not itself, and will not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, enter into any arrangement with any bank, insurance company or other lender or investor, or to which any such lender or investor is a party, providing for the leasing to the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary of any real property (except a lease for a temporary period not to exceed three years by the end of which it is intended that the use of such real property by the lessee will be discontinued) which has been or is to be sold or transferred by the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary to such lender or investor or to any person to whom funds have been or are to be advanced by such lender or investor on the security of such real property (herein referred to as a "Sale and Leaseback Transaction") unless either:
          (i) the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary could create a Secured Debt secured by a mortgage, in accordance with Section 10.07, on the real property to be leased, in an amount equal to the value of such Sale and Leaseback Transaction, without equally and ratably securing the Securities, or
          (ii) the Company (and in any such case the Company covenants that it will) within 120 days after the Sale and Leaseback Transaction, regardless of whether such Sale and Leaseback Transaction may have been made by the Company or by a Restricted Subsidiary, applies an amount equal to the greater of (A) the net proceeds of the sale of the real property leased pursuant to such Sale and Leaseback Transaction and (B) the fair value of the real property so leased at the time of entering into such Sale and
 
Leaseback Transaction (as determined by the Board of Directors), to the retirement of Funded Debt of the Company; provided, that the amount to be applied to the retirement of Funded Debt of the Company shall be reduced by
     (A) the principal amount of any Securities delivered within 120 days after such sale to the Trustee for retirement and cancellation, and
     (B) the principal amount of Funded Debt, other than such Securities, voluntarily retired by the Company within 120 days after such sale;
, that no retirement referred to in this clause (ii) may be effected by payment at maturity.
provided
          For purposes of this Section 10.08 and Section 10.07, the term "value" shall mean, with respect to a Sale and Leaseback Transaction, as of any particular time, the amount equal to the greater of (i) the net proceeds of the sale of the real property leased pursuant to such Sale and Leaseback Transaction and (ii) the fair value of the real property so leased at the time of entering into such Sale and Leaseback Transaction (as determined by the Board of Directors), divided first by the number of full years in the term of the lease and then multiplied by the number of full years of such term remaining at the time of determination, without regard to any renewal or extension options contained in the lease.
          "Funded Debt" means all indebtedness for money borrowed which by its terms matures at or is extendable or renewable at the option of the obligor to a date more than twelve months after the date of the creation of such indebtedness.
          (b) The Company will not itself, and will not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, transfer any assets which, in the opinion of the Board of Directors, constitute a major manufacturing or research property, plant or facility of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to any Unrestricted Subsidiary.
     Section 2.01. The terms and characteristics of the Notes shall be as follows (the numbered clauses set forth below corresponding to the numbered subsections of Section 3.01 of the Indenture, with terms used and not defined herein having the meanings specified in the Indenture):
Terms and Conditions.
 
 
 
 
 
 
     Section 3.01Upon the execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture by the Company and the Trustee, the Indenture shall be modified in accordance herewith, and this Supplemental Indenture shall form a part of the Indenture for all purposes; and every Holder of Securities heretofore or hereafter authenticated and delivered under the Indenture shall be bound thereby.
. Effect Of Supplemental Indenture.
     Section 3.02. Except as supplemented and amended hereby, all provisions in the Indenture shall remain in full force and effect.
Indenture Remains in Full Force and Effect.
     Section 3.03. This Supplemental Indenture is an indenture supplemental to and in implementation of the Indenture, and the Indenture and this Supplemental Indenture shall henceforth be read and construed together.
Indenture and Supplemental Indenture Construed Together.
     Section 3.04The Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this Supplemental Indenture, is in all respects confirmed and ratified.
. Confirmation of Indenture.
     Section 3.05If any provision of this Supplemental Indenture limits, qualifies or conflicts with another provision hereof which is required to be included in this Supplemental Indenture by any of the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act, such required provision shall control.
. Conflict with Trust Indenture Act.
     Section 3.06In case any one or more of the provisions contained in this Supplemental Indenture shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality or enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
. Separability.
     Section 3.07All agreements in this Supplemental Indenture shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the respective successors and assigns of the Company and the Trustee.
. Successors and Assigns.
 
     Section 3.08In entering into this Supplemental Indenture, the Trustee shall be entitled to the benefit of every provision of the Indenture relating to the conduct or affecting the liability of or affording protection to the Trustee, whether or not elsewhere herein so provided. The Trustee, for itself and its successor or successors, accepts the terms of the Indenture as amended by this Supplemental Indenture, and agrees to perform the same, but only upon the terms and provisions defining and limiting the liabilities and responsibilities of the Trustee, which terms and provisions shall in like manner define and limit its liabilities and responsibilities in the performance of the trust created by the Indenture. The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Supplemental Indenture other than as to the validity of its execution and delivery by the Trustee. The recitals and statements herein are deemed to be those of the Company and not of the Trustee.
. Certain Duties and Responsibilities of the Trustee.
     Section 3.09This Supplemental Indenture shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
. Governing Law.
     Section 3.10This Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts by the parties hereto on separate counterparts, each of which, when so executed and delivered, shall be deemed an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute one and the same instrument.
. Counterparts.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed, as of the day and year first written above.

 
Exhibit 5.1
PPG Industries, Inc. One PPG Place Pittsburgh, PA 15272
March 18, 2008
Dear Sirs,
PPG Industries, Inc. (the "Company") U.S.$600,000,000 5.75% Notes due 2013, U.S.$700,000,000 6.65% Notes due 2018 and U.S.$250,000,000 7.70% Notes due 2038 (together, the "Notes")
 
Yours faithfully,
/s/  Linklaters LLP
Linklaters LLP
Linklaters LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales with registered number OC326345. It is a law firm regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority. The term partner in relation to Linklaters LLP is used to refer to a member of Linklaters LLP or an employee or consultant of Linklaters LLP or any of its affiliated firms or entities with equivalent standing and qualifications. A list of the names of the members of Linklaters LLP together with a list of those non-members who are designated as partners and their professional qualifications is open to inspection at its registered office, One Silk Street, London EC2Y 8HQ or on www.linklaters.com and such persons are either solicitors, registered foreign lawyers or European lawyers.
Please refer to www.linklaters.com/regulation for important information on our regulatory position.

 
Exhibit 5.2
PPG Industries, Inc. One PPG Place Pittsburgh, PA 15272
March 18, 2008
Ladies and Gentlemen:
I am Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of PPG Industries, Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation (the "") and, in that capacity, I am familiar with the Registration Statement on Form S-3 (the "") (File No. 333-145063) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "") relating to the registration under the Securities Act, of an indeterminate amount of debt securities of the Corporation to be offered from time to time, and the base prospectus dated August 2, 2007, as supplemented by the prospectus supplement dated March 13, 2008 (together the "") relating to the offer and sale by the Corporation under the Registration Statement of $600,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 5.75% Notes due 2013 (the ""), $700,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 6.65% Senior Notes due 2018 (the ""), and $250,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 7.70% Notes due 2038 (the "" and, together with the 2013 Notes and the 2018 Notes, the ""). The Notes are to be issued under the indenture dated March 18, 2008 (the "") between the Corporation and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (the ""), as supplemented by the supplemental indenture dated as of March 18, 2008 (the "" and, together with the Original Indenture, the "") and sold pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement, dated March 13, 2008 (the ""), between the Corporation and Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, as representatives of the underwriters named therein.
Corporation
Registration Statement
Commission
Securities Act
Prospectus
2013 Notes
2018 Notes
2038 Notes
Notes
Original Indenture
Trustee
Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
Underwriting Agreement
I, or lawyers in the Law Department of the Corporation acting under my supervision, have examined the following documents for the purposes of my opinions set forth below:
In our examination, we have assumed the genuineness of all signatures, the authenticity of all documents submitted to us as originals, the conformity to original documents of all documents submitted to us as copies and the authenticity of the originals of all documents submitted to us as copies. We also have assumed the due execution and delivery of all documents where due execution and delivery are prerequisites to the effectiveness thereof.
 
The opinions expressed herein are limited to the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
Based upon and subject to the foregoing, I am of the opinion that:
I hereby consent to your filing of this opinion as Exhibit 5.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Corporation filed with the Commission on or about the date hereof, and to the reference to me under the heading "Validity of the Notes" in the prospectus supplement dated March 13, 2008. In giving such consent, I do not thereby admit that I am in the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act.
Very truly yours, /s/ James C. Diggs
James C. Diggs


