FILE:PPG/PPG-8K-20090521165102.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 21, 2009, PPG Industries, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that William H. Hernandez, Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer will retire from the Company. A copy of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.
In connection with his decision to retire from the Company, on May 20, 2009, the Company entered into a verbal retirement arrangement with Mr. Hernandez, the material terms of which are set forth on Exhibit 10 attached hereto and incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
Exhibit 10 - Material terms of retirement arrangement with William H. Hernandez.
Exhibit 99 - Press release dated May 21, 2009.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10
The retirement arrangement between PPG Industries, Inc. and William H. Hernandez, entered into as of May 20, 2009, was a verbal agreement. The material terms of the agreement are set forth below.
 

Exhibit 99
 
PPG Chief Financial Officer William H. Hernandez to retire
PITTSBURGH, Pa., May 21, 2009  PPG Industries (NYSE: PPG) has announced that William H. Hernandez, PPG senior vice president, finance, and chief financial officer (CFO), and a member of the company's executive committee, will be retiring. He will transition his responsibilities by the end of 2009.
Hernandez joined PPG as controller in 1990, and he was named vice president and controller in 1994. He was elected to his current position in 1995. Prior to joining PPG, Hernandez was chief financial officer at BorgWarner Automotive. Hernandez serves as a member of the board of directors of Eastman Kodak and has provided leadership for numerous professional and civic organizations. He has been recognized by his peers as one of America's best CFOs on numerous occasions.
"PPG benefits from a reputation for strong management of financial fundamentals resulting in overall financial strength, and Bill has played a significant role in earning this recognition," said Charles E. Bunch, chairman and chief executive officer. "We have been very fortunate to have a person of Bill's caliber fill this key role during a period of dramatic changes in our company and in the global economy. We thank him for his many accomplishments and wish him the best in retirement."
A native of Pittsburgh, Hernandez earned a bachelor's degree at the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School and a master's in business administration (MBA) at the Harvard University Graduate School of Business Administration.
About PPG
Pittsburgh-based PPG is a global supplier of paints, coatings, optical products, specialty materials, chemicals, glass and fiber glass. The company has more than 140 manufacturing facilities and equity affiliates and operates in more than 60 countries. Sales in 2008 were $15.8 billion. PPG shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange (symbol: PPG). For more information, visit .
www.ppg.com


