FILE:PPG/PPG-8K-20090901112952.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On September 1, 2009, PPG Industries, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that Robert J. Dellinger will join the Company as Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer designate, effective September 8, 2009, and will officially assume the responsibilities of Chief Financial Officer on October 15, 2009. Mr. Dellinger will serve on the Company's Executive Committee and Operating Committee. Biographical information on Mr. Dellinger is included in the press release attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and incorporated by reference herein. William H. Hernandez will continue to serve as Chief Financial Officer until October 15, 2009.
The terms of Mr. Dellinger's compensatory arrangement include the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99
 
PPG to appoint Robert J. Dellinger as senior vice president, finance and CFO
PITTSBURGH, Sept. 1, 2009  PPG Industries (NYSE:PPG) today announced that Robert J. Dellinger would be joining the company as senior vice president, finance, and chief financial officer designate, effective Sept. 8, 2009. He will officially assume the responsibilities of chief financial officer on Oct.15, 2009.
Dellinger, 49, began his career with General Electric Co. (GE). Over a 19-year tenure with GE, Dellinger served in various positions in financial management, including as chief financial officer for GE Superabrasives, GE Plastics Pacific, GE Motors and Industrial Systems, and GE Employers Reinsurance Corp. Dellinger was appointed president and chief executive officer of GE Property and Casualty Reinsurance, Europe and Asia, and president and CEO of GE Frankona Re, based in Munich, Germany, in 2000. Dellinger left GE in 2002 to become executive vice president and CFO for Sprint Corp., and most recently spent three years as executive vice president and CFO for Delphi Corp. Dellinger holds a bachelor's degree in economics from Ohio Wesleyan University.
"Bob comes to us well-qualified to lead PPG's financial operations and will add great depth of international experience and expertise to our senior management team," said Charles E. Bunch, PPG chairman and CEO. "His international assignments and perspectives will prove valuable as we continue our global transformation."
William H. Hernandez will continue as PPG's CFO until Oct. 15. PPG announced in May that Hernandez would transition his responsibilities by the end of 2009.
About PPG
Pittsburgh-based PPG is a global supplier of paints, coatings, optical products, specialty materials, chemicals, glass and fiber glass. The company has more than 140 manufacturing facilities and equity affiliates and operates in more than 60 countries. Sales in 2008 were $15.8 billion. PPG shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange (symbol: PPG). For more information, visit .
www.ppg.com


