FILE:PPG/PPG-8K-20100607115034.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On June 1, 2010, William A. Wulfsohn informed PPG Industries, Inc. (the "Company") of his intention to resign as the Company's Senior Vice President, Industrial Coatings, effective June 11, 2010. On June 7, 2010, the Company issued a press release announcing Mr. Wulfsohn's resignation. A copy of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.
 
(d) Exhibits. The following exhibit is being furnished as part of this Report.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
William A. Wulfsohn, senior vice president, industrial coatings, resigns
PITTSBURGH, June 7, 2010  PPG Industries (NYSE: PPG) has announced that William A. Wulfsohn, senior vice president, industrial coatings, has resigned from the company, effective June 11. A successor has not been named.
Wulfsohn joined PPG as vice president, coatings, and managing director, PPG Europe, in 2003, and he was appointed senior vice president, industrial coatings, in 2005. In his most recent position, Wulfsohn was responsible for the company's automotive, industrial and packaging coatings businesses, PPG's Asia/Pacific region and the company's information technology function.
About PPG
PPG Industries' vision is to continue to be the world's leading coatings and specialty products company. Founded in 1883, the company serves customers in industrial, transportation, consumer products, and construction markets and aftermarkets. With headquarters in Pittsburgh, Pa., PPG operates in more than 60 countries around the globe. Sales in 2009 were $12.2 billion. PPG shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange (symbol: PPG). For more information, visit ppg.com.


