FILE:PPG/PPG-8K-20101022084141.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 22, 2010, PPG Industries, Inc. issued the press release attached hereto as Exhibit 99, which is incorporated by reference herein.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

 
Exhibit 99
 
PPG board of directors authorizes repurchase of 10 million shares
PITTSBURGH, Oct. 22, 2010  PPG Industries (NYSE: PPG) announced today that its board of directors yesterday authorized the repurchase of an additional 10 million shares of outstanding common stock. The new authorization is effective immediately, does not expire and gives management discretion in determining the conditions under which shares may be purchased from time to time. Repurchases will be made in accordance with applicable securities laws in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. Depending on market conditions and other factors, these repurchases may commence or cease from time to time without prior notice.
In December 2009, PPG's board of directors authorized a repurchase program for 5 million shares, of which approximately 3,100,000 shares are currently available for repurchase.
About PPG
PPG Industries' vision is to continue to be the world's leading coatings and specialty products company. Founded in 1883, the company serves customers in industrial, transportation, consumer products, and construction markets and aftermarkets. With headquarters in Pittsburgh, PPG operates in more than 60 countries around the globe. Sales in 2009 were $12.2 billion. PPG shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange (symbol: PPG). For more information, visit www.ppg.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
Statements in this news release relating to matters that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 reflecting the company's current view with respect to future events or objectives and financial or operational performance or results. The forward-looking statements contained herein include statements relating to PPG Industries' share repurchase program. Actual events may differ materially from current expectations and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including PPG Industries' ability to complete the share repurchase program and the other risks and uncertainties discussed in PPG Industries' periodic reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q, and its current reports on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of their initial issuance, and PPG Industries does not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.


