FILE:PPG/PPG-8K-20101209092033.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On December 9, 2010, the Board of Directors of PPG Industries, Inc. ("PPG") elected Stephen F. Angel as a director to serve in the class whose term expires at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders in 2011, effective as of December 9, 2010. Mr. Angel also has been appointed to the Nominating and Governance Committee and the Technology and Environment Committee of the Board of Directors.
In connection with his service as a director of PPG, Mr. Angel will be entitled to receive compensation consistent with that of PPG's other independent directors who are not employees of PPG, as described in PPG's definitive proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 5, 2010 under the caption "Compensation of Directors," which portion of such proxy statement is incorporated herein by reference.
Mr. Angel is the Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Praxair, Inc. In 2009, PPG purchased approximately $5 million of products and services from Praxair and sold approximately $16 million of products and services to Praxair. Through September 2010, PPG has purchased approximately $4 million of products and services from Praxair and has sold approximately $17 million of products and services to Praxair. Such purchases and sales were made in the ordinary course of each company's business and amount to less than two percent of each company's consolidated gross revenues for 2009 and for 2010 through September 30.
Mr. Angel was not selected as a director of PPG pursuant to any arrangement or understanding between Mr. Angel and any other person or entity.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
Stephen F. Angel of Praxair joins PPG Industries board
PITTSBURGH, Dec. 9, 2010  PPG Industries (NYSE: PPG) announced today that its directors have elected Stephen F. Angel as a member of the company's board, effective today. He also has been appointed to the board's Nominating and Governance Committee and the Technology and Environment Committee. Angel, 55, is chairman, president and CEO, Praxair, Inc., Danbury, Conn., a leading producer and distributor of atmospheric, process and specialty gases and high-performance surface coatings.
"Steve's strong global business experience will be valuable in helping guide PPG's efforts to optimize profitable growth, especially in emerging regions," said Charles E. Bunch, PPG chairman and CEO.
Angel became president and CEO of Praxair, Inc., in January 2007, and chairman of Praxair in May 2007. Before becoming CEO, he served as president and chief operating officer from March to December 2006 and as executive vice president from 2001 to 2006. Prior to joining Praxair, Angel held various executive positions at General Electric Company, including general manager for GE's industrial systems power equipment business and general manager, marketing and sales, for GE's transportation systems business. Angel is a director on the boards of the U.S.-China Business Council and the American Chemistry Council. He also is a member of the Business Roundtable and the U.S.-Brazil CEO Forum. Angel received a bachelor's degree in civil engineering from North Carolina State University and a master's degree in business administration from Loyola College in Baltimore.
About PPG
PPG Industries' vision is to continue to be the world's leading coatings and specialty products company. Founded in 1883, the company serves customers in industrial, transportation, consumer products, and construction markets and aftermarkets. With headquarters in Pittsburgh, PPG operates in more than 60 countries around the globe. Sales in 2009 were $12.2 billion. PPG shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange (symbol: PPG). For more information, visit www.ppg.com.


