FILE:PPG/PPG-8K-20110722083436.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Amendment No. 1 to Form 8-K is being filed as an amendment to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed by PPG Industries, Inc. (the "Company") on April 25, 2011 (the "Original 8-K"). The Original 8-K was filed to report the results of the matters submitted to a vote at the Company's 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders held on April 21, 2011 (the "Annual Meeting"). The sole purpose of this Amendment No. 1 is to disclose the Company's decision regarding the frequency of future shareholder advisory votes on the compensation of the Company's named executive officers. Except for the foregoing, this Amendment No. 1 does not modify or update any other disclosure contained in the Original 8-K, and this Amendment No. 1 should be read in conjunction with the Original 8-K.
 
As previously reported, at the Annual Meeting a non-binding, advisory vote was taken on the frequency of future advisory votes on the compensation of the Company's named executive officers (referred to as "Say-on-Pay" votes). At the Annual Meeting, consistent with the recommendation of the Company's Board of Directors, the Company's shareholders cast the highest number of votes in favor of holding future Say-on-Pay votes on an annual basis.
On July 21, 2011, after consideration of these voting results and other factors, the Board of Directors determined that the Company will hold future Say-on-Pay votes on an annual basis until: (1) the next shareholder advisory vote on the frequency of future Say-on-Pay votes; or (2) the Board otherwise determines that a different frequency for such Say-on-Pay votes is in the best interests of the Company.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


