FILE:PPG/PPG-8K-20110617110249.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On June 17, 2011, PPG Industries, Inc. issued the press release attached hereto as Exhibit 99, which is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
Bankruptcy court issues ruling on Pittsburgh Corning reorganization plan
PITTSBURGH, June 17, 2011 The United States Bankruptcy Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania issued a decision denying confirmation of the most recent amended plan of reorganization, filed on January 29, 2009, for Pittsburgh Corning Corporation after normal business hours last evening.
Although denying confirmation, the decision viewed favorably many features of the plan. PPG is studying the bankruptcy court's decision. PPG is encouraged that the bankruptcy court has scheduled a status conference for July 20, 2011 to consider the additional steps to be taken in the case, including potential modifications to the plan in accordance with the bankruptcy court's opinion.
PPG has owned 50 percent of Pittsburgh Corning since 1937.
About PPG
PPG Industries' vision is to continue to be the world's leading coatings and specialty products company. Founded in 1883, the company serves customers in industrial, transportation, consumer products, and construction markets and aftermarkets. With headquarters in Pittsburgh, PPG operates in more than 60 countries around the globe. Sales in 2010 were $13.4 billion. PPG shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange (symbol: PPG). For more information, visit .
www.ppg.com


