FILE:PPG/PPG-8K-20120827083403.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As previously announced, on August 22, 2012 Pierre-Marie De Leener, Executive Vice President of PPG Industries, Inc. (the "Company"), informed the Company of his intention to leave the Company, effective October 31, 2012.
In connection with his departure, the Company and Mr. De Leener entered into a Separation Agreement that provides Mr. De Leener with a lump-sum separation payment of $770,000 and continued vesting of 62,491 previously awarded stock options, 27,746 previously awarded restricted stock units ("RSUs") and 8,834 previously awarded total shareholder return contingent shares ("TSRs"), each in accordance with their terms as though he remained in the Company's employ through the vesting dates of such awards. The Company has agreed to reimburse Mr. De Leener for certain required tax payments and to provide him with specified tax preparation and tax consulting services.
Also as previously announced, effective September 1, 2012, Michael H. McGarry was appointed Executive Vice President of the Company. Mr. McGarry will assume leadership responsibility for the Company's global aerospace products and automotive refinish businesses as well as the Asia Pacific region and global information technology function. These responsibilities are in addition to his current role as leader of the Company's commodity chemicals business and the environment, health and safety function.
In connection with his appointment and change in corporate responsibilities, effective September 1, 2012, Mr. McGarry's monthly salary will be increased to $41,667, and he will be eligible for a prorated target cash bonus under the Company's Incentive Compensation Plan of $450,000. In September 2012, Mr. McGarry will receive a grant of 5,958 stock options, 1,287 RSUs and 1,186 TSRs pursuant to the Company's Omnibus Incentive Plan.
In connection with the foregoing, the Company issued a press release announcing Mr. De Leener's resignation and the appointment of Mr. McGarry and certain other executives. A copy of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99
 
PPG announces executive appointments
McGarry, Sekmakas named executive vice presidents, De Leener to leave company
PITTSBURGH, Aug. 24, 2012  PPG Industries (NYSE: PPG) today announced several executive appointments. Effective Sept. 1, Michael H. McGarry, current PPG senior vice president, Commodity Chemicals, and Viktor R. Sekmakas, current PPG senior vice president, Industrial Coatings, and president, PPG Europe, will be appointed executive vice presidents and join the company's executive committee.
McGarry will assume leadership responsibility for the company's global aerospace products and automotive refinish businesses as well as the Asia Pacific region and global information technology function. These responsibilities are in addition to McGarry's current role as leader of the commodity chemicals business and the environment, health and safety function. He will be based at PPG's global headquarters in Pittsburgh and will continue to report to Chairman and CEO Charles E. Bunch.
Sekmakas will assume leadership responsibility for PPG's global protective and marine coatings business in addition to his current oversight of the industrial and packaging coatings businesses and the Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) region. He will continue to be based at PPG's EMEA headquarters in Rolle, Switzerland, and will continue to report to Bunch.
In addition, Cynthia A. Niekamp, PPG senior vice president, automotive OEM coatings, will add oversight of the company's Latin America region to her current responsibilities. She will continue to be based at the PPG automotive OEM coatings business headquarters in Troy, Mich., and will continue to report to Bunch.
"These executives have demonstrated strong performance in leading their respective businesses and functions in a complex, global environment, and I am confident that they will continue to contribute significantly to PPG's business success in these key leadership roles," Bunch said.
PPG also announced that Pierre-Marie De Leener, executive vice president, intends to leave the company effective Oct. 31. He has been responsible for PPG's global automotive refinish, aerospace products, and protective and marine coatings businesses in addition to the Latin America region. De Leener joined PPG with the acquisition of SigmaKalon in January 2008, having previously served as that company's CEO. Prior to his current role, De Leener was responsible for PPG's architectural coatings  EMEA business and the EMEA region.
"Pierre-Marie played an instrumental role in the successful integration of SigmaKalon, which has been a key strategic milestone for PPG," Bunch said. "Since that time, Pierre-Marie has continued to provide strong guidance to several PPG businesses and has strengthened the foundation for operational excellence and profitable growth in the Latin America region. I thank him for his many contributions to PPG's success and wish him the best in his future endeavors."
(TM)
PPG: BRINGING INNOVATION TO THE SURFACE.
PPG Industries' vision is to continue to be the world's leading coatings and specialty products company. Through leadership in innovation, sustainability and color, PPG helps customers in industrial, transportation, consumer products, and construction markets and aftermarkets to enhance more surfaces in more ways than does any other company. Founded in 1883, PPG has global headquarters in Pittsburgh and operates in more than 60 countries around the world. Sales in 2011 were $14.9 billion. PPG shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange (symbol:PPG). For more information, visit .
www.ppg.com
is a trademark of PPG Industries Ohio, Inc.
Bringing innovation to the surface


