FILE:PPG/PPG-8K-20120803101938.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On August 3, 2012, PPG Industries, Inc. (the "Company") completed a public offering of $400,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of its 2.700% Notes due 2022 (the "Notes"). The Notes were offered by the Company pursuant to its Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-168310), filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 26, 2010 and supplemented by the Prospectus Supplement dated July 31, 2012.
The Company entered into an Underwriting Agreement, dated July 31, 2012, with BNP Paribas Securities Corp., Goldman, Sachs & Co. and J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, as representatives of the underwriters named therein (the "Underwriters"), in connection with the issuance and sale by the Company of the Notes. Pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement and subject to the terms and conditions expressed therein, the Company agreed to sell the Notes to the Underwriters, and the Underwriters agreed to purchase the Notes for resale to the public. The Company sold the Notes to the Underwriters at an issue price of 99.332% of the principal amount thereof, and the Underwriters offered the Notes to the public at a price of 99.982% of the principal amount thereof. Interest is payable on the Notes on each August 15 and February 15, commencing on February 15, 2013. Pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement, the Company has also agreed to indemnify the Underwriters and certain controlling persons against certain liabilities, including certain liabilities under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and to contribute to payments if the Underwriters are required to make any payments in respect of any of these liabilities.
The Notes were issued pursuant to an indenture dated as of March 18, 2008 (the "Original Indenture") between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (the "Trustee"), as supplemented by a First Supplemental Indenture dated as of March 18, 2008 between the Company and the Trustee (the "First Supplemental Indenture"), a Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of November 12, 2010 between the Company and the Trustee (the "Second Supplemental Indenture") and a Third Supplemental indenture dated as of August 3, 2012 (the "Third Supplemental Indenture" and, together with the Original Indenture, the First Supplemental Indenture and the Second Supplemental Indenture, the "Indenture"). The Company may issue additional debt from time to time pursuant to the Original Indenture. The Indenture governing the Notes contains covenants that limit the Company's ability to, among other things, incur certain liens securing indebtedness, engage in certain sale-leaseback transactions, and enter into certain consolidations, mergers, conveyances, transfers or leases of all or substantially all the Company's assets. The terms of the Notes also require the Company to make an offer to repurchase Notes upon a Change of Control Triggering Event (as defined in the Third Supplemental Indenture) at a price equal to 101% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest.
The Company intends to use the net proceeds from the offering of the Notes to repay a portion of its outstanding 5.75% Notes due 2013 (the "2013 Notes"). The 2013 Notes, the outstanding aggregate principal amount of which as of June 30, 2012 was $600.0 million, are scheduled to mature on March 15, 2013. Any proceeds from the offering not used to repay a portion of our 2013 Notes will be used for general corporate purposes, which may include (i) working capital, (ii) capital expenditures, (iii) investments in or loans to our subsidiaries or joint
ventures, (iv) the repayment, redemption or refinancing of debt, (v) the redemption or repurchase of our outstanding securities, (vi) funding of possible acquisitions and (vii) satisfaction of other obligations of ours. Pending any use of the net proceeds of this offering, the net proceeds may be invested in short-term instruments.
The foregoing is a summary of the material terms and conditions of the Notes, the Indenture and the Underwriting Agreement. Accordingly, the foregoing is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Notes, the Indenture and the Underwriting Agreement.
 
The disclosure set forth above under Item 1.01 is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 1.1
July 31, 2012
BNP Paribas Securities Corp.
Goldman, Sachs & Co.
J.P. Morgan Securities LLC,
As Representatives of the Several Underwriters,
 
787 Seventh Avenue
New York, NY 10019
Goldman, Sachs & Co.
200 West Street
New York, NY 10282
J.P. Morgan Securities LLC
383 Madison Avenue
New York, NY 10179
Dear Sirs:
1. . PPG Industries, Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation (""), agrees with the several Underwriters named in Schedule A hereto ("") to issue and sell to the several Underwriters $400,000,000 principal amount of its 2.700% Senior Notes due 2022 (the "" or ""), all to be issued under an indenture, dated as of March 18, 2008 and as supplemented through the Closing Date (""), between the Company and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee.
Introductory
Company
Underwriters
Securities
Offered Securities
Indenture
2. . The Company represents and warrants to, and agrees with, the several Underwriters that:
Representations and Warranties of the Company
(a) . The Company has filed with the Commission a registration statement on Form S-3 (No. 333 - 168310), including a related prospectus or prospectuses, covering the registration of the Offered Securities under the Act, which has become effective. "" at any particular time means such registration statement in the form then filed with the Commission, including any amendment thereto, any document incorporated by reference therein and all 430B Information and all 430C Information with respect to such registration statement, that in any case has not been superseded or modified. "" without reference to a time means the Registration Statement as of the Effective Time. For purposes of this definition, 430B Information shall be considered to be included in the Registration Statement as of the time specified in Rule 430B.
Filing and Effectiveness of Registration Statement; Certain Defined Terms
Registration Statement
Registration Statement
For purposes of this Agreement:
"" means information included in a prospectus then deemed to be a part of the Registration Statement pursuant to Rule 430B(e) or retroactively deemed to be a part of the Registration Statement pursuant to Rule 430B(f).
430B Information
"" means information included in a prospectus then deemed to be a part of the Registration Statement pursuant to Rule 430C.
430C Information
"" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Act
"" means 4:07 pm (Eastern time) on the date of this Agreement.
Applicable Time
"" has the meaning defined in Section 3 hereof.
Closing Date
"" means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Commission
"" of the Registration Statement relating to the Offered Securities means the time of the first contract of sale for the Offered Securities.
Effective Time
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
"" means the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder.
FCPA
"" means the Statutory Prospectus that discloses the public offering price, other 430B Information and other final terms of the Offered Securities and otherwise satisfies Section 10(a) of the Act.
Final Prospectus
"" means any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus that is intended for general distribution to prospective investors, as evidenced by its being so specified in Schedule B to this Agreement.
General Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
"" means any "issuer free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 433, prepared by or on behalf of the Company relating to the Offered Securities in the form filed or required to be filed with the Commission or, if not required to be filed, in the form retained in the Company's records pursuant to Rule 433(g).
Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
"" means any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus that is not a General Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus.
Limited Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
"" means PPG Industries Securities, Inc., PPG Capital LLC, PPG Luxembourg Finance S.aR.L and PPG Europe B.V.
Material Subsidiary
"" means BNP Paribas Securities Corp., Goldman, Sachs & Co. and J.P. Morgan Securities LLC as representatives of the Underwriters.
Representatives
"" means the rules and regulations of the Commission.
Rules and Regulations
"" means, collectively, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (""), the Act, the Exchange Act, the Trust Indenture Act, the Rules and Regulations, the auditing principles, rules, standards and practices applicable to auditors of "issuers" (as defined in Sarbanes-Oxley) promulgated or approved by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board to the extent such principles, rules, standards and practices apply to the "issuer" as opposed to the auditor and, as applicable, the rules of the New York Stock Exchange ("").
Securities Laws
Sarbanes-Oxley
Exchange Rules
"" with reference to any particular time means the prospectus relating to the Offered Securities that is included in the Registration Statement immediately prior to that time, including all 430B Information and all 430C Information with respect to the Registration Statement. For purposes of the foregoing definition, 430B Information shall be considered to be included in the Statutory Prospectus only as of the actual time that form of prospectus (including a prospectus supplement) is filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b) or Rule 462(c) and not retroactively.
Statutory Prospectus
 
"" means the consolidated subsidiaries of the Company.
subsidiary
"" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939.
Trust Indenture Act
Unless otherwise specified, a reference to a "rule" is to the indicated rule under the Act.
(b) . (i) (A) At the time the Registration Statement initially became effective, (B) at the time of each amendment thereto for the purposes of complying with Section 10(a)(3) of the Act (whether by post-effective amendment, incorporated report or form of prospectus), (C) at the Effective Time relating to the Offered Securities and (D) on the Closing Date, the Registration Statement conformed and will conform in all respects to the requirements of the Act, the Trust Indenture Act and the Rules and Regulations and did not and will not include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading and (ii) (A) on its date, (B) at the time of filing the Final Prospectus pursuant to Rule 424(b) and (C) on the Closing Date, the Final Prospectus will conform in all respects to the requirements of the Act, the Trust Indenture Act and the Rules and Regulations, and will not include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The first sentence of this Section 1(b) does not apply to (i) that part of the Registration Statement which constitutes the Statement of Eligibility and Qualification ("") of the Trustee under the Trust Indenture Act or (ii) statements in or omissions from any such document based upon written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information is that described as such in Section 8(b) hereof.
Compliance with Securities Act Requirements
Form T-1
(c) . (i) . (A) At the time of initial filing of the Registration Statement, (B) at the time of the most recent amendment thereto for the purposes of complying with Section 10(a)(3) of the Act (whether such amendment was by post-effective amendment, incorporated report filed pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act or form of prospectus), and (C) at the time the Company or any person acting on its behalf (within the meaning, for this clause only, of Rule 163(c)) made any offer relating to the Offered Securities in reliance on the exemption of Rule 163, the Company was a "well known seasoned issuer" as defined in Rule 405, including not having been an "ineligible issuer" as defined in Rule 405.
Automatic Shelf Registration Statement
Well-Known Seasoned Issuer Status
(ii) . The Registration Statement is an "automatic shelf registration statement," as defined in Rule 405, that initially became effective within three years of the date of this Agreement.
Effectiveness of Automatic Shelf Registration Statement
(iii) . The Company has not received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form. If at any time when Offered Securities remain unsold by the Underwriters the Company receives from the Commission a notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) or otherwise ceases to be eligible to use the automatic shelf registration statement form, the Company will (i) promptly notify the Representatives, (ii) promptly file a new registration statement or post-effective amendment on the proper form relating to the Offered Securities, in a form satisfactory to the Representatives, (iii) use its best efforts to cause such registration statement or post-effective amendment to be declared effective as soon as practicable, and (iv) promptly notify the Representatives of such effectiveness. The Company will take all other action necessary or appropriate to permit the public offering and sale of the Offered Securities to continue as contemplated in the registration statement that was the subject of the Rule 401(g)(2) notice or for which the Company has otherwise become ineligible. References herein to the Registration Statement shall include such new registration statement or post-effective amendment, as the case may be.
Eligibility to Use Automatic Shelf Registration Form
 
(iv) . The Company has paid or shall pay the required Commission filing fees relating to the Offered Securities within the time required by Rule 456(b)(1) and otherwise in accordance with Rules 456(b) and 457(r).
Filing Fees
(d) . (i) At the earliest time after the filing of the Registration Statement that the Company or another offering participant made a bona fide offer (within the meaning of Rule 164(h)(2)) of the Offered Securities and (ii) at the date of this Agreement, the Company was not and is not an "ineligible issuer," as defined in Rule 405, including (x) the Company or any other subsidiary in the preceding three years not having been convicted of a felony or misdemeanor or having been made the subject of a judicial or administrative decree or order as described in Rule 405 and (y) the Company in the preceding three years not having been the subject of a bankruptcy petition or insolvency or similar proceeding, not having had a registration statement be the subject of a proceeding under Section 8 of the Act and not being the subject of a proceeding under Section 8A of the Act in connection with the offering of the Securities, all as described in Rule 405.
Ineligible Issuer Status
(e) . As of the Applicable Time, neither (i) the General Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus(es) issued at or prior to the Applicable Time and, the preliminary prospectus supplement, dated July 31, 2012, including the base prospectus, dated July 26, 2010 (which is the most recent Statutory Prospectus distributed to investors generally), and the other information, if any, stated in Schedule B to this Agreement to be included in the General Disclosure Package, all considered together (collectively, the ""), nor (ii) any individual Limited Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, when considered together with the General Disclosure Package, included any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The preceding sentence does not apply to statements in or omissions from the General Disclosure Package, any Statutory Prospectus or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter consists of the information described as such in Section 8(b) hereof.
General Disclosure Package
General Disclosure Package
(f) . Each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, as of its issue date and at all subsequent times through the completion of the public offer and sale of the Offered Securities or until any earlier date that the Company notified or notifies the Representatives as described in the next sentence, did not, does not and will not include any information that conflicted, conflicts or will conflict with the information then contained in the Registration Statement. If at any time following issuance of an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus there occurred or occurs an event or development as a result of which such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus conflicted or would conflict with the information then contained in the Registration Statement or as a result of which such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, if republished immediately following such event or development, would include an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or would omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, (i) the Company has promptly notified or will promptly notify the Representatives and (ii) the Company has promptly amended or will promptly amend or supplement such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus to eliminate or correct such conflict, untrue statement or omission.
Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses
(g) . The Company has been duly incorporated and is existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Pennsylvania, with power and authority (corporate and other) to own its properties and conduct its business as described in the
Good Standing of the Company
 
General Disclosure Package; and the Company is duly qualified to do business as a foreign corporation in good standing in all other jurisdictions in which its ownership or lease of property or the conduct of its business requires such qualification, other than where the failure to be so qualified or in good standing would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the condition (financial or otherwise), results of operations, business or properties of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole ("").
Material Adverse Effect
(h) . Each of the Company's Material Subsidiaries has been duly incorporated and is validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation (where such concept is recognized under such laws or under the equivalent standards where such concept is not recognized under such laws), with power and authority (corporate and other) to own its properties and conduct its business as described in the General Disclosure Package; and each Material Subsidiary of the Company is duly qualified to do business as a foreign corporation in good standing in all other jurisdictions in which its ownership or lease of property or the conduct of its business requires such qualification, other than where the failure to be so qualified or in good standing would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect; all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of each Material Subsidiary of the Company has been duly authorized and validly issued and is fully paid and nonassessable; and the capital stock of each Material Subsidiary owned by the Company, directly or through subsidiaries, is owned free from liens, encumbrances and defects. All of the subsidiaries of the Company which are material to the condition (financial or otherwise), results of operations, business or properties of the Company are listed in the definition of "Material Subsidiary", as set forth in Section 2(a) hereof.
Subsidiaries
(i) . The Indenture has been duly authorized and has been duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act; the Offered Securities have been duly authorized and, when the Offered Securities are delivered and paid for pursuant to this Agreement on the Closing Date, the Indenture will have been duly executed and delivered, such Offered Securities will have been duly executed, authenticated, issued and delivered, will conform to the information in the General Disclosure Package and to the description of such Offered Securities contained in the Final Prospectus and the Indenture and such Offered Securities will constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company, enforceable in accordance with their terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium and similar laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors' rights and to general equity principles.
Execution and Delivery of Indenture
(j) . No consent, approval, authorization, or order of, or filing or registration with, any person (including any governmental agency or body or any court) is required for the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or the Indenture in connection with the offering, issuance and sale of the Offered Securities by the Company, except such as have been obtained, or made and such as may be required under applicable state securities laws.
Absence of Further Requirements
(k) . Except as disclosed in the General Disclosure Package, or such as do not and would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect, the Company and its subsidiaries have good and marketable title to all real properties and all other properties and assets owned by them, in each case free from liens, charges, encumbrances and defects that would affect the value thereof or interfere with the use made or to be made thereof by them and, except as disclosed in the General Disclosure Package, or such as do not and would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect, the Company and its subsidiaries hold any leased real or personal property under valid and enforceable leases with no terms or provisions that would materially interfere with the use made or to be made thereof by them.
Title to Property
(l) . The execution, delivery and performance of the Indenture, and this Agreement, and the issuance and sale of the Offered Securities and compliance with the terms and provisions thereof will not result in a breach or
Absence of Defaults and Conflicts Resulting from Transaction
 
violation of any of the terms and provisions of, or constitute a default or a Debt Repayment Triggering Event (as defined below) under, or result in the imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries pursuant to, (i) the charter or by-laws of the Company or any of its Material Subsidiaries, (ii) any statute, rule, regulation or order of any governmental agency or body or any court, domestic or foreign, having jurisdiction over the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any of their properties, or (iii) any agreement or instrument to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or by which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is bound or to which any of the properties of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is subject; except with respect to clauses (ii) and (iii) of this paragraph only, such breaches, defaults, liens, charges, encumbrances or violations that would not result in a Material Adverse Effect; a "" means any event or condition that gives, or with the giving of notice or lapse of time would give, the holder of any note, debenture, or other evidence of indebtedness (or any person acting on such holder's behalf) the right to require the repurchase, redemption or repayment of all or a portion of such indebtedness by the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Debt Repayment Triggering Event
(m) . Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is in violation of its respective charter or by-laws or in default (or with the giving of notice or lapse of time would be in default) under any existing obligation, agreement, covenant or condition contained in any indenture, loan agreement, mortgage, lease or other agreement or instrument to which any of them is a party or by which any of them is bound or to which any of the properties of any of them is subject, except such defaults that would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Absence of Existing Defaults and Conflicts
(n) . This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
Authorization of Agreement
(o) . The Company and its subsidiaries possess, and are in compliance with the terms of, all adequate certificates, authorizations, franchises, licenses and permits ("") necessary to the conduct of the business now conducted or proposed in the General Disclosure Package to be conducted by them, except where the failure to possess such Licenses would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect, and have not received any notice of proceedings relating to the revocation or modification of any Licenses that, if determined adversely to the Company or any of its subsidiaries, would individually or in the aggregate have a Material Adverse Effect.
Possession of Licenses and Permits
Licenses
(p) . No labor dispute with the employees of the Company or any of its subsidiaries exists or, to the knowledge of the Company, is imminent that could have a Material Adverse Effect.
Absence of Labor Dispute
(q) . The Company and its subsidiaries own, possess or can acquire on reasonable terms, adequate trademarks, trade names and other rights to inventions, know-how, patents, copyrights, confidential information and other intellectual property (collectively, "") necessary to conduct the business now operated by them, or presently employed by them, and have not received any notice of infringement of or conflict with asserted rights of others with respect to any intellectual property rights that, if determined adversely to the Company or any of its subsidiaries, would individually or in the aggregate have a Material Adverse Effect.
Possession of Intellectual Property
intellectual property rights
(r) . Except as disclosed in the General Disclosure Package, (a)(i) neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is in violation of, or has any liability under, any federal, state, local or non-U.S. statute, law, rule, regulation, ordinance, code, other requirement or rule of law (including common law), or decision or order of any domestic or foreign governmental agency, governmental body or court, relating to pollution, to the use,
Environmental Laws
 
handling, transportation, treatment, storage, discharge, disposal or release of Hazardous Substances, to the protection or restoration of the environment or natural resources (including biota), to health and safety including as such relates to exposure to Hazardous Substances, and to natural resource damages (collectively, ""), (ii) neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries owns, occupies, operates or uses any real property contaminated with Hazardous Substances, (iii) neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is conducting or funding any investigation, remediation, remedial action or monitoring of actual or suspected Hazardous Substances in the environment, (iv) neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is liable or allegedly liable for any release or threatened release of Hazardous Substances, including at any off-site treatment, storage or disposal site, (v) neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is subject to any claim by any governmental agency or governmental body or person relating to Environmental Laws or Hazardous Substances, and (vi) the Company and its subsidiaries have received and are in compliance with all, and have no liability under any, permits, licenses, authorizations, identification numbers or other approvals required under applicable Environmental Laws to conduct their respective businesses, except in each case covered by clauses (i) - (vi) such as would not individually or in the aggregate have a Material Adverse Effect; (b) to the knowledge of the Company there are no facts or circumstances that would reasonably be expected to result in a violation of, liability under, or claim pursuant to any Environmental Law that would have a Material Adverse Effect; (c) to the knowledge of the Company there are no requirements proposed for adoption or implementation under any Environmental Law that would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; and (d) in the ordinary course of its business, the Company periodically evaluates the effect, including associated costs and liabilities, of Environmental Laws on the business, properties, results of operations and financial condition of it and its subsidiaries, and, on the basis of such evaluation, the Company has reasonably concluded that such Environmental Laws will not, singly or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect. For purposes of this subsection "" means (A) petroleum and petroleum products, by-products or breakdown products, radioactive materials, asbestos-containing materials, polychlorinated biphenyls and mold, and (B) any other chemical, material or substance defined or regulated as toxic or hazardous or as a pollutant, contaminant or waste under Environmental Laws.
Environmental Laws
Hazardous Substances
(s) . The statements in the General Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus under the headings "Certain Material United States Federal Tax Considerations", and "Description of the Notes" insofar as such statements summarize legal matters, agreements, documents or proceedings discussed therein fairly present and summarize the matters referred to therein.
Accurate Disclosure
(t) . The Company has not taken, directly or indirectly, any action that is designed to or that has constituted or that would reasonably be expected to cause or result in the stabilization or manipulation of the price of any of the securities of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Offered Securities, , that this paragraph shall not apply to any stabilization activities conducted by the Underwriters.
Absence of Manipulation
provided however
(u) . Except as set forth below and in the General Disclosure Package, the Company, its subsidiaries and, to the Company's knowledge, the Company's Board of Directors (the "") are in compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley and all applicable Exchange Rules. The Company maintains effective internal controls over financial reporting and effective disclosure controls and procedures, each as defined in Rule 13a-15 under the Exchange Act (collectively, "") that are sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that (i) records are maintained that accurately and fairly reflect in reasonable detail the transactions and the dispositions of the assets of the Company, (ii) transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, (iii) the interactive data in eXtensible Business Reporting Language incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the General
Internal Controls and Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
Board
Internal Controls
 
Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus fairly presents the information called for in all material respects and is prepared in accordance with the Commission's rules and guidelines applicable thereto, (iv) receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the Company, and (v) unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements are prevented or timely detected. The Internal Controls are overseen by the Audit Committee (the "") of the Board in accordance with Exchange Rules. Since the date of the Company's latest audited financial statements included in the General Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, there have been no changes in the Company's internal controls over financial reporting that occurred during the Company's most recent fiscal quarter that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control over financial reporting. The Company has not publicly disclosed or reported to the Audit Committee or the Board, and as of the date hereof, it has no knowledge of (and as of the date hereof does not reasonably expect to publicly disclose or report to the Audit Committee or the Board within the next 60 days), a significant deficiency, material weakness, change in Internal Controls or fraud involving management or other employees who have a significant role in Internal Controls, any violation of, or failure to comply with, the Securities Laws, or other matter, any of which, if determined adversely, would have a Material Adverse Effect.
Audit Committee
(v) . Except as disclosed in the General Disclosure Package, there are no pending actions, suits or proceedings (including any inquiries or investigations by any court or governmental agency or body, domestic or foreign) against or affecting the Company, any of its subsidiaries or any of their respective properties that, if determined adversely to the Company or any of its subsidiaries, would reasonably be expected to individually or in the aggregate have a Material Adverse Effect, or would materially and adversely affect the ability of the Company to perform its obligations under the Indenture or this Agreement, or which are otherwise material in the context of the sale of the Offered Securities; and no such actions, suits or proceedings (including any inquiries or investigations by any court or governmental agency or body, domestic or foreign) are to the Company's knowledge threatened.
Litigation
(w) . The financial statements included in the Registration Statement and the General Disclosure Package present fairly in all material respects the financial position of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries as of the dates shown and their results of operations and cash flows for the periods shown, and, except as otherwise disclosed in the General Disclosure Package, such financial statements have been prepared in conformity with the generally accepted accounting principles in the United States applied on a consistent basis and the schedules included in the Registration Statement present fairly the information required to be stated therein, and the assumptions used in preparing the pro forma financial statements included in the Registration Statement and the General Disclosure Package provide a reasonable basis for presenting the significant effects directly attributable to the transactions or events described therein, the related pro forma adjustments give appropriate effect to those assumptions, and the pro forma columns therein reflect the proper application of those adjustments to the corresponding historical financial statement amounts.
Financial Statements
(x) . Except as disclosed in the General Disclosure Package, since the end of the period covered by the latest audited financial statements included in the General Disclosure Package (i) there has been no change, nor any development or event involving a prospective change, in the condition (financial or otherwise), results of operations, business, properties or prospects of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole that is material and adverse, (ii) except as publicly disclosed in or contemplated by the General Disclosure Package, there has been no dividend or distribution of any kind declared, paid or made by the Company on any class of its capital stock and (iii) except as disclosed in or contemplated by the General Disclosure Package, there has been no material adverse change in the capital stock, short-term indebtedness, long-term indebtedness, net current assets or net assets of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole.
No Material Adverse Change in Business
 
(y) . No "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" as such term is defined in Section 3(a)(62) of the Exchange Act (i) has imposed (or has informed the Company that it is considering imposing) any condition (financial or otherwise) on the Company's retaining any rating assigned to the Company or any securities of the Company or (ii) has indicated to the Company that it is considering any of the actions described in Section 7(c)(ii) hereof.
Ratings
(z) . The Company is not and, after giving effect to the offering and sale of the Offered Securities and the application of the proceeds thereof as described in the General Disclosure Package, will not be an "investment company" as defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the "").
Investment Company Act
Investment Company Act
(aa) Neither the Company nor, to the best of its knowledge, any of its subsidiaries, directors, officers, agents, employees or affiliates is aware of or has taken any action, directly or indirectly, that would result in a violation by such persons of the FCPA, including, without limitation, making use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce corruptly in furtherance of an offer, payment, promise to pay or authorization of the payment of any money, or other property, gift, promise to give, or authorization of the giving of anything of value to any "foreign official" (as such term is defined in the FCPA) or any foreign political party or official thereof or any candidate for foreign political office, in contravention of the FCPA and the Company and, to the best of its knowledge, its subsidiaries and affiliates have conducted their businesses in compliance with the FCPA and have devised or instituted policies and procedures designed to ensure, and which are reasonably expected to continue to ensure, continued compliance therewith.
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.
(bb) To the best of the Company's knowledge, the operations of the Company and its subsidiaries are and have been conducted at all times in compliance in all material respects with applicable financial recordkeeping and reporting requirements of the Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act of 1970, as amended, the money laundering statutes of all applicable jurisdictions, the rules and regulations thereunder and any related or similar rules, regulations or guidelines issued, administered or enforced by any governmental agency.
Compliance with Money Laundering Laws.
(cc) Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries nor, to the knowledge of the Company, any director, officer, agent, employee or affiliate of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is currently subject to any U.S. sanctions administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Treasury Department (""); and the Company will not directly or indirectly use the proceeds of the offering, or lend, contribute or otherwise make available such proceeds to any subsidiary, joint venture partner or other person or entity, for the purpose of financing the activities of any person currently subject to any U.S. sanctions administered by OFAC.
Compliance with OFAC.
OFAC
(dd) The Company and its subsidiaries have filed all federal, state, local and non-U.S. tax returns that are required to be filed or have requested extensions thereof (except in any case in which the failure so to file would not have a Material Adverse Effect); and, except as set forth in the General Disclosure Package, the Company and its subsidiaries have paid all taxes (including any assessments, fines or penalties) required to be paid by them, except for any such taxes, assessments, fines or penalties currently being contested in good faith or as would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
Taxes.
 
(ee) The Company and its subsidiaries are insured by insurers with appropriately rated claims paying abilities against such losses and risks and in such amounts as are prudent and customary for the businesses in which they are engaged; all policies of insurance insuring the Company or any of its subsidiaries or their respective businesses, assets, employees, officers and directors are in full force and effect; the Company and its subsidiaries are in compliance with the terms of such policies and instruments in all material respects; and there are no claims by the Company or any of its subsidiaries under any such policy or instrument as to which any insurance company is denying liability or defending under a reservation of rights clause; neither the Company nor any such subsidiary has been refused any insurance coverage sought or applied for; and neither the Company nor any such subsidiary has any reason to believe that it will not be able to renew its existing insurance coverage as and when such coverage expires or to obtain similar coverage from similar insurers as may be necessary to continue its business at a cost that would not have a Material Adverse Effect, except as set forth in or contemplated in the General Disclosure Package.
Insurance.
(ff) . The interactive data in eXtensible Business Reporting Language included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the General Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus fairly presents the information called for in all material respects and has been prepared in accordance with the Commission's rules and guidelines applicable thereto.
eXtensible Business Reporting Language Data
3. . On the basis of the representations, warranties and agreements and subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Company agrees to sell to the several Underwriters, and each of the Underwriters agrees, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company, at a purchase price of 99.332% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued interest from August 3, 2012 to the Closing Date (as hereinafter defined), the respective principal amounts of Securities set forth opposite the names of the Underwriters in Schedule A hereto.
Purchase, Sale and Delivery of Offered Securities
The Company will deliver the Securities to or as instructed by the Representatives for the accounts of the several Underwriters in a form reasonably acceptable to the Representatives against payment of the purchase price by the Underwriters in Federal (same day) funds by wire transfer to an account at a bank acceptable to the Representatives drawn to the order of the Company, at 9:00 A.M., New York time, on August 3, 2012, or at such other time not later than seven full business days thereafter as the Representatives and the Company determine, such time being herein referred to as the "". For purposes of Rule 15c6-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Closing Date (if later than the otherwise applicable settlement date) shall be the settlement date for payment of funds and delivery of securities for all the Offered Securities sold pursuant to the offering. The Securities so to be delivered or evidence of their issuance will be made available for checking at the office of Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP, 450 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York 10017 at least 24 hours prior to the Closing Date.
Closing Date
4. . It is understood that the several Underwriters propose to offer the Offered Securities for sale to the public as set forth in the Final Prospectus.
Offering by Underwriters
5. . The Company agrees with the several Underwriters that:
Certain Agreements of the Company
(a) The Company has filed or will file each Statutory Prospectus (including the Final Prospectus) pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 424(b)(2) (or, if applicable and consented to by the Representatives, subparagraph (5)) not later than the second business day following the earlier of the date it is first used or the execution and delivery of this Agreement. The Company has complied and will comply with Rule 433.
Filing of Prospectuses.
(b) . The Company will promptly advise the Representatives of any proposal to amend or supplement the Registration Statement or
Filing of Amendments; Response to Commission Requests
 
any Statutory Prospectus at any time and will offer the Representatives a reasonable opportunity to comment on any such amendment or supplement; and the Company will also advise the Representatives promptly of (i) the filing of any such amendment or supplement, (ii) any request by the Commission or its staff for any amendment to the Registration Statement, for any supplement to any Statutory Prospectus or for any additional information, (iii) the institution by the Commission of any stop order proceedings in respect of the Registration Statement or the threatening of any proceeding for that purpose, and (iv) the receipt by the Company of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification of the Offered Securities in any jurisdiction or the institution or threatening of any proceedings for such purpose. The Company will use its best efforts to prevent the issuance of any such stop order or the suspension of any such qualification and, if issued, to obtain as soon as possible the withdrawal thereof.
(c) . If, at any time when a prospectus relating to the Offered Securities is (or but for the exemption in Rule 172 would be) required to be delivered under the Act by any Underwriter or dealer, any event occurs as a result of which the Final Prospectus as then amended or supplemented would include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, or if it is necessary at any time to amend the Registration Statement or supplement the Final Prospectus to comply with the Act, the Company will promptly notify the Representatives of such event and will promptly prepare and file with the Commission and furnish, at its own expense, to the Underwriters and the dealers and any other dealers upon request of the Representatives, an amendment or supplement which will correct such statement or omission or an amendment which will effect such compliance. Neither the Representatives' consent to, nor the Underwriters' delivery of, any such amendment or supplement shall constitute a waiver of any of the conditions set forth in Section 7 hereof.
Continued Compliance with Securities Laws
(d) As soon as practicable, but not later than 16 months, after the date of this Agreement, the Company will make generally available to its securityholders an earnings statement covering a period of at least 12 months beginning after the date of this Agreement and satisfying the provisions of Section 11(a) of the Act and Rule 158.
Rule 158.
(e) . The Company will furnish to the Representatives copies of the Registration Statement, including all exhibits, any Statutory Prospectus, the Final Prospectus and all amendments and supplements to such documents, in each case as soon as available and in such quantities as the Representatives reasonably request. The Company will pay the expenses of printing and distributing to the Underwriters all such documents.
Furnishing of Prospectuses
(f) . The Company will cooperate with the Underwriters to qualify the Offered Securities for offering and sale under the applicable securities laws of such states and other jurisdictions (domestic or foreign) as the Representatives may designate and to maintain such qualifications in effect for as long as may be necessary to complete the distribution of the Offered Securities; , that the Company shall not be obligated to file any general consent to service of process or to qualify as a foreign corporation or as a broker or dealer in securities in any jurisdiction in which it is not so qualified or to subject itself to taxation in respect of doing business in any jurisdiction in which it is not otherwise so subject.
Blue Sky Qualifications
provided however
(g) . During the period of three years hereafter, the Company will furnish to the Representatives and, upon request, to each of the other Underwriters, as soon as practicable after the end of each fiscal year, a copy of its annual report to stockholders for such year; and the Company will furnish to the Representatives (i) as soon as available, a copy of each report and any definitive proxy statement of the Company filed with the Commission under the Exchange Act or mailed to stockholders, and (ii) from time to time, such other information concerning the Company as the Representatives may reasonably request. However, so long as the
Reporting Requirements
 
Company is subject to the reporting requirements of either Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act and is timely filing reports with the Commission on its Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval system (""), it is not required to furnish such reports or statements to the Underwriters.
EDGAR
(h) . The Company will pay all expenses incident to the performance of its obligations under this Agreement, including but not limited to any filing fees and other expenses (including fees and disbursements of counsel to the Underwriters) incurred in connection with qualification of the Offered Securities for sale under the laws of such jurisdictions as the Representatives designate and the preparation and printing of memoranda relating thereto, any fees charged by investment rating agencies for the rating of the Offered Securities, costs and expenses relating to investor presentations or any "road show" in connection with the offering and sale of the Offered Securities including, without limitation, any travel expenses of the Company's officers and employees and any other expenses of the Company including fees and expenses in connection with the registration of the Offered Securities under the Exchange Act, and expenses incurred in distributing preliminary prospectuses and the Final Prospectus (including any amendments and supplements thereto) to the Underwriters and for expenses incurred for preparing, printing and distributing any Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses to investors or prospective investors. Except as provided in this Agreement, including, without limitation, Section 5, Section 8 and Section 10 hereof, the Underwriters shall pay their own expenses, including the fees and disbursements of their counsel.
Payment of Expenses
(i) . The Company will use the net proceeds received in connection with this offering in the manner described in the "Use of Proceeds" section of the General Disclosure Package.
Use of Proceeds
(j) . The Company will not take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to or that would constitute or that might reasonably be expected to cause or result in, stabilization or manipulation of the price of any securities of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Offered Securities, , that this paragraph shall not apply to any stabilization activities conducted by the Underwriters.
Absence of Manipulation
provided however
(k) The Company will not offer, sell, contract to sell, pledge or otherwise dispose of, directly or indirectly, or file with the Commission a registration statement under the Act relating to United States dollar-denominated debt securities issued or guaranteed by the Company and having a maturity of more than one year from the date of issue, or publicly disclose the intention to make any such offer, sale, pledge, disposition or filing, without the prior written consent of the Representatives for a period beginning on the date hereof and ending 30 days after the Closing Date.
Restriction on Sale of Securities.
6. . (a) . The Company represents and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior consent of the Representatives, and each Underwriter represents and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior consent of the Company and the Representatives, it has not made and will not make any offer relating to the Offered Securities that would constitute an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, or that would otherwise constitute a "free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 405, required to be filed with the Commission. Any such free writing prospectus consented to by the Company and the Representatives is hereinafter referred to as a "." The Company represents that it has treated and agrees that it will treat each Permitted Free Writing Prospectus as an "issuer free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 433, and has complied and will comply with the requirements of Rules 164 and 433 applicable to any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus, including timely Commission filing where required, legending and record keeping. The prior consent of the Company and the Representatives shall be deemed to have been given in respect of the Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses included in Schedule B hereto.
Free Writing Prospectuses
Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses
Permitted Free Writing Prospectus
 
(b) . The Company will prepare a final term sheet relating to the Offered Securities, containing only information that describes the final terms of the Offered Securities and otherwise in a form consented to by the Representatives, and will file such final term sheet within the period required by Rule 433(d)(5)(ii) following the date such final terms have been established for all classes of the offering of the Offered Securities. Any such final term sheet is an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus and a Permitted Free Writing Prospectus for purposes of this Agreement. The Company also consents to the use by any Underwriter of a free writing prospectus that contains only (i)(x) information describing the preliminary terms of the Offered Securities or their offering or (y) information that describes the final terms of the Offered Securities or their offering and that is included in the final term sheet of the Company contemplated in the first sentence of this subsection or (ii) other information that is not "issuer information," as defined in Rule 433, it being understood that any such free writing prospectus referred to in clause (i) or (ii) above shall not be an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus for purposes of this Agreement.
Term Sheets
7. . The obligations of the several Underwriters to purchase and pay for the Securities on the Closing Date will be subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the Company herein (as though made on the Closing Date), to the accuracy of the statements of Company officers made pursuant to the provisions hereof, to the performance by the Company of its obligations hereunder and to the following additional conditions precedent:
Conditions of the Obligations of the Underwriters
(a) . The Representatives shall have received letters, dated, respectively, the date hereof and the Closing Date, of Deloitte & Touche LLP confirming that it is a registered public accounting firm and independent public accountants within the meaning of the Securities Laws and substantially in the form of Schedule C hereto (except that, in the letter dated as of the Closing Date, the specified date referred to in Schedule C shall be a date no more than three days prior to the Closing Date).
Accountants Comfort Letter
(b) The Final Prospectus shall have been filed with the Commission in accordance with the Rules and Regulations and Section 5(a) hereof. No stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or of any part thereof shall have been issued and no proceedings for that purpose shall have been instituted or, to the knowledge of the Company or any Underwriter, shall be threatened by the Commission.
Filing of Prospectus.
(c) . Subsequent to the execution and delivery of this Agreement, there shall not have occurred (i) any change, or any development or event involving a prospective change, in the condition (financial or otherwise), results of operations, business, properties or prospects of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole which, in the judgment of the Representatives, is material and adverse and makes it impractical or inadvisable to market the Offered Securities; (ii) any downgrading in the rating of any debt securities of the Company by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" (as defined in Section 3(a)(62) of the Exchange Act), or any public announcement that any such organization has under surveillance or review its rating of any debt securities of the Company (other than an announcement with positive implications of a possible upgrading, and no implication of a possible downgrading, of such rating); (iii) any change in U.S. or international financial, political or economic conditions or currency exchange rates or exchange controls the effect of which is such as to make it, in the judgment of the Representatives, impractical to market or to enforce contracts for the sale of the Offered Securities, whether in the primary market or in respect of dealings in the secondary market; (iv) any suspension or material limitation of trading in securities generally on the New York Stock Exchange, or any setting of minimum or maximum prices for trading on such exchange; (v) or any suspension of trading of any securities of the Company on any exchange or in the over-the-counter market; (vi) any banking moratorium declared by any U.S. federal or, New York authorities; (vii) any major disruption of settlements of securities, payment, or clearance services in the United States or any other country where such securities are listed or (viii) any attack on, outbreak or escalation of hostilities or act of terrorism involving the United States, any
No Material Adverse Change
 
declaration of war by Congress or any other national or international calamity or emergency if, in the judgment of the Representatives, the effect of any such attack, outbreak, escalation, act, declaration, calamity or emergency is such as to make it impractical or inadvisable to market the Offered Securities or to enforce contracts for the sale of the Offered Securities.
(d) . The Representatives shall have received opinions, dated as of the Closing Date, of Glenn E. Bost II, General Counsel of the Company and of K&L Gates LLP, counsel for the Company, substantially in the forms of Schedule D-1 and D-2, respectively.
Opinion of Counsel for Company
(e) The Representatives shall have received from Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP, counsel for the Underwriters, such opinion or opinions, dated as of the Closing Date, with respect to such matters as the Representatives may require, and the Company shall have furnished to such counsel such documents as they request for the purpose of enabling them to pass upon such matters. In rendering such opinion, Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP may rely as to the incorporation of the Company and all other matters governed by Pennsylvania law upon the opinion of Glenn E. Bost II, General Counsel of the Company.
Opinion of Counsel for Underwriters.
(f) . The Representatives shall have received a certificate, dated as of the Closing Date, of an executive officer of the Company and a principal financial or accounting officer of the Company in which such officers shall state that: the representations and warranties of the Company in this Agreement are true and correct; the Company has complied with all agreements and satisfied all conditions on its part to be performed or satisfied hereunder at or prior to the Closing Date; no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or, to their knowledge, are threatened by the Commission; and, subsequent to the respective dates of the most recent financial statements in the General Disclosure Package, there has been no material adverse change, nor any development or event involving a prospective material adverse change, in the condition (financial or otherwise), results of operations, business or properties or prospects of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole except as set forth in the General Disclosure Package or as described in such certificate.
Officer's Certificate
The Company will furnish the Representatives with such conformed copies of such opinions, certificates, letters and documents as the Representatives reasonably request. The Representatives may in their sole discretion waive on behalf of the Underwriters compliance with any conditions to the obligations of the Underwriters hereunder.
8. . (a) . The Company will indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter, its partners, members, directors, officers, employees, agents, affiliates and each person, if any, who controls such Underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act (each, an ""), against any and all losses, claims, damages or liabilities, joint or several, to which such Indemnified Party may become subject, under the Act, the Exchange Act, other Federal or state statutory law or regulation or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of any material fact contained in any part of the Registration Statement at any time, any Statutory Prospectus as of any time, the Final Prospectus or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, or arise out of or are based upon the omission or alleged omission of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, and will reimburse each Indemnified Party for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such Indemnified Party in connection with investigating or defending against any loss, claim, damage, liability, action, litigation, investigation or proceeding whatsoever (whether or not such Indemnified Party is a party thereto), whether threatened or commenced, and in connection with the enforcement of this provision with respect to any of the above as such expenses are incurred; provided, however, that the Company will not be liable in any such case to the extent that any such loss, claim, damage or liability arises out of or is based upon an untrue
Indemnification and Contribution
Indemnification of Underwriters
Indemnified Party
 
statement or alleged untrue statement in or omission or alleged omission from any of such documents in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter consists of the information described as such in subsection (b) below.
(b) . Each Underwriter will severally and not jointly indemnify and hold harmless the Company, each of its directors and each of its officers who signs a Registration Statement and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act (each, an ""), against any losses, claims, damages or liabilities to which such Underwriter Indemnified Party may become subject, under the Act, the Exchange Act, other Federal or state statutory law or regulation or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of any material fact contained in any part of the Registration Statement at any time, any Statutory Prospectus as of any time, the Final Prospectus, or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, or arise out of or are based upon the omission or the alleged omission of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, in each case to the extent, but only to the extent, that such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission was made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by such Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, and will reimburse any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such Underwriter Indemnified Party in connection with investigating or defending against any such loss, claim, damage, liability, action, litigation, investigation or proceeding whatsoever (whether or not such Underwriter Indemnified Party is a party thereto), whether threatened or commenced, based upon any such untrue statement or omission, or any such alleged untrue statement or omission as such expenses are incurred, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter consists of the following information in the Final Prospectus furnished on behalf of each Underwriter: the concession and reallowance figures appearing in the 3rd paragraph under the caption "Underwriting".
Indemnification of Company
Underwriter Indemnified Party
(c) . Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under this Section of notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against the indemnifying party under subsection (a) or (b) above, notify the indemnifying party in writing of the commencement thereof; but the failure to notify the indemnifying party shall not relieve it from any liability that it may have under subsection (a) or (b) above except to the extent that it has been materially prejudiced (through the forfeiture of substantive rights or defenses) by such failure; and provided further that the failure to notify the indemnifying party shall not relieve it from any liability that it may have to an indemnified party otherwise than under subsection (a) or (b) above. In case any such action is brought against any indemnified party and it notifies the indemnifying party of the commencement thereof, the indemnifying party will be entitled to participate therein and, to the extent that it may wish, jointly with any other indemnifying party similarly notified, to assume the defense thereof, with counsel satisfactory to such indemnified party (who shall not, except with the consent of the indemnified party, be counsel to the indemnifying party), and after notice from the indemnifying party to such indemnified party of its election so to assume the defense thereof, the indemnifying party will not be liable to such indemnified party under this Section for any legal or other expenses subsequently incurred by such indemnified party in connection with the defense thereof other than reasonable costs of investigation. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified party, effect any settlement of any pending or threatened action in respect of which any indemnified party is or could have been a party and indemnity could have been sought hereunder by such indemnified party unless such settlement (i) includes an unconditional release of such indemnified party from all liability on any claims that are the subject matter of such action and (ii) does not include a statement as to, or an admission of, fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of an indemnified party.
Actions against Parties; Notification
(d) . If the indemnification provided for in this Section is unavailable or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party under subsection (a) or (b) above, then each indemnifying party shall
Contribution
 
contribute to the amount paid or payable by such indemnified party as a result of the losses, claims, damages or liabilities referred to in subsection (a) or (b) above (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other from the offering of the Offered Securities or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) above is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, claims, damages or liabilities as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other shall be deemed to be in the same proportion as the total net proceeds from the offering (before deducting expenses) received by the Company bear to the total underwriting discounts received by the Underwriters. The relative fault of the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any such untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company or the Underwriters and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such untrue statement or omission. The amount paid or payable by an indemnified party as a result of the losses, claims, damages or liabilities referred to in the first sentence of this subsection (d) shall be deemed to include any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in connection with investigating or defending any action or claim which is the subject of this subsection (d). Notwithstanding the provisions of this subsection (d), no Underwriter shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which the Securities underwritten by it and distributed to the public were offered to the public exceeds the amount of any damages which such Underwriter has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission. No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. The Underwriters' obligations in this subsection (d) to contribute are several in proportion to their respective underwriting obligations and not joint. The Company and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 8(d) were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Underwriters were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in this Section 8(d).
9. . If any Underwriter or Underwriters default in their obligations to purchase Offered Securities hereunder on the Closing Date and the aggregate principal amount of Offered Securities that such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed to purchase does not exceed 10% of the total principal amount of Offered Securities that the Underwriters are obligated to purchase on the Closing Date, the Representatives may make arrangements satisfactory to the Company for the purchase of such Offered Securities by other persons, including any of the Underwriters, but if no such arrangements are made by the Closing Date, the non-defaulting Underwriters shall be obligated severally, in proportion to their respective commitments hereunder, to purchase the Offered Securities that such defaulting Underwriters agreed but failed to purchase on the Closing Date. If any Underwriter or Underwriters so default and the aggregate principal amount of Offered Securities with respect to which such default or defaults occur exceeds 10% of the total principal amount of Offered Securities that the Underwriters are obligated to purchase on the Closing Date and arrangements satisfactory to the Representatives and the Company for the purchase of such Offered Securities by other persons are not made within 36 hours after such default, this Agreement will terminate without liability on the part of any non-defaulting Underwriter or the Company, except as provided in Section 10. As used in this Agreement, the term "Underwriter" includes any person substituted for an Underwriter under this Section. Nothing herein will relieve a defaulting Underwriter from liability for its default.
Default of Underwriters
10. . The respective indemnities, agreements, representations, warranties and other statements of the Company or its officers and of the several Underwriters set forth in or made pursuant to this Agreement will remain in full force and effect, regardless of any investigation, or statement as to the results thereof, made by or on behalf of any
Survival of Certain Representations and Obligations
 
Underwriter, the Company or any of their respective representatives, officers or directors or any controlling person, and will survive delivery of and payment for the Offered Securities. If the purchase of the Offered Securities by the Underwriters is not consummated for any reason other than solely because of the termination of this Agreement pursuant to Section 9 hereof, the Company will reimburse the Underwriters for all out-of-pocket expenses (including fees and disbursements of counsel) reasonably incurred by them in connection with the offering of the Offered Securities, and the respective obligations of the Company and the Underwriters pursuant to Section 8 hereof shall remain in effect. In addition, if any Offered Securities have been purchased hereunder, the representations and warranties in Section 2 and all obligations under Section 5 shall also remain in effect.
11. . All communications hereunder will be in writing and, if sent to the Underwriters, will be mailed,
Notices
delivered or telegraphed and confirmed to the Representatives, c/o BNP Paribas Securities Corp., 787 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10019, facsimile number (917) 472-4745, Attention: Syndicate Desk, Goldman, Sachs & Co., 200 West Street, New York, NY 10282-2198, Attention: Registration, and J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, 383 Madison Avenue, New York, NY 10179, Attention: High Grade Syndicate Desk - 3
rd
floor, or, if sent to the Company, will be mailed, delivered or telegraphed and confirmed to it at One PPG Place, Pittsburgh, PA 15272, Attention: General Counsel; provided, however, that any notice to an Underwriter pursuant to Section 8 will be mailed, delivered or telegraphed and confirmed to such Underwriter.
12. . This Agreement will inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective successors and the officers and directors and controlling persons referred to in Section 8, and no other person will have any right or obligation hereunder.
Successors
13. . The Representatives will act for the several Underwriters in connection with this financing, and any action under this Agreement taken by the Representatives jointly will be binding upon all the Underwriters.
Representation of Underwriters
14. . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute one and the same Agreement.
Counterparts
15.The Company acknowledges and agrees that:
Absence of Fiduciary Relationship.
(a) . The Representatives have been retained solely to act as underwriters in connection with the sale of Offered Securities and that no fiduciary, advisory or agency relationship between the Company and the Representatives has been created in respect of any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or the Final Prospectus, irrespective of whether the Representatives have advised or is advising the Company on other matters;
No Other Relationship
(b) . The price of the Offered Securities set forth in this Agreement was established by the Company following discussions and arms-length negotiations with the Representatives and the Company is capable of evaluating and understanding and understands and accepts the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement;
Arms' Length Negotiations
(c) . The Company has been advised that the Representatives and their affiliates are engaged in a broad range of transactions which may involve interests that differ from those of the Company and that the Representatives have no obligation to disclose such interests and transactions to the Company by virtue of any fiduciary, advisory or agency relationship; and
Absence of Obligation to Disclose
(d) . The Company waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any claims it may have against the Representatives for breach of fiduciary duty or alleged breach of fiduciary duty and
Waiver
 
agrees that the Representatives shall have no liability (whether direct or indirect) to the Company in respect of such a fiduciary duty claim or to any person asserting a fiduciary duty claim on behalf of or in right of the Company, including stockholders, employees or creditors of the Company.
16. . In accordance with the requirements of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)), the Underwriters are required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies their respective clients, including the Company, which information may include the name and address of their respective clients, as well as other information that will allow the Underwriters to properly identify their respective clients.
Patriot Act
17.
Applicable Law
. This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York (without reference to its choice of law doctrine other than Section 5-1401 of the General Obligations Law of the State of New York).
The Company hereby submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the Federal and state courts in the Borough of Manhattan in The City of New York in any suit or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby. The Company irrevocably and unconditionally waives any objection to the laying of venue of any suit or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby in Federal and state courts in the Borough of Manhattan in The City of New York and irrevocably and unconditionally waives and agrees not to plead or claim in any such court that any such suit or proceeding in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum.
 
If the foregoing is in accordance with the Representatives' understanding of our agreement, kindly sign and return to the Company one of the counterparts hereof, whereupon it will become a binding agreement between the Company and the several Underwriters in accordance with its terms.
 
 
 
"General Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus" includes each of the following documents:
1. Final term sheet, dated July 31, 2012, a copy of which is attached hereto as Schedule E.
 
The following information is also included in the General Disclosure Package:
None
The Representatives shall have received letters, dated, respectively, the date hereof and the Closing Date, of Deloitte & Touche LLP confirming that they are a registered public accounting firm and independent public accountants within the meaning of the Securities Laws to the effect that:
(i) in their opinion the audited consolidated financial statements examined by them and included in the Registration Statements and the General Disclosure Package comply as to form in all material respects with the applicable accounting requirements of the Securities Laws;
(ii) they have read the latest unaudited monthly consolidated financial statements (including the notes thereto) and the supplementary summary unaudited financial information of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries made available by the Company and the minutes of the meetings of the stockholders, Board of Directors and committees of the Board of Directors of the Company; and have made inquiries of certain officials of the Company who have responsibility for financial and accounting matters of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries as to whether the unaudited monthly financial statements are stated on a basis substantially consistent with that of the audited consolidated financial statements included in the Registration Statement and General Disclosure Package; and on the basis thereof, nothing came to their attention which caused them to believe that:
(A) with respect to the period subsequent to the date of the most recent unaudited quarterly consolidated financial statements included in the General Disclosure Package, at a specified date at the end of the most recent month, there were any increases in the short-term debt or long-term debt of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, or any change in stockholders' equity or the consolidated capital stock of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries or any decreases in the net current assets or net assets of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, as compared with the amounts shown on the latest balance sheet included in the General Disclosure Package; or for the period from the day after the date of the most recent unaudited quarterly consolidated financial statements for such entities included in the General Disclosure Package to such specified date, there were any decreases, as compared with the corresponding period in the preceding year, in consolidated net sales, or net operating income, or consolidated net income or in the ratio of earnings to fixed charges of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, except for such changes, increases or decreases set forth in such letter which the General Disclosure Package discloses have occurred or may occur;
(iii) With respect to any period as to which officials of the Company have advised that no consolidated financial statements as of any date or for any period subsequent to the specified date referred to in (ii)(A) above are available, they have made inquiries of certain officials of the Company who have responsibility for the financial and accounting matters of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries as to whether, at a specified date not more than three business days prior to the date of such letter, there were any increases in the short-term debt or long-term debt of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, or any change in stockholders' equity or the consolidated capital stock of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries or any decreases in the net current assets or net assets of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, as compared with the amounts shown on the most recent balance sheet for such entities included in the General Disclosure Package; or for the period from the day after the date of the most recent unaudited quarterly financial statements for such entities included in the General
Disclosure Package to such specified date, there were any decreases, as compared with the corresponding period in the preceding year, in net sales, or net operating income, or consolidated net income or in the ratio of earnings to fixed charges of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries and, on the basis of such inquiries and the review of the minutes described in paragraph (ii) above, nothing came to their attention which caused them to believe that there was any such change, increase, or decrease, except for such changes, increases or decreases set forth in such letter which the General Disclosure Package discloses have occurred or may occur; and
(iv) they have compared specified dollar amounts (or percentages derived from such dollar amounts) and other financial and statistical information contained in the Registration Statement, each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus (other than any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus that is an "electronic road show," as defined in Rule 433(h)) and the General Disclosure Package (in each case to the extent that such dollar amounts, percentages and other financial and statistical information are derived from the general accounting records of the Company and its subsidiaries or are derived directly from such records by analysis or computation) with the results obtained from inquiries, a reading of such general accounting records and other procedures specified in such letter and have found such dollar amounts, percentages and other financial and statistical information to be in agreement with such results.
(v) (A) they have read the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of operations as of [            ] and related notes, included in the Registration Statement and the General Disclosure Package, (B) inquired of certain officials of the Company who have responsibility for financial and accounting matters about the basis for their determination of the pro forma adjustments, and (C) proved the arithmetic accuracy of the application of the pro forma adjustments to the historical amounts in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements.
Nothing came to their attention as a result of the procedures specified in paragraph (v), however, that caused us to believe that the pro forma adjustments have not been properly applied to the historical amounts in the compilation of those statements. Had we performed additional procedures or had we made an examination of the pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements, other matters might have come to our attention that would have been reported to you.
All financial statements and schedules included in material incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement or the General Disclosure Package shall be deemed included in the Registration Statement or the General Disclosure Package for purposes of this Schedule.

Exhibit 4.4
 
 
 
 
THIRD SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE (this "Supplemental Indenture"), dated as August 3, 2012, between PPG INDUSTRIES, INC., a Pennsylvania corporation (the "Company") and THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON TRUST COMPANY, N.A., a national banking association, as trustee (the "Trustee").
Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein have the meanings assigned to those terms in the Indenture unless otherwise indicated.
WHEREAS, the Company executed and delivered an indenture dated as of March 18, 2008 (the "Indenture") between the Company and the Trustee;
WHEREAS, the Company executed and delivered a first supplemental indenture dated as of March 18, 2008 between the Company and the Trustee;
WHEREAS, the Company executed and delivered a second supplemental indenture dated as of November 12, 2010 between the Company and the Trustee;
WHEREAS, Section 9.01 of the Indenture provides that the Company and the Trustee may enter into one or more indentures supplemental to the Indenture, without the consent of any Holders, to add, among other things, covenants and agreements of the Company to be observed thereafter for the protection of the Holders of all or any series of Securities and to establish the terms of any series of Securities;
WHEREAS, the Company desires to issue a series of Securities, the $400,000,000 2.700% Notes Due 2022 (the "Notes; and
WHEREAS, all requirements necessary to make this Supplemental Indenture a valid, binding and enforceable instrument in accordance with its terms have been done and performed, and the execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture has been duly authorized in all respects.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the covenants and agreements set forth herein, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Section 1.01.The terms and characteristics of the Notes shall be as follows (the numbered clauses set forth below corresponding to the numbered subsections of Section 3.01 of the Indenture, with terms used and not defined herein having the meanings specified in the Indenture):
Terms and Conditions.
 
 
 
 
 
 
"Treasury Rate" means, with respect to any redemption date, the rate per annum equal to the semiannual equivalent yield to a maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for
 
the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such redemption date).
"Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security selected by an Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of such Notes.
"Comparable Treasury Price" means, with respect to any redemption date, (i) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, as determined by the Company, for such redemption date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (ii) if the Company obtains fewer than four such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such Quotations.
"Independent Investment Banker" means one of the Reference Treasury Dealers that the Company appoints.
"Reference Treasury Dealer" means either BNP Paribas Securities Corp., Goldman, Sachs & Co., or J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and their successors, provided, however, that if any of the foregoing ceases to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer in New York City (a "Primary Treasury Dealer"), the Company will substitute another Primary Treasury Dealer.
"Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any redemption date, the average, as determined by the Company, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Company by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m. on the third business day preceding such redemption date.
Notice of any redemption will be mailed at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the redemption date to each holder of Notes to be redeemed.
Unless the Company defaults in payment of the redemption price, on and after the redemption date, interest will cease to accrue on the Notes or portions thereof called for redemption.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On each Change of Control Payment Date, the Company shall, to the extent lawful:
(A) accept for payment all Notes or portions of Notes properly tendered pursuant to the applicable Change of Control Offer;
(B) deposit with the Paying Agent an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all Notes or portions of Notes properly tendered; and
(C) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Notes properly accepted together with an Officers' Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Notes or portions of Notes being repurchased.
The Company shall not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event if a third party makes such an offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements for an offer made by the Company and the third party purchases all Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer. In addition, the Company shall not repurchase any Notes if there has occurred and is continuing on the Change of Control Payment Date an Event of Default, other than a default in the payment of the Change of Control Payment upon a Change of Control Triggering Event.
The Company shall comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act, and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Notes as a result of a Change of Control Triggering Event. To the extent that the provisions of any such securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Notes, the Company shall comply with those securities laws and regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached its obligations under the Change of Control Offer provisions herein by virtue of any such conflict.
"Change of Control" shall mean the occurrence of any of the following: (i) the direct or indirect sale, lease, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or more series of related transactions, of all
 
or substantially all of the Company's assets and the assets of the Company's Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to any Person, other than the Company or one of the Company's Subsidiaries; (ii) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any Person becomes the beneficial owner (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Company's outstanding Voting Stock or other Voting Stock into which the Company's Voting Stock is reclassified, consolidated, exchanged or changed, measured by voting power rather than number of shares; (iii) the Company consolidates with, or merges with or into, any Person, or any Person consolidates with, or merges with or into, the Company, in any such event pursuant to a transaction in which any of the Company's outstanding Voting Stock or the Voting Stock of such other Person is converted into or exchanged for cash, securities or other property, other than any such transaction where the shares of the Company's Voting Stock outstanding immediately prior to such transaction constitute, or are converted into or exchanged for, a majority of the Voting Stock of the surviving Person or any direct or indirect parent company of the surviving Person immediately after giving effect to such transaction; (iv) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Company's Board of Directors are not Continuing Directors; or (v) the adoption of a plan relating to the Company's liquidation or dissolution. The term "Person," as used in this definition, has the meaning given thereto in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act.
"Change of Control Triggering Event" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Rating Event.
"Continuing Directors" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Company's Board of Directors who (i) was a member of such Board of Directors on the date the Notes were issued or (ii) was nominated for election, elected or appointed to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board of Directors at the time of such nomination, election or appointment (either by a specific vote or by approval of the Company's proxy statement in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director, without objection to such nomination).
"Investment Grade Rating" means a rating equal to or higher than Baa3 (or the equivalent) by Moody's and BBB- (or the equivalent) by S&P, and the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any replacement rating agency or Rating Agencies selected by the Company.
 
"Moody's" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc., and its successors.
"Rating Agencies" means (i) each of Moody's and S&P; and (ii) if either Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the Notes or fails to make a rating of the Notes publicly available for reasons outside of the Company's control, a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Section 3(a)(62) of the Exchange Act selected by the Company (as certified by a resolution of the Company's Board of Directors) as a replacement agency for Moody's or S&P, or all of them, as the case may be.
"Rating Event" means the rating on the Notes is lowered by each of the Rating Agencies and the Notes are rated below an Investment Grade Rating by each of the Rating Agencies on any day during the period (which period shall be extended so long as the rating of the Notes is under publicly announced consideration for a possible downgrade by any of the Rating Agencies) commencing 60 days prior to the first public notice of the occurrence of a Change of Control or the Company's intention to effect a Change of Control and ending 60 days following consummation of such Change of Control.
"S&P" means Standard & Poor's Rating Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., and its successors.
"Voting Stock" means, with respect to any specified "Person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) as of any date, the capital stock of such Person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the board of directors of such Person.
 
Section 2.01Upon the execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture by the Company and the Trustee, the Indenture shall be modified in accordance herewith, and this Supplemental
. Effect Of Supplemental Indenture.
 
Indenture shall form a part of the Indenture for all purposes; and every Holder of Securities heretofore or hereafter authenticated and delivered under the Indenture shall be bound thereby.
Section 2.02. Except as supplemented and amended hereby, all provisions in the Indenture shall remain in full force and effect.
Indenture Remains in Full Force and Effect.
Section 2.03.This Supplemental Indenture is an indenture supplemental to and in implementation of the Indenture, and the Indenture and this Supplemental Indenture shall henceforth be read and construed together.
Indenture and Supplemental Indenture Construed Together.
 
Section 2.04The Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this Supplemental Indenture, is in all respects confirmed and ratified.
. Confirmation of Indenture.
Section 2.05If any provision of this Supplemental Indenture limits, qualifies or conflicts with another provision hereof which is required to be included in this Supplemental Indenture by any of the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act, such required provision shall control.
. Conflict with Trust Indenture Act.
Section 2.06In case any one or more of the provisions contained in this Supplemental Indenture shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality or enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
. Separability.
Section 2.07All agreements in this Supplemental Indenture shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the respective successors and assigns of the Company and the Trustee.
. Successors and Assigns.
Section 2.08In entering into this Supplemental Indenture, the Trustee shall be entitled to the benefit of every provision of the Indenture relating to the conduct or affecting the liability of or affording protection to the Trustee, whether or not elsewhere herein so provided. The Trustee, for itself and its successor or successors, accepts the terms of the Indenture as amended by this Supplemental Indenture, and agrees to perform the same, but only subject to the terms and provisions defining and limiting the liabilities and responsibilities of the Trustee, which terms and provisions shall in like manner define and limit its liabilities and responsibilities in the performance of the trust created by the Indenture. The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Supplemental Indenture other than as to the validity of its execution and delivery by the Trustee. The recitals and statements herein are deemed to be those of the Company and not of the Trustee.
. Certain Duties and Responsibilities of the Trustee.
Section 2.09This Supplemental Indenture shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
. Governing Law.
Section 2.10This Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts by the parties hereto on separate counterparts, each of which, when so executed and delivered, shall be deemed an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute one and the same instrument.
. Counterparts.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed, as of the day and year first written above.
 

Exhibit 5.1
August 3, 2012
PPG Industries, Inc.
One PPG Place
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15272
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We have acted as your counsel in connection with the issuance and sale by PPG Industries, Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation (the "Company"), of $400,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 2.700% Notes due 2022 (the "Notes") pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement (the "Underwriting Agreement"), dated July 31, 2012, among the Company and BNP Paribas Securities Corp., Goldman Sachs & Co. and J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, as representatives of the several underwriters named therein (collectively, the "Underwriters"). The Notes are being offered and sold to the Underwriters in an offering registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act").
The following documents are referred to collectively in this opinion letter as the "Transaction Documents":
 
 
 
 
 
In connection with rendering the opinions set forth below, we have examined (i) the Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-168310) (the "Registration Statement") filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") on July 26, 2010, relating to an unspecified aggregate initial offering price or number of securities of the Company; (ii) the Prospectus, dated July 26, 2010, as supplemented by the accompanying Preliminary Prospectus Supplement, dated July 31, 2012, relating to the Notes, as filed with the Commission on July 31, 2012 pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act, including all material incorporated by reference therein; (iii) the Final Term Sheet relating to the Notes, as filed with the Commission on July 31, 2012 pursuant to Rule 433 under the Securities Act; (iv) the Prospectus, dated July 26, 2010, as supplemented by the accompanying Prospectus Supplement, dated July 31, 2012, reflecting the final terms of the Notes and the terms of the offering thereof, as filed with the Commission on August 1, 2012 pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act, including all material incorporated by reference therein (the "Prospectus"); (v) the Transaction Documents; (vi) the Company's Restated Articles of Incorporation, as amended, and Bylaws, as amended and restated; and (vii) resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors of the Company relating to the issuance and sale of the Notes by the Company. We have made such other investigation of law as we have deemed appropriate.
For the purposes of this opinion letter, we further have made the assumptions that (i) each document submitted to us is accurate and complete; (ii) each such document that is an original is authentic; (iii) each such document that is a copy conforms to an authentic original; and (iv) all signatures (other than signatures on behalf of the Company) on each such document are genuine. We also have assumed for purposes of this opinion letter (i) the legal capacity of natural persons; (ii) that each party to each of the Transaction Documents (other than the Company) has the legal capacity or authority and has satisfied all legal requirements that are applicable to that party to the extent necessary to make each Transaction Document to which it is a party enforceable against it; and (iii) that each party to each of the Transaction Documents has complied with all state and federal statutes, rules and regulations applicable to it arising out of the transactions set forth in the Transaction Documents to which it is a party. We have not verified any of the foregoing assumptions.
The opinions expressed in this opinion letter are limited to (i) the laws of the State of New York, other than its law relating to choice of law, (ii) applicable federal securities laws of the United States and (iii) the Pennsylvania Business Corporation Law. We are not opining on, and we assume no responsibility for, the applicability to or effect on any of the matters covered herein of any other laws, the laws of any county, municipality or other political subdivision or local governmental agency or authority.
Based on and subject to the foregoing and to the additional qualifications and other matters set forth below, it is our opinion that the Notes have been duly authorized, executed and delivered and, when authenticated in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture and delivered to and paid for by the Underwriters pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement, will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company, entitled to the benefits set forth in the Indenture (subject to the effect of bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, receivership, moratorium and other laws affecting the rights and remedies of creditors or secured parties generally, and to the exercise of judicial discretion in accordance with general principles of equity (whether applied by a court of law or equity)).
 
We express no opinion as to any provision in the Notes: (i) that purports to release, exculpate or exempt a party from, or require indemnification or contribution of a party for, liability for its own negligence or misconduct; (ii) that purports to allow any party to unreasonably interfere in the conduct of the business of another party; (iii) the effect of which is governed by the law of a jurisdiction other than the State of New York, the applicable federal securities laws of the United States or the Pennsylvania Business Corporation Law; (iv) that purports to require any party to pay any amounts due to another party without a reasonable accounting of the sums purported to be due; (v) that purports to prohibit the assignment of rights that may be assigned pursuant to applicable law regardless of an agreement not to assign such rights; (vi) that purports to require that amendments to any agreement be in writing; (vii) relating to powers of attorney, severability or set-off; (viii) that purports to restrict access exclusively to any particular courts; and (ix) providing that decisions by a party are conclusive or may be made in its sole discretion.
This opinion is limited to the matters stated in this letter, and no opinions may be implied or inferred beyond the matters expressly stated in this letter. This opinion is being given as of the date hereof and we assume no obligation to update or supplement any of our opinions to reflect any changes of law or fact that may occur.
We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion with the Commission as an exhibit to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, the incorporation by reference of this opinion into the Registration Statement and the reference to this firm under the heading "Legal matters" in the Prospectus forming a part thereof. In giving such consent, we do not thereby admit that we are in the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act.
Yours truly,
/s/ K&L Gates LLP
 


