FILE:PPG/PPG-8K-20120719165750.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 19, 2012, PPG Industries, Inc. ("PPG") announced that it had entered into definitive agreements, dated as of July 18, 2012, with Georgia Gulf Corporation ("Georgia Gulf"), Eagle Spinco Inc., a Delaware corporation and a newly organized, wholly owned subsidiary of PPG ("Spinco") and Grizzly Acquisition Sub, Inc., a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of Georgia Gulf ("Merger Sub") pursuant to which, subject to the terms and conditions in the definitive agreements, (1) PPG will transfer its chlor-alkali and derivatives business (the "Business") to Spinco, (2) PPG will distribute Spinco's stock to PPG's shareholders, at PPG's option as either a spin-off or a split-off (the "Distribution"), (3) immediately after which, Merger Sub will merge with and into Spinco in a reverse triangular merger, with Spinco as the surviving corporation (or, under certain circumstances, Spinco will merge with and into Georgia Gulf, with Georgia Gulf as the surviving corporation) (the "Merger"). When the Merger is completed, PPG shareholders will own at least 50.5% of the outstanding shares of Georgia Gulf with Georgia Gulf shareholders owning the remainder. The transaction will be structured as a Reverse Morris Trust.
The definitive agreements entered into include (1) a Separation Agreement (the "Separation Agreement"), dated as of July 18, 2012, by and between PPG and Spinco and (2) an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement"), dated as of July 18, 2012, by and among PPG, Spinco, Georgia Gulf and Merger Sub. In connection with the transactions, certain additional agreements will be entered into, including, among others:
 
 
 
Separation Agreement
The Separation Agreement identifies assets to be transferred, liabilities to be assumed and contracts to be assigned to each of PPG and Spinco as part of the separation of the Business from the other businesses of PPG (the "Separation"). In particular, the Separation Agreement provides, among other things, that, subject to the terms and conditions contained therein:
 
 
The Separation Agreement also sets forth other agreements between PPG and Spinco related to the Separation, including provisions concerning the termination and settlement of intercompany accounts, obtaining governmental approvals and third party consents and working capital adjustments. The Separation Agreement also sets forth agreements that govern certain aspects of the relationship between PPG and Spinco after the Distribution, including provisions with respect to release of claims, indemnification, insurance, access to financial and other information, access to and provision of records and treatment of outstanding guarantees.
The Separation Agreement governs the rights and obligations of PPG and Spinco regarding the Distribution. Prior to the Distribution, PPG will receive from Spinco distributions of cash and debt instruments of Spinco with an aggregate value of $900 million (collectively, the "Cash and Debt Distribution"). PPG has entered into agreements giving it the right, under certain circumstances and subject to certain conditions, to deliver the Spinco debt instruments received in the Cash and Debt Distribution in satisfaction of certain debt obligations that will be issued by PPG prior to the closing of the transaction (the "Exchange"). In combination with the cash portion of the Cash and Debt Distribution, the Exchange would result in PPG receiving a total of $900 million in cash in connection with the Separation and Distribution. This amount is subject to adjustment to reflect working capital at the time of the Separation and to reduction by $130 million if PPG does not transfer its interests in Taiwan Chlorine Industries, Ltd. to Spinco as part of the Separation. The parties have obtained debt financing commitments that provide for the necessary funds to pay the Cash and Debt Distribution contemplated by the Separation Agreement.
At PPG's election, the Distribution may be effected by means of a pro rata dividend in a spin-off or by means of an exchange offer in a split-off. PPG has not yet made a decision as to the form of the Distribution.
The Separation Agreement provides that the Separation and the Distribution are subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain conditions, including among others the following conditions:
 
 
 
Merger Agreement
The Merger Agreement provides that, immediately following the consummation of the Distribution, Merger Sub will merge with and into Spinco, with Spinco surviving the Merger as a wholly owned subsidiary of Georgia Gulf. Alternatively, under certain circumstances, the Merger may occur as a merger of Spinco with and into Grizzly, with Grizzly surviving the Merger. At the effective time of the Merger, each share of Spinco common stock (other than treasury shares) will be automatically converted into the right to receive a number of shares of Georgia Gulf common stock such that following the consummation of the Merger, PPG stockholders receiving Spinco common stock in the Distribution will own the greater of 35.2 million shares of Georgia Gulf or 50.5% of the outstanding shares of Georgia Gulf immediately after giving effect to the Merger.
In addition, the Merger Agreement provides that in connection with the Merger, Georgia Gulf will increase the size of its board of directors (the "Georgia Gulf Board") by three members, and that three individuals selected by PPG and approved by the Nominating and Governance Committee of the Georgia Gulf Board will be appointed to the Georgia Gulf Board to fill the vacancies. In accordance with the Merger Agreement, these individuals will also be nominated for re-election to the Georgia Gulf Board at Georgia Gulf's 2013 annual meeting of stockholders.
Consummation of the Merger is subject to customary closing conditions, including, among others, (1) the consummation of the Distribution in accordance with the Separation Agreement, (2) the expiration or termination of any applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, (3) the effectiveness of necessary U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") filings, (4) the approval by Georgia Gulf's stockholders, (5) the receipt by PPG and Spinco of the IRS private letter rulings described above, (6) the receipt by PPG and Spinco, on the one hand, and Georgia Gulf, on the other hand, of an opinion from their respective counsel to the effect that the Merger will be treated as a "reorganization" for U.S. federal income tax purposes, (7) the consummation of the Exchange, (8) material compliance by each party with its covenants, and (9) the absence of breaches of representations and warranties that would have a material adverse effect on the Business or on Georgia Gulf.
The Merger Agreement contains certain termination rights for both PPG and Georgia Gulf and further provides that Georgia Gulf must pay to PPG a termination fee of $24.5 million upon termination of the Merger Agreement under the following circumstances:
 
In addition, Georgia Gulf must reimburse PPG's expenses if the Merger Agreement is terminated as a result of the failure to obtain stockholder approval, and PPG must reimburse Georgia Gulf's expenses if PPG fails to deliver audited financial statements for the Business within 120 days after the date of the Merger Agreement or if the audited financial statements vary from the previously delivered unaudited financial statements in a specified respect.
The parties have made customary representations, warranties and covenants in the Merger Agreement, including, among others, covenants to conduct the operations of the Business and Georgia Gulf in the ordinary course between the execution of the Merger Agreement and the consummation of the Merger and not to engage in certain actions during such period. Georgia Gulf also covenants in the Merger Agreement (1) to cause a stockholder meeting to be held to obtain stockholder approval, (2) not to solicit alternative transactions, (3) except under limited circumstances, not to enter into discussions concerning, or provide confidential information in connection with, alternative transactions, and (4) with limited exceptions, that the Georgia Gulf Board will recommend that the stockholders of Georgia Gulf vote in favor of the Merger.
The foregoing descriptions of the Merger Agreement and the Separation Agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby do not purport to be complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to such agreements which are filed as Exhibit 2.1 and Exhibit 10.1, respectively, hereto and are incorporated herein by reference.
The Separation Agreement and the Merger Agreement have been filed, and the above descriptions of the Separation Agreement and the Merger Agreement have been included, to provide investors and security holders with information regarding the terms of the Separation Agreement and the Merger Agreement. They are not intended to provide any other factual information about PPG, Spinco, Georgia Gulf, Merger Sub, their respective subsidiaries and affiliates, or the Business. The Merger Agreement contains representations and warranties of PPG solely for the benefit of Georgia Gulf and representations and warranties of Georgia Gulf and Merger Sub solely for the benefit of PPG and Spinco. The assertions embodied in those representations and warranties are qualified by information in confidential disclosure letters that the parties have exchanged in connection with signing the Merger Agreement as of a specific date. The disclosure letters contain information that modifies, qualifies and creates exceptions to the representations and warranties set forth in the Merger Agreement. Therefore, investors and security holders should not treat them as categorical statements of fact. Moreover, these representations and warranties may apply standards of materiality in a way that is different from what may be material to investors. They were made only as of the date of the Merger Agreement or such other date or dates as may be specified in the Merger Agreement and they are subject to more recent developments. Accordingly, investors and security holders should read the representations and warranties in the Merger Agreement not in isolation but only in conjunction with the other information about PPG and Georgia Gulf and their subsidiaries that the respective companies include in reports and statements they file with the SEC.
(d) Exhibits
 
Forward-Looking Statements
This document contains certain statements that are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These matters involve risks and uncertainties as discussed in PPG's periodic reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q, and its current reports on Form 8-K, filed from time to time with the SEC. The forward-looking statements contained in this document may include statements about the expected effects on PPG and PPG's commodity chemicals business of the proposed separation of PPG's commodity chemicals business and merger of PPG's commodity chemicals business with Georgia Gulf Corporation or a subsidiary of Georgia Gulf (the "Transaction"), the anticipated timing and benefits of the Transaction, and PPG's anticipated financial results, and also include all other statements in this document that are not historical facts. Without limitation, any statements preceded or followed by or that include the words "targets", "plans", "believes", "expects", "intends", "will", "likely", "may", "anticipates", "estimates", "projects", "should", "would", "could", "positioned", "strategy", "future" or words, phrases or terms of similar substance or the negative thereof, are forward-looking statements. These statements are based on the current expectations of the management of PPG and are subject to uncertainty and to changes in circumstances, and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements. In addition, these statements are based on a number of assumptions that are subject to change. Such risks, uncertainties and assumptions include: the satisfaction of the conditions to the Transaction and other risks related to the completion of the Transaction and actions related thereto; the parties' ability to complete the Transaction on the anticipated terms and schedule, including the ability to obtain shareholder and regulatory approvals and the anticipated tax treatment of the Transaction and related transactions; risks relating to any unforeseen liabilities, future capital expenditures, revenues, expenses, earnings, synergies, economic performance, indebtedness, financial condition, losses and future prospects; business and management strategies and the expansion and growth of Georgia Gulf's operations; Georgia Gulf's ability to integrate PPG's commodity chemicals business successfully after the closing of the Transaction and to achieve anticipated synergies; and the risk that disruptions from the Transaction will harm PPG's or Georgia Gulf's businesses. However, it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, while the list of factors presented here is considered representative, no such list should be considered to be a complete statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. Unlisted factors may present significant additional obstacles to the realization of forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements included herein are made as of the date hereof, and PPG does not undertake any obligation to update publicly such statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
Additional Information and Where to Find it
This communication does not constitute an offer to buy, or solicitation of an offer to sell, any securities of Georgia Gulf, PPG's commodity chemicals business or PPG. In connection with the Transaction, Georgia Gulf will file with the SEC a registration statement on Form S-4 that will include a proxy statement and prospectus of Georgia Gulf relating to the Transaction. INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS ARE URGED TO READ THE REGISTRATION STATEMENT AND PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS, AND ANY OTHER RELEVANT DOCUMENTS, WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE, BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN
IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT GEORGIA GULF, PPG'S COMMODITY CHEMICALS BUSINESS AND THE TRANSACTION. Investors and security holders will be able to obtain these materials (when they are available) and other documents filed with the SEC free of charge at the SEC's website, www.sec.gov. In addition, copies of the registration statement and proxy statement/prospectus (when they become available) may be obtained free of charge by accessing Georgia Gulf's website at www.ggc.com by clicking on the "Investors" link and then clicking on the "SEC Filings" link, or upon written request to Georgia Gulf at Georgia Gulf Corporation, 115 Perimeter Center Place, Suite 460, Atlanta Georgia 30346, Attention: Investor Relations, or from PPG upon written request to PPG, PPG Industries, Inc., One PPG Place, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 15272, Attention: Investor Relations. Shareholders may also read and copy any reports, statements and other information filed by Georgia Gulf or PPG with the SEC, at the SEC public reference room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 or visit the SEC's website for further information on its public reference room.
Participants in the Solicitation
Georgia Gulf, PPG, and certain of their respective directors, executive officers and other members of management and employees may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from shareholders in respect of the Transaction under the rules of the SEC. Information regarding Georgia Gulf's directors and executive officers is available in its 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 24, 2012, and in its definitive proxy statement filed with the SEC on April 16, 2012 in connection with its 2012 annual meeting of stockholders. Information regarding PPG's directors and executive officers is available in its 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 16, 2012, and in its definitive proxy statement filed with the SEC on March 8, 2012 in connection with its 2012 annual meeting of stockholders. Other information regarding the participants in the proxy solicitation and a description of their direct and indirect interests, by security holdings or otherwise, will be contained in the registration statement and proxy statement/prospectus and other relevant materials to be filed with the SEC when they become available.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 2.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBITS
Exhibit A  Separation Agreement
Annex A  Certificate of Incorporation of the Surviving Corporation
Annex B  Bylaws of the Surviving Corporation
 
THIS AGREEMENT AND PLAN OF MERGER, dated as of July 18, 2012 (this ""), is by and among PPG Industries, Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation (""), Eagle Spinco Inc., a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned Subsidiary of Burgundy (""), Georgia Gulf Corporation, a Delaware corporation (""), and Grizzly Acquisition Sub, Inc., a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned Subsidiary of Grizzly ("").
Agreement
Burgundy
Spinco
Grizzly
Merger Sub
WHEREAS, Spinco is a newly formed, wholly owned, direct Subsidiary of Burgundy;
WHEREAS, concurrently with the execution of this Agreement, Burgundy and Spinco entered into the Separation Agreement in the form attached hereto as (the ""), pursuant to which (a) Burgundy and its Subsidiaries will transfer or cause to be transferred to Spinco or one or more of its Subsidiaries all of the Spinco Assets, (b) Spinco or its Subsidiaries will transfer or cause to be transferred to Burgundy or one or more of its Subsidiaries all of the Excluded Assets, and (c) Burgundy or one or more of its Subsidiaries will assume the Excluded Liabilities, in exchange for (w) one or more of Spinco's Subsidiaries assuming the Spinco Liabilities, (x) Spinco issuing to Burgundy shares of Spinco Common Stock pursuant to the Spinco Stock Issuance, (y) Spinco distributing to Burgundy the Special Below Basis Cash Distribution and (z) Spinco distributing to Burgundy the Special Above Basis Debt/Cash Distribution, as further described herein and in the Separation Agreement (the "");
Exhibit A
Separation Agreement
Spinco Reorganization
WHEREAS, upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Separation Agreement, on the Distribution Date, Burgundy will either (i) distribute all of the shares of Spinco Common Stock to Burgundy stockholders without consideration on a basis (the ""), or (ii) consummate an offer to exchange (the "") shares of Spinco Common Stock for currently outstanding shares of Burgundy Common Stock and, in the event that Burgundy's stockholders subscribe for less than all of the Spinco Common Stock in the Exchange Offer, Burgundy will distribute, to its stockholders, any unsubscribed Spinco Common Stock on the Distribution Date immediately following the consummation of the Exchange Offer so that Burgundy will be treated for U.S. federal income Tax purposes as having distributed all of the Spinco Common Stock to its stockholders (the "");
pro rata
One-Step Spin-Off
Exchange Offer
pro rata
Clean Up Spin-Off
WHEREAS, the disposition by Burgundy of 100% of the Spinco Common Stock, whether by way of the One-Step Spin-Off or the Exchange Offer (followed by any Clean-Up Spin-Off) is referred to as the "";
Distribution
WHEREAS, at the Effective Time, the parties will effect the merger of Merger Sub with and into Spinco, with Spinco continuing as the surviving corporation, all upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein;
WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of Grizzly (the "") (i) has determined that the Merger and this Agreement are advisable, fair to, and in the best interests of, Grizzly and its stockholders and has approved this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby, including the Merger, and the issuance of shares of Grizzly Common Stock pursuant to the Merger, and (ii) has recommended the approval by the stockholders of Grizzly of the issuance of shares of Grizzly Common Stock pursuant to the Merger;
Grizzly Board
WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of Merger Sub has determined that the Merger and this Agreement are advisable and has approved this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby, including the Merger;
WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of Spinco (the "") has determined that the Merger and this Agreement are advisable and has approved this Agreement and the Separation Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby, including the Spinco Reorganization, the Distribution and the Merger;
Spinco Board
WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of Burgundy (the "") has approved this Agreement and the Separation Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby, including the Spinco Reorganization, the Distribution and the Merger;
Burgundy Board
WHEREAS, the parties to this Agreement intend that, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the contribution (as part of the Spinco Reorganization) by Burgundy to Spinco of all of the Spinco Assets held directly by Burgundy in exchange for (a) the assumption by Spinco of Spinco Liabilities of Burgundy, (b) the issuance by Spinco to Burgundy of shares of Spinco Common Stock pursuant to the Spinco Stock Issuance, (c) the distribution by Spinco to Burgundy of the Special Below Basis Cash Distribution, and (d) the distribution by Spinco to Burgundy of the Special Above Basis Debt/Cash Distribution (the "") and the Distribution, taken together, will qualify as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the ""), and that the Merger will qualify as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code; and
Contribution
Code
WHEREAS, the parties to this Agreement intend this Agreement to be, and hereby adopt this Agreement as, a "plan of reorganization" within the meaning of Treasury Regulation Section 1.368-2(g).
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the representations, warranties, covenants and agreements set forth in this Agreement, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties, intending to be legally bound hereby, agree as follows:
As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
Section 1.1 "" shall have the meaning set forth in the Separation Agreement.
Above Basis Amount
Section 1.2 "" means the quotient obtained by dividing the Grizzly Stock Value by the Burgundy Stock Value.
Adjustment Ratio
Section 1.3 "" means a Person that, directly or indirectly, through one or more intermediaries, controls or is controlled by, or is under common control with, a specified Person. The term "" (including, with correlative meanings, the terms "" and "
Affiliate
control
controlled by
under
 
"), as applied to any Person, means the possession, direct or indirect, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities or other ownership interest, by Contract or otherwise; , , that for purposes of this Agreement, from and after the Distribution Date, no member of either Group shall be deemed an Affiliate of any member of the other Group.
common control with
provided
however
Section 1.4 "" means, with respect to the shares of Grizzly Common Stock to be issued pursuant to the Merger, that such shares have been approved for listing on the NYSE, subject to official notice of issuance.
Approved for Listing
Section 1.5 "" shall have the meaning set forth in the Separation Agreement.
Below Basis Amount
Section 1.6 "" shall have the meaning set forth in the Employee Matters Agreement.
Burgundy CN DB Plan
Section 1.7 "" means the commitment letter from the financial institutions named therein pursuant to which such parties have committed to lend the amounts set forth therein to Burgundy or Spinco, as the case may be.
Burgundy Commitment Letter
Section 1.8 "" means the common stock, par value $1.66-2/3 per share, of Burgundy.
Burgundy Common Stock
Section 1.9 "" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.9 of the Burgundy Disclosure Letter.
Burgundy Expense Limitation
Section 1.10 "" shall have the meaning set forth in the Separation Agreement.
Burgundy Group
Section 1.11 "" means an option to purchase shares of Burgundy Common Stock pursuant to a Burgundy Stock Plan.
Burgundy Option
Section 1.12 "" means an award (other than a Burgundy TSR Award) issued under a Burgundy Stock Plan representing a general unsecured promise by Burgundy to pay the value of shares of Burgundy Common Stock in cash or shares of Burgundy Common Stock, the vesting of which is based on continued service and the satisfaction of performance goals.
Burgundy PSU Award
Section 1.13 "" means all forms, reports, schedules, statements and other documents required to be filed or furnished by Burgundy with the SEC since January 1, 2009.
Burgundy SEC Documents
Section 1.14 "" means the PPG Industries, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan and the PPG Industries, Inc. Stock Plan.
Burgundy Stock Plans
Section 1.15 "" means the closing per-share price of Burgundy Common Stock, trading regular way with due bills, on the last full trading session prior to the Effective Time, as listed on the NYSE.
Burgundy Stock Value
 
Section 1.16 "" means all direct and indirect Subsidiaries of Burgundy that are in the Burgundy Group.
Burgundy Subsidiaries
Section 1.17 "" means Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz.
Burgundy Tax Counsel
Section 1.18 "" means an award granted under a Burgundy Stock Plan representing a general unsecured promise by Burgundy to pay the value of shares of Burgundy Common Stock in cash or shares of Burgundy Common Stock, the vesting of which is based upon continued service and the achievement of specified levels of total shareholder return of Burgundy.
Burgundy TSR Award
Section 1.19 "" shall have the meaning set forth in the Employee Matters Agreement.
Burgundy US DB Plan
Section 1.20 "" means any day, other than a Saturday, Sunday or another day on which commercial banking institutions in New York State are authorized or required by Law to be closed.
Business Day
Section 1.21 "" shall have the meaning set forth in the Separation Agreement.
Business Transfer Time
Section 1.22 "" means the Canadian Commissioner of Competition or her authorized delegate appointed under the Competition Act.
Commissioner
Section 1.23 "" means the (Canada), R.S.C., c. C-34, as amended.
Competition Act
Competition Act
Section 1.24 "" means: (a) the issuance of an advance ruling certificate by the Commissioner pursuant to section 102(1) of the Competition Act with respect to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, and such certificate has not been amended or rescinded; or (b) Spinco and Grizzly have given the notice required under section 114 of the Competition Act with respect to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the applicable waiting period under section 123 of the Competition Act shall have expired or shall have been waived in accordance with the Competition Act; or (c) the obligation to give the requisite notice shall have been waived pursuant to subsection 113(c) of the Competition Act, and, in the case of (b) or (c) above, Spinco and Grizzly shall have been advised in writing by the Commissioner that such person does not, at that time, intend to make an application under section 92 of the Competition Act with respect to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and such advice has not been rescinded or amended.
Competition Act Approval
Section 1.25 "" means the Confidentiality Agreement, dated as of December 20, 2011, between Burgundy and Grizzly, as it may be amended from time to time.
Confidentiality Agreement
Section 1.26 "" shall have the meaning set forth in the Separation Agreement.
Consents
Section 1.27 "" or "" means any loan or credit agreement, note, bond, indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, lease, sublease, franchise, permit, authorization,
Contract
agreement
 
license, contract, instrument or other commitment, obligation or arrangement, whether written or oral, that is binding on any Person or any part of its property under applicable Law, other than any Burgundy Benefit Plan or Grizzly Benefit Plan.
Section 1.28 "" shall have the meaning set forth in the Separation Agreement, and the terms "" and "" have correlative meanings.
Convey
Conveyance
Conveyed
Section 1.29 "" means the Delaware General Corporation Law.
DGCL
Section 1.30 "" means, collectively, the Burgundy Disclosure Letter and the Grizzly Disclosure Letter.
Disclosure Letters
Section 1.31 "" shall have the meaning set forth in the Separation Agreement.
Distribution Date
Section 1.32 "" shall have the meaning set forth in the Separation Agreement.
Distribution Tax Opinion
Section 1.33 "" shall have the meaning set forth in the Separation Agreement.
Eagle Business
Section 1.34 "" means (i) prior to the Business Transfer Time, members of the Burgundy Group or Spinco Group to the extent primarily relating to the Eagle Business, and (ii) from and after the Business Transfer Time, members of the Spinco Group. For the avoidance of doubt, the "Eagle Entities" do not include the entities listed in Section 1.34 of the Burgundy Disclosure Letter. It is understood and agreed that in determining the truth and correctness of representations and warranties with respect to an Eagle Entity, matters not primarily relating to the Eagle Business shall be disregarded; and that in determining whether covenants and agreements have been performed by an Eagle Entity, any actions or inactions taken by an Eagle Entity not primarily relating to the Eagle Business shall be disregarded.
Eagle Entities
Section 1.35 "" means the Employee Matters Agreement entered into on the date of this Agreement, by and among Burgundy, Grizzly and Spinco.
Employee Matters Agreement
Section 1.36 "" means all Laws of any Governmental Authority that relate to pollution or the protection, clean up or restoration of the environment (including indoor and ambient air, surface water, ground water, sediment, land surface or subsurface strata) including the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (42 U.S.C.  9601 et seq.), the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C.  1251 et seq.), the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (42 U.S.C.  6901 et seq., as amended), the Safe Drinking Water Act (21 U.S.C.  349, 42 U.S.C.  201, 300f), the Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C.  2601 et seq.), the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C.  7401 et seq.), the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, and any similar state or local Laws or any other binding legal obligation in effect now or in the future relating to the release of Hazardous Materials, or otherwise relating to the treatment, storage, disposal, transport or handling of Hazardous Materials, or to the exposure of any individual to a release of Hazardous Materials.
Environmental Laws
 
Section 1.37 "" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
ERISA
Section 1.38 "" means, with respect to any Person, any other Person or any trade or business, whether or not incorporated, that, together with such first Person, would be deemed a "single employer" within the meaning of section 414(b), (c), (m) or (o) of the Code.
ERISA Affiliate
Section 1.39 "" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, together with the rules and regulations of the SEC promulgated thereunder.
Exchange Act
Section 1.40 "" shall have the meaning set forth in the Burgundy Commitment Letter.
Exchange Loans
Section 1.41 "" means the greater of (x) 35,200,000 shares or (y) the product of (i) the number of shares of Grizzly Common Stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time multiplied by (ii) 1.02020202, divided by the number of shares of Spinco Common Stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time.
Exchange Ratio
Section 1.42 "" shall have the meaning set forth in the Separation Agreement.
Excluded Assets
Section 1.43 "" shall have the meaning set forth in the Separation Agreement.
Excluded Liabilities
Section 1.44 "" means United States generally accepted accounting principles.
GAAP
Section 1.45 "" shall have the meaning set forth in the Separation Agreement.
Governmental Approvals
Section 1.46 "" means any federal, state, local or foreign court, administrative agency, official board, bureau, governmental or quasi-governmental entities, having competent jurisdiction over Burgundy, Spinco or Grizzly, any of their respective Subsidiaries, and any other tribunal or commission or other governmental department, authority or instrumentality or any subdivision, agency, mediator, commission or authority of competent jurisdiction.
Governmental Authority
Section 1.47 "" means, in each case other than the Merger or as otherwise specifically contemplated by this Agreement, (i) any merger, consolidation, share exchange, business combination, recapitalization or other similar transaction or series of related transactions involving Grizzly, or involving any of its Subsidiaries the assets of which constitute 25% or more of the total consolidated assets, or the revenues of which represent 25% or more of the total consolidated revenues, of Grizzly and the Grizzly Subsidiaries, taken as a whole; (ii) any direct or indirect purchase or sale, lease, exchange, transfer or other disposition of the consolidated assets (including stock of any of the Grizzly Subsidiaries) of Grizzly and the Grizzly Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, constituting 25% or more of the total consolidated assets of Grizzly and the Grizzly Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, or accounting for 25% or more of the total consolidated revenues of Grizzly and the Grizzly Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, in any one transaction or in a series of transactions; or (iii) any direct or indirect purchase or sale of or tender offer, exchange offer or any similar transaction or series of related transactions engaged in by any Person involving 25% or more of the outstanding shares of Grizzly Common Stock.
Grizzly Acquisition
 
Section 1.48 "" means any proposal regarding a Grizzly Acquisition.
Grizzly Acquisition Proposal
Section 1.49 "" means the Amended and Restated Bylaws of Grizzly, as amended.
Grizzly Bylaws
Section 1.50 "" means the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Grizzly, as amended.
Grizzly Charter
Section 1.51 "" means the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of Grizzly.
Grizzly Common Stock
Section 1.52 "" means that certain Credit Agreement, dated as of December 22, 2009, by and among Grizzly and Royal Group, Inc., as borrowers, the lenders party thereto from time to time, and General Electric Capital Corporation, as administrative agent, as amended prior to the date hereof.
Grizzly Existing Revolving Credit Agreement
Section 1.53 "" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.53 of the Grizzly Disclosure Letter.
Grizzly Expense Limitation
Section 1.54 "" means all Leased Real Property held by Grizzly or one of the Grizzly Subsidiaries.
Grizzly Leased Real Property
Section 1.55 "" means all Leases of Grizzly or of a Grizzly Subsidiary.
Grizzly Leases
Section 1.56 "" means an option to purchase shares of Grizzly Common Stock.
Grizzly Option
Section 1.57 "" means all Owned Real Property of Grizzly or any of the Grizzly Subsidiaries.
Grizzly Owned Real Property
Section 1.58 "" means an award representing a general unsecured promise by Grizzly to pay the value of shares of Grizzly Common Stock in cash or shares of Grizzly Common Stock, the vesting of which is based upon continued service and not the satisfaction of performance goals.
Grizzly RSU Award
Section 1.59 "" means the Georgia Gulf Corporation Second Amended and Restated 2011 Equity and Performance Incentive Plan.
Grizzly Stock Plan
Section 1.60 "" means the opening per-share price of Grizzly Common Stock on the first full trading session following the Effective Time, as listed on the NYSE.
Grizzly Stock Value
Section 1.61 "" means all direct and indirect Subsidiaries of Grizzly.
Grizzly Subsidiaries
 
Section 1.62 "" shall have the meaning set forth in the Separation Agreement.
Group
Section 1.63 "" means any substance that is listed, defined, designated or classified as, or otherwise determined to be, hazardous, radioactive, infectious, reactive, corrosive, ignitable, flammable or toxic or a pollutant or a contaminant or is otherwise subject to regulation, control or Remediation under any Environmental Law.
Hazardous Material
Section 1.64 "" means the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
HSR Act
Section 1.65 "" means, in any and all jurisdictions throughout the world, all (i) inventions and discoveries (whether or not patentable or reduced to practice), patents, patent applications, invention disclosures, and statutory invention registrations, including reissues, divisionals, provisionals, continuations, continuations-in-part, extensions, utility models, design patents and reexaminations thereof, (ii) trademarks, service marks, domain names, uniform resource locators, trade dress, slogans, logos, symbols, trade names, brand names and other identifiers of source or goodwill, including registrations and applications for registration thereof and including the goodwill symbolized thereby or associated therewith, (iii) published and unpublished works of authorship, whether copyrightable or not, copyrights therein and thereto, registrations, applications, renewals and extensions therefor, industrial designs, mask works, and any and all rights associated therewith, (iv) computer data, computer programs or other software, and databases, in each case whether in source code, object code or other form, and all related documentation, (v) trade secrets and all other confidential or proprietary information (including know-how) and invention rights, and all rights to limit the use or disclosure thereof, (vi) rights of privacy and publicity, (vii) any and all other proprietary rights or property similar to any of the foregoing in any jurisdiction, whether registered or not registered, together with the right to apply for the registration of any such rights, and all rights or forms of protection having equivalent or similar effect, in any jurisdiction, and (viii) any and all other intellectual property under the Laws of any country throughout the world.
Intellectual Property Rights
Section 1.66 "" means the U.S. Internal Revenue Service.
IRS
Section 1.67 "" means a private letter ruling from the IRS to the effect that the Contribution and Distribution, taken together, will qualify as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code.
IRS D Reorganization Ruling
Section 1.68 "" means a private letter ruling from the IRS to the effect that Burgundy will not recognize gain or loss for U.S. federal income Tax purposes in connection with the receipt of the Spinco Exchange Debt in the Special Above Basis Debt/Cash Distribution or the consummation of the Debt Exchange.
IRS Debt Exchange Ruling
Section 1.69 "" means (i) with respect to Burgundy, the actual knowledge of the persons set forth in Section 1.69 of the Burgundy Disclosure Letter and (ii) with respect to Grizzly, means the actual knowledge of the persons set forth in Section 1.69 of the Grizzly Disclosure Letter.
Knowledge
 
Section 1.70 "" means any federal, state, local or foreign law, statute, code, ordinance, rule, regulation, judgment, order, injunction, decree, arbitration award, agency requirement, license or permit of any Governmental Authority.
Law
Section 1.71 "" means all leasehold or subleasehold estates and other rights to use or occupy land and/or buildings, structures or improvements thereon or fixtures affixed thereto as a lessee or sublessee.
Leased Real Property
Section 1.72 "" means all buildings, structures, improvements and fixtures located on any Leased Real Property which are owned, regardless of whether title to such buildings, structures, improvements or fixtures are subject to reversion to the landlord or other third party upon the expiration or termination of the Lease for such Leased Real Property.
Leasehold Improvements
Section 1.73 "" means all leases, subleases, licenses, concessions and other agreements (written or oral), including all amendments, extensions, renewals, guaranties and other agreements with respect thereto, pursuant to which any Person holds any Leased Real Property.
Leases
Section 1.74 "" has the meaning set forth in the Separation Agreement.
Liabilities
Section 1.75 "" means all mortgages, deeds of trust, liens, security interests, pledges, leases, conditional sale contracts, claims, charges, liabilities, obligations, privileges, easements, rights of way, limitations, reservations, restrictions, options, rights of first refusal and other encumbrances of every kind. For the avoidance of doubt, the license of Intellectual Property Rights shall not itself constitute a Lien.
Liens
Section 1.76 "" means, with respect to Spinco or Grizzly, any change, development, event, occurrence, effect or state of facts that, individually or in the aggregate with all such other changes, developments, events, occurrences, effects or states of facts is materially adverse to the business, financial condition or results of operations of the Eagle Business, taken as a whole (in the case of Spinco), or Grizzly and the Grizzly Subsidiaries, taken as a whole (in the case of Grizzly); that none of the following shall be deemed either alone or in combination to constitute, or be taken into account in determining whether there is, a Material Adverse Effect: any change, development, event, occurrence, effect or state of facts arising out of or resulting from (i) capital market conditions generally or general economic conditions, including with respect to interest rates or currency exchange rates, (ii) geopolitical conditions or any outbreak or escalation of hostilities, acts of war or terrorism occurring after the date of this Agreement, (iii) any hurricane, tornado, flood, earthquake or other natural disaster occurring after the date of this Agreement, (iv) any change in applicable Law or GAAP (or authoritative interpretation thereof) which is proposed, approved or enacted after the date of this Agreement, (v) general conditions in the industries in which the Eagle Business operates (in the case of Spinco) or Grizzly and the Grizzly Subsidiaries operate (in the case of Grizzly), (vi) the announcement and pendency of this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby, including any lawsuit in respect hereof, compliance with the covenants or agreements contained herein, and, unless same involves a breach by Burgundy of its representations and warranties in (in the case of Spinco) or a breach by Grizzly of its representations and warranties in (in the case of Grizzly), any loss of or change in relationship with any customer, supplier, distributor, or
Material Adverse Effect
provided
Section 6.3
Section 7.3
 
other business partner, or departure of any employee or officer, of the Eagle Business (in the case of Spinco) or Grizzly or any of the Grizzly Subsidiaries (in the case of Grizzly), and (vii) in the case of Spinco, (A) any Excluded Asset or Excluded Liability or (B) any labor dispute, labor arbitration proceeding or labor organizational effort pending or threatened or any slowdown or work stoppage in effect or threatened with respect to Spinco Employees, in any such case, so long as the plant at which any such labor dispute, labor arbitration proceeding, labor organization effort, or slowdown or work stoppage is occurring continues to operate, except, in the cases of clauses (ii), (iii), (iv) and (v), to the extent that such change, development, event, occurrence, effect or state of facts has a materially disproportionate effect on the Eagle Business (in the case of Spinco) or Grizzly and the Grizzly Subsidiaries, taken as a whole (in the case of Grizzly), as compared with other participants in the industries in which the Eagle Business operates (in the case of Spinco) or Grizzly and the Grizzly Subsidiaries operate (in the case of Grizzly) (in which case the incremental disproportionate impact or impacts may be deemed either alone or in combination to constitute, or be taken into account in determining whether there is, a Material Adverse Effect).
Section 1.77 "" means a "multiemployer pension plan" (as such term is defined in Section 3(37) of ERISA).
Multiemployer Pension Plan
Section 1.78 "" means the New York Stock Exchange, Inc.
NYSE
Section 1.79 "" means any order, judgment, injunction, award, decree, writ or other legally enforceable requirement handed down, adopted or imposed by, including any consent decree, settlement agreement or similar written agreement with, any Governmental Authority.
Order
Section 1.80 "" means all land, together with all buildings, structures, improvements and fixtures located thereon, and all easements and other rights and interests appurtenant thereto that is owned.
Owned Real Property
Section 1.81 "" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation.
PBGC
Section 1.82 "" means (i) statutory Liens for Taxes that are not due and payable as of the Closing Date, or that are being contested in good faith and for which appropriate reserves have been established to the extent required by GAAP; (ii) mechanics Liens and similar Liens for labor, materials or supplies provided, incurred in the ordinary course of business for amounts which are not due and payable, or that are subject to dispute and with respect to which reserves have been established to the extent required by GAAP; (iii) zoning, building codes and other land use Laws regulating the use or occupancy of such Owned Real Property, Leased Real Property or Leasehold Improvement (as the case may be) or the activities conducted thereon which are imposed by any Governmental Authority having jurisdiction over such Owned Real Property, Leased Real Property or Leasehold Improvement (as the case may be) which are not violated in any material respect by the current use or occupancy of such Owned Real Property, Leased Real Property or Leasehold Improvement (as the case may be) or the operation of the business thereon; (iv) easements, covenants, conditions, restrictions and other similar matters of record, or matters that would be disclosed by a true and correct survey, affecting title to any Owned Real Property, Leased Real Property or Leasehold Improvement (as
Permitted Encumbrances
 
the case may be) which do not or would not materially impair the use or occupancy of such Owned Real Property, Leased Real Property or Leasehold Improvement (as the case may be) in the operation of the business currently conducted thereon; (v) Liens securing indebtedness incurred in connection with the Spinco Financing or disclosed in the Grizzly SEC Documents or the Spinco Financial Statements, as applicable; and (vi) Liens otherwise contemplated by any of the Transaction Agreements.
Section 1.83 "" means a natural person, corporation, company, joint venture, individual business trust, trust association, partnership, limited partnership, limited liability company or other entity, including a Governmental Authority.
Person
Section 1.84 "" shall have the meaning set forth in the Separation Agreement.
Private Letter Ruling
Section 1.85 "" means the letters to stockholders, notices of meetings, proxy statement and forms of proxies to be distributed to stockholders in connection with the Merger and the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and any additional soliciting material or schedules required to be filed with the SEC in connection therewith.
Proxy Statement/Prospectus
Section 1.86 "" means Spinco Common Stock that was not acquired directly or indirectly pursuant to the plan (or series of related transactions) which includes the Distribution (within the meaning of Section 355(e) of the Code), other than Spinco Common Stock actually acquired in the Distribution; that, for the avoidance of doubt, Qualified Spinco Common Stock shall not include any Spinco Common Stock acquired with respect to or in exchange for Burgundy Common Stock that was acquired as part of such a plan (or series of related transactions) which includes the Distribution (within the meaning of Section 355(e) of the Code).
Qualified Spinco Common Stock
provided
Section 1.87 "" means land together with all easements, rights and interests arising out of the ownership thereof or appurtenant thereto and improvements thereon.
Real Property
Section 1.88 "" shall have the meaning set forth in the Separation Agreement.
Record Date
Section 1.89 "" means the registration statement on Form S-4 to be filed by Grizzly with the SEC to effect the registration under the Securities Act of the issuance of the shares of Grizzly Common Stock which will be issued to holders of Spinco Common Stock pursuant to the Merger (as amended and supplemented from time to time).
Registration Statement
Section 1.90 "" shall have the meaning set forth in the Separation Agreement.
Remediation
Section 1.91 "" means the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
Section 1.92 "" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, together with the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
Securities Act
 
Section 1.93 "" shall have the meaning set forth in the Separation Agreement.
Special Above Basis Debt/Cash Distribution
Section 1.94 "" shall have the meaning set forth in the Separation Agreement.
Special Below Basis Cash Distribution
Section 1.95 "" shall have the meaning set forth in the Separation Agreement.
Special Distribution
Section 1.96 "" shall have the meaning set forth in the Separation Agreement.
Spinco Assets
Section 1.97 "" means the commitment letter from the financial institutions named therein pursuant to which such parties have committed to lend the amounts set forth therein to Spinco for the purpose of funding the Special Below Basis Cash Distribution.
Spinco Commitment Letter
Section 1.98 "" means the Common Stock, par value $0.001 per share, of Spinco.
Spinco Common Stock
Section 1.99 "" shall have the meaning set forth in the Employee Matters Agreement.
Spinco Employee
Section 1.100 "" means the Spinco Securities, and/or Exchange Loans, as the case may be (and each as defined in the Burgundy Commitment Letter), of Spinco which may be delivered by Burgundy in full satisfaction of the Burgundy Debt in accordance with the terms of the Burgundy Debt, as described in the Burgundy Commitment Letter.
Spinco Exchange Debt
Section 1.101 "" means Spinco and each of its Subsidiaries; , , that none of Grizzly or any Grizzly Subsidiary is a member of the Spinco Group for purposes of this Agreement.
Spinco Group
provided
however
Section 1.102 "y" means all Leased Real Property that is intended to be Conveyed by Burgundy or its Subsidiaries to the Spinco Group pursuant to the Separation Agreement.
Spinco Leased Real Propert
Section 1.103 "" means all Leasehold Improvements that are intended to be Conveyed to the Spinco Group by Burgundy or its Subsidiaries pursuant to the Separation Agreement.
Spinco Leasehold Improvements
Section 1.104 "" means all Leases that are intended to be Conveyed to the Spinco Group by Burgundy or its Subsidiaries pursuant to the Separation Agreement.
Spinco Leases
Section 1.105 "" shall have the meaning set forth in the Separation Agreement.
Spinco Liabilities
 
Section 1.106 "" means all Owned Real Property that is intended to be Conveyed to the Spinco Group by Burgundy or its Subsidiaries pursuant to the Separation Agreement.
Spinco Owned Real Property
Section 1.107 "" shall have the meaning set forth in the Separation Agreement.
Spinco Registration Statement
Section 1.108 "" means notes issued by Spinco to Burgundy in a principal amount equal to the Above Basis Amount (subject to gross up to account for applicable underwriting or other fees and original issue discount), as contemplated in , which notes shall (i) be unconditionally guaranteed by each of Spinco's existing and subsequently acquired or organized direct or indirect domestic subsidiaries and, after consummation of the Merger, Grizzly and each of its existing and subsequently acquired direct or indirect domestic subsidiaries that guarantee any other indebtedness of Grizzly, (ii) have a maturity date of at least eight years and be non-callable (or callable only with payment of a make-whole premium) for a period of at least five years, (iii) have an interest rate not to exceed the Total Cap, unless Grizzly shall agree in its sole discretion to an interest rate in excess of the Total Cap, (iv) have customary incurrence based covenants to be agreed in light of then prevailing market conditions for issuers of comparable creditworthiness or such other covenants as Grizzly may agree with the applicable counterparty, and (v) otherwise be in form and substance, and subject to an indenture, customary for debt offerings under Rule 144A under the Securities Act and similar to the terms governing the Spinco Exchange Debt.
Spinco Securities
Section 8.11(f)
Section 1.109 "" shall have the meaning set forth in the Separation Agreement.
Spinco Stock Issuance
Section 1.110 "" means all direct and indirect Subsidiaries of Spinco immediately following the Spinco Reorganization, including any direct or indirect Subsidiaries of Burgundy that become Subsidiaries of Spinco after the date hereof.
Spinco Subsidiaries
Section 1.111 "" means, with respect to any Person, a corporation, partnership, association, limited liability company, trust or other form of legal entity in which such Person, a Subsidiary of such Person or such Person and one or more Subsidiaries of such Person, directly or indirectly, has either (i) a majority ownership in the equity thereof, (ii) the power, under ordinary circumstances, to elect, or to direct the election of, a majority of the board of directors or other analogous governing body of such entity, or (iii) the title or function of general partner or manager, or the right to designate the Person having such title or function; provided, however, that TCI shall not be deemed a Subsidiary of Burgundy.
Subsidiary
Section 1.112 "" or "" means all taxes, charges, fees, duties, levies, imposts, rates or other assessments or governmental charges of any kind imposed by any federal, state, local or foreign Taxing Authority, including income, gross receipts, employment, excise, severance, stamp, occupation, premium, windfall profits, environmental (including Taxes under Section 59A of the Code), custom duties, property, sales, use, license, capital stock, transfer, franchise, registration, payroll, withholding, social security (or similar), unemployment, disability, value added, alternative or add-on minimum or other taxes (including any amounts owed to any Governmental Authority or other Person in respect of abandoned or unclaimed property, escheat or similar Laws), whether disputed or not, and including any interest, penalties or additions attributable thereto.
Tax
Taxes
 
Section 1.113 "" means the Tax Matters Agreement to be entered into at or prior to the Effective Time among Burgundy, Spinco and Grizzly, substantially in the form attached as Exhibit A to the Separation Agreement.
Tax Matters Agreement
Section 1.114 "" means any return, report, certificate, form or similar statement or document (including any related or supporting information or schedule attached thereto and any information return, amended tax return, claim for refund or declaration of estimated Tax) filed or required to be filed with a Taxing Authority in connection with the determination, assessment or collection of any Tax or the administration of any laws, regulations or administrative requirements relating to any Tax.
Tax Return
Section 1.115 "" means any Governmental Authority or any quasi-governmental or private body having jurisdiction over the assessment, determination, collection or imposition of any Tax (including the IRS).
Taxing Authority
Section 1.116 "" shall have the meaning set forth in the Burgundy Related Letter.
Total Cap
Section 1.117 "" means this Agreement, the Separation Agreement, the Employee Matters Agreement, the Transition Services Agreement, the Tax Matters Agreement, the Shared Facilities, Services and Supply Agreement, the Electric Generation, Distribution and Transmission Facilities Lease, the Servitude Agreement, the Liquid Caustic Soda Sales Agreement (Fresno), the Liquid Caustic Soda Sales Agreement (Strongsville), the Hydrochloric Acid Sales Agreement - Lake Charles (Silica), the Chlorine and Liquid Caustic Soda Sales Agreement (Barberton), the Liquid Caustic Soda Sales Agreement (Wichita Falls), the Hydrochloric Acid Sales Agreement, the Shared Facilities Agreement (Monroeville) and the Master Terminal Agreement.
Transaction Agreements
Section 1.118 "" means the Transition Services Agreement to be entered into at or prior to the Effective Time by and between Burgundy and Spinco, substantially in the form attached as Exhibit B to the Separation Agreement.
Transition Services Agreement
Section 1.119 "" means the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act of 1988, as amended, and any similar state or local law, regulation or ordinance.
WARN Act
 
 
 
 
Section 2.1 . At the Effective Time and upon the terms and subject to the conditions of this Agreement, Merger Sub shall be merged with and into Spinco (the "") in accordance with the applicable provisions of the DGCL, the separate existence of Merger Sub shall cease and Spinco shall continue as the surviving corporation of the Merger (sometimes referred to herein as the "") and shall succeed to and assume all the rights, powers and privileges and be subject to all of the obligations of Merger Sub in accordance with the DGCL. As a result of the Merger, Spinco shall become a wholly owned Subsidiary of Grizzly.
The Merger
Merger
Surviving Corporation
Section 2.2 . Unless the transactions herein contemplated shall have been abandoned and this Agreement terminated pursuant to , the closing of the Merger and the other transactions contemplated hereby (the "") shall take place at 10:00 a.m., Eastern time, on the date which is the third (3
Closing
Section 10.1
Closing
rd
) Business Day after the conditions set forth in (other than those that are to be satisfied by action at the Closing) have been satisfied or, to the extent permitted by applicable Law, waived, at the offices of Jones Day, 222 East 41
Article IX
st
Street, New York, NY 10017-6702, unless another date, time or place is agreed to in writing by Burgundy and Grizzly. Notwithstanding the immediately preceding sentence, if the Marketing Period has not ended at the time of the satisfaction or, to the extent permitted by applicable Law, waiver of the conditions set forth in (other than those that are to be satisfied by action at the Closing), then the Closing shall occur instead on the date following the satisfaction or waiver of such conditions that is the earlier to occur of (a) any date before or during the Marketing Period as may be specified by Grizzly to Burgundy on no less than three (3) Business Days' prior notice and (b) three (3) Business Days after the date which is the final day of the Marketing Period, or at such other place, date and time as Grizzly and Burgundy shall agree. The date on which the Closing actually occurs is hereinafter referred to as the "."
Article IX
Closing Date
Section 2.3 . Upon the terms and subject to the conditions of this Agreement, on the Closing Date, a certificate of merger shall be filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware with respect to the Merger (the ""), in such form as is required by, and executed in accordance with, the applicable provisions of the DGCL, respectively. The Merger shall become effective at the time of filing of the Certificate of Merger or at such later time as the parties hereto may agree and as is provided in the Certificate of Merger. The date and time at which the Merger shall become so effective is herein referred to as the "."
Effective Time
Certificate of Merger
Effective Time
 
Section 2.4 . At the Effective Time, the effects of the Merger shall be as provided in this Agreement, the Certificate of Merger and the applicable provisions of the DGCL.
Effects of the Merger
Section 2.5 .
Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws of the Surviving Corporation
(a) The certificate of incorporation of Spinco shall, by virtue of the Merger, be amended and restated in its entirety to read as set forth in to this Agreement and, as so amended and restated, shall be the certificate of incorporation of the Surviving Corporation until thereafter duly amended in accordance with such certificate of incorporation, this Agreement and applicable Law.
Annex A
(b) The bylaws of Spinco shall, by virtue of the Merger, be amended and restated in their entirety to read as set forth in to this Agreement and, as so amended and restated, shall be the bylaws of the Surviving Corporation until thereafter duly amended in accordance with the certificate of incorporation of the Surviving Corporation, such bylaws, this Agreement and applicable Law.
Annex B
Section 2.6 .
Governance Matters
(a) The Grizzly Board shall take all action necessary such that, effective as of the Effective Time, the Grizzly Board shall be increased by three members, and three individuals selected by Burgundy from the list of individuals set forth in Section 2.6(a) of the Burgundy Disclosure Letter (which individuals have been approved to serve as directors by the Nominating and Governance Committee of the Grizzly Board (the "") prior to the date hereof) shall be appointed to fill the vacancies created; provided that if any of such individuals is unable or unwilling to serve, then Burgundy shall select a replacement individual reasonably satisfactory to the Nominating and Governance Committee. In addition, Grizzly shall nominate such individuals for re-election to the Grizzly Board at the 2013 annual meeting of Grizzly stockholders.
Nominating and Governance Committee
(b) From and after the Effective Time, the officers of Spinco shall be the initial officers of the Surviving Corporation. Such officers shall hold office until their successors are duly appointed and qualified, or until their earlier death, resignation or removal in accordance with the Surviving Corporation's certificate of incorporation and bylaws.
(c) From and after the Effective Time, the directors of Merger Sub shall be the initial directors of the Surviving Corporation. Such directors shall serve until their successors have been duly elected or appointed and qualified or until their earlier death, resignation or removal in accordance with the Surviving Corporation's certificate of incorporation and bylaws.
Section 2.7 .
Name; Corporate Offices
(a) From and after the Effective Time, the name of the Surviving Corporation shall be "Eagle Holdings, Inc."
 
(b) From and after the Effective Time, the location of the headquarters and principal executive offices of the Surviving Corporation shall be Grizzly's executive offices.
Section 3.1 . At the Effective Time, by virtue of the Merger and without any action on the part of Spinco, Merger Sub or any holder of the capital stock of Burgundy, Spinco, Merger Sub or Grizzly:
Effect on Capital Stock
(a) .
Conversion of Spinco Capital Stock
(i) Each share of Spinco Common Stock issued and outstanding as of the Effective Time (other than shares canceled in accordance with ) shall be automatically converted into the right to receive a number of shares or, subject to , fraction of a share of Grizzly Common Stock equal to the Exchange Ratio, subject to adjustment in accordance with and .
Section 3.1(a)(ii)
Section 3.3
Section 3.1(a)(iv)
Section 3.1(d)
(ii) Each share of Spinco Common Stock held by Spinco as treasury stock immediately prior to the Effective Time shall be canceled and shall cease to exist and no stock or other consideration shall be issued or delivered in exchange therefor.
(iii) Each share of Spinco Common Stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time, when converted in accordance with this , shall no longer be outstanding and shall automatically be canceled and shall cease to exist, and each holder of such shares shall cease to have any rights with respect thereto, except the right to receive the shares of Grizzly Common Stock as provided in and any dividends or distributions and other amounts payable in accordance with .
Section 3.1
Section 3.1(a)(i)
Section 3.2(c)
(iv) The Exchange Ratio and any other similarly dependent items shall be adjusted to reflect fully the appropriate effect of any stock split, split-up, reverse stock split, stock dividend or distribution of Grizzly Common Stock or Spinco Common Stock, or securities convertible into any such securities, reorganization, recapitalization, reclassification or other like change with respect to Grizzly Common Stock or Spinco Common Stock having a record date occurring on or after the date of this Agreement and prior to the Effective Time, other than the Spinco Reorganization; that nothing in this shall be construed to permit Burgundy, Spinco or Grizzly to take any action with respect to its securities that is prohibited by the terms of this Agreement.
provided
Section 3.1(a)(iv)
(b) . At the Effective Time, each share of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of Merger Sub ("") issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time shall be automatically converted into one fully paid and nonassessable share of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Surviving Corporation.
Merger Sub Common Stock
Merger Sub Common Stock
 
(c) . Each share of Grizzly Common Stock that is issued and outstanding immediately prior to and at the Effective Time shall remain outstanding following the Effective Time.
Grizzly Common Stock
(d) . If the condition set forth in Section 4.3(d) of the Separation Agreement with respect to the Distribution Tax Opinion would be unable to be satisfied because immediately after the Effective Time the percentage of outstanding shares of Grizzly Common Stock to be received by former Spinco shareholders with respect to Qualified Spinco Common Stock would be less than 50.5% (the "") of all outstanding Grizzly Common Stock (determined without regard to any adjustment pursuant to this ) then the aggregate number of shares of Grizzly Common Stock into which the shares of Spinco Common Stock are converted pursuant to shall be increased such that the number of shares of Grizzly Common Stock to be received by former Spinco shareholders with respect to Qualified Spinco Common Stock equals the Threshold Percentage. If any such increase is required solely by reason of any actions taken by Burgundy or its Affiliates pursuant to the plan (or series of related transactions) which includes the Distribution (within the meaning of Section 355(e) of the Code), then the Above Basis Amount shall be decreased by an amount equal to the product of $27.54 multiplied by the number of additional shares of Grizzly Common Stock required to be issued pursuant to the true-up set forth in this solely by reason of any such actions taken by Burgundy or its Affiliates.
Exchange Ratio True-Up
Threshold Percentage
Section 3.1(d)
Section 3.1(a)(i)
Section 3.1(d)
Section 3.2 .
Distribution of Per Share Merger Consideration
(a) . Prior to the Effective Time, Burgundy will appoint a bank or trust company reasonably acceptable to Grizzly as distribution agent (the ""). Prior to or at the Effective Time, Grizzly shall deposit with the Agent, for the benefit of Persons who received shares of Spinco Common Stock in the Distribution and for distribution in accordance with this , through the Agent, certificates or book-entry authorizations representing the shares of Grizzly Common Stock (such shares of Grizzly Common Stock, together with any dividends or distributions and other amounts payable in accordance with , being hereinafter referred to as the "") issuable pursuant to upon conversion of outstanding shares of Spinco Common Stock. The Agent shall, pursuant to irrevocable instructions, deliver the Grizzly Common Stock contemplated to be issued pursuant to from the shares of Grizzly Common Stock held in the Distribution Fund. If Grizzly deposits such shares into the Distribution Fund prior to the Effective Time and the Merger is not consummated, the Agent shall promptly return such shares to Grizzly. The Distribution Fund shall not be used for any other purpose.
Agent
Agent
Article III
Section 3.2(c)
Distribution Fund
Section 3.1
Section 3.1
(b) . At the Effective Time, all issued and outstanding shares of Spinco Common Stock shall be converted into the right to receive shares of Grizzly Common Stock pursuant to, and in accordance with, the terms of this Agreement. Immediately thereafter, the Agent shall distribute the shares of Grizzly Common Stock into which the shares of Spinco Common Stock that were distributed in the Distribution have been converted pursuant to the Merger, which shares shall be distributed on the same basis as the shares of Spinco Common Stock were distributed in the Distribution and to the Persons who received Spinco Common Stock in the Distribution. Each Person entitled to receive Spinco Common Stock in the Distribution shall be entitled to receive in respect of the shares of Spinco Common Stock distributed to
Distribution Procedures
 
such Person a certificate or book-entry authorization representing the number of whole shares of Grizzly Common Stock that such holder has the right to receive pursuant to this (and cash in lieu of fractional shares of Grizzly Common Stock, as contemplated by ) (and any dividends or distributions and other amounts pursuant to ). The Agent shall not be entitled to vote or exercise any rights of ownership with respect to Grizzly Common Stock held by it from time to time hereunder, except that it shall receive and hold all dividends or other distributions paid or distributed with respect thereto for the account of Persons entitled thereto.
Section 3.2(b)
Section 3.3
Section 3.2(c)
(c) . No dividends or other distributions declared or made after the Effective Time with respect to Grizzly Common Stock with a record date after the Effective Time shall be paid with respect to any shares of Grizzly Common Stock that are not able to be distributed by the Agent promptly after the Effective Time, whether due to a legal impediment to such distribution or otherwise. Subject to the effect of applicable Laws, following the distribution of any such previously undistributed shares of Grizzly Common Stock, there shall be paid to the record holder of such shares of Grizzly Common Stock, without interest, (i) at the time of the distribution, the amount of cash payable in lieu of fractional shares of Grizzly Common Stock to which such holder is entitled pursuant to and the amount of dividends or other distributions with a record date after the Effective Time theretofore paid with respect to such whole shares of Grizzly Common Stock, and (ii) at the appropriate payment date therefor, the amount of dividends or other distributions with a record date after the Effective Time but prior to the distribution of such shares and a payment date subsequent to the distribution of such shares payable with respect to such whole shares of Grizzly Common Stock. Grizzly shall deposit in the Distribution Fund all such dividends and distributions.
Distributions with Respect to Undistributed Shares
Section 3.3
(d) . All shares of Grizzly Common Stock issued in respect of shares of Spinco Common Stock (including any cash paid in lieu of fractional shares pursuant to ) shall be deemed to have been issued in full satisfaction of all rights pertaining to such shares of Spinco Common Stock.
No Further Ownership Rights in Spinco Common Stock
Section 3.3
(e) . Any portion of the Distribution Fund made available to the Agent that remains undistributed to the former stockholders of Spinco on the one-year anniversary of the Effective Time shall be delivered to Grizzly, upon demand, and any former stockholders of Spinco who have not received shares of Grizzly Common Stock in accordance with this shall thereafter look only to Grizzly for payment of their claim for Grizzly Common Stock and any dividends, distributions or cash in lieu of fractional shares with respect to Grizzly Common Stock (subject to any applicable abandoned property, escheat or similar Law).
Termination of Distribution Fund
Article III
(f) . Neither Burgundy, the Surviving Corporation, Grizzly, Merger Sub, the Agent nor any other Person shall be liable to any holder of Spinco Common Stock or any holder of shares of Burgundy Common Stock for shares of Grizzly Common Stock (or dividends or distributions with respect thereto or with respect to Spinco Common Stock) or cash properly delivered to a public official pursuant to any applicable abandoned property, escheat or similar Law.
No Liability
 
(g) . From and after the Effective Time, the stock transfer books of Spinco shall be closed and no transfer shall be made of any shares of capital stock of Spinco that were outstanding as of the Effective Time.
Closing of Transfer Books
(h) . Grizzly or the Agent shall be entitled to deduct and withhold from the consideration otherwise payable pursuant to this Agreement to any holder of Spinco Common Stock such amounts as are required to be deducted and withheld with respect to the making of such payment under the Code, or under any provision of state, local or foreign Tax Law. To the extent that amounts are so withheld and paid over to the appropriate Taxing Authority, such withheld amounts will be treated for all purposes of this Agreement as having been paid to the recipient.
Tax Withholding
Section 3.3 . No fractional shares of Grizzly Common Stock shall be issued in the Merger. All fractional shares of Grizzly Common Stock that a holder of shares of Spinco Common Stock would otherwise be entitled to receive as a result of the Merger shall be aggregated by the Agent. The Agent shall cause the whole shares obtained thereby to be sold on behalf of such holders of shares of Spinco Common Stock that would otherwise be entitled to receive such fractional shares of Grizzly Common Stock in the Merger, in the open market or otherwise as reasonably directed by Burgundy, and in no case later than five (5) Business Days after the Effective Time. The Agent shall make available the net proceeds thereof, after deducting any required withholding Taxes and brokerage charges, commissions and transfer Taxes, on a basis, without interest, as soon as practicable to the holders of Spinco Common Stock that would otherwise be entitled to receive such fractional shares of Grizzly Common Stock in the Merger.
Fractional Shares
pro rata
Section 3.4 .
Burgundy Equity Awards
(a) . Each Burgundy Option held by a Current Spinco Employee (as defined in the Employee Matters Agreement) that by its terms (in the normal course without regard to acceleration) is scheduled to vest after December 31, 2013 shall be converted into a Grizzly Option and shall otherwise be subject to the same terms and conditions after the Effective Time as the terms and conditions applicable to such Burgundy Option immediately prior to the Effective Time; , , that from and after the Effective Time:
Burgundy Options
provided
however
(i) the number of shares of Grizzly Common Stock subject to such Grizzly Option, rounded down to the nearest whole share, shall be equal to the quotient obtained by dividing (A) the number of shares of Burgundy Common Stock subject to such Burgundy Option immediately prior to the Effective Time by (B) the Adjustment Ratio; and
(ii) the per share exercise price of such Grizzly Option, rounded up to the nearest whole cent, shall be equal to the product obtained by multiplying (A) the per share exercise price of such Burgundy Option immediately prior to the Effective Time by (B) the Adjustment Ratio.
The total number of shares of Burgundy Common Stock covered by Burgundy Options subject to this shall not exceed 75,700.
Section 3.4(a)
 
(b) . Each Burgundy PSU Award granted in 2011 and 2012 that is held by a Current Spinco Employee as of the Effective Time shall be converted into a Grizzly RSU Award, and shall otherwise be subject to the same terms and conditions after the Effective Time as the terms and conditions applicable to such Burgundy PSU Award immediately prior to the Effective Time; , , that from and after the Effective Time, the vesting of such Grizzly RSU Award shall cease to be subject to satisfaction of performance goals and the number of shares of Grizzly Common Stock covered by such Grizzly RSU Award, rounded to the nearest whole share, shall be equal to the quotient obtained by dividing (i) 150% of the target number of shares of Burgundy Common Stock covered by such Burgundy PSU Award immediately prior to the Effective Time by (ii) the Adjustment Ratio. The total number of shares of Burgundy Common Stock covered by Burgundy PSU Awards subject to this shall not exceed 25,750.
Burgundy PSU Awards Granted in 2011 and 2012
provided
however
Section 3.4(b)
(c) . The Effective Time shall not constitute a termination of employment for any Current Spinco Employee for purposes of any Burgundy Option or Burgundy PSU Award. Burgundy and Grizzly shall take any and all actions reasonably necessary to effectuate the transactions contemplated by this . Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, as soon as practicable after the Effective Time, Grizzly shall prepare and file with the SEC a registration statement registering a number of shares of Grizzly Common Stock necessary to fulfill Grizzly's obligations under this .
Miscellaneous
Section 3.4
Section 3.4
The following transactions shall occur at or prior to the Effective Time.
Section 4.1 . Upon the terms and subject to the conditions of the Separation Agreement, prior to the Effective Time, Burgundy and Spinco shall cause to be effected the Spinco Reorganization and the Distribution in accordance with the terms of the Separation Agreement.
Distribution
Section 4.2 . Upon the terms and subject to the conditions of the Separation Agreement, at or prior to the Effective Time, Grizzly, Burgundy and Spinco shall each execute and deliver the Transaction Agreements to which it is a party that have not previously been executed, in each case as contemplated by the Separation Agreement, as well as all other agreements, if any, required in connection with the Spinco Reorganization and the Distribution.
Burgundy/Spinco Transaction Agreements
Except as otherwise disclosed or identified in (i) the Burgundy SEC Documents filed on or prior to the date hereof (excluding any risk factor disclosure and disclosure of risks included in any "forward-looking statements" disclaimer included in such Burgundy SEC Documents that are predictive, forward-looking or primarily cautionary in nature); , this exception shall
provided
 
apply only to the extent that the relevance of such disclosure to the applicable representation and warranty is reasonably apparent on its face, or (ii) subject to , the corresponding section of the Disclosure Letter delivered by Burgundy to Grizzly immediately prior to the execution of this Agreement (the ""), Burgundy hereby represents and warrants to Grizzly as follows:
Section 11.4(b)
Burgundy Disclosure Letter
Section 5.1 . Burgundy is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. Burgundy and the Burgundy Subsidiaries have all requisite corporate power and authority to own, lease and operate their properties and assets as presently conducted that are intended to be Conveyed to the Spinco Group pursuant to the Separation Agreement. Each of the Eagle Entities is duly qualified or licensed to do business and is in good standing (with respect to jurisdictions that recognize such concept) in each jurisdiction in which the Eagle Business owns, leases or operates properties, or where the nature of the Eagle Business operated by it makes such qualification necessary, except in such jurisdictions where the failure to be so qualified or licensed or in good standing would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on Spinco.
Organization; Qualification
Section 5.2 .
Corporate Authority; No Violation
(a) Burgundy has the corporate power and authority to enter into this Agreement and each other Transaction Agreement to which it is a party and to carry out its obligations hereunder and thereunder. The execution, delivery and performance by Burgundy of this Agreement and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby have been duly authorized by all requisite corporate action on the part of Burgundy, except for such further action of the Burgundy Board required, if applicable, to establish the Record Date and the Distribution Date, and the effectiveness of the declaration of the Distribution by the Burgundy Board (which is subject to the satisfaction or, to the extent permitted by applicable Law, waiver of the conditions set forth in the Separation Agreement). The execution, delivery and performance of any other Transaction Agreement to which it is a party or as of the Effective Time will be a party and the consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby have been, or will be as of the Effective Time, duly authorized by all requisite corporate action on the part of Burgundy, except for such further action of the Burgundy Board required, if applicable to establish the Record Date and the Distribution Date, and the effectiveness of the declaration of the Distribution by the Burgundy Board (which is subject to the satisfaction or, to the extent permitted by applicable Law, waiver of the conditions set forth in the Separation Agreement). This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by Burgundy and, assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery by Grizzly and Merger Sub, constitutes a legal, valid and binding agreement of Burgundy, enforceable against Burgundy in accordance with its terms (except insofar as such enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally, or by principles governing the availability of equitable remedies). As of the Distribution Date, each other Transaction Agreement to which Burgundy is a party will have been duly executed and delivered by Burgundy and, assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery by the other parties thereto, will constitute a legal, valid and binding agreement of Burgundy, enforceable against Burgundy in accordance with its terms (except insofar as such enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally, or by principles governing the availability of equitable remedies).
 
(b) Neither the execution and delivery by Burgundy of this Agreement and the other Transaction Agreements to which it is a party nor the consummation by Burgundy of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby or the performance by Burgundy of the provisions hereof or thereof will (i) violate or conflict with any provisions of Burgundy's Restated Articles of Incorporation, as amended, or bylaws; (ii) assuming the consents and approvals referred to in are obtained, result in a default (or an event that, with notice or lapse of time or both, would become a default) or give rise to any right of termination by any third party, cancellation, amendment or acceleration of any obligation or the loss of any benefit under, any Spinco Contract or any Contract to which Burgundy or any of the Eagle Entities is a party or by which any of them are bound or affected; (iii) result in the creation of a Lien on any of the issued and outstanding shares of Spinco Common Stock, capital stock of any Spinco Subsidiary or on any of the Spinco Assets pursuant to any Contract to which Burgundy or any of the Burgundy Subsidiaries (including Spinco and its Subsidiaries) is a party or by which Burgundy or the Burgundy Subsidiaries is bound or affected; or (iv) assuming the consents and approvals contemplated by are obtained, violate or conflict with any Law applicable to Burgundy or any of the Burgundy Subsidiaries (including Spinco and its Subsidiaries), or any of the properties, business or assets that will be Conveyed to the Spinco Group pursuant to the Separation Agreement belonging to any of the foregoing, other than, in the case of each of clauses (ii) through (iv), any such violation, conflict, default, right, loss or Lien which would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on Spinco.
Section 5.2(c)
Section 5.2(c)
(c) Other than in connection with or in compliance with (i) the filing of the Certificate of Merger with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware pursuant to the provisions of the DGCL, (ii) state securities or "blue sky" laws, (iii) the Securities Act, (iv) the Exchange Act, (v) the HSR Act, (vi) if applicable, antitrust or other competition laws of other jurisdictions, including the Competition Act, (vii) if applicable, further action of the Burgundy Board to establish the Record Date and the Distribution Date, and the effectiveness of the declaration of the Distribution by the Burgundy Board (which is subject to the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in the Separation Agreement), and (viii) the rules and regulations of the NYSE (the approvals contemplated by clauses (i) through (viii), collectively, the ""), no authorization, consent or approval of, or filing with, any Governmental Authority is necessary for the consummation by Burgundy of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the other Transaction Agreements, except for such authorizations, consents, approvals or filings that, if not obtained or made, would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on Spinco.
Burgundy Approvals
Section 5.3 . No agent, broker, investment banker, financial advisor or other similar Person is or will be entitled, by reason of any agreement, act or statement by any member of the Burgundy Group, directors, officers or employees, to any financial advisory, broker's, finder's or similar fee or commission, to reimbursement of expenses or to indemnification or contribution in connection with any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or other Transaction Agreement, in each case, for which Grizzly, Merger Sub, Spinco or any Spinco Subsidiary could become liable or obligated.
Brokers or Finders
 
Except as otherwise disclosed or identified in (i) the Burgundy SEC Documents filed on or prior to the date hereof (excluding any risk factor disclosure and disclosure of risks included in any "forward-looking statements" disclaimer included in such Burgundy SEC Documents that are predictive, forward-looking or primarily cautionary in nature); , this exception shall apply only to the extent that the relevance of such disclosure to the applicable representation and warranty is reasonably apparent on its face, or (ii) subject to , the corresponding section of the Burgundy Disclosure Letter, Burgundy hereby represents and warrants to Grizzly as follows:
provided
Section 11.4(b)
Section 6.1 .
Organization; Qualification
(a) Spinco is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the Laws of the State of Delaware. The copies of the certificate of incorporation and bylaws of Spinco made available to Grizzly prior to the date hereof are complete and correct copies of such documents as in full force and effect as of the date hereof.
(b) Each member of the Spinco Group will be, as of the Effective Time, a corporation or other entity duly organized, validly existing and in good standing (with respect to jurisdictions that recognize such concept) under the Laws of its jurisdiction of incorporation or formation, as the case may be, and will have, as of the Effective Time, all requisite power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and assets and to carry on the Eagle Business as presently conducted, except for such failures to be in good standing that would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on Spinco. Each member of the Spinco Group will be, as of the Effective Time, duly qualified and licensed to do business and will be, as of the Effective Time, in good standing (with respect to jurisdictions that recognize such concept) in each jurisdiction in which the ownership or leasing of its property or the conduct of its business requires such qualification, except for jurisdictions in which the failure to be so qualified or to be in good standing would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on Spinco. The copies of the certificate of incorporation and bylaws (or analogous governing documents) of each member of the Spinco Group (other than Spinco) made available to Grizzly prior to the Effective Time are complete and correct copies of such documents as in full force and effect as of the time they were provided.
Section 6.2 .
Capital Stock and Other Matters
(a) As of the date hereof, (i) the authorized capital stock of Spinco consists of 500 shares of Spinco Common Stock, (ii) there are issued and outstanding 100 shares of Spinco Common Stock, and (iii) no shares of Spinco Common Stock are being held by Spinco in its treasury. All of the issued and outstanding shares of Spinco Common Stock are validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable and free of preemptive rights. Immediately prior to the Effective Time, there will be outstanding a number of shares of Spinco Common Stock determined in accordance with .
Section 8.17
 
(b) No bonds, debentures, notes or other indebtedness of any member of the Spinco Group having the right to vote (or convertible into or exercisable for securities having the right to vote) on any matters on which holders of shares of capital stock of Spinco (including Spinco Common Stock) may vote ("") are, or as of the Effective Time will be, issued or outstanding.
Spinco Voting Debt
(c) Except in connection with the Merger or as otherwise provided for in the Transaction Agreements, there are no outstanding securities, options, warrants, convertible securities, calls, rights, commitments, agreements, arrangements, undertakings or Contracts of any kind to which Spinco is a party or by which it is bound obligating Spinco to issue, deliver or sell, or cause to be issued, delivered or sold, additional shares of capital stock, Spinco Voting Debt or other voting securities of any member of the Spinco Group or obligating Spinco to issue, grant, extend, redeem, acquire or enter into any such security, option, warrant, convertible security, call, right, commitment, agreement, arrangement, undertaking or Contract.
(d) There are no stockholder agreements, voting trusts or other Contracts (other than this Agreement and the other Transaction Agreements) to which Spinco is a party or by which it is bound relating to voting or transfer of any shares of capital stock of Spinco.
Section 6.3 .
Corporate Authority; No Violation
(a) Spinco has the corporate power and authority to enter into this Agreement and each other Transaction Agreement to which it is a party and to carry out its obligations hereunder and thereunder, subject, in the case of the Merger, to the adoption of this Agreement by Burgundy, as sole stockholder of Spinco, which will occur promptly after execution of this Agreement. The execution, delivery and performance by Spinco of this Agreement and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby have been duly authorized by all requisite corporate action on the part of Spinco. The execution, delivery and performance by Spinco of each other Transaction Agreement to which it is, or as of the Effective Time will be, a party; and the consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby have been, or will be as of the Effective Time, duly authorized by all requisite corporate action on the part of Spinco.
(b) This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by Spinco and, assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery by Grizzly and Merger Sub, constitutes a legal, valid and binding agreement of Spinco, enforceable against Spinco in accordance with its terms (except insofar as such enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally, or by principles governing the availability of equitable remedies). As of the Effective Time, each other Transaction Agreement to which Spinco is a party will have been duly executed and delivered by Spinco and will, assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery by the other parties thereto, constitute a legal, valid and binding agreement of Spinco, enforceable against Spinco in accordance with its terms (except insofar as such enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally, or by principles governing the availability of equitable remedies).
(c) Neither the execution and delivery by Spinco of this Agreement and the other Transaction Agreements to which it is a party nor the consummation by Spinco of the transactions
 
contemplated hereby or thereby, or performance by Spinco of the provisions hereof or thereof, will (i) violate or conflict with any provision of Spinco's certificate of incorporation or bylaws; (ii) assuming the consents and approvals referred to in are obtained, result in a default (or an event that, with notice or lapse of time or both, would become a default) or give rise to any right of termination or buy-out by any third party, cancellation, amendment or acceleration of any obligation or the loss of any benefit under any Spinco Contract or any Contract to which any of the Eagle Entities is a party or by which any of them is bound or affected; (iii) result in the creation of a Lien on any of the issued and outstanding shares of Spinco Common Stock or capital stock of any other member of the Spinco Group or on any of the Spinco Assets pursuant to any Contract to which any of the Eagle Entities is a party or by which any of them is bound or affected; or (iv) assuming the consents and approvals contemplated by are obtained, violate or conflict with any Law applicable to the Eagle Entities, or any of the properties, business or assets that are intended to be Conveyed to the Spinco Group pursuant to the Separation Agreement belonging to any of the foregoing, other than, in the case of each of clauses (ii) through (iv), any such violation, conflict, default, right, loss or Lien which would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on Spinco.
Section 6.3(d)
Section 6.3(d)
(d) Other than the Burgundy Approvals, no authorization, consent or approval of, or filing with, any Governmental Authority is necessary for the consummation by Spinco of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the other Transaction Agreements, except for such authorizations, consents, approvals or filings that, if not obtained or made, would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on Spinco.
Section 6.4 .
Financial Statements
(a) Attached as Section 6.4(a) of the Burgundy Disclosure Letter are copies of the unaudited combined financial statements of the Eagle Business, including the combined unaudited balance sheets of the Eagle Business as of December 31, 2011 and as of March 31, 2012, and the unaudited combined statements of income, equity and cash flows of the Eagle Business for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 and for the three months ended March 31, 2012 (collectively, the ""). The Spinco Financial Statements were derived from the books and records of Burgundy, its Subsidiaries and Taiwan Chlorine Industries, Ltd. ("") and were prepared in accordance with GAAP, consistently applied, subject in the case of unaudited combined financial statements, to normal year-end adjustments and the absence of footnotes, as at the dates and for the periods presented, and present fairly in all material respects the financial position, results of operations and cash flows of the Eagle Business as at the dates and for the periods presented.
Spinco Financial Statements
TCI
(b) When delivered pursuant to , the Audited Financial Statements shall have been prepared in accordance with GAAP, consistently applied, and shall present fairly in all material respects the financial position, results of operations and cash flows of the Eagle Business as at the dates and for the periods presented.
Section 8.19
 
(c) As of the date hereof, neither Spinco nor any of the Spinco Subsidiaries is required to file any form, report, registration statement, prospectus or other document with the SEC.
(d) Except as set forth in the Spinco Financial Statements or the notes thereto, and except as specifically contemplated by this Agreement or the other Transaction Agreements, since March 31, 2012 (the ""), Burgundy and the Burgundy Subsidiaries have not incurred any liabilities or obligations that will be assumed by the Spinco Group as a Spinco Liability pursuant to the Separation Agreement and that are of a nature that would be required to be disclosed on a combined balance sheet of the Eagle Business or in the notes thereto prepared in conformity with GAAP, other than liabilities or obligations incurred in the ordinary course of business since the Interim Balance Sheet Date or liabilities or obligations that have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on Spinco.
Interim Balance Sheet Date
Section 6.5 . Except as specifically contemplated by this Agreement or the other Transaction Agreements, since December 31, 2011, the Eagle Business has been conducted in the ordinary course, consistent with past practice, and there has not been any event, occurrence, development or state of circumstances or facts that has had, or would reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on Spinco.
Absence of Certain Changes or Events
Section 6.6 .
Investigations; Litigation
(a) There is no material investigation or review pending (or, to the Knowledge of Burgundy, threatened) by any Governmental Authority against the Eagle Entities.
(b) There are no material actions, suits, arbitrations or proceedings pending (or, to the Knowledge of Burgundy, threatened) against the Eagle Entities or any of their respective properties to the extent such properties are intended to be Conveyed to the Spinco Group pursuant to the Separation Agreement or otherwise affecting the Eagle Business at Law or in equity, and there are no material orders, judgments or decrees of any Governmental Authority entered against the Eagle Entities or any of their respective properties to the extent such properties are intended to be Conveyed to the Spinco Group pursuant to the Separation Agreement or otherwise affecting the Eagle Business.
(c) Notwithstanding anything contained in this , no representation or warranty shall be deemed to be made in this in respect of environmental matters, which are the subject of the representations and warranties made in and .
Section 6.6
Section 6.6
Section 6.9
Section 6.29
Section 6.7 .
Compliance with Laws; Permits
(a) The Eagle Entities are, and have been since January 1, 2010, in compliance with all, and have received no notice of any violation (as yet unremedied) of any, Laws applicable to such Persons or any of their respective properties or assets to the extent such properties or assets are intended to be Conveyed to the Spinco Group pursuant to the Separation Agreement or otherwise affecting the Eagle Business, except where such non-compliance or violation has not had, and would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse
 
Effect on Spinco. Notwithstanding anything contained in this , no representation or warranty shall be deemed to be made in this in respect of environmental, Tax, employee benefits or labor Laws, which are the subject of the representations and warranties made in and , , and , respectively.
Section 6.7
Section 6.7
Section 6.9
Section 6.29
Section 6.10
Section 6.11
Section 6.12
(b) The Eagle Entities are in possession of all franchises, grants, authorizations, licenses, permits, easements, variances, exceptions, consents, certificates, approvals and orders of any Governmental Authority necessary for them to own, lease and operate the Spinco Assets or to carry on the Eagle Business as it is now conducted (the ""), except where the failure to have any of the Spinco Permits has not had, or would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on Spinco. All Spinco Permits are in full force and effect, or immediately prior to the Effective Time will be in full force and effect, except where the failure to be in full force and effect has not had, or would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on Spinco.
Spinco Permits
Section 6.8 . None of the information regarding any member of the Burgundy Group, the Spinco Group, the Eagle Business, or the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or any other Transaction Agreement to be provided by Burgundy or Spinco or any of their respective Subsidiaries specifically for inclusion in, or incorporation by reference into, the Proxy Statement/Prospectus, the Registration Statement or the Spinco Registration Statement will, in the case of the definitive Proxy Statement/Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto, at the time of the mailing of the definitive Proxy Statement/Prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto and at the time of the Grizzly Stockholders Meeting, or, in the case of the Registration Statement and the Spinco Registration Statement, at the time such registration statement becomes effective, at the time of the Grizzly Stockholders Meeting (in the case of the Registration Statement and the Spinco Registration Statement), at the Distribution Date and at the Effective Time, contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they are made, not misleading. The Spinco Registration Statement will comply in all material respects with the provisions of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act, as the case may be, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, except that no representation is made by Burgundy or Spinco with respect to information provided by Grizzly specifically for inclusion in, or incorporation by reference into, the Spinco Registration Statement.
Proxy Statement/Prospectus; Registration Statement
Section 6.9 . Except as set forth in Section 6.9 of the Burgundy Disclosure Letter:
Environmental Matters
(a) each of the Eagle Entities is, and since January 1, 2010 has been, in material compliance with all applicable Environmental Laws, and the Eagle Entities possess all material Spinco Permits that are required under applicable Environmental Laws and are in material compliance with the terms and conditions thereof;
(b) none of the Eagle Entities has received written notice of, or is the subject of, any material claims, investigations, demands or notices by any Governmental Authority asserting a material obligation on the part of the Eagle Entities to conduct investigations or clean-up activities under any Environmental Law or alleging material liability under or material non-compliance with any Environmental Law;
 
(c) none of the Eagle Entities is subject to any material indemnification obligation with respect to Environmental Laws or Hazardous Materials that is intended to be Conveyed to the Spinco Group pursuant to the Separation Agreement;
(d) there is no condition (including any release of a Hazardous Material into the air, soil, surface water, sediment or ground water) that would give rise to material liability that is intended to be Conveyed to the Spinco Group pursuant to the Separation Agreement under applicable Environmental Laws on, at, under or related to any property currently owned, leased or used by any of the Eagle Entities to the extent such property is intended to be Conveyed to the Spinco Group pursuant to the Separation Agreement; and
(e) Burgundy or Spinco has made available to Grizzly all material site assessments, environmental compliance audits and other documents (in each case, within its possession or otherwise reasonably available to it) produced in the last five (5) years relating to environmental matters relating to the Eagle Business (other than such documents that relate solely to Excluded Assets or Excluded Liabilities) to the extent such documents are in the possession, custody or control of Burgundy, Spinco or any of their Subsidiaries.
and contain the sole and exclusive representations and warranties of Burgundy and Spinco with respect to environmental matters, including matters relating to Environmental Laws and Hazardous Materials.
Section 6.9
Section 6.29
Section 6.10 . Except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on Spinco:
Tax Matters
(a) (i) all Tax Returns required to be filed by Burgundy and its Subsidiaries, including Spinco and the Spinco Subsidiaries, in respect of the Eagle Business have been timely filed, (ii) all such Tax Returns are true, complete and correct in all respects, (iii) all Taxes shown as due and payable on such Tax Returns, and all Taxes (whether or not reflected on such Tax Returns) required to have been paid by Burgundy and its Subsidiaries, including Spinco and the Spinco Subsidiaries, in respect of the Eagle Business have been paid or appropriate reserves have been recorded in the Spinco Financial Statements, (iv) all Taxes of Burgundy or its Subsidiaries, including Spinco and the Spinco Subsidiaries, in respect of the Eagle Business for any taxable period (or a portion thereof) beginning on or prior to the Closing Date (which are not yet due and payable) have been properly reserved for in the Spinco Financial Statements, and (v) Burgundy and its Subsidiaries, including Spinco and the Spinco Subsidiaries, have duly and timely withheld all Taxes required to be withheld in respect of the Eagle Business and such withheld Taxes have been either duly and timely paid to the proper Taxing Authority or properly set aside in accounts for such purpose and will be duly and timely paid to the proper Taxing Authority.
(b) No written agreement or other written document waiving or extending, or having the effect of waiving or extending, the statute of limitations or the period of assessment or collection of any Taxes relating to Spinco or any Spinco Subsidiary has been filed or entered into with any Taxing Authority.
 
(c) (i) No audits or other administrative proceedings or proceedings before any Taxing Authority are presently pending with regard to any Taxes or Tax Return of Spinco or any Spinco Subsidiary, as to which any Taxing Authority has asserted in writing any claim, and (ii) no Taxing Authority is now asserting in writing any deficiency or claim for Taxes or any adjustment to Taxes with respect to which Spinco or any Spinco Subsidiary, may be liable with respect to income or other Taxes which has not been fully paid or finally settled.
(d) Neither Spinco nor any Spinco Subsidiary (i) is a party to or bound by or has any obligation under any Tax indemnification, separation, sharing or similar agreement or arrangement other than the Tax Matters Agreement, (ii) is or has been a member of any consolidated, combined, unitary or similar group for purposes of filing Tax Returns or paying Taxes (other than a group of which Burgundy is the common parent corporation), or (iii) has entered into a closing agreement pursuant to Section 7121 of the Code, or any predecessor provision or any similar provision of state or local Law.
(e) None of the Spinco Assets is subject to any Tax Lien (other than Liens for Taxes that are Permitted Encumbrances).
(f) Neither Spinco nor any Spinco Subsidiary has agreed to make or is required to make any adjustment for a taxable period ending after the Effective Time under Section 481(a) of the Code or any similar provision of Tax Law in any other jurisdiction by reason of a change in accounting method or otherwise.
(g) Neither Spinco nor any Spinco Subsidiary has constituted either a "distributing corporation" or a "controlled corporation" (within the meaning of Section 355(a)(1)(A) of the Code) in a distribution of stock (other than the Distribution) qualifying for tax-free treatment under Section 355 of the Code (i) in the two (2) years prior to the date of this Agreement, or (ii) in a distribution that could otherwise constitute part of a "plan" or "series of related transactions" (within the meaning of Section 355(e) of the Code) in connection with the Merger.
(h) None of Burgundy, Spinco and their respective Subsidiaries has taken or agreed to take any action that is reasonably likely to (nor is any of them aware of any agreement, plan or other circumstance that would) prevent (i) the Contribution and Distribution, taken together, from qualifying as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code or (ii) the Merger from qualifying as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code.
(i) None of Burgundy, Spinco and any of their Subsidiaries, in each case in respect of the Eagle Business, has engaged in any "listed transaction" within the meaning of Treasury Regulation Section 1.6011-4.
(j) As of December 31, 2011, Burgundy did not have "overall foreign loss" (within the meaning Section 904(f)(2) of the Code) for U.S. federal income tax purposes.
 
Section 6.11 .
Benefit Plans
(a) Section 6.11(a) of the Burgundy Disclosure Letter lists as of the date hereof each material Burgundy Benefit Plan that will be assumed or retained by a member of the Spinco Group (each, a "") pursuant to the terms of the Separation Agreement or the Employee Matters Agreement. "" means any employee benefit plan, program, policy, practice, or other arrangement providing benefits to any current or former employee, officer or director of Burgundy or any of its Subsidiaries or any beneficiary or dependent thereof that is sponsored or maintained by Burgundy or any of its Subsidiaries or to which Burgundy or any of its Subsidiaries contributes or is obligated to contribute, whether or not written, including without limitation any employee welfare benefit plan within the meaning of Section 3(1) of ERISA, any employee pension benefit plan within the meaning of Section 3(2) of ERISA (whether or not such plan is subject to ERISA) and any bonus, incentive, deferred compensation, vacation, stock purchase, stock option, severance, employment, change of control or fringe benefit plan, program or agreement and any related trusts or other funding vehicles; , , that "" shall not include any Multiemployer Pension Plan or any other plan, program or arrangement maintained by an entity other than Burgundy or one of its Subsidiaries pursuant to a collective bargaining agreement.
Spinco Benefit Plan
Burgundy Benefit Plan
provided
however
Burgundy Benefit Plan
(b) (i) Each of the Spinco Benefit Plans, the Burgundy US DB Plan and the Burgundy CN DB Plan has been operated and administered in all material respects in accordance with applicable laws, including, but not limited to, ERISA, the Code and in each case the regulations thereunder; (ii) each Burgundy US DB Plan intended to be "qualified" within the meaning of Section 401(a) of the Code is so qualified, and there are no existing circumstances or any events that have occurred that would reasonably be expected to adversely affect the qualified status of any such plan; (iii) neither Spinco nor any of its ERISA Affiliates has incurred any material liability under Title IV or Section 302 of ERISA or under Section 412 of the Code that has not been satisfied in full and no condition exists that would reasonably be expected to result in Spinco incurring any such material liability thereunder (other than liability to make minimum funding contributions and premium payments to the PBGC); (iv) no Spinco Benefit Plan provides benefits, including death or medical benefits (whether or not insured), with respect to current or former employees or directors of Spinco or its Subsidiaries beyond their retirement or other termination of service, other than (A) coverage mandated by applicable law, or (B) death benefits or retirement benefits under any "employee pension plan" (as such term is defined in Section 3(2) of ERISA); (v) neither Burgundy nor any of its ERISA Affiliates is obligated to contribute currently or has been obligated to contributed during the immediately preceding three years to any Multiemployer Pension Plan; (vi) no Spinco Benefit Plan is a plan that has two or more contributing sponsors at least two of whom are not under common control, within the meaning of Section 4063 of ERISA; (vii) all material contributions or other amounts payable by Spinco or its Subsidiaries as of the Effective Time pursuant to each Spinco Benefit Plan in respect of current or prior plan years have been timely paid or accrued in accordance with US GAAP; and (viii) there are no pending, threatened or anticipated material claims (other than routine claims for benefits) by, on behalf of or against any of the Spinco Benefit Plans or any trusts related thereto.
 
(c) Except as set forth in Article VIII of the Employee Matters Agreement, neither the execution and delivery of this Agreement nor the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby (either alone or in conjunction with any other event) will (i) result in any material payment (including severance, unemployment compensation, "excess parachute payment" (within the meaning of Section 280G of the Code), forgiveness of indebtedness or otherwise) becoming due to any current or former director or any employee of Spinco under any Spinco Benefit Plan or otherwise, (ii) materially increase any benefits otherwise payable under any Spinco Benefit Plan, or (iii) result in any acceleration of the time of payment, funding or vesting of any such benefits.
Section 6.12 . Section 6.12 of the Burgundy Disclosure Letter sets forth a list of all collective bargaining agreements, contracts or other written agreements with a labor union or labor organization that are applicable to the Eagle Business as of the date hereof. Neither Spinco nor any of its Subsidiaries is subject to a material labor dispute, strike or work stoppage. To the Knowledge of Burgundy, (a) (i) there are no material organizational efforts with respect to the formation of a collective bargaining unit presently being made or threatened involving Spinco Employees, and (ii) there is not and, since January 1, 2009 there has not been, any material union organizing effort pending or threatened against any of the Eagle Entities; (b) there is no material unfair labor practice charge, complaint, labor dispute or labor arbitration proceeding (other than routine individual grievances) pending or, to the Knowledge of Burgundy, threatened against Spinco or any of its Subsidiaries; and (c) there is no material slowdown or work stoppage threatened with respect to Spinco Employees. To the Knowledge of Burgundy, (a) there is no material employment-related complaint, lawsuit or administrative proceeding (other than ones raising solely individual allegations) pending or threatened against Spinco or any of its Subsidiaries and (b) Spinco and its Subsidiaries are in compliance in all material respects with all applicable Laws, respecting (i) employment and employment practices, (ii) terms and conditions of employment and wages and hours, (iii) collective bargaining and labor, (iv) layoffs, (v) immigration, (vi) affirmative action, (vii) unemployment and workers compensation, (viii) employee health and safety, and (ix) the payment of taxes and other withholdings. As of the date hereof, neither Spinco nor any of its Subsidiaries has any material liabilities under the WARN Act that would reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on Spinco.
Labor Matters
Section 6.13 .
Intellectual Property Matters
(a) Section 6.13(a) of the Burgundy Disclosure Letter contains a complete and accurate list as of the date hereof of (i) all material patented or registered Intellectual Property Rights (and pending applications therefor) constituting Spinco Assets; (ii) all material trademarks and service marks, and domain name registrations constituting Spinco Assets; (iii) all computer software that either constitutes Spinco Assets or that is licensed and used or held for use in connection with the Eagle Business, except for commercially available over-the-counter "shrink wrap" software and open source software and software that is not material to the Eagle Business; and (iv) any other material licenses to an Eagle Entity of Intellectual Property Rights to which the Spinco Group will have access as a result of any in-bound license constituting a Spinco Liability. With respect to patents and applications therefor listed in Section 6.13(a)(i) of the Burgundy Disclosure Letter, in addition to the title thereof, Section 6.13(a)(i) of such letter lists the patent or application number, the filing and issue dates, and countries in which filed or issued. With
 
respect to registered trademarks and service marks and pending applications therefor listed in Section 6.13(a)(ii) of the Burgundy Disclosure Letter, in addition to the mark, Section 6.13(a)(ii) of such letter lists the registration, application number, registration filing date, and countries in which registered or filed.
(b) The Eagle Entities own and possess, free and clear of all Liens except Permitted Encumbrances, or will prior to the Effective Time have all right, title and interest in and to, or have adequate licenses or other valid and enforceable rights to use, all Intellectual Property Rights used or held for use in connection with the Eagle Business as currently conducted (including in connection with services provided by the Eagle Entities to third parties) (the ""), except where (i) the failure to own or possess such items would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on Spinco or (ii) the Conveyance of the Spinco Assets requires a third-party Consent or Governmental Approval which is not obtained, in which case the provisions of Section 2.7 of the Separation Agreement will govern with respect to such Spinco Assets.
Spinco IP Rights
(c) To the Knowledge of Burgundy, all patented or registered Intellectual Property Rights listed in Section 6.13(a) of the Burgundy Disclosure Letter are in full force and effect. Neither Burgundy nor any of the Eagle Entities has received any written notice that remains unresolved that any such right is the subject of any interference, opposition, cancellation, nullity, re-examination or other proceeding placing in question its validity or scope, except where the lack of such force and effect and where any such interference, opposition, cancellation, nullity, re-examination or other proceeding would not, in any such case, reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on Spinco. To the Knowledge of Burgundy, no Spinco IP Rights consisting of trade secrets or other proprietary information have been improperly divulged or improperly appropriated either for the benefit of any Person other than an Eagle Entity or to the detriment of any Eagle Entity except where such disclosure or appropriation would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on Spinco. No claim or allegation has been asserted or threatened in writing that remains unresolved that either challenges the validity, enforceability, ownership or use of any of the Spinco IP Rights listed in Section 6.13(a) of the Burgundy Disclosure Letter or challenges the validity, enforceability, ownership or use of any other Spinco IP Rights that would, in any such case, reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on Spinco.
(d) The conduct of the Eagle Business as currently conducted does not infringe, misappropriate or otherwise conflict with any valid, enforceable Intellectual Property Right of any third party that would reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on Spinco. To the Knowledge of Burgundy, there are no infringements or misappropriations of, or other conflicts with, any Spinco IP Rights that would reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on Spinco. To the Knowledge of Burgundy, none of the Spinco IP Rights listed on Section 6.13(a) of the Burgundy Disclosure Letter has been infringed, misappropriated or violated by other Persons where such infringement, misappropriation or violation has had, or would reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on Spinco.
 
(e) Section 6.13(e) of the Burgundy Disclosure Letter identifies all material Spinco IP Rights that have been licensed to a third Person. To the Knowledge of Burgundy, none of the counterparties to any license to the Spinco IP Rights referenced in the preceding sentence is in breach of or in default under the terms of the same where such breach or default has had, or would reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on Spinco.
(f) Section 6.13(f) of the Burgundy Disclosure Letter sets forth a list of licenses (the "") in effect as of the date hereof pursuant to which any Eagle Entities either paid a one-time, lump-sum license fee in the past six (6) months or is scheduled to make annual aggregate royalty payments of $500,000 or more. To the Knowledge of Burgundy, none of the Eagle Entities is in breach of or default under the terms of any Specified License where such breach or default has had, or would reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on Spinco. To the Knowledge of Burgundy, no other party to any Specified License is in breach of or in default under the terms of any Specified Licenses where such breach or default has had, or would reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on Spinco. Each Specified License is a valid and binding obligation of the Eagle Entity that is a party thereto, and is in full force and effect, except insofar as (i) such enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally, or by principles governing the availability of equitable remedies, (ii) the failure to be a valid and binding obligation or to be enforceable would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on Spinco, (iii) such Specified License has previously expired in accordance with its terms, or (iv) such Specified License has been terminated in the ordinary course of business.
Specified Licenses
Section 6.14 .
Material Contracts
(a) Section 6.14 of the Burgundy Disclosure Letter sets forth a list of all Spinco Material Contracts in effect as of the date of this Agreement. For purposes of this Agreement, the term "" means any of the following Contracts (other than this Agreement, each other Transaction Agreement and the documents relating to the Spinco Financing, the Spinco Exchange Debt and other than any Burgundy Benefit Plans) that are intended to be Conveyed to the Spinco Group pursuant to the Separation Agreement:
Spinco Material Contracts
(i) any non-competition agreements or other Contracts that materially limits or will materially limit any member of the Spinco Group from competing or engaging in any business or geographic area;
(ii) any Contract with respect to any partnerships or joint ventures involving the sharing of profits or losses that is material to the Eagle Business, taken as a whole;
(iii) any indenture, credit agreement or loan agreement pursuant to which any member of the Spinco Group has or will incur any indebtedness for borrowed money in excess of $1 million, other than between or among members of the Spinco Group;
 
(iv) any Contract for the sale or acquisition (including by way of merger, purchase of equity or other business combination) of any operating business with respect to which any member of the Spinco Group still has remaining material obligations; and
(v) any Contract that provides for annual payments in excess of $10 million by or to any member of the Burgundy Group or the Spinco Group.
(b) None of the Eagle Entities is in material breach of or material default under the terms of any Spinco Material Contract. To the Knowledge of Burgundy, no other party to any Spinco Material Contract is in material breach of or in material default under the terms of any Spinco Material Contract. Each Spinco Material Contract is a valid and binding obligation of the Eagle Entity which is a party thereto, and is in full force and effect, except insofar as (i) such enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally, or by principles governing the availability of equitable remedies, (ii) the failure to be a valid and binding obligation or to be enforceable would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on Spinco, (iii) such Spinco Material Contract has previously expired in accordance with its terms, or (iv) such Spinco Material Contract has been terminated in the ordinary course of business.
Section 6.15 . No agent, broker, investment banker, financial advisor or other similar Person is or will be entitled, by reason of any agreement, act or statement by Spinco or any Spinco Subsidiaries, directors, officers or employees, to any financial advisory, broker's, finder's or similar fee or commission, to reimbursement of expenses or to indemnification or contribution in connection with any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or each other Transaction Agreement, in each case, for which Grizzly, Merger Sub, Spinco or any Spinco Subsidiary could become liable or obligated.
Brokers or Finders
Section 6.16 . Each of the Burgundy Board and the Spinco Board, at a meeting duly called, has by unanimous vote of all directors present approved this Agreement and declared it advisable. As of the date hereof, the sole stockholder of Spinco is Burgundy. As promptly as practicable after execution of this Agreement, Burgundy will approve and adopt (the ""), as Spinco's sole stockholder, this Agreement and other Transaction Agreements and the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby which require the consent of Spinco's stockholders under the DGCL, the NYSE rules, Spinco's certificate of incorporation or Spinco's bylaws. The approval of Burgundy's stockholders is not required to effect the transactions contemplated by the Separation Agreement, this Agreement or the other Transaction Agreements. Upon obtaining the Spinco Stockholder Approval, the approval of Spinco's stockholders after the Distribution Date will not be required to effect the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, including the Merger, unless this Agreement is amended on or after the Distribution Date.
Board and Stockholder Approval
Spinco Stockholder Approval
Section 6.17 .
Sufficiency of Assets
(a) After giving effect to the Spinco Reorganization and the other transactions described in or contemplated by the Separation Agreement and after giving effect to the transfer of all the TCI Interests, the Spinco Group will have, in
 
all material respects, good and valid title, or, in the case of the Leased Real Property, valid leasehold interests in, all of the Spinco Assets, except (i) where the Conveyance of the Spinco Assets requires a third-party Consent or Governmental Approval that is not obtained, in which case the provisions of Section 2.7 of the Separation Agreement will govern, and (ii) where the failure to have such good and valid title, or valid leasehold interest, results from any of the Permitted Encumbrances, with respect to the Owned Real Property, Spinco Leasehold Improvements and Leased Real Property.
(b) At the Effective Time, the Spinco Assets, assuming any requisite third-party Consents or Governmental Approvals that are necessary to Convey such Spinco Assets and the TCI Interests are obtained, taken together with the services available from Burgundy under the Transition Services Agreement, will be sufficient for Grizzly and its Subsidiaries (including Spinco) to continue to operate the Eagle Business in all material respects as it is currently conducted.
Section 6.18 .
Spinco Real Property
(a) Section 6.18(a) of the Burgundy Disclosure Letter sets forth as of the date hereof a description of all Spinco Owned Real Property. With respect to such Spinco Owned Real Property, except as would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on Spinco: (i) except for Permitted Encumbrances, none of the Eagle Entities has leased or otherwise granted to any Person the right to use or occupy such Spinco Owned Real Property or any material portion thereof; and (ii) other than the right of Grizzly pursuant to this Agreement, there are no outstanding options, rights of first offer or rights of first refusal to purchase such Spinco Owned Real Property or any material portion thereof or interest therein.
(b) Section 6.18(b) of the Burgundy Disclosure Letter sets forth, as of the date hereof, the addresses of all Spinco Leased Real Properties, and a true and complete list, in all material respects, as of the date hereof, of all Spinco Leases for each Spinco Leased Real Property, in any such case, where annual payments under the applicable Spinco Lease exceed $500,000. Burgundy has made available to Grizzly a true and complete copy of each such Spinco Lease document as of the date hereof, and in the case of any such Lease that is an oral Lease, a written summary of the material terms of such Lease. Except as set forth on Section 6.18(b) of the Burgundy Disclosure Letter, to Burgundy's Knowledge, there are no material disputes with respect to any such Spinco Lease. With respect to each such Spinco Lease, except as would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on Spinco: (i) none of the members of the Burgundy Group or the Spinco Group has subleased, licensed or otherwise granted any Person the right to use or occupy such Spinco Leased Real Property or any material portion thereof, except as disclosed by the agreements on the list of all Spinco Leases listed or described in Section 6.18(b) of the Burgundy Disclosure Letter; (ii) none of the members of the Burgundy Group or Spinco Group has collaterally assigned or granted any other security interest in such Spinco Lease or any material interest therein; and (iii) there are no Liens on the estate or interest created by such Spinco Lease other than Permitted Encumbrances.
Section 6.19 . As of the date hereof, Spinco is a direct, wholly owned Subsidiary of Burgundy that, subject to the terms of the Separation Agreement, following the Spinco Reorganization will own, directly or indirectly, the Spinco Assets, and will have assumed, directly or indirectly, the Spinco Liabilities, all as provided in the Separation Agreement.
Spinco Operations
 
Section 6.20 . Neither Burgundy nor Spinco owns (directly or indirectly, beneficially or of record) nor is a party to any agreement, arrangement or understanding for the purpose of acquiring, holding, voting or disposing of, in each case, any shares of capital stock of Grizzly (other than as contemplated by this Agreement).
Grizzly Common Stock
Section 6.21 . The Eagle Entities are, and since January 1, 2010, have been, in compliance with all applicable Laws relating to the protection of human health and safety (including workplace health and safety), except as would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on Spinco.
Human Health and Safety
Section 6.22 . The financing to be provided, subject to the terms and conditions therein, to Burgundy or Spinco, as the case may be, pursuant to the Burgundy Commitment Letter, is referred to herein as the "". The Burgundy Commitment Letter, and the related fee letter with respect to the Burgundy Financing, true and fully executed copies of which have been provided to Grizzly (together, the ""), have not been amended or modified on or prior to the date of this Agreement, and as of the date of this Agreement the commitments contained in the Burgundy Commitment Letter and the Burgundy Related Letter have not been withdrawn or rescinded in any respect. As of the date hereof, there are no side letters or Contracts to which Burgundy or any of its Subsidiaries is a party related to the funding of Burgundy Financing that could reasonably be expected to adversely affect the availability of the Burgundy Financing. As of the date hereof, the Burgundy Commitment Letter and the Burgundy Related Letter are in full force and effect and are the legal, valid and binding enforceable obligation of Burgundy, and, to the Knowledge of Burgundy, each of the parties thereto. There are no conditions precedent or other contingencies related to the funding of the full amount of the Burgundy Financing, other than as expressly set forth in the Burgundy Commitment Letter. As of the date hereof, subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties of Grizzly set forth in Article VII, no event has occurred, which, with or without notice, lapse of time or both, would or would reasonably be expected to constitute a default or breach on the part of Burgundy or, to the Knowledge of Burgundy, any other party thereto under the Burgundy Commitment Letter or Burgundy Related Letter.
Contemplated Burgundy Financing
Burgundy Financing
Burgundy Related Letter
Section 6.23 . TCI is a company, limited by shares, validly existing under the Laws of the Republic of China. The copies of the Articles of Incorporation of TCI, and the agreement, dated December 12, 1986, between Burgundy and China Petrochemical Development Corporation (the ""), each made available to Grizzly prior to the date hereof, are complete and correct copies of such documents as in full force and effect as of the date hereof.
Valid Existence of TCI
TCI JV Agreement
Section 6.24 .
Capitalization of TCI
(a) The outstanding equity interests of TCI consist, and at the Effective Time will consist, of 16,000,000 shares, 9,600,000 of which are, and immediately prior to the Effective Time will be, owned by PPG Industries Securities, Inc. (the ""), free and clear of any Liens.
TCI Interests
 
(b) There are no outstanding securities, options, warrants, convertible securities, calls, rights, commitments, agreements, arrangements, undertakings or Contracts of any kind to which Burgundy or, to the Knowledge of Burgundy, TCI, is a party or by which Burgundy or, to the Knowledge of Burgundy, TCI, is bound obligating TCI to issue, deliver or sell, or cause to be issued, delivered or sold, additional equity interests, or other voting securities, or obligating TCI to issue, grant, extend, redeem, acquire or enter into any such security, option, warrant, convertible security, call, right, commitment, agreement, arrangement, undertaking or Contract.
(c) Other than the TCI JV Agreement, there are no agreements, voting trusts or other Contracts (other than this Agreement) to which Burgundy is a party or by which Burgundy is bound relating to voting or transfer of any equity interests of TCI.
Section 6.25 .
TCI Financial Statements
(a) Attached as Section 6.25 of the Burgundy Disclosure Letter are copies of the audited balance sheets of TCI as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related statements of income, changes in stockholders' equity and cash flows for the years then ended (collectively, the "").
TCI Financial Statements
(b) The TCI Financial Statements have been prepared in conformity with the requirements of the Republic of China Business Accounting Law and Guidelines Governing Business Accounting relevant to financial accounting standards, and accounting principles generally accepted in the Republic of China, consistently applied (collectively, ""), as at the dates and for the periods presented, and present fairly in all material respects the financial position, results of operations and cash flows of TCI as at the dates and for the periods presented.
Taiwan GAAP
(c) Since December 31, 2011 (the ""), TCI has not incurred any liabilities or obligations that are of a nature that would be required to be disclosed on a balance sheet of TCI or in the notes thereto prepared in conformity with Taiwan GAAP, other than liabilities or obligations incurred in the ordinary course of business since the TCI Balance Sheet Date or liabilities or obligations that have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on Spinco.
TCI Balance Sheet Date
Section 6.26 . Except as specifically contemplated by this Agreement or the other Transaction Agreements, since the TCI Balance Sheet Date, to the Knowledge of Burgundy, TCI has conducted its business in the ordinary course, consistent with past practice, and there has not been any event, occurrence, development or state of circumstances or facts that has had, or would reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on Spinco.
Absence of Certain Changes or Events for TCI
Section 6.27 .
TCI Investigations; TCI Litigation
(a) To the Knowledge of Burgundy, there is no material investigation or review pending or threatened by any Governmental Authority against TCI.
(b) To the Knowledge of Burgundy, (i) there are no material actions, suits, arbitrations or proceedings pending or threatened against TCI at Law or in equity, and (ii) there are no material orders, judgments or decrees of any Governmental Authority entered against TCI or its properties.
 
Section 6.28 . To the Knowledge of Burgundy, TCI is, and since January 1, 2010 has been, in compliance with all, and has received no notice of any violation (as yet unremedied) of any, Laws applicable to TCI or its properties or assets, except where such non-compliance or violation has not had, and would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on Spinco. Notwithstanding anything contained in this , no representation or warranty shall be deemed to be made in this in respect of environmental, Tax, employee benefits or labor Laws, which are the subject of the representations and warranties made in and , , , and , respectively.
TCI Compliance with Laws
Section 6.28
Section 6.28
Sections 6.9
6.29
Section 6.10
Section 6.11
Section 6.12
Section 6.29 . Except as set forth in Section 6.29 of the Burgundy Disclosure Letter, to the Knowledge of Burgundy:
TCI Environmental Matters
(a) TCI is, and since January 1, 2010 has been, in material compliance with all applicable Environmental Laws;
(b) TCI has not received written notice of, nor is TCI the subject of, any material claims, investigations, demands or notices by any Governmental Authority asserting a material obligation on the part of TCI to conduct investigations or clean-up activities under any Environmental Law or alleging material liability under or material non-compliance with any Environmental Law;
(c) TCI is not subject to any material indemnification obligation with respect to Environmental Laws or Hazardous Materials; and
(d) there is no condition (including any release of a Hazardous Material into the air, soil, surface water, sediment or ground water) that would give rise to material liability of TCI under applicable Environmental Laws on, at, under or related to any property currently owned, leased or used by TCI.
Section 6.30 .
TCI Material Contracts
(a) For purposes of this Agreement, the term "" means any of the following Contracts:
TCI Material Contract
(i) any indenture, credit agreement or loan agreement pursuant to which TCI has or will incur any material indebtedness for borrowed money; and
(ii) any Contract that provides for annual payments in excess of $5 million by or to TCI.
(b) To the Knowledge of Burgundy, TCI is not in material breach of or material default under the terms of any TCI Material Contract. To the Knowledge of Burgundy, no other party to any TCI Material Contract is in material breach of or in material default under the terms of any TCI Material Contract. To the Knowledge of Burgundy, consummation of the transactions
 
contemplated by this Agreement will not result in a default (or an event that, with notice or lapse of time or both, would become a default) or give rise to any right of termination or buy-out by any third party, cancellation, amendment or acceleration of any obligation or the loss of any benefit under any TCI Material Contract.
Section 6.31 . Except for the representations and warranties of Burgundy and Spinco expressly set forth in this Agreement and the other Transaction Agreements, neither Burgundy nor Spinco nor any of their respective Subsidiaries nor any other Person acting on behalf of Burgundy or Spinco or any of their respective Subsidiaries makes any representation or warranty, express or implied. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Grizzly and Merger Sub each acknowledge that no representations or warranties are made with respect to any projections, forecasts, estimates or budgets with respect to the Eagle Business that may have been made available to Grizzly, Merger Sub or any of their Representatives.
No Other Representations
Except as otherwise disclosed or identified in (i) the Grizzly SEC Documents filed on or prior to the date hereof (excluding any risk factor disclosure and disclosure of risks included in any "forward-looking statements" disclaimer included in such Grizzly SEC Documents that are predictive, forward-looking or primarily cautionary in nature); , this exception shall apply only to the extent that the relevance of such disclosure to the applicable representation and warranty is reasonably apparent on its face, or (ii) subject to , the corresponding section of the Disclosure Letter delivered by Grizzly to Burgundy and Spinco immediately prior to the execution of this Agreement (the ""), Grizzly and Merger Sub, jointly and severally, hereby represent and warrant to Burgundy and Spinco as follows:
provided
Section 11.4(b)
Grizzly Disclosure Letter
Section 7.1 .
Organization; Qualification
(a) Grizzly and each of its Subsidiaries is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of incorporation, and has all requisite power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and assets and to carry on its business as presently conducted, except in the case of Grizzly's Subsidiaries, for such failure to be in good standing that would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on Grizzly. Grizzly and each of its Subsidiaries is duly qualified and licensed to do business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which the ownership or leasing of its property or the conduct of its business requires such qualification, except for jurisdictions in which the failure to be so qualified or to be in good standing would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on Grizzly. The copies of the Grizzly Charter, Grizzly Bylaws and the certificate of incorporation and bylaws (or analogous governing documents) of any Grizzly Subsidiary previously made available to Burgundy and Spinco are complete and correct copies of such documents as in full force and effect on the date hereof.
(b) Merger Sub is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the Laws of Delaware. Merger Sub is a direct, wholly-owned Subsidiary of Grizzly. The
 
copies of the certificate of incorporation and bylaws of Merger Sub which were previously furnished or made available to Burgundy are true, complete and correct copies of such documents as in effect on the date of this Agreement.
(c) Section 7.1(c) of the Grizzly Disclosure Letter sets forth a list as of the date hereof of the Subsidiaries of Grizzly and their respective jurisdictions of incorporation or organization.
Section 7.2 .
Capital Stock and Other Matters
(a) As of the date hereof, the authorized capital stock of Grizzly consists of 100,000,000 shares of Grizzly Common Stock and 75,000,000 shares of preferred stock of Grizzly. At the close of business on July 18, 2012, (i) 34,279,165 shares of Grizzly Common Stock were issued and outstanding; (ii) 2,456,096 shares of Grizzly Common Stock were reserved for issuance pursuant to the Grizzly Stock Plan; (iii) no shares of Grizzly Common Stock were held by Grizzly in its treasury or by its Subsidiaries; and (iv) no shares of preferred stock of Grizzly were issued and outstanding. All of the issued and outstanding shares of Grizzly Common Stock are validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable and free of preemptive rights.
(b) No bonds, debentures, notes or other indebtedness of Grizzly or any of the Grizzly Subsidiaries having the right to vote (or convertible into or exercisable for securities having the right to vote) on any matters on which holders of shares of capital stock of Grizzly (including Grizzly Common Stock) may vote ("") are, or as of the Effective Time will be, issued or outstanding.
Grizzly Voting Debt
(c) As of the date hereof, the authorized capital stock of Merger Sub consists of one hundred (100) shares of Merger Sub Common Stock.
(d) Except as set forth in , there are no outstanding securities, options, warrants, convertible securities, calls, rights, commitments, agreements, arrangements, undertakings or Contracts of any kind to which Grizzly or any of the Grizzly Subsidiaries is a party or by which any of them is bound obligating Grizzly or any of the Grizzly Subsidiaries to issue, deliver or sell, or cause to be issued, delivered or sold, additional shares of Grizzly Common Stock, Grizzly Voting Debt or other voting securities of Grizzly or any of the Grizzly Subsidiaries or obligating Grizzly or any of the Grizzly Subsidiaries to issue, grant, extend, redeem, acquire or enter into any such security, option, warrant, convertible security, call, right, commitment, agreement, arrangement, undertaking or Contract.
Section 7.2(a)
(e) There are no stockholder agreements, voting trusts or other Contracts to which Grizzly is a party or by which it is bound relating to voting or transfer of any shares of capital stock of Grizzly.
Section 7.3 .
Corporate Authority; No Violation
(a) Grizzly has the corporate power and authority to enter into this Agreement and each other Transaction Agreement to which it is a party, and subject to obtaining the Grizzly Stockholder Approval, to carry out its obligations hereunder and thereunder. The execution, delivery and, subject to obtaining the Grizzly Stockholder Approval, performance by Grizzly of
 
this Agreement and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, have been duly authorized by all requisite corporate action on the part of Grizzly. The execution, delivery and performance by Grizzly of each other Transaction Agreement to which it is, or as of the Effective Time will be, a party; and the consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby have been, or will be as of the Effective Time, duly authorized by all requisite corporate action on the part of Grizzly.
(b) This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by Grizzly and, assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery by Burgundy and Spinco, constitutes a legal, valid and binding agreement of Grizzly, enforceable against Grizzly in accordance with its terms (except insofar as such enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally, or by principles governing the availability of equitable remedies). As of the Effective Time, each other Transaction Agreement to which Grizzly is a party will have been duly executed and delivered by Grizzly and will, assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery by the other parties thereto, constitute a legal, valid and binding agreement of Grizzly, enforceable against Grizzly in accordance with its terms (except insofar as such enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally, or by principles governing the availability of equitable remedies).
(c) Merger Sub has the corporate power and authority to enter into this Agreement and to carry out its obligations hereunder. The execution, delivery and performance by Merger Sub of this Agreement and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby have been duly authorized by all requisite corporate action on the part of Merger Sub. Grizzly, as the sole stockholder of Merger Sub, has duly approved and adopted this Agreement and the Merger and has duly approved the transactions contemplated hereby. This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by Merger Sub and, assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery by Burgundy and Spinco, constitutes a legal, valid and binding agreement of Merger Sub, enforceable against Merger Sub in accordance with its terms (except insofar as such enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally, or by principles governing the availability of equitable remedies).
(d) Neither the execution and delivery by Grizzly and Merger Sub of this Agreement and the other Transaction Agreements to which it is a party nor the consummation by Grizzly and Merger Sub of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby nor the performance by Grizzly or Merger Sub of any of the provisions hereof or thereof will (i) violate or conflict with any provisions of their respective certificates of incorporation or bylaws; (ii) assuming the consents and approvals referred to in are obtained, result in a default (or any event that, with notice or lapse of time or both, would become a default) or give rise to any right of termination or buy-out by any third party, cancellation, amendment or acceleration of any obligation or the loss of any benefit under any Contract to which Grizzly or any of the Grizzly Subsidiaries is a party or by which Grizzly or any of the Grizzly Subsidiaries is bound or affected; (iii) result in the creation of a Lien on any of the issued and outstanding shares of Grizzly Common Stock or capital stock of any other Grizzly Subsidiary or on any of the assets of Grizzly or any of the Grizzly Subsidiaries pursuant to any Contract to which Grizzly or any of the Grizzly Subsidiaries is a party or by which Grizzly or any of the Grizzly Subsidiaries is bound or affected; or
Section 7.3(e)
 
(iv) assuming the consents and approvals contemplated by are obtained, violate or conflict with any Law applicable to Grizzly or any of the Grizzly Subsidiaries, or any of the properties, business or assets of any of the foregoing other than, in the case of each of clauses (ii) through (iv), any such violation, conflict, default, right, loss or Lien which would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on Grizzly.
Section 7.3(e)
(e) Other than in connection with or in compliance with (i) the filing of the Certificate of Merger with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware pursuant to the provisions of the DGCL, (ii) state securities or "blue sky" laws, (iii) the Securities Act, (iv) the Exchange Act, (v) the HSR Act, (vi) if applicable, antitrust or other competition laws of other jurisdictions, including the Competition Act, (vii) the Grizzly Stockholder Approval, and (viii) the rules and regulations of the NYSE (collectively, the ""), no authorization, consent or approval of, or filing with, any Governmental Authority is necessary for the consummation by Grizzly of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the other Transaction Agreements, except for such authorizations, consents, approvals or filings that, if not obtained or made, would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on Grizzly.
Grizzly Approvals
Section 7.4 .
Grizzly Reports and Financial Statements
(a) Grizzly has filed all reports and other documents with the SEC required to be filed or furnished by Grizzly since January 1, 2010 (such documents, together with any current reports filed during such period by Grizzly with the SEC on a voluntary basis on Form 8-K, and including all reports and other documents required to be filed or furnished by Grizzly after the date of this Agreement and prior to the Closing, the ""). As of their respective dates (and if amended or superseded by a filing prior to the date of this Agreement, then on the date of such filing), the Grizzly SEC Documents complied in all material respects, and each other form, report, schedule, registration statement and definitive proxy statement filed by Grizzly or any of its Subsidiaries after the date hereof and prior to the Effective Time (the "") will comply in all material respects, with the requirements of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, as the case may be, and, subject to the last sentence of , none of such Grizzly SEC Documents when filed contained, or will contain, an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted, or will omit, to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The audited consolidated financial statements and unaudited consolidated interim financial statements included in the Grizzly SEC Documents and the Additional Grizzly SEC Documents fairly present in all material respects, or will fairly present in all material respects, the financial position of Grizzly and its consolidated Subsidiaries as of the respective dates thereof and the results of operations and changes in cash flows, changes in stockholders' equity or other information included therein for the periods or as of the respective dates then ended, in each case except as otherwise noted therein and subject, in the case of unaudited interim statements, to normal year-end audit adjustments. Each of the financial statements (including the related notes) of Grizzly included in the Grizzly SEC Documents and such other financial statements have been or will be prepared in accordance with GAAP, consistently applied, except as otherwise noted therein. Since the Interim Balance Sheet Date, Grizzly has timely filed all reports, registration statements and other filings required to be filed with the SEC under the rules and regulations of the SEC. Since the Interim Balance Sheet Date, Grizzly and the
Grizzly SEC Documents
Additional Grizzly SEC Documents
Section 7.8
 
Grizzly Subsidiaries have not incurred any liabilities or obligations that are of a nature that would be required to be disclosed on a consolidated balance sheet of Grizzly and its consolidated Subsidiaries or in the notes thereto prepared in accordance with GAAP as applied in preparing the consolidated balance sheet of Grizzly and its consolidated Subsidiaries included in Grizzly's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011, other than liabilities or obligations incurred in the ordinary course of business since the Interim Balance Sheet Date or liabilities or obligations that have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on Grizzly.
(b) Grizzly and the Grizzly Subsidiaries have designed and maintain a system of internal controls over financial reporting (as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) of the Exchange Act) sufficient to provide reasonable assurances regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with GAAP. Grizzly has designed and maintains disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Exchange Act) to ensure that material information required to be disclosed by Grizzly in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms and is accumulated and communicated to Grizzly's management as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure and to make the certifications of the principal executive officer and principal financial officer of Grizzly required pursuant to Sections 302 and 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended (the "").
Sarbanes-Oxley Act
Section 7.5 . Except as specifically contemplated by this Agreement and the other Transaction Agreements, since December 31, 2011, each of Grizzly and the Grizzly Subsidiaries has conducted its business in the ordinary course, consistent with past practice, and there has not been any event, occurrence, development or state of circumstances or facts that has had, or would reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on Grizzly. Merger Sub is a newly formed corporation and has not conducted any activities other than in connection with the organization of Merger Sub, the negotiation, execution and performance of this Agreement and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby.
Absence of Certain Changes or Events
Section 7.6 . Except as set forth in the Grizzly Disclosure Letter:
Investigations; Litigation
(a) There is no material investigation or review pending (or, to the Knowledge of Grizzly, threatened) by any Governmental Authority against Grizzly or any of the Grizzly Subsidiaries.
(b) There are no material actions, suits, arbitrations or proceedings pending (or, to the Knowledge of Grizzly, threatened) against Grizzly or any of the Grizzly Subsidiaries or any of their respective properties at Law or in equity before, and there are no material orders, judgments or decrees of or before any Governmental Authority entered against Grizzly or any of the Grizzly Subsidiaries or any of their respective properties.
 
(c) Notwithstanding anything contained in this , no representation or warranty shall be deemed to be made in this in respect of environmental matters, which are the subject of the representations and warranties made in .
Section 7.6
Section 7.6
Section 7.9
Section 7.7 .
Compliance with Laws; Permits
(a) Grizzly and the Grizzly Subsidiaries are, and since January 1, 2010 have been, in compliance with all, and have received no notice of any violation (as yet unremedied) of any, Laws, applicable to Grizzly, such Grizzly Subsidiaries or any of their respective properties or assets, except where such non-compliance or violation has not had, and would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on Grizzly. Notwithstanding anything contained in this , no representation or warranty shall be deemed to be made in this in respect of environmental, Tax, employee benefits or labor Laws, which are the subject of the representations and warranties made in , , and , respectively.
Section 7.7
Section 7.7
Section 7.9
Section 7.10
Section 7.11
Section 7.12
(b) Grizzly and the Grizzly Subsidiaries are in possession of all franchises, grants, authorizations, licenses, permits, easements, variances, exceptions, consents, certificates, approvals and orders of any Governmental Authority necessary for Grizzly and the Grizzly Subsidiaries to own, lease and operate their properties and assets or to carry on their businesses as they are now being conducted (the ""), except where the failure to have any of the Grizzly Permits has not had, or would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on Grizzly. All Grizzly Permits are in full force and effect, except where the failure to be in full force and effect has not had, or would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on Grizzly.
Grizzly Permits
Section 7.8 . None of the information regarding Grizzly or the Grizzly Subsidiaries or the transactions contemplated by this Agreement provided by Grizzly specifically for inclusion in, or incorporation by reference into, the Proxy Statement/Prospectus, the Registration Statement or the Spinco Registration Statement will, in the case of the definitive Proxy Statement/Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto, at the time of the mailing of the definitive Proxy Statement/Prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto, and at the time of the Grizzly Stockholders Meeting, or, in the case of the Registration Statement and the Spinco Registration Statement, at the time such registration statement becomes effective, at the time of the Grizzly Stockholders Meeting (in the case of the Registration Statement and the Spinco Registration Statement), at the Distribution Date and at the Effective Time, contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they are made, not misleading. The Registration Statement will comply in all material respects with the provisions of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act, as the case may be, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, except that no representation is made by Grizzly with respect to information provided by Burgundy or Spinco specifically for inclusion in, or incorporation by reference into, the Registration Statement or the Proxy Statement/Prospectus.
Proxy Statement/Prospectus; Registration Statement
 
Section 7.9 . Except as disclosed in Section 7.9 of the Grizzly Disclosure Letter:
Environmental Matters
(a) Grizzly and each of the Grizzly Subsidiaries is, and since January 1, 2010 has been, in material compliance with all applicable Environmental Laws and Grizzly and the Grizzly Subsidiaries possess all material Grizzly Permits that are required under applicable Environmental Laws, and are in material compliance with the terms and conditions thereof;
(b) neither Grizzly nor any of the Grizzly Subsidiaries has received written notice of, or is the subject of, any material claims, investigations, demands or notices by any Governmental Authority asserting a material obligation on the part of Grizzly or any of the Grizzly Subsidiaries to conduct investigations or clean-up activities under any Environmental Law or alleging material liability under or material non-compliance with any Environmental Law;
(c) neither Grizzly nor any of the Grizzly Subsidiaries is subject to any material indemnification obligation with respect to Environmental Laws or Hazardous Materials;
(d) there is no condition (including any release of a Hazardous Material into the air, soil, surface water, sediment or ground water) that would give rise to material liability for Grizzly or any of the Grizzly Subsidiaries under applicable Environmental Laws on, at, under or related to any property currently owned, leased or used by Grizzly or any of the Grizzly Subsidiaries; and
(e) Grizzly has made available to Burgundy and Spinco all material site assessments, environmental compliance audits, and other documents (in each case, within its possession or otherwise reasonably available to it) produced in the last five (5) years relating to environmental matters, and relating to Grizzly or any of the Grizzly Subsidiaries or their current or former properties or facilities to the extent such documents are in the possession, custody or control of Grizzly or any of the Grizzly Subsidiaries.
This contains the sole and exclusive representations and warranties of Grizzly or Merger Sub with respect to environmental matters, including matters relating to Environmental Laws and Hazardous Materials.
Section 7.9
Section 7.10 . Except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on Grizzly:
Tax Matters
(a) (i) All Tax Returns required to be filed by Grizzly and the Grizzly Subsidiaries have been timely filed, (ii) all such Tax Returns are true, complete and correct in all respects, (iii) all Taxes shown as due and payable on such Tax Returns, and all Taxes (whether or not reflected on such Tax Returns) required to have been paid by Grizzly or any Grizzly Subsidiary, have been paid or appropriate reserves have been recorded in the books and records of Grizzly, (iv) all Taxes of Grizzly and the Grizzly Subsidiaries for any taxable period (or any portion thereof) beginning on or prior to the Closing Date (which are not yet due and payable) have been properly reserved for in the books and records of Grizzly, and (v) Grizzly and the Grizzly Subsidiaries have duly and timely withheld all Taxes required to be withheld and such withheld Taxes have been either duly and timely paid to the proper Taxing Authority or properly set aside in accounts for such purpose and will be duly and timely paid to the proper Taxing Authority.
 
(b) No written agreement or other written document waiving or extending, or having the effect of waiving or extending, the statute of limitations or the period of assessment or collection of any Taxes relating to Grizzly or any Grizzly Subsidiary has been filed or entered into with any Taxing Authority.
(c) (i) No audits or other administrative proceedings or proceedings before any Taxing Authority are presently pending with regard to any Taxes or Tax Return of Grizzly or any Grizzly Subsidiary, as to which any Taxing Authority has asserted in writing any claim, and (ii) no Taxing Authority is now asserting in writing any deficiency or claim for Taxes or any adjustment to Taxes with respect to which Grizzly or any Grizzly Subsidiary may be liable with respect to income or other Taxes which has not been fully paid or finally settled.
(d) Neither Grizzly nor any Grizzly Subsidiary (i) is a party to or bound by or has any obligation under any Tax indemnification, separation, sharing or similar agreement or arrangement, (ii) is or has been a member of any consolidated, combined, unitary or similar group for purposes of filing Tax Returns or paying Taxes (other than a group of which Grizzly is the common parent corporation), or (iii) has entered into a closing agreement pursuant to Section 7121 of the Code, or any predecessor provision or any similar provision of state or local Law.
(e) None of the assets of Grizzly or any of the Grizzly Subsidiaries is subject to any Tax Lien (other than Liens for Taxes that are Permitted Encumbrances).
(f) Neither Grizzly nor any Grizzly Subsidiary has agreed to make or is required to make any adjustment for a taxable period ending after the Effective Time under Section 481(a) of the Code or any similar provision of Tax Law in any other jurisdiction by reason of a change in accounting method or otherwise.
(g) Neither Grizzly nor any Grizzly Subsidiary has constituted either a "distributing corporation" or a "controlled corporation" (within the meaning of Section 355(a)(1)(A) of the Code) in a distribution of stock qualifying for tax-free treatment under Section 355 of the Code (I) in the two (2) years prior to the date of this Agreement or (II) in a distribution that could otherwise constitute part of a "plan" or "series of related transactions" (within the meaning of Section 355(e) of the Code) in connection with the Merger.
(h) Neither Grizzly nor any of the Grizzly Subsidiaries has taken or agreed to take any action that is reasonably likely to (nor is any of them aware of any agreement, plan or other circumstance that would) prevent (i) the Contribution and Distribution, taken together, from qualifying as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code or (ii) the Merger from qualifying as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code.
(i) Neither Grizzly nor any Grizzly Subsidiary has engaged in any "listed transaction" within the meaning of Treasury Regulation Section 1.6011-4.
Section 7.11 .
Benefit Plans
(a) Section 7.11(a) of the Grizzly Disclosure Letter lists as of the date hereof each material Grizzly Benefit Plan. "" means any employee benefit plan, program, policy, practice, or other arrangement providing benefits to any current or former
Grizzly Benefit Plan
 
employee, officer or director of Grizzly or any of its Subsidiaries or any beneficiary or dependent thereof that is sponsored or maintained by Grizzly or any of its Subsidiaries or to which Grizzly or any of its Subsidiaries contributes or is obligated to contribute, whether or not written, including without limitation any employee welfare benefit plan within the meaning of Section 3(1) of ERISA, any employee pension benefit plan within the meaning of Section 3(2) of ERISA (whether or not such plan is subject to ERISA) and any bonus, incentive, deferred compensation, vacation, stock purchase, stock option, severance, employment, change of control or fringe benefit plan, program or agreement and any related trusts or other funding vehicles; , , that "" shall not include any Multiemployer Pension Plan or any other plan, program or arrangement maintained by an entity other than Grizzly or one of its Subsidiaries pursuant to a collective bargaining agreement.
provided
however
Grizzly Benefit Plan
(b) (i) Each of the Grizzly Benefit Plans has been operated and administered in all material respects in accordance with applicable laws, including, but not limited to, ERISA, the Code and in each case the regulations thereunder; (ii) each of the Grizzly Benefit Plans intended to be "qualified" within the meaning of Section 401(a) of the Code is so qualified, and there are no existing circumstances or any events that have occurred that would reasonably be expected to adversely affect the qualified status of any such plan; (iii) neither Grizzly nor any of its ERISA Affiliates has incurred any material liability under Title IV or Section 302 of ERISA or under Section 412 of the Code that has not been satisfied in full and no condition exists that would reasonably be expected to result in Grizzly incurring any such material liability thereunder (other than liability to make minimum funding contributions and premium payments to the PBGC); (iv) no Grizzly Benefit Plan provides benefits, including death or medical benefits (whether or not insured), with respect to current or former employees or directors of Grizzly or its Subsidiaries beyond their retirement or other termination of service, other than (A) coverage mandated by applicable law or (B) death benefits or retirement benefits under any "employee pension plan" (as such term is defined in Section 3(2) of ERISA); (v) neither Grizzly nor any of its ERISA Affiliates is obligated to contribute currently or has been obligated to contributed during the immediately preceding three years to any Multiemployer Pension Plan; (vi) no Grizzly Benefit Plan is a plan that has two or more contributing sponsors at least two of whom are not under common control, within the meaning of Section 4063 of ERISA; (vii) all material contributions or other amounts payable by Grizzly or its Subsidiaries as of the Effective Time pursuant to each Grizzly Benefit Plan in respect of current or prior plan years have been timely paid or accrued in accordance with US GAAP; and (viii) there are no pending, threatened or anticipated material claims (other than routine claims for benefits) by, on behalf of or against any of Grizzly Benefit Plans or any trusts related thereto.
(c) Neither the execution and delivery of this Agreement nor the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby (either alone or in conjunction with any other event) will (i) result in any material payment (including severance, unemployment compensation, "excess parachute payment" (within the meaning of Section 280G of the Code), forgiveness of indebtedness or otherwise) becoming due to any current or former director or any employee of Grizzly under any Grizzly Benefit Plan or otherwise, (ii) materially increase any benefits otherwise payable under any Grizzly Benefit Plan or (iii) result in any acceleration of the time of payment, funding or vesting of any such benefits.
 
Section 7.12 . Section 7.12 of the Grizzly Disclosure Letter sets forth a list as of the date hereof of all collective bargaining agreements, contracts or other written agreements with a labor union or labor organization to which Grizzly or one of its Subsidiaries is a party as of the date hereof. Neither Grizzly nor any of its Subsidiaries is subject to a material labor dispute, strike or work stoppage. Neither Grizzly nor any of its Subsidiaries has any material obligation to inform or consult with any Grizzly employees or their representatives in respect of the transactions contemplated by the Transaction Agreements (including the Distribution). To the Knowledge of Grizzly, (a) (i) there are no material organizational efforts with respect to the formation of a collective bargaining unit presently being made or threatened involving Grizzly employees, and (ii) there is not and, since January 1, 2009 there has not been, any material union organizing effort pending or threatened against Grizzly or its Subsidiary; (b) there is no material unfair labor practice charge, complaint, labor dispute or labor arbitration proceeding (other than routine individual grievances) pending or, to the Knowledge of Grizzly, threatened against Grizzly or any of its Subsidiaries; and (c) there is no material slowdown or work stoppage threatened with respect to Grizzly employees. To the Knowledge of Grizzly, (a) there is no material employment-related complaint, lawsuit or administrative proceeding (other than ones raising solely individual allegations) pending or threatened against Grizzly or any of its Subsidiaries and (b) Grizzly and its Subsidiaries are in compliance in all material respects with all applicable Laws, respecting (i) employment and employment practices, (ii) terms and conditions of employment and wages and hours, (iii) collective bargaining and labor, (iv) layoffs, (v) immigration, (vi) affirmative action, (vii) unemployment and workers compensation, (viii) employee health and safety, and (ix) the payment of taxes and other withholdings. As of the date hereof, neither Grizzly nor any of its Subsidiaries has any material liabilities under the WARN Act that would reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on Grizzly.
Labor Matters
Section 7.13 .
Intellectual Property Matters
(a) Section 7.13(a) of the Grizzly Disclosure Letter contains a complete and accurate list as of the date hereof of (i) all material patented or registered Intellectual Property Rights (and pending applications therefor) of Grizzly; (ii) all material unregistered trademarks and service marks, and domain name registrations of Grizzly; (iii) all computer software that is owned or that is licensed and used or held for use by Grizzly, except for commercially available over-the-counter "shrink wrap" software and open source software and software that is not material to Grizzly; and (iv) any other material licenses to Grizzly or a Grizzly Subsidiary of Intellectual Property Rights to which Grizzly or a Subsidiary of Grizzly has access as a result of any in-bound license. With respect to patents and applications therefor listed in Section 7.13(a)(i) of the Grizzly Disclosure Letter, in addition to the title thereof, Section 7.13(a)(i) of such letter lists the patent or application number, the filing and issue dates, and countries in which filed or issued. With respect to registered trademarks and service marks and pending applications therefor listed in Section 7.13(a)(ii) of the Grizzly Disclosure Letter, in addition to the mark, Section 7.13(a)(ii) of such letter lists the registration, application number, registration filing date, and countries in which registered or filed.
(b) Grizzly and the Grizzly Subsidiaries own and possess, free and clear of all Liens except Permitted Encumbrances, or will prior to the Effective Time have, all right, title and interest in and to, or have adequate licenses or other valid and enforceable rights to use, all
 
Intellectual Property Rights used or held for use in connection with Grizzly's business as currently conducted (including in connection with services provided by Grizzly and the Grizzly Subsidiaries to third parties) (the ""), except where the failure to own or possess such items would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on Grizzly.
Grizzly IP Rights
(c) To the Knowledge of Grizzly, all patented or registered Intellectual Property Rights listed in Section 7.13(a) of the Grizzly Disclosure Letter are in full force and effect. Neither Grizzly nor any of the Grizzly Subsidiaries has received any written notice that remains unresolved that any such right is the subject of any interference, opposition, cancellation, nullity, re-examination or other proceeding placing in question its validity or scope, except where the lack of such force and effect and where any such interference, opposition, cancellation, nullity, re-examination or other proceeding would not, in any such case, reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on Grizzly. To the Knowledge of Spinco, no Grizzly IP Rights consisting of trade secrets or other proprietary information have been improperly divulged or improperly appropriated either for the benefit of any Person other than Grizzly or a Grizzly Subsidiary or to the detriment of Grizzly or any Grizzly Subsidiary except where such disclosure or appropriation would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on Grizzly. No claim or allegation has been asserted or threatened in writing that remains unresolved that either challenges the validity, enforceability, ownership or use of any of the Grizzly IP Rights listed in Section 7.13(a) of the Burgundy Disclosure Letter or challenges the validity, enforceability, ownership or use of any other Grizzly IP Rights that would, in any such case, reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on Grizzly.
(d) The conduct of Grizzly's business as currently conducted does not infringe, misappropriate or otherwise conflict with any valid, enforceable Intellectual Property Right of any third party that would reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on Grizzly. To the Knowledge of Grizzly, there are no infringements or misappropriations of, or other conflicts with, any Grizzly IP Rights that would reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on Grizzly. To the Knowledge of Grizzly none of the Grizzly IP Rights listed on Section 7.13(a) of the Grizzly Disclosure Letter have been infringed, misappropriated or violated by other Persons where such infringement, misappropriation or violation has had, or would reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on Grizzly.
(e) Section 7.13(e) of the Grizzly Disclosure Letter identifies all material Grizzly IP that has been licensed to a third person. To the Knowledge of Grizzly, none of the counterparties to any license to the Grizzly IP Rights referenced in the preceding sentence is in breach of or in default under the terms of the same where such breach or default has had, or would reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on Grizzly.
(f) Section 7.13(f) of the Grizzly Disclosure Letter sets forth a list of licenses of Intellectual Property Rights in effect as of the date hereof pursuant to which Grizzly or any Grizzly Subsidiary either paid a one-time, lump-sum license fee in the past six (6) months or is scheduled to make annual aggregate royalty payments of $500,000 or more are referred to herein as "." To the Knowledge of Grizzly, none of Grizzly and the Grizzly Subsidiaries
Grizzly Material IP Licenses
 
is in breach of or default under the terms of any Grizzly Material IP License where such breach or default has had, or would reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on Grizzly. To the Knowledge of Grizzly, no other party to any Grizzly Material IP License is in breach of or in default under the terms of any Grizzly Material IP Licenses where such breach or default has had, or would reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on Grizzly. Each Grizzly Material IP License is a valid and binding obligation of Grizzly or a Grizzly Subsidiary, and is in full force and effect, except insofar as (i) such enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally, or by principles governing the availability of equitable remedies, (ii) the failure to be a valid and binding obligation or to be enforceable would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on Grizzly, (iii) such Grizzly Material IP License has previously expired in accordance with its terms, or (iv) such Grizzly Material IP License has been terminated in the ordinary course of business.
Section 7.14 .
Material Contracts
(a) Section 7.14 of the Grizzly Disclosure Letter sets forth a list of all Grizzly Material Contracts in effect as of the date of this Agreement. For purposes of this Agreement, the term "" means any of the following Contracts (other than this Agreement, each other Transaction Agreement, the documents relating to the financing transactions contemplated by this Agreement, and other than any Grizzly Benefit Plan), whether entered into prior to or after the date hereof, to which Grizzly or any Grizzly Subsidiary is a party:
Grizzly Material Contracts
(i) any non-competition agreements or other Contract that materially limits or will materially limit Grizzly or any of its Subsidiaries from competing or engaging in any business or geographic area;
(ii) any Contract with respect to any partnerships or joint ventures involving the sharing of profits or losses that is material to Grizzly and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole;
(iii) any indenture, credit agreement or loan agreement pursuant to which Grizzly or any of its Subsidiaries has or will incur any indebtedness for borrowed money in excess of $1 million, other than between or among any of Grizzly and any of its Subsidiaries;
(iv) any Contract for the sale or acquisition (including by way of merger, purchase of equity or other business combination) of any operating business with respect to which Grizzly or any of its Subsidiaries still has remaining material obligations; and
(v) any Contract that provides for annual payments in excess of $10 million by or to Grizzly or any of its Subsidiaries.
(b) Neither Grizzly nor any Grizzly Subsidiary is in material breach of or material default under the terms of any Grizzly Material Contract. To the Knowledge of Grizzly, no other party to any Grizzly Material Contract is in material breach of or in material default under the terms of any Grizzly Material Contract. Each Grizzly Material Contract is a valid and binding
 
obligation of Grizzly or any Grizzly Subsidiary which is a party thereto and is in full force and effect, except insofar as (i) such enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally, or by principles governing the availability of equitable remedies, (ii) the failure to be a valid and binding obligation or to be enforceable would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on Grizzly, (iii) the Grizzly Material Contract has previously expired in accordance with its terms, or (iv) the Grizzly Material Contract has been terminated by Grizzly or its Subsidiaries in the ordinary course of business.
Section 7.15 .
Grizzly Real Property
(a) Section 7.15(a) of the Grizzly Disclosure Letter sets forth as of the date hereof a description of all Grizzly Owned Real Property. With respect to such Grizzly Owned Real Property, except as would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on Grizzly: (i) except for Permitted Encumbrances, neither Grizzly nor any of the Grizzly Subsidiaries has leased or otherwise granted to any Person the right to use or occupy such Grizzly Owned Real Property or any material portion thereof; and (ii) other than the right of Grizzly pursuant to this Agreement, there are no outstanding options, rights of first offer or rights of first refusal to purchase such Grizzly Owned Real Property or any material portion thereof or interest therein.
(b) Section 7.15(b) of the Grizzly Disclosure Letter sets forth as of the date hereof the address of all Grizzly Leased Real Property, and a true and complete list, in all material respects, as of the date hereof, of all Grizzly Leases for such properties for each such Grizzly Leased Real Property, in any such case, where annual payments under the applicable Grizzly Lease exceed $500,000 per year. Grizzly has made available to Burgundy a true and complete copy of each such Grizzly Lease document as of the date hereof, and in the case of any such Lease that is an oral Lease, a written summary of the material terms of such Lease. Except as set forth on Section 7.15(b) of the Grizzly Disclosure Letter, to Grizzly's Knowledge, there are no material disputes with respect to such Grizzly Lease. With respect to each such Lease, except as would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on Grizzly: (i) none of Grizzly or the Grizzly Subsidiaries has subleased, licensed or otherwise granted any Person the right to use or occupy such Grizzly Leased Real Property or any material portion thereof; (ii) none of Grizzly or the Grizzly Subsidiaries has collaterally assigned or granted any other security interest in such Grizzly Lease or any material interest therein; and (iii) there are no Liens on the estate or interest created by such Grizzly Lease other than Permitted Encumbrances.
Section 7.16 . Grizzly has received the written opinion (or oral opinion to be confirmed in writing) of Barclays Capital Inc. to the effect that, as of the date hereof, from a financial point of view, the Exchange Ratio is fair to Grizzly. Grizzly has received the written opinion (or oral opinion to be confirmed in writing) of Houlihan Lokey Financial Advisors, Inc. to the effect that, as of the date hereof, from a financial point of view, the Exchange Ratio is fair to Grizzly.
Opinion of Grizzly Financial Advisor
Section 7.17 . Other than any agent whose fees and expenses will be paid solely by Grizzly, and all obligations to which will be solely obligations of Grizzly, no
Brokers or Finders
 
agent, broker, investment banker, financial advisor or other similar Person is or will be entitled, by reason of any agreement, act or statement by Grizzly or any Grizzly Subsidiaries, directors, officers or employees, to any financial advisory, broker's, finder's or similar fee or commission, to reimbursement of expenses or to indemnification or contribution in connection with any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or each other Transaction Agreement.
Section 7.18 . The Grizzly Board, at a meeting duly called and held, (i) has determined that this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby, including the Merger, and the issuance of shares of Grizzly Common Stock pursuant to the Merger (and, to the extent applicable, the transactions contemplated by Schedule 8.3(e)), are advisable, fair to and in the best interests of Grizzly and the stockholders of Grizzly, (ii) has approved this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby, including the Merger (and, to the extent applicable, the transactions contemplated by Schedule 8.3(e)), and (iii) has resolved to recommend that the stockholders of Grizzly entitled to vote thereon vote in favor of the approval of the issuance of shares of Grizzly Common Stock pursuant to the Merger at the Grizzly Stockholders Meeting (and, to the extent applicable, the transactions contemplated by Schedule 8.3(e)) (the "").
Certain Board Findings
Grizzly Recommendation
Section 7.19 . The only vote of the stockholders of Grizzly required under any of the DGCL, the NYSE rules or the Grizzly Charter for the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, including issuance of the Grizzly Common Stock issuable in the Merger, is, subject to the provisions of Schedule 8.3(e), the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority in interest of the stockholders of Grizzly present or by proxy and entitled to vote at the Grizzly Stockholders Meeting (sometimes referred to herein as the "").
Vote Required
Grizzly Stockholder Approval
Section 7.20 . Grizzly does not own (directly or indirectly, beneficially or of record) nor is it a party to any agreement, arrangement or understanding for the purpose of acquiring, holding, voting or disposing of, in each case, any shares of capital stock of Spinco (other than as contemplated by this Agreement) or Burgundy. Assuming the accuracy of the representations set forth in , the limitations on business combinations contained in Section 203 of the DGCL are inapplicable to the Merger and the other transactions contemplated hereby.
Spinco Common Stock
Section 6.20
Section 7.21 . Grizzly and the Grizzly Subsidiaries are, and since January 1, 2010, have been, in compliance with all applicable Laws relating to the protection of human health and safety (including workplace health and safety), except as would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on Grizzly.
Human Health and Safety
Section 7.22 . Pursuant to the Spinco Commitment Letter and the fee letters attached thereto (together, the ""), the lenders party thereto have committed, subject to the terms and conditions set forth therein, to lend the amounts set forth therein for the purpose of financing the Special Below Basis Cash Distribution (the ""). The Spinco Commitment Letter and the Spinco Related Letter, a true and fully executed copy of each of which have been provided to Burgundy, have not been amended or modified on or prior to the date of this Agreement, and as of the date of this Agreement the commitments contained in the Spinco Commitment Letter and the Spinco Related Letter
Contemplated Spinco Financing
Spinco Related Letter
Spinco Financing
 
have not been withdrawn or rescinded in any respect. As of the date hereof, there are no side letters or Contracts to which Grizzly or Merger Sub is a party related to the funding of the Spinco Financing that could reasonably be expected to adversely affect the availability of the Spinco Financing. Grizzly or Merger Sub has fully paid any and all commitment fees or other fees in connection with the Spinco Commitment Letter and the Spinco Related Letter that are payable on or prior to the date hereof, and as of the date hereof the Spinco Commitment Letter and the Spinco Related Letter are in full force and effect and are the legal, valid and binding enforceable obligations of Grizzly and Merger Sub, as the case may be, and, to the Knowledge of Grizzly and Merger Sub, each of the parties thereto. There are no conditions precedent or other contingencies related to the funding of the full amount of the Spinco Financing, other than as expressly set forth in the Spinco Commitment Letter. As of the date hereof, subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties of Burgundy set forth in and , no event has occurred, which, with or without notice, lapse of time or both, would or would reasonably be expected to constitute a default or breach on the part of Grizzly or Merger Sub or, to the Knowledge of Grizzly or Merger Sub, any other party thereto under the Spinco Commitment Letter or Spinco Related Letter.
Article V
Article VI
Section 7.23 . As of the date of this Agreement, there is no shareholder rights plan, "poison pill," anti-takeover plan or other similar device in effect, to which Grizzly or any of its Subsidiaries is a party or otherwise bound. The transactions contemplated by this Agreement are and, as of the Closing, will be exempt from any such shareholder rights plan, "poison pill," anti-takeover plan or other similar device adopted prior to the Closing to which Grizzly or any of its Subsidiaries is a party or otherwise bound.
Grizzly Rights Agreement
Section 7.24 . Except for the representations and warranties of Grizzly and Merger Sub expressly set forth in this Agreement or any other Transaction Agreement, neither Grizzly nor any of its Subsidiaries nor any other Person acting on behalf of Grizzly or any of its Subsidiaries makes any representation or warranty, express or implied. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Burgundy and Spinco each acknowledge that no representations or warranties are made with respect to any projections, forecasts, estimates or budgets with respect to Grizzly and the Grizzly Subsidiaries that may have been made available to Burgundy, Spinco or any of their Representatives.
No Other Representations
Section 8.1 . Following the date of this Agreement and prior to the earlier of the Effective Time and the Termination Date, except (i) as required by Law, (ii) as may be consented to in writing by Burgundy (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed), (iii) as expressly permitted or contemplated by this Agreement or the other Transaction Agreements or (iv) as set forth in Section 8.1 of the Grizzly Disclosure Letter, Grizzly covenants and agrees that each of Grizzly and the Grizzly Subsidiaries shall conduct its operations in accordance with its ordinary course of business, consistent with past practice, and shall use commercially reasonable efforts to conduct its operations in compliance with all Laws applicable to it or to the conduct of its business and to maintain its present business organization, maintain rights and franchises, keep available
Conduct of Business by Grizzly and Merger Sub Pending the Merger
 
the services of its current officers and key employees and maintain its relationships with key customers and key suppliers; , , that no action by Grizzly or any of the Grizzly Subsidiaries with respect to matters specifically addressed by any other provisions of this shall be deemed a breach of this sentence unless such action would constitute a breach of such other provision. Following the date of this Agreement and prior to the earlier of the Effective Time and the Termination Date (and notwithstanding the immediately preceding sentence), except (i) as may be required by Law, (ii) as may be consented to in writing by Burgundy (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed), (iii) as may be expressly permitted or contemplated by this Agreement or the other Transaction Agreements, or (iv) as set forth in Section 8.1 of the Grizzly Disclosure Letter, Grizzly shall not, nor shall it permit any of the Grizzly Subsidiaries to:
provided
however
Section 8.1
(a) (i) declare or pay any dividends on or make other distributions in respect of any shares of its capital stock (whether in cash, securities or property), except for the declaration and payment of (A) regular quarterly cash dividends not in excess of $0.08 per share of Grizzly Common Stock and (B) cash dividends or distributions paid on or with respect to a class of capital stock all of which shares of capital stock of the applicable corporation are owned directly or indirectly by Grizzly; (ii) split, combine or reclassify any of its capital stock or issue or authorize or propose the issuance of any other securities in respect of, in lieu of, or in substitution for, shares of its capital stock; or (iii) redeem, repurchase or otherwise acquire, or permit any Grizzly Subsidiary to redeem, repurchase or otherwise acquire, any shares of its capital stock (including any securities convertible or exchangeable into such capital stock), except as required by the terms of the securities of Grizzly outstanding on the date hereof or any securities of Grizzly issued after the date hereof not in violation of this Agreement or as required by the terms of a Grizzly Benefit Plan or any awards thereunder outstanding on the date hereof or granted thereunder after the date hereof in accordance with this Agreement;
(b) issue, deliver or sell, or authorize any shares of its capital stock of any class, any Grizzly Voting Debt or any securities convertible into, or any rights, warrants or options to acquire, any such shares, Grizzly Voting Debt or convertible securities, other than (i) the issuance of shares of Grizzly Common Stock upon the exercise of stock options or the vesting of restricted stock units that are outstanding on the date hereof pursuant to the Grizzly Benefit Plans; (ii) issuances by a wholly-owned Subsidiary of Grizzly of its capital stock to such Subsidiary's parent or another wholly-owned Subsidiary of Grizzly; and (iii) the granting of stock options or the granting of restricted stock units with respect to up to 500,000 shares of Grizzly Common Stock in the ordinary course of business, consistent with Grizzly's past practices;
(c) amend the Grizzly Charter;
(d) acquire or agree to acquire by merger or consolidation, or by purchasing a substantial equity interest in or a substantial portion of the assets of, or by any other manner, any business or any corporation, partnership, limited liability entity, joint venture, association or other business organization or division thereof or otherwise acquire or agree to acquire any material assets (excluding the acquisition of assets used in the operations of the business of Grizzly and the Grizzly Subsidiaries in the ordinary course consistent with past practice, which assets do not constitute a business unit, division or all or substantially all of the assets of the transferor), in any such case, if such acquisition would reasonably be expected to, individually or in the aggregate, prevent or materially delay satisfaction of any of the conditions to the Merger set forth in ;
Article IX
 
(e) except in the ordinary course of business, consistent with past practice or as set forth in Section 8.1(e) of the Grizzly Disclosure Letter, sell, lease, license or otherwise encumber or subject to any Lien or otherwise dispose of, or agree to sell, lease, license or otherwise encumber or subject to any Lien or otherwise dispose of, any of its assets (including capital stock of the Grizzly Subsidiaries), except, in each case, sales, leases, licenses, encumbrances or other dispositions or Liens involving inventory and obsolete equipment, in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice, or other dispositions of assets not in an amount exceeding $20 million in the aggregate;
(f) incur any indebtedness or guarantee or otherwise become contingently liable for any indebtedness or issue or sell any debt securities or warrants or rights to acquire any debt securities of Grizzly or any of the Grizzly Subsidiaries or guarantee any debt securities of others or enter into any material Lease (whether such Lease is an operating or capital Lease) or enter into any interest rate hedge, other than Liabilities incurred (i) under the Grizzly Existing Revolving Credit Agreement in an amount not to exceed $300 million and (ii) in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice and not exceeding $20 million in the aggregate;
(g) (i) grant any material increases in the compensation of any of its directors, officers or employees, except in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice; (ii) pay or agree to pay to any director, officer or employee, whether past or present, any pension, retirement allowance or other employee benefit not required or contemplated by any of the existing benefit, severance, termination, pension or employment plans, contracts or arrangements as in effect on the date hereof, except for the right to receive certain retention and bonus payments that are related to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement that Grizzly may agree to pay and pay to select executives and other employees, which will in no event exceed $10 million in the aggregate; (iii) except in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice, enter into any new, or materially amend any existing, employment or severance or termination, contract with any director, officer or employee; (iv) accelerate the vesting of, or the lapsing of restrictions with respect to, any stock options or other stock-based compensation; or (v) become obligated under any new pension plan, welfare plan, multiemployer plan, employee benefit plan, severance plan, benefit arrangement or similar plan or arrangement that was not in existence on the date hereof, or amend any such plan or arrangement in existence on the date hereof if such amendment would have the effect of materially enhancing any benefits thereunder;
(h) establish, adopt, enter into, terminate or amend any collective bargaining agreement, plan, trust, fund, policy or arrangement with a labor union, labor organization or works council for the benefit of any current or former directors, officers, employees or any of their beneficiaries, except, in each case, (i) as is necessary to comply with applicable Law or (ii) as would not result in a material increase in the cost of maintaining such collective bargaining agreement, plan, trust, fund, policy or arrangement;
(i) authorize, recommend, propose or announce an intention to adopt a plan of complete or partial liquidation or dissolution of Grizzly or any of the Grizzly Subsidiaries;
 
(j) except as required by Law, make any material change in its methods of accounting in effect at the Interim Balance Sheet Date or change its fiscal year;
(k) make, change or revoke any material Tax election or settle, compromise or abandon any material Tax liability, other than in the ordinary course of business, consistent with past practice;
(l) except in the ordinary course of business, consistent with past practice, settle or compromise any actions, suits, arbitrations or proceedings (including any employee grievances) or pay, discharge or satisfy any material claims, liabilities or obligations (absolute, accrued, asserted or unasserted, contingent or otherwise), except (i) the payment, discharge or satisfaction (which includes the payment of final and unappealable judgments) of any such claims, liabilities or obligations in accordance with their terms, of liabilities reflected or reserved against in, or contemplated by, the most recent consolidated financial statements (or the notes thereto) of Grizzly included in Grizzly's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 or (ii) settlement or compromise of litigation if it does not involve a grant of injunctive relief against Grizzly or any of the Grizzly Subsidiaries and any amount paid by Grizzly or any Grizzly Subsidiary to the other party (including as reimbursement of legal fees and expenses) does not exceed $5 million;
(m) enter into any joint venture, partnership or other similar business arrangement for the production of chlorine or caustic soda; or build or establish a plant for the production of chlorine or caustic soda;
(n) enter into or amend any agreement or arrangement with any Affiliate of Grizzly or any Grizzly Subsidiary, other than with wholly owned Grizzly Subsidiaries, on terms less favorable to Grizzly or such Grizzly Subsidiary, as the case may be, than could be reasonably expected to have been obtained with an unaffiliated third party on an arm's-length basis;
(o) except in the ordinary course of business, or as required by Law, terminate or fail to use commercially reasonable efforts to renew any Grizzly Material Contract to which Grizzly or any of the Grizzly Subsidiaries is a party or modify, amend waive, release or assign any material rights or claims thereunder or enter into any Grizzly Material Contract not in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice; or
(p) agree or commit to do any of the foregoing actions.
Section 8.2 . Following the date of this Agreement and prior to the earlier of the Effective Time and the Termination Date, except (i) as required by Law, (ii) as may be consented to in writing by Grizzly (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed), (iii) as may be expressly permitted or contemplated by this Agreement or the other Transaction Agreements (including any schedules thereto) (including any restructurings or reorganizations necessary for the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby), or (iv) as set forth in Section 8.2 of the Burgundy Disclosure Letter, Burgundy and Spinco jointly and severally covenant and agree that each of the Eagle Entities will conduct the Eagle Business in accordance with its ordinary course of business, consistent with past practice, and shall use commercially reasonable efforts to conduct its operations
Conduct of Business by Spinco and Burgundy Pending the Merger
 
in compliance with all Laws applicable to it or to the conduct of its business and to maintain its present business organization, maintain rights and franchises, keep available the services of its current officers and key employees and maintain its relationships with key customers and key suppliers; , , that no action by Burgundy, any of the Burgundy Subsidiaries, Spinco or any of the Spinco Subsidiaries with respect to matters specifically addressed by any other provisions of this shall be deemed a breach of this sentence unless such action would constitute a breach of such other provision. Following the date of this Agreement and prior to the earlier of the Effective Time and the Termination Date (and notwithstanding the immediately preceding sentence), except (i) as may be required by Law, (ii) as may be consented to in writing by Grizzly (which consent shall not, other than with respect to the matters in clauses (g) and (h) of this , as to which Grizzly may grant or withhold its consent in its sole discretion, be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed), (iii) as may be expressly permitted or contemplated by this Agreement or the other Transaction Agreements (including any schedules thereto) (including any restructurings or reorganizations necessary for the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby), or (iv) as set forth in Section 8.2 of the Burgundy Disclosure Letter, none of the Eagle Entities will, and Burgundy will cause all of the Eagle Entities not to:
provided
however
Section 8.2
Section 8.2
(a) (i) split, combine or reclassify any of the capital stock of any member of the Spinco Group or issue or authorize or propose the issuance of any other securities in respect of, in lieu of, or in substitution for, shares of the capital stock of any member of the Spinco Group; or (ii) redeem, repurchase or otherwise acquire, or permit any Subsidiary to redeem, repurchase or otherwise acquire, any shares of the capital stock (including any securities convertible or exchangeable into such capital stock) of any member of the Spinco Group, except as required by the terms of the securities outstanding on the date hereof or any securities issued after the date hereof not in violation of this Agreement or as required by any Spinco Benefit Plan or any awards thereunder outstanding on the date hereof or granted thereunder after the date hereof in accordance with this Agreement;
(b) issue, deliver or sell, or authorize any shares of capital stock of any member of the Spinco Group of any class, any Spinco Voting Debt or any securities convertible into, or any rights, warrants or options to acquire, any such shares, Spinco Voting Debt or convertible securities including additional options or other equity-based awards that could be converted into any option to acquire Spinco Common Stock, other than issuances by a wholly owned Subsidiary of Spinco of its capital stock to such Subsidiary's parent or another wholly owned Subsidiary of Spinco;
(c) amend the certificate of incorporation or bylaws (or other similar organizational documents) of any member of the Spinco Group, other than an amendment to the certificate of incorporation of Spinco to increase the number of authorized shares of Spinco Common Stock in connection with the Distribution;
(d) acquire or agree to acquire by merger or consolidation, or by purchasing a substantial equity interest in or a substantial portion of the assets of, or by any other manner, any business or any corporation, partnership, limited liability entity, joint venture, association or other business organization or division thereof, in each case, that would be a Spinco Asset pursuant to the Separation Agreement; or otherwise acquire or agree to acquire any material assets that would be a Spinco Asset pursuant to the Separation Agreement (excluding the acquisition of assets
 
used in the operations of the business of Spinco and the Spinco Subsidiaries in the ordinary course consistent with past practice, which assets do not constitute a business unit, division or all or substantially all of the assets of the transferor);
(e) except in the ordinary course of business, consistent with past practice, sell, lease, license or otherwise encumber or subject to any Lien or otherwise dispose of, or agree to sell, lease, license or otherwise encumber or subject to any Lien or otherwise dispose of, any of its assets (including capital stock of Spinco Subsidiaries), except, in each case, sales, leases, licenses, encumbrances or other dispositions or Liens involving inventory and obsolete equipment, in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice, or other dispositions of assets not in an amount exceeding $2 million in the aggregate;
(f) incur any indebtedness or guarantee or otherwise become contingently liable for any indebtedness or issue or sell any debt securities or warrants or rights to acquire any debt securities of any member of the Spinco Group or guarantee any debt securities of others or enter into any material Lease (whether such Lease is an operating or capital Lease) or enter into any interest rate hedge, other than Liabilities that would not be included in the Spinco Liabilities or Liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice, or other Liabilities not exceeding $500,000 in the aggregate;
(g) (i) grant any material increases in the compensation of any Spinco Employee, except in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice; (ii) pay or agree to pay to any Spinco Employee, any pension, retirement allowance or other employee benefit not required or contemplated by any of the existing benefit, severance, termination, pension or employment plans, contracts or arrangements as in effect on the date hereof, except for the right to receive the retention and bonus payments for select Spinco Employees set forth in Article VIII of the Employee Matters Agreement; (iii) except in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice, enter into any new, or materially amend any existing, employment or severance or termination, contract with any Spinco Employee; or (iv) except in connection with an action that applies uniformly to all similarly situated employees of Burgundy and the Burgundy Subsidiaries and that is not exclusive to the Spinco Employees, become obligated with respect to any Spinco Employee under any new pension plan, welfare plan, multiemployer plan, employee benefit plan, severance plan, benefit arrangement or similar plan or arrangement that was not in existence on the date hereof, or amend any such plan or arrangement in existence on the date hereof if such amendment would have the effect of materially enhancing any benefits thereunder;
(h) establish, adopt, enter into, terminate or amend any collective bargaining agreement, plan, trust, fund, policy or arrangement with a labor union, labor organization or works council for the benefit of any Spinco Employees or any of their beneficiaries, except, in each case, (i) as contemplated by the Employee Matters Agreement; (ii) as is necessary to comply with applicable Law; (iii) as would not result in a material increase in the cost of maintaining such collective bargaining agreement, plan, trust, fund, policy or arrangement; (iv) in connection with an action that applies uniformly to all similarly situated employees of Burgundy and its Subsidiaries and that is not exclusive to the Spinco Employees; or (v) as set forth in Section 8.2(h) of the Burgundy Disclosure Letter;
 
(i) authorize, recommend, propose or announce an intention to adopt a plan of complete or partial liquidation or dissolution of Spinco;
(j) except as required by Law, make any material change in its methods of accounting in effect at the Interim Balance Sheet Date or change its fiscal year, to the extent it relates solely to the Eagle Business;
(k) make, change or revoke any material Tax election in respect of the Eagle Business that would bind Spinco or a Spinco Subsidiary for periods following the Effective Time or settle, compromise or abandon any material Tax liability for which Spinco or a Spinco Subsidiary would be responsible under the Tax Matters Agreement, in each case other than in the ordinary course of business, consistent with past practice;
(l) except in the ordinary course of business, consistent with past practice, settle or compromise any actions, suits, arbitrations or proceedings (including any employee grievances) or pay, discharge or satisfy any material claims, liabilities or obligations (absolute, accrued, asserted or unasserted, contingent or otherwise), except (i) the payment, discharge or satisfaction (which includes the payment of final and unappealable judgments) of any such claims, liabilities or obligations in accordance with their terms, of liabilities reflected or reserved against in, or contemplated by, the Spinco Financial Statements, or incurred in the ordinary course of business since the date of such financial statements), or (ii) settlement or compromise of litigation if it does not involve a grant of injunctive relief against the Eagle Entities and the amount paid to the other parties (including as reimbursement of legal fees and expenses) in respect of all such settlements and compromises of litigation does not exceed $2,000,000 in the aggregate;
(m) enter into or amend any agreement or arrangement that will be a Spinco Contract as of the Closing with any Affiliate of Burgundy or any Burgundy Subsidiary (other than Spinco or a Spinco Subsidiary);
(n) except in the ordinary course of business, or as required by Law, terminate or fail to use commercially reasonable efforts to renew any Spinco Material Contract, or any Contract that provides for annual payments in excess of $2 million by or to any member of the Spinco Group, or modify, amend, waive, release or assign any material rights or claims under any such Contract or any Spinco Material Contract, or enter into any Spinco Material Contract or any Contract that provides for annual payments in excess of $2 million by or to any member of the Spinco Group, in any such case, not in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice;
(o) issue to Current Spinco Employees any additional Burgundy Options or Burgundy PSU Awards that would be subject to Section 3.4 of this Agreement, or modify or waive the terms of any outstanding Burgundy Options or Burgundy PSU Awards that are subject to Section 3.4 of this Agreement, or modify or waive the terms of any Burgundy Stock Plan as applied to any outstanding Burgundy Options or Burgundy PSU Awards that are subject to Section 3.4 of this Agreement;
(p) fail to make an amount of capital expenditures for the Eagle Business set forth in Section 8.2(p) of the Burgundy Disclosure Letter; or
 
(q) agree or commit to do any of the foregoing actions.
Section 8.3 .
Tax Matters
(a) . Prior to the Effective Time, and from time to time, each of Burgundy, Spinco and Grizzly agrees to use its reasonable best efforts to (i) cause the Contribution and Distribution, taken together, to qualify as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code; (ii) cause the Merger to qualify as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code; and (iii) facilitate the issuance of the Private Letter Ruling (including the IRS D Reorganization Ruling and the IRS Debt Exchange Ruling), including by (x) in the case of Burgundy, modifying or terminating the Burgundy Commitment Letter and (y) in the case of Grizzly, consenting to such changes to the Burgundy Commitment Letter, in each case as may be reasonably necessary or appropriate to facilitate the issuance of the IRS Debt Exchange Ruling. In the event that, as a result of any modification or termination effected as a result of this , the Burgundy Commitment Letter no longer provides for the exchange of Spinco Exchange Debt in full satisfaction of the Burgundy Debt (the ""), Grizzly shall use its reasonable best efforts to arrange and obtain a bridge facility from the lenders under the Burgundy Financing for the purpose of financing the Special Above Basis Debt/Cash Distribution as promptly as practicable following the occurrence of the Trigger Event, including using reasonable best efforts to enter into definitive agreements with respect thereto.
Certain Tax Efforts
Section 8.3
Trigger Event
(b) .
IRS Ruling
(i) Burgundy has submitted to the IRS a request (the "") for the IRS D Reorganization Ruling, the IRS Debt Exchange Ruling and certain related rulings. Burgundy in consultation with Grizzly, shall prepare and submit to the IRS supplemental materials relating thereto that Burgundy determines are necessary or appropriate to obtain the requested rulings from the IRS (each, an ""). As soon as reasonably practicable after the date of this Agreement, Burgundy shall submit one or more such IRS Submissions that include, but need not be limited to, the modifications described in Schedule 8.3(b)(i) of this Agreement (the ""). Burgundy shall provide Grizzly with a reasonable opportunity to review and comment on each material IRS Submission prior to the filing of such IRS Submission with the IRS and Burgundy shall, in good faith, consider any comments provided by Grizzly on each such material IRS Submission; that Burgundy may redact from any IRS Submission any information ("") that (x) Burgundy, in its good faith judgment, considers to be confidential and not germane to Grizzly's or Spinco's obligations under this Agreement or any of the other Transaction Agreements, and (y) is not a part of any other publicly available information, including any non-confidential filing. No IRS Submission (including, without limitation, the Specified Submissions) shall be filed with the IRS unless, prior to such filing, Grizzly shall have agreed (which agreement will not be withheld unreasonably, conditioned or delayed) as to the contents of such IRS Submission, to the extent that such contents include statements or representations that Grizzly reasonably and in good faith determines will have a material effect on Grizzly or any of its Affiliates (including Spinco or the Spinco Subsidiaries for periods after the Effective Time) (it being agreed and understood that Grizzly has consented to the statements and representations in the Ruling Request). Burgundy shall provide Grizzly with copies of each IRS Submission as filed with the IRS promptly following the filing thereof, provided that Burgundy may redact any Redactable Information from the IRS Submission.
Ruling Request
IRS Submission
Specified Submissions
provided
Redactable Information
 
(ii) Subject to Schedule 8.3(b)(ii), Burgundy shall use its reasonable best efforts to notify Grizzly and Grizzly's representatives of any substantive communications with the IRS regarding any material issue arising with respect to the Ruling Request, including, without limitation, the Specified Submission, and to give Grizzly (or Grizzly's representatives) a reasonable opportunity to participate in any meetings or conferences with IRS personnel regarding such material issue, whether telephonically, in person or otherwise. Solely for the avoidance of doubt, nothing in this shall provide grounds for Spinco or Grizzly to alter any obligation or limitation imposed upon it under this Agreement.
Section 8.3(b)(ii)
(c) . Each of Burgundy, Spinco and Grizzly agrees to use its reasonable best efforts to obtain the Distribution Tax Opinion. The Distribution Tax Opinion shall be based upon the Ruling Request, the IRS Submissions and the Private Letter Ruling (including the IRS D Reorganization Ruling and the IRS Debt Exchange Ruling) and customary representations and covenants, including those contained in certificates of Burgundy, Spinco, Grizzly and others, reasonably satisfactory in form and substance to Burgundy Tax Counsel (such representations and covenants, the ""). Each of Burgundy, Spinco and Grizzly shall deliver to Burgundy Tax Counsel for purposes of the Distribution Tax Opinion customary Distribution Tax Representations, reasonably satisfactory in form and substance to Burgundy Tax Counsel.
Distribution Tax Opinion
Distribution Tax Representations
(d) . Burgundy and Spinco, on the one hand, and Grizzly, on the other hand, shall cooperate with each other in obtaining, and shall use their respective reasonable best efforts to obtain, a written opinion of Burgundy Tax Counsel, in the case of Burgundy and Spinco, and Jones Day, in the case of Grizzly (""), in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Burgundy and Grizzly, respectively (each such opinion, a ""), dated as of the Effective Time, to the effect that, on the basis of facts, representations and assumptions set forth in such opinion, the Merger will be treated as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code. Each of Grizzly, Burgundy and Spinco shall deliver to Grizzly Tax Counsel and Burgundy Tax Counsel for purposes of the Merger Tax Opinions customary representations and covenants, including those contained in certificates of Grizzly, Burgundy, Spinco and others, reasonably satisfactory in form and substance to Grizzly Tax Counsel and Burgundy Tax Counsel.
Merger Tax Opinions
Grizzly Tax Counsel
Merger Tax Opinion
(e) .
Canadian Tax Matters
(i) Each of Burgundy and Grizzly, together with Burgundy Tax Counsel, Grizzly Tax Counsel, and their other respective advisors as determined by each, shall consult with each other in good faith, and shall consult together with and seek a ruling (the "") from the Canadian Revenue Agency ("") substantially to the effect that the "Canadian Butterfly" transactions described in the Ruling Request (the "") will qualify as a tax-free transaction for Canadian income tax purposes under the potential transaction structures contemplated by Burgundy and Grizzly and in accordance with Schedule 8.3(e).
CRA Ruling Request
CRA
Canadian Butterfly Transaction
 
(ii) Burgundy shall (A) notify Grizzly and Grizzly's representatives of any substantive communications with the CRA regarding the effect of the Merger on the intended tax-free treatment of the Canadian Butterfly Transaction for Canadian income tax purposes, give Grizzly (or Grizzly's representatives) a reasonable opportunity to participate in any scheduled meetings or conferences with CRA personnel regarding the effect of the Merger on the intended tax-free treatment of the Canadian Butterfly Transaction, whether telephonically, in person or otherwise, and use reasonable best efforts to schedule or re-schedule any meetings or conferences with the CRA personnel regarding the effect of the Merger on the intended tax-free treatment of the Canadian Butterfly Transaction; and (B) use its reasonable best efforts to notify Grizzly and Grizzly's representatives of any substantive communications with the CRA regarding any material issue arising with respect to the CRA Ruling Request and to give Grizzly (or Grizzly's representatives) a reasonable opportunity to participate in any meetings or conferences with CRA personnel regarding such material issue, whether telephonically, in person or otherwise. Solely for the avoidance of doubt, nothing in this shall provide grounds for Spinco or Grizzly to alter any obligation or limitation imposed upon it under this Agreement.
Section 8.3(e)(ii)
Section 8.4 .
Proxy Statement/Prospectus
(a) As promptly as reasonably practicable following the date hereof, Grizzly, Burgundy and Spinco shall prepare, and Grizzly shall file with the SEC, the Registration Statement, including the Proxy Statement/Prospectus with respect to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, and Grizzly shall use its reasonable best efforts to have such Proxy Statement/Prospectus cleared by the SEC under the Exchange Act and the Registration Statement declared effective by the SEC under the Securities Act, as promptly as reasonably practicable after such filings or at such other time as Burgundy, Spinco and Grizzly may agree. The Registration Statement and the Proxy Statement/Prospectus will comply as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the Exchange Act and the Securities Act and the rules and regulations of the SEC thereunder.
(b) As promptly as reasonably practicable following the date hereof (in the event Burgundy elects to complete the Distribution by way of an Exchange Offer (followed by a Clean-Up Spin-Off)) or following the mailing of the Proxy Statement/Prospectus (in the event Burgundy elects to complete the Distribution by way of a One-Step Spin-Off), in each case if required under the Securities Act and/or Exchange Act (or otherwise required by the SEC), Grizzly, Burgundy and Spinco shall prepare, and Spinco shall file with the SEC, the Spinco Registration Statement and Spinco shall use its reasonable best efforts to have such Spinco Registration Statement declared effective by the SEC under the Securities Act, as promptly as practicable after such filings or at such other time as Burgundy, Spinco and Grizzly may agree. The Spinco Registration Statement will comply as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the Securities Act and the rules and regulations of the SEC thereunder.
(c) As promptly as practicable after the date on which the SEC shall clear (whether orally or in writing) the Proxy Statement/Prospectus and, if required by the SEC as a condition to
 
the mailing of the Proxy Statement/Prospectus, the date on which the Registration Statement shall have been declared effective, Grizzly shall mail, or cause to be mailed, the Proxy Statement/Prospectus to its stockholders.
(d) In the event Burgundy elects to complete the Distribution by way of an Exchange Offer (followed by a Clean-Up Spin-Off), as promptly as practicable after the date the Spinco Registration Statement has been declared effective, and to the extent such filings are required by applicable law, Grizzly, Burgundy and Spinco shall prepare and Burgundy will file with the SEC a Schedule TO (the "").
Schedule TO
(e) Grizzly shall, as promptly as practicable after receipt thereof, provide to Burgundy copies of any written comments and advise Burgundy of any oral comments with respect to the Proxy Statement/Prospectus and the Registration Statement received from the SEC. Burgundy shall, as promptly as practicable after receipt thereof, provide to Grizzly copies of any written comments and advise Grizzly of any oral comments with respect to the Spinco Registration Statement received from the SEC.
(f) Grizzly shall provide Burgundy with a reasonable opportunity to review and comment on any amendment or supplement to the Proxy Statement/Prospectus or Registration Statement (which comments shall be reasonably considered by Grizzly) prior to filing the same with the SEC, and with a copy of all such filings made with the SEC. Grizzly will advise Burgundy promptly after it receives notice thereof, of the time when the Registration Statement has become effective or any supplement or amendment has been filed, of the issuance of any stop order, of the suspension of the qualification of the Grizzly Common Stock issuable in connection with the Merger for offering or sale in any jurisdiction, or of any request by the SEC for amendment of the Proxy Statement/Prospectus or the Registration Statement or comments thereon and responses thereto or requests by the SEC for additional information.
(g) Burgundy shall provide Grizzly with a reasonable opportunity to review and comment on any amendment or supplement to the Spinco Registration Statement or the Schedule TO (which comments shall be reasonably considered by Burgundy) prior to filing the same with the SEC, and with a copy of all such filings made with the SEC. Burgundy will advise Grizzly promptly after it receives notice thereof, of the time when the Spinco Registration Statement has become effective or any supplement or amendment has been filed, of the issuance of any stop order, of the suspension of the qualification of the Spinco Common Stock issuable in connection with the Distribution for offering or sale in any jurisdiction, or of any request by the SEC for amendment of the Spinco Registration Statement or the Schedule TO or comments thereon and responses thereto or requests by the SEC for additional information.
(h) If, at any time prior to the Effective Time, any event or circumstance should occur that results in the Proxy Statement/Prospectus, the Registration Statement, the Spinco Registration Statement or the Schedule TO containing an untrue statement of a material fact or omitting to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they are made, not misleading, or that otherwise should be described in an amendment or supplement to the Proxy Statement/Prospectus, the Registration Statement, the Spinco Registration Statement or the Schedule TO, Burgundy, Spinco and Grizzly shall promptly notify each other of the occurrence of such event and then promptly prepare, file and clear with the SEC and mail, or cause to be mailed, to Grizzly's stockholders each such amendment or supplement.
 
(i) Burgundy and Spinco agree to promptly provide Grizzly with the information concerning Burgundy and Spinco and their respective Affiliates required to be included in the Proxy Statement/Prospectus and the Registration Statement. In furtherance of the foregoing, Burgundy and Spinco shall use all reasonable best efforts to, or shall use all reasonable best efforts to cause their respective representatives to, furnish promptly to Grizzly such additional financial and operating data and other information, as to their and their respective Subsidiaries' businesses as Grizzly may require in connection with the preparation of the Proxy Statement/Prospectus and the Registration Statement.
(j) Grizzly agrees to promptly provide Burgundy and Spinco with the information concerning Grizzly and its Affiliates required to be included in the Spinco Registration Statement and the Schedule TO. In furtherance of the foregoing, Grizzly shall use all reasonable best efforts to, or shall use all reasonable best efforts to cause its representatives to, furnish promptly to Burgundy and Spinco such additional financial and operating data and other information, as to it and its Subsidiaries' businesses as Burgundy and Spinco may require in connection with the preparation of the Spinco Registration Statement and the Schedule TO.
Section 8.5 .
Stockholders Meeting
(a) As promptly as practicable following the date on which the SEC shall clear (whether orally or in writing) the Proxy Statement/Prospectus and, if required by the SEC as a condition to the mailing of the Proxy Statement/Prospectus, the Registration Statement shall have been declared effective, Grizzly shall call a meeting of its stockholders (the "") to be held as promptly as practicable for the purpose of voting upon (i) the issuance of shares of Grizzly Common Stock pursuant to the Merger and (ii) related matters (including, to the extent applicable, the transactions contemplated by Schedule 8.3(e)). This Agreement shall be submitted to the stockholders of Grizzly at such meeting for the purpose of obtaining the approval by the stockholders of Grizzly of the issuance of shares of Grizzly Common Stock pursuant to the Merger (and, to the extent applicable, the transactions contemplated by Schedule 8.3(e)). Grizzly shall deliver, or cause to be delivered, to Grizzly's stockholders the Proxy Statement/Prospectus in definitive form in connection with the Grizzly Stockholders Meeting at the time and in the manner provided by the applicable provisions of the DGCL, the Exchange Act and the Grizzly Charter and Grizzly Bylaws and shall conduct the Grizzly Stockholders Meeting and the solicitation of proxies in connection therewith in compliance with such statutes, the Grizzly Charter and Grizzly Bylaws.
Grizzly Stockholders Meeting
(b) Subject to the provisions of this Agreement, the Proxy Statement/Prospectus shall include the Grizzly Recommendation and Grizzly shall use its reasonable best efforts to obtain the Grizzly Stockholder Approval; , , that if the Grizzly Board effects a Change in Recommendation, Grizzly may cease to use such efforts; , , that in such event, Grizzly shall nevertheless call the Grizzly Stockholders Meeting for the purposes of voting on the matters set forth in and submit such matters to the vote of the Grizzly Stockholders.
provided
however
provided
further
Section 8.5(a)
 
Section 8.6 . As promptly as practicable following the date hereof, Grizzly shall make application to the NYSE for the listing of the shares of Grizzly Common Stock to be issued pursuant to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and use all reasonable best efforts to cause such shares to be Approved for Listing.
Listing
Section 8.7 .
Reasonable Best Efforts
(a) Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, each party will use its reasonable best efforts to take, or cause to be taken, all actions and to do, or cause to be done, and to assist and cooperate with the other parties in doing or causing to be done, all things necessary, proper or advisable under this Agreement and applicable Laws to consummate the Merger and the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement as soon as practicable after the date hereof, including (i) preparing and filing as promptly as practicable all documentation to effect all necessary applications, notices, petitions, filings and Tax ruling requests and to obtain as promptly as practicable all Grizzly Approvals and Burgundy Approvals and all other consents, waivers, licenses, orders, registrations, approvals, permits, rulings, authorizations and clearances necessary or advisable to be obtained from any third party and/or any Governmental Authority in order to consummate the Merger or any of the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement (collectively, the ""), (ii) taking all reasonable steps as may be necessary to obtain all Approvals (including Grizzly providing a guarantee of Spinco's obligations as reasonably necessary to obtain such Approvals) and (iii) taking reasonable efforts to share information protected from disclosure under the attorney-client privilege, work product doctrine, joint defense privilege or any other privilege pursuant to this in a manner so as to preserve the applicable privilege. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this , materials provided to the other party or its outside counsel may be redacted to remove references concerning valuation. In furtherance and not in limitation of the foregoing, each party hereto agrees to make (i) an appropriate filing of a Notification and Report Form pursuant to the HSR Act with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby as promptly as practicable, and in any event within 20 Business Days after the date hereof, (ii) appropriate filings, if any are required, with foreign regulatory authorities in accordance with applicable competition, merger control, antitrust, investment or similar applicable Laws, including the Competition Act (""), with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby as promptly as practicable and (iii) all other necessary filings with other Governmental Authorities relating to the Merger, and, in each case, to supply as promptly as practicable any additional information and documentary material that may be requested pursuant to such applicable Laws or by such authorities and to use reasonable best efforts to cause the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting periods under the HSR Act and the receipt of the Approvals under such other applicable Laws or from such authorities as soon as practicable. In connection with and without limiting the foregoing, each of Grizzly and Merger Sub, on the one hand, and Burgundy and Spinco, on the other hand, shall, in connection with the efforts referenced in this to obtain all Approvals, use its reasonable best efforts to (i) cooperate in all respects with each other in connection with any filing or submission and in connection with any investigation or other inquiry, including any proceeding initiated by a private party, (ii) promptly inform the other party of any communication received by such party from, or given by such party to, the Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice (the ""), the Federal Trade Commission (the "") or any other Governmental Authority and of any material communication received or given in connection with any proceeding by a private party, in each case regarding any of the transactions contemplated hereby (and in each
Approvals
Section 8.7
Section 8.7
Foreign Competition Laws
Section 8.7
DOJ
FTC
 
case, if any such communication is in writing, share a copy with the other party) and (iii) permit the other party to review in advance any communication to be given by it to, and consult with each other in advance of any meeting or material telephone call with, the DOJ, the FTC or any such other Governmental Authority or, in connection with any proceeding by a private party, with any other Person, and to the extent permitted by the DOJ, the FTC or such other applicable Governmental Authority or other Person, give the other party the opportunity to attend and participate in such meetings and conferences.
(b) Without limiting this , but subject to the next sentence of this , each of the parties agrees to take, or to cause to be taken, any and all steps and to make any and all undertakings necessary to avoid or eliminate each and every impediment under any antitrust, merger control, competition or trade regulation Law that may be asserted by any Governmental Authority with respect to the Merger so as to enable the Closing to occur as soon as reasonably possible, including proposing, negotiating, committing to, and effecting, by consent decree, hold separate order, or otherwise, the sale, divestiture, licensing or disposition of such assets or businesses of Spinco (or the Spinco Subsidiaries) or Grizzly (or the Grizzly Subsidiaries), as applicable, or otherwise taking or committing to take actions that limit Spinco's or the Spinco Subsidiaries' or Grizzly's or the Grizzly Subsidiaries', as applicable, freedom of action with respect to, or their ability to retain, any of the businesses, product lines or assets of Spinco (or the Spinco Subsidiaries) or Grizzly (or the Grizzly Subsidiaries), in each case, as may be required in order to avoid the entry of, or to effect the dissolution of, any injunction, temporary restraining order, or other order in any suit or proceeding, which would otherwise have the effect of preventing the Closing; provided that the effectiveness of any such sale, divestiture, license or disposition or action or commitment shall be contingent on consummation of the Merger. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the obligations of this (i) shall not apply to each of the parties if compliance with this would result in, or would reasonably be expected to result in, a Material Adverse Effect on the Eagle Business and (ii) for the avoidance of doubt, shall not require Burgundy to agree to any sale, divestiture, licensing or disposition of any assets or businesses, or restriction or change in the ownership, conduct or operations of any assets or businesses, that are not included in the Eagle Business.
Section 8.7
Section 8.7(b)
Section 8.7(b)
Section 8.7(b)
Section 8.8 .
Accounting Matters
(a) In connection with the information regarding the Eagle Business or the transactions contemplated by this Agreement provided by Spinco specifically for inclusion in, or incorporation by reference into, the Proxy Statement/Prospectus, the Registration Statement and the Spinco Registration Statement, to the extent that such letters are customarily delivered, Burgundy shall use all reasonable best efforts to cause to be delivered to Grizzly two letters of Deloitte & Touche LLP, one dated the date on which each of the Registration Statement and the Spinco Registration Statement shall become effective and the other dated the Closing Date, and addressed to Grizzly and Merger Sub, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Grizzly and customary in scope and substance for letters delivered by independent public accountants in connection with registration statements similar to the Registration Statement and the Spinco Registration Statement.
(b) In connection with the information regarding Grizzly or its Subsidiaries or the transactions contemplated by this Agreement provided by Grizzly specifically for inclusion in, or
 
incorporation by reference into, the Proxy Statement/Prospectus, the Registration Statement and the Spinco Registration Statement, to the extent that such letters are customarily delivered, Grizzly shall use all reasonable best efforts to cause to be delivered to Spinco two letters of each of Deloitte & Touche LLP and Ernst & Young LLP, one dated the date on which each of the Registration Statement and the Spinco Registration Statement shall become effective and the other dated the Closing Date, and addressed to Burgundy and Spinco, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Burgundy and customary in scope and substance for letters delivered by independent public accountants in connection with registration statements similar to the Registration Statement and the Spinco Registration Statement.
Section 8.9 . Upon reasonable notice, (i) each of the Eagle Entities and Spinco, on the one hand, and (ii) Grizzly, on the other hand, shall, subject to applicable Law, afford to the other and to its respective officers, employees, accountants, counsel and other authorized representatives, reasonable access during normal business hours, throughout the period prior to the earlier of the Effective Time or the Termination Date, to its and its Subsidiaries' officers, employees, accountants, consultants, representatives, plants, properties, Contracts, commitments, books, records (including Tax Returns) and any report, schedule or other document filed or received by it pursuant to the requirements of the federal or state securities laws, and shall use all reasonable best efforts to cause its respective representatives to furnish promptly to the other such additional financial and operating data and other information, including environmental information, as to its and its Subsidiaries' respective businesses and properties as the others or their respective duly authorized representatives, as the case may be, may reasonably request; that nothing in this Agreement shall require any Person to permit any inspection or disclose any information to another Person that would cause a violation of any Contract, would cause a risk of a loss of privilege to the first Person, that is competitively sensitive information or to permit another Person to perform any onsite procedure with respect to any of the first Person's or its Subsidiaries' properties ( that the Person that would otherwise be required to disclose information to the other shall take any and all reasonable action necessary to permit such disclosure without such loss of privilege or violation of agreement or Law). Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, none of the parties shall be obligated to grant any access or make any disclosure in violation of applicable Laws or regulations, or if it would unreasonably interfere with the conduct of such party's business or result in damage to property (other than immaterial damage), without that party's written consent (which that party may grant or deny at its sole discretion), or grant any access to, or make any disclosure of, any customer Contracts. The parties hereby agree that the provisions of the Confidentiality Agreement shall apply to all information and material furnished by any party or its representatives thereunder and hereunder. The Confidentiality Agreement shall survive any termination of this Agreement.
Access to Information
provided
provided
Section 8.10 .
Acquisition Proposals
(a) Grizzly will not, and will cause its Subsidiaries not to, and will use its reasonable best efforts to cause Grizzly's and its Subsidiaries' respective officers, directors, employees, agents and representatives (including any investment banker, attorney or accountant retained by it or any of its Subsidiaries, the "") not to, (i) initiate or solicit, or knowingly facilitate, assist or encourage, directly or indirectly, any inquiries with respect to, or the encouragement or making of, any Grizzly Acquisition Proposal, (ii) except as permitted below in ,
Representatives
Sec
tion 8.10(b)
 
engage in negotiations or discussions with, furnish access to its properties, books and records or provide any information or data to, or cooperate with, any Person relating to a Grizzly Acquisition Proposal, (iii) except as permitted below in , approve, endorse or recommend, or propose publicly to approve, endorse or recommend, any Grizzly Acquisition Proposal, (iv) execute or enter into any letter of intent, agreement in principle, merger agreement, acquisition agreement or other similar agreement relating to any Acquisition Proposal (other than an Acceptable Confidentiality Agreement entered into in accordance with ), (v) waive, terminate, modify or fail to enforce any provision of any "standstill" obligation of any Person other than Burgundy, (vi) take any action to make the provisions of any "fair price," "moratorium," "control share acquisition," "business combination" or other similar anti-takeover statute or regulation (including any transaction under, or a third party becoming an "interested shareholder" under, Section 203 of the DGCL) inapplicable to any transactions contemplated by a Grizzly Acquisition Proposal (and, to the extent permitted thereunder, Grizzly shall promptly take all steps necessary to terminate any waiver that may have been heretofore granted, to any Person other than Burgundy or any of Burgundy's Affiliates, under any such provisions), or (vii) resolve, propose or agree to do any of the foregoing. Grizzly shall immediately cease any solicitations, discussions or negotiations with any Person that has made or indicated an intention to make a Grizzly Acquisition Proposal (except Burgundy, Spinco and their respective Representatives). It is understood that any violation of the restrictions set forth in this by any of the Grizzly Subsidiaries or any of Grizzly's or the Grizzly Subsidiaries' Representatives shall be deemed to be a breach of this by Grizzly.
Section 8.10(d)
Section 8.10(b)
Section 8.10(a)
Section 8.10(a)
(b) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, at any time prior to obtaining the Grizzly Stockholder Approval, in the event that Grizzly receives a written Grizzly Acquisition Proposal that did not result from a breach of , Grizzly and the Grizzly Board may participate in discussions or negotiations (including, as a part thereof, making any counterproposal) with, or furnish, pursuant to an Acceptable Confidentiality Agreement, any information to ( that all such information has previously been provided or made available to Burgundy or is provided or made available to Burgundy substantially concurrently with the time it is so furnished), any Person making such Grizzly Acquisition Proposal and its Representatives or potential sources of financing if the Grizzly Board determines in good faith, after consultation with outside legal counsel and a financial advisor, that such Grizzly Acquisition Proposal could reasonably lead to the receipt of a Grizzly Superior Proposal. In addition, nothing herein shall restrict Grizzly from complying with its disclosure obligations with regard to any Grizzly Acquisition Proposal under applicable Law; , , that any action that would constitute a Change in Recommendation may only be made in compliance with . For purposes of this Agreement, a "" means any written offer made by a third party to acquire, directly or indirectly, by merger, consolidation or other business combination or other similar acquisition transaction, for consideration consisting of cash and/or securities, at least a majority of the shares of the Grizzly Common Stock then outstanding or all or substantially all of the assets of Grizzly and the Grizzly Subsidiaries, with respect to which the Grizzly Board (after consultation with outside legal counsel and a financial advisor) has determined in its good faith judgment that the consummation of the transactions contemplated by such written offer (x) would be more favorable to Grizzly's stockholders than the Merger, after taking into account all the terms and conditions of such proposal (including the financial aspects of such proposal, the form of consideration, the likelihood, ability to finance, conditionality and timing of consummation of such proposal, any break-up fees, expense reimbursement
bona fide
Section 8.10(a)
provided
provided
however
Section 8.10(d)
Grizzly Superior Proposal
bona fide
 
provisions and any other aspects of the transaction described in such proposal, including the identity of the Person or "group" (as defined in or under Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act) making such proposal) and this Agreement (including any changes to the terms of this Agreement proposed in writing by Burgundy to Grizzly in response to such proposal or otherwise), and (y) would be reasonably likely to be completed on the terms proposed on a timely basis, taking into account all financial, legal, regulatory and other aspects of such proposal; and an "" means any customary confidentiality agreement that contains provisions that are no less restrictive to such Person, and no less favorable to Grizzly, than those contained in the Confidentiality Agreement.
Acceptable Confidentiality Agreement
(c) Grizzly will promptly (and in any event within one Business Day after receipt) notify Burgundy of the receipt by Grizzly of any Grizzly Acquisition Proposal, which notice shall include the identity of the Person(s) making such Grizzly Acquisition Proposal and copies of any written materials evidencing such Grizzly Acquisition Proposal. Grizzly will keep Burgundy reasonably informed of the status and material terms and conditions of any such Grizzly Acquisition Proposal. Without limitation of the foregoing, Grizzly will promptly provide to Burgundy (and in any event within one Business Day) any material modifications to the terms of any Grizzly Acquisition Proposal (including promptly furnishing copies of any written materials evidencing such material modifications) and will promptly notify Burgundy of any determination by the Grizzly Board that a Grizzly Acquisition Proposal constitutes a Grizzly Superior Proposal. Grizzly shall not, and shall cause Grizzly's Subsidiaries not to, enter into any Contract with any Person subsequent to the date of this Agreement, and neither Grizzly nor any of its Subsidiaries is party to any Contract, in each case, that prohibits Grizzly from complying with its obligations under this .
Section 8.10
(d) Except as expressly permitted by this , Grizzly and the Grizzly Board shall not (i) fail to include the Grizzly Recommendation in the Proxy Statement/Prospectus, (ii) withhold, withdraw, amend, change, qualify or modify in a manner adverse to Burgundy, or publicly propose to withhold, withdraw, amend, change, qualify or modify in a manner adverse to Burgundy, the Grizzly Recommendation, (iii) approve, endorse, adopt or recommend to the stockholders of Grizzly any Grizzly Acquisition Proposal, or publicly propose to approve, adopt or recommend to the stockholders of Grizzly any Grizzly Acquisition Proposal or (iv) enter into any agreement, letter of intent, or agreement in principle requiring Grizzly to abandon, terminate or fail to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby or breach its obligations hereunder (any of (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) above being referred to as a ""). Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Grizzly Board, at any time prior to obtaining the Grizzly Stockholder Approval, subject to , may effect a Change in Recommendation contemplated by clauses (i), (ii) or (iii) of the definition thereof, if the Grizzly Board has received a written Grizzly Acquisition Proposal that it determines in good faith (after consultation with outside legal counsel and a financial advisor) constitutes a Grizzly Superior Proposal, and the Grizzly Board has determined in good faith (after consultation with outside legal counsel) that the failure to effect a Change in Recommendation would be reasonably likely to constitute a breach of its fiduciary duties under applicable Law.
Section 8.10(d)
Change in Recommendation
Section 8.10(e)
bona fide
(e) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, Grizzly and the Grizzly Board may not make a Change in Recommendation otherwise permitted by unless (i) it notifies Burgundy in writing of its intention to take such action at least
Section 8.10(d)
 
five (5) Business Days prior to taking such action, identifying the Person(s) making such Grizzly Superior Proposal and providing copies of any written materials evidencing such Grizzly Superior Proposal, (ii) if requested by Burgundy, Grizzly and its Representatives shall have made themselves available to discuss with Burgundy and its Representatives any proposed modifications to the terms and conditions of this Agreement and shall have negotiated in good faith with Burgundy during such notice period to enable Burgundy to propose changes to the terms of this Agreement intended to cause such Grizzly Superior Proposal to no longer constitute a Grizzly Superior Proposal, (iii) the Grizzly Board shall have considered in good faith (after consultation with outside legal counsel and a financial advisor) any changes to this Agreement proposed in writing by Burgundy and determined that the Grizzly Superior Proposal would continue to constitute a Grizzly Superior Proposal if such changes were to be given effect, and (iv) in the event of any change to any of the financial terms (including the form or amount of consideration) or any material terms of such Grizzly Superior Proposal, Grizzly shall, in each case, have delivered to Burgundy an additional notice and copies of the relevant proposed transaction agreement and other material documents and a new three (3) Business Day notice period shall commence upon such delivery, during which time subsections (ii), (iii) and (iv) above shall apply; , that if any Grizzly Superior Proposal is received less than five (5) Business Days prior to the Grizzly Stockholders Meeting, or changes to the terms of a Grizzly Superior Proposal are proposed less than three (3) Business Days prior to the Grizzly Stockholders Meeting, then the, as applicable, five (5) Business Day or three (3) Business Day period contemplated above shall be shortened such that it will expire as of the close of business on the day preceding the Grizzly Stockholders Meeting, unless the Grizzly Stockholders Meeting is postponed.
provided
(f) Nothing contained in this shall prohibit Grizzly from (i) taking and disclosing to its stockholders a position contemplated by Rule 14d-9 or Rule 14e-2(a) promulgated under the Exchange Act or (ii) making any disclosure to its stockholders if the Grizzly Board determines in good faith (after consultation with its outside legal counsel) that failure to do so would be inconsistent with applicable Law, it being understood, however, that nothing in this shall be deemed to permit the Grizzly Board to make a Change in Recommendation except to the extent permitted by .
Section 8.10
Section 8.10(f)
Section 8.10(d)
Section 8.11 .
Financing
(a) Grizzly shall not agree to any amendment or modification to be made to, or any waiver of any provision or remedy under, the Spinco Commitment Letter and the Spinco Related Letter without the prior written consent of Burgundy (and, to the extent is applicable, such consent is subject to Burgundy's obligations in ), if such amendments, modifications or waivers would reasonably be expected to (i) reduce the aggregate amount of the Spinco Financing below the Below Basis Amount, (ii) impose new or additional conditions to the receipt of the Spinco Financing that would reasonably be expected to (A) expand in any material respect the conditions precedent or contingencies to the funding at Closing, (B) prevent or materially delay the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the other Transaction Agreements, or (C) materially adversely impact the ability of Grizzly to enforce its rights against the other parties to the Spinco Commitment Letter ( that for the avoidance of doubt, Grizzly may, without the consent of Burgundy, replace or amend the Spinco Commitment Letter and the Spinco Related Letter to add lenders, lead arrangers, bookrunners, syndication agents or similar entities, if the addition of such additional parties, individually or in the aggregate,
Section 8.3
Section 8.3
provided
 
would not reasonably be expected to prevent or materially delay or impair the availability of financing under the Spinco Commitment Letter and the Spinco Related Letter, obtaining from the IRS the Private Letter Ruling (including the IRS D Reorganization Ruling and the IRS Debt Exchange Ruling) or the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the other Transaction Agreements) or (iii) prevent or materially delay obtaining from the IRS the Private Letter Ruling (including the IRS D Reorganization Ruling and the IRS Debt Exchange Ruling). Grizzly and Merger Sub shall each use its reasonable best efforts to take, or cause to be taken, all actions and to do, or cause to be done, all things necessary, proper or advisable to arrange and obtain the Spinco Financing on the terms and conditions described in or contemplated by the Spinco Commitment Letter and the Spinco Related Letter, including using reasonable best efforts to (1) maintain in effect the Spinco Commitment Letter and the Spinco Related Letter, (2) satisfy on a timely basis (taking into account the expected timing of the Marketing Period) all conditions and covenants applicable to Grizzly in the Spinco Commitment Letter and the Spinco Related Letter and otherwise comply with its obligations thereunder, (3) enter into definitive agreements substantially concurrently with the Closing with respect thereto (the "") on the terms and conditions contemplated by the Spinco Commitment Letter and the Spinco Related Letter (or terms and conditions (including the flex provisions) no less favorable to Grizzly and Spinco (in the reasonable discretion of Grizzly) than the terms and conditions in the Spinco Commitment Letter and the Spinco Related Letter), (4) in the event that all conditions in the Spinco Commitment Letter and the Spinco Related Letter have been satisfied, consummate the Spinco Financing at or prior to Closing, (5) enforce its rights under the Spinco Commitment Letter and the Spinco Related Letter and (6) in the event that all conditions in the Spinco Commitment Letter and the Spinco Related Letter have been satisfied, cause the lenders providing the Spinco Financing to fund the Spinco Financing. Grizzly shall (x) furnish to Burgundy complete, correct and executed copies of the Spinco Debt Financing Agreements, (y) give Burgundy prompt notice of any material breach by any party of the Spinco Commitment Letter or the Spinco Related Letter or the Spinco Debt Financing Agreements of which Grizzly becomes aware or any termination thereof and (z) upon Burgundy's request, otherwise keep Burgundy reasonably informed of the status of Grizzly's efforts to arrange the Spinco Financing (or any replacement thereof) and the other financing transactions contemplated by this Agreement (or any replacement thereof). If any portion of the Spinco Financing becomes unavailable on the terms and conditions contemplated in the Spinco Commitment Letter and the Spinco Related Letter (including the flex provisions) from sources contemplated in the Spinco Commitment Letter and the Spinco Related Letter, Grizzly and Spinco shall use their reasonable best efforts to arrange and obtain alternative debt financing from alternative debt sources for the same purposes as the purposes of the Spinco Financing in an amount not less than the Below Basis Amount upon terms and conditions not less favorable, taken as a whole, to Grizzly and Spinco (in the reasonable discretion of Grizzly) than those in the Spinco Commitment Letter and the Spinco Related Letter as promptly as practicable following the occurrence of such event, including using reasonable best efforts to enter into definitive agreements with respect thereto. Further, Grizzly may, with the prior written consent of Burgundy (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed), if it so determines in its discretion, arrange for alternative financing for the Spinco Financing from a third party or parties (and, in such instance, references herein to the "Spinco Commitment Letter" shall mean and include the written commitment of such third party or parties in respect thereof), if such alternative financing does not (i) reduce the aggregate amount of the Spinco Financing below the Below Basis Amount,
Spinco Debt Financing Agreements
 
(ii) impose new or additional conditions to the receipt of the Spinco Financing that would reasonably be expected to (A) expand in any material respect the conditions precedent or contingencies to the funding at Closing, (B) prevent or materially delay the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the other Transaction Agreements, or (C) materially adversely impact the ability of Grizzly to enforce its rights against the other parties thereto, or (iii) prevent or materially delay obtaining from the IRS the Private Letter Ruling (including the IRS D Reorganization Ruling and the IRS Debt Exchange Ruling). As used herein, references to the "Spinco Financing" shall mean and include, if applicable, alternative financing arranged in accordance with the preceding sentence. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, Spinco and Grizzly shall not and shall not permit their respective Affiliates to repay all or any part of the Spinco Financing, other than in accordance with Schedule 8.11(a).
(b) Burgundy shall not agree to any amendment or modification to be made to, or any waiver of any provision or remedy under, the Burgundy Commitment Letter or the Burgundy Related Letter without the prior written consent of Grizzly (and, to the extent is applicable, such consent is subject to Grizzly's obligations in ), if such amendments, modifications or waivers would reasonably be expected to (i) reduce the aggregate amount of the Burgundy Financing below the Above Basis Amount, (ii) impose new or additional conditions to the receipt of the Burgundy Financing that would reasonably be expected to (A) expand in any material respect the conditions precedent or contingencies to the funding at Closing, (B) prevent or materially delay the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the other Transaction Agreements, (C) materially adversely impact the ability of Burgundy to enforce its rights against the other parties to the Burgundy Commitment Letter and Burgundy Related Letter or (D) affect in any manner the terms of the Spinco Exchange Debt. Burgundy, Spinco and Grizzly shall use their respective reasonable best efforts to take, or cause to be taken, all actions and to do, or cause to be done, all things necessary, proper or advisable to arrange and obtain the Burgundy Financing on the terms and conditions described in or contemplated by the Burgundy Commitment Letter and Burgundy Related Letter, including using reasonable best efforts to (1) maintain in effect the Burgundy Commitment Letter and the Burgundy Related Letter, (2) satisfy on a timely basis (taking into account the expected timing of the Marketing Period) all conditions and covenants applicable to Burgundy, Spinco and Grizzly in the Burgundy Commitment Letter and Burgundy Related Letter and otherwise comply with its obligations thereunder, (3) enter into definitive agreements with respect thereto (the "") on the terms and conditions contemplated by the Burgundy Commitment Letter and Burgundy Related Letter (or terms and conditions no less favorable to Burgundy, Spinco and Grizzly (in the reasonable discretion of Burgundy and Grizzly, respectively) than the terms and conditions in the Burgundy Commitment Letter and Burgundy Related Letter), (4) in the case of Burgundy, enforce its rights under the Burgundy Commitment Letter, and (5) in the event that all conditions in the Burgundy Commitment Letter and the definitive documentation with respect thereto have been satisfied, cause the lenders providing the Burgundy Financing to fund the Burgundy Debt and, on the Closing Date, accept Spinco Exchange Debt in full satisfaction thereof. Notwithstanding the foregoing, (i) Burgundy shall have the primary responsibility, which will be exercised in consultation with Grizzly, with respect to the negotiation of the definitive documentation with respect to the Burgundy Debt in accordance with the Burgundy Commitment Letter and (ii) Grizzly shall have the sole responsibility and sole discretion with respect to the negotiation of the definitive documentation with respect to the Spinco Exchange Debt in accordance with the Burgundy Commitment Letter (it being understood that the Spinco
Section 8.3
Section 8.3
Burgundy Debt Financing Agreements
 
Exchange Debt may have an interest rate up to the Total Cap if required by the lenders under the Burgundy Commitment Letter). Grizzly and Burgundy shall (x) furnish to the other complete, correct and executed copies of the applicable Burgundy Debt Financing Agreements negotiated by them, (y) give the other prompt notice of any material breach by any party of the Burgundy Commitment Letter or the Burgundy Related Letter or any of the Burgundy Debt Financing Agreements of which either shall become aware or any termination thereof and (z) upon request, otherwise keep the other reasonably informed of the status of their respective efforts to arrange the Burgundy Financing (or any replacement thereof), including both the Burgundy Debt and the Spinco Exchange Debt. If any portion of the Burgundy Financing becomes unavailable on the terms and conditions contemplated in the Burgundy Commitment Letter or Burgundy Related Letter (including the flex provisions) or from sources contemplated in the Burgundy Commitment Letter, Grizzly and Burgundy shall use their reasonable best efforts to arrange and obtain alternative debt financing from alternative debt sources for the same purposes as the purposes of the Burgundy Financing in an amount not less than the Above Basis Amount upon terms and conditions not less favorable, taken as a whole, to Grizzly and Burgundy (each in their respective reasonable discretion) than those in the Burgundy Commitment Letter and Burgundy Related Letter as promptly as practicable following the occurrence of such event, including using reasonable best efforts to enter into definitive agreements with respect thereto.
(c) For purposes of this Agreement, "" shall mean the first period of twenty (20) consecutive Business Days (or fifteen (15) consecutive Business Days if commenced on or after January 2, 2013) throughout which (I) Grizzly shall have previously received from Spinco all of the Required Financial Information and during which period such information shall remain compliant in all material respects at all times with the applicable provisions of Regulation S-X and S-K under the Securities Act and (II) the conditions set forth in shall be satisfied or waived (other than those conditions that by their nature can only be satisfied at the Closing Date) and nothing has occurred and no condition exists that would cause any of the conditions set forth in (other than those conditions that by their nature can only be satisfied at the Closing Date and other than the condition in ) to fail to be satisfied, assuming that the Closing Date were to be scheduled for any time during such twenty (20) consecutive Business Day period; provided that (i) for purposes of determining the Marketing Period, November 23, 2012 shall be deemed not to be a Business Day and (ii) the entirety of such Marketing Period must occur prior to December 19, 2012, or after January 2, 2013; provided that in the case of this clause (ii) the Marketing Period must be complete prior to February 14, 2013 or otherwise not commence until the audited financial statements of both Grizzly and Spinco for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012 are available; provided, further, that the Marketing Period will not be deemed to have commenced if prior to the completion of the Marketing Period, (x) Spinco's auditors shall have withdrawn their audit opinion contained in the Required Financial Information in which case the Marketing Period shall not be deemed to commence unless and until a new unqualified audit opinion is issued with respect thereto by Spinco's auditors or another independent public accounting firm reasonably acceptable to Grizzly, (y) the financial statements included in the Required Financial Information that is available to Grizzly on the first day of the Marketing Period would not be sufficiently current on any day during such period to satisfy the requirements of Rule 3-12 of Regulation S-X to permit a registration statement using such financial statements to be declared effective by the SEC on the last day of such period, or not sufficient for the underwriters or initial purchasers to receive a customary comfort letter, including customary "negative assurance" comfort, in which case the Marketing Period shall not
Marketing Period
Section 9.1
Section 9.2
Section 9.2(f)
 
be deemed to commence until the receipt by Grizzly of updated Required Financial Information that would be required under Rule 3-12 of Regulation S-X to permit a registration statement using such financial statements to be declared effective by the SEC on the last day of such new twenty (20) consecutive Business Day period, or (z) Burgundy or Spinco issues a public statement indicating its intent to restate any historical financial statements of Spinco or that any such restatement is under consideration or may be a possibility, in which case the Marketing Period shall not be deemed to commence unless and until such restatement has been completed and the relevant SEC Report or SEC Reports have been amended or Burgundy has announced that it has concluded that no restatement shall be required in accordance with GAAP; provided, further, that the Marketing Period shall end on any earlier date that is the date on which the Spinco Financing is funded.
(d) Prior to the Closing, each of Burgundy and Spinco shall and shall cause its Subsidiaries (including Spinco in the case of Burgundy) to, and shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause its respective Representatives to, provide to Grizzly all cooperation reasonably requested by Grizzly that is necessary in connection with the Spinco Financing and the Spinco Exchange Debt, and any other financing by Grizzly that is permitted or consented to under this Agreement (a ""), including (i) furnishing Grizzly and its financing sources the unaudited consolidated balance sheet of Spinco and its Subsidiaries and the related consolidated statements of income, shareholders' equity and cash flows as of the end of any quarterly period that ends between the execution of this Agreement and the forty-fifth (45th) day prior to the Closing Date, and all Spinco information, financial statements and financial data of a type and form customarily included in private placements pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act for financings similar to the Spinco Exchange Debt and subject to exceptions customary for such financings and including audited financial statements for each of the three most recent fiscal years ending more than ninety (90) days prior to the Closing Date (the information required to be delivered pursuant to this clause (i) being referred to as the ""), (ii) participating in a reasonable number of meetings (including customary one-on-one meetings with the parties acting as lead arrangers or agents for, and prospective lenders and purchasers of, the Spinco Financing, the Spinco Exchange Debt and any Permitted Grizzly Financing, and senior management and Representatives, with appropriate seniority and expertise, of Spinco), presentations, road shows, due diligence sessions, drafting sessions and sessions with rating agencies, and obtaining comfort letters from the independent auditors, in connection with the Spinco Financing and the Spinco Exchange Debt and any Permitted Grizzly Financing, (iii) assisting with the preparation of customary materials for rating agency presentations, bank information memoranda, offering documents, private placement memoranda and similar documents required in connection with the Spinco Financing and the Spinco Exchange Debt and any Permitted Grizzly Financing (including requesting any consents of accountants for use of their reports in any materials relating to the Spinco Exchange Debt and the delivery of one or more customary representation letters), (iv) causing the taking of corporate actions by Spinco and its Subsidiaries reasonably necessary to permit the completion of the Spinco Financing and the issuance of the Spinco Exchange Debt to Burgundy to be applied in satisfaction of the Burgundy Debt, (v) facilitating the execution and delivery at the Closing of definitive documents related to the Spinco Financing and the Spinco Exchange Debt on the terms contemplated by the Spinco Commitment Letter, the Spinco Related Letter, the Burgundy Commitment Letter and the Burgundy Related Letter, (vi) cooperating with consultants or others engaged to undertake field examinations and appraisals, including furnishing information to such persons in respect of
Permitted Grizzly Financing
Required Financial Information
 
accounts receivable, inventory and other applicable assets, (vii) providing to the financing sources at least five (5) days prior to the Closing all documentation and other information required by bank regulatory authorities with respect to Spinco under applicable "know your customer" and anti-money laundering rules and regulations, including the PATRIOT Act, that has been reasonably requested by such sources at least ten (10) days in advance of the Closing, and (viii) cooperating in procuring, prior to the date that is twenty (20) consecutive calendar days prior to the Closing Date, corporate and facilities ratings for the Spinco Financing and the Spinco Exchange Debt; , , that nothing herein shall require such cooperation to the extent it would interfere unreasonably with the business or operations of Burgundy or Spinco or their Subsidiaries. None of Burgundy or Spinco or any of their Subsidiaries shall be required to take any action that would subject it to actual or potential liability, to bear any cost or expense or to pay any commitment or other similar fee or make any other payment or incur any other liability or provide or agree to provide any indemnity in connection with the Spinco Financing or any of the foregoing, unless, in the case of Spinco, such action is contingent upon the Closing. If the Closing does not occur, Grizzly shall indemnify and hold harmless Burgundy, Spinco, their respective Subsidiaries and their respective Representatives from and against any and all liabilities, losses, damages, claims, costs, expenses, interest, awards, judgments and penalties suffered or incurred by them in connection with any action, claim, arbitration, litigation or suit brought by a third party related to the arrangement of the Spinco Financing, the Burgundy Debt and the Spinco Exchange Debt (including any action taken in accordance with this ) and any information utilized in connection therewith (other than historical information relating to Spinco or its Subsidiaries or other information furnished by or on behalf of Spinco or its Subsidiaries). Spinco hereby consents to the reasonable use of Spinco's and its Subsidiaries' logos in connection with the Spinco Financing and the Spinco Exchange Debt, that such logos are used in a manner that is not intended to harm or disparage Spinco or any of its Subsidiaries or the reputation or goodwill of Spinco or any of its Subsidiaries. Grizzly agrees to provide reasonable cooperation and provide information reasonably required by the debt financing sources in connection with all syndication efforts related to the Exchange Loans.
provided
however
Section 8.11(d)
provided
(e) Grizzly shall be responsible for all out-of-pocket costs, third party fees and expenses related to the Spinco Financing and the Burgundy Financing (including all fees under the Spinco Related Letter and the Burgundy Related Letter and all indemnity claims under any of them), and all underwriting, sale, distribution, placement or other fees, and indemnity claims, in connection with the distribution of Spinco Exchange Debt, whether prior to or subsequent to Closing; provided, that each party shall be solely responsible for the fees and expenses of its respective counsel and other consultants in connection therewith.
(f) The parties hereto acknowledge that the Burgundy Commitment Letter contemplates, and Burgundy desires to enter into, arrangements providing for the exchange by Burgundy of Spinco Exchange Debt distributed to Burgundy as part of the Special Distribution pursuant to the Separation Agreement in full satisfaction of debt obligations of Burgundy borrowed pursuant to definitive documentation contemplated by the Burgundy Commitment Letter (the "") (such exchange, the ""), which Burgundy Debt shall provide net proceeds equal to the Above Basis Amount. Spinco shall issue Spinco Exchange Debt to Burgundy immediately prior to the Effective Time with an interest rate up to the Total Cap if necessary to effectuate the Debt Exchange. Each of the parties agrees to use its reasonable best efforts to cause the Debt Exchange to be consummated with the holders of the Burgundy Debt (the ""). Without limitation of the foregoing (and in furtherance, not in limitation, of the covenants set forth in ):
Burgundy Debt
Debt Exchange
Burgundy Lenders
Section 8.11(b)
(i) Subject to the second sentence of this , Grizzly shall, in consultation with Burgundy, negotiate the terms and conditions of the Spinco Exchange Debt with the Burgundy Lenders and shall keep Burgundy reasonably informed of all material developments. Grizzly shall, in consultation with Burgundy, determine the final form of the Spinco Exchange Debt and related agreements (including registration rights arrangements and indenture). Burgundy shall, in consultation with Grizzly, determine the arrangements relating to the Debt Exchange; that Burgundy shall keep Grizzly reasonably informed regarding such arrangements. Spinco shall issue the Spinco Exchange Debt to Burgundy on the terms negotiated by Grizzly immediately prior to the Effective Time, and Grizzly shall accept and execute applicable documentation, if any, relating to the issuance of the Spinco Securities by Spinco and the transfer of the Spinco Exchange Debt by Burgundy in satisfaction of the Burgundy Debt.
Section 8.11(f)
provided
 
(ii) Each of Burgundy, Spinco and Grizzly shall cooperate in connection with the preparation of all documents and the making of all filings required in connection with the issuance of the Spinco Exchange Debt and the Debt Exchange and shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to take, or cause to be taken, all actions and to do, or cause to be done, all other things necessary, proper or advisable to consummate the issuance of the Spinco Exchange Debt and the Debt Exchange.
(iii) Grizzly shall, and shall use commercially reasonable efforts to cause its employees, accountants, counsel and other representatives to take the following actions by the date of the Debt Exchange: (A) participate in meetings, drafting sessions, due diligence sessions, management presentation sessions, "road shows" and sessions with ratings agencies in connection with the marketing of the Spinco Exchange Debt and the Debt Exchange, (B) prepare offering memoranda, private placement memoranda, prospectuses and similar documents (including all applicable pro forma and other financial information) reasonably required to consummate the issuance of the Spinco Exchange Debt and the Debt Exchange, (C) assist in the preparation of and execute and/or deliver, customary underwriting placement, credit, purchase, indemnification, registration rights and other definitive financing agreements and execute and deliver in a timely manner such other certificates and documents, including solvency certificates, comfort letters, consents, pledge and security documents and perfection certificates, as may be reasonably required in connection with the foregoing, and (D) take all other actions reasonably necessary in connection with the issuance of the Spinco Exchange Debt and the Debt Exchange.
(iv) Burgundy and Spinco shall, and shall use commercially reasonable efforts to cause its employees, accountants, counsel and other representatives to provide to Grizzly all cooperation reasonably requested by Grizzly that is necessary in connection with Grizzly's obligations pursuant to , including taking the following actions by the date of the Debt Exchange: (A) providing Grizzly with the Required Financial Information and (B) taking all other actions reasonably necessary in connection with the issuance of the Spinco Exchange Debt and the Debt Exchange.
Section 8.11(f)(iii)
 
(v) If despite the parties' use of reasonable best efforts in accordance with this , (A) the Debt Exchange does not occur (including in the event that the Burgundy Commitment Letter is modified in accordance with ), and (B) the conditions set forth in (other than those that would be satisfied at the Closing Date and other than the condition in ) shall have been satisfied (or, to the extent permissible by law, waived by Burgundy), then either, as Burgundy shall elect, at its sole discretion, Burgundy shall (1) waive the condition in and require Spinco to issue to Burgundy Spinco Securities with an interest rate equal to the Total Cap in satisfaction of the Special Above Basis Debt/Cash Distribution, or (2) (I) waive the condition in , (II) if the commitment for a bridge facility to Spinco is then in effect, require Spinco to borrow an amount no less than the Above Basis Amount under such bridge facility on the terms set forth in such commitment and (III) require Spinco to distribute to Burgundy an amount in cash equal to the Above Basis Amount in satisfaction of the Special Above Basis Debt/Cash Distribution. To the extent that Spinco issues to Burgundy Spinco Securities in satisfaction of the Special Above Basis Debt/Cash Distribution in accordance with clause (1) of the foregoing, Grizzly and Spinco shall following the Closing reasonably cooperate with Burgundy in connection with the preparation of all documents and the making of all filings required in connection with a subsequent sale of the Spinco Securities, including taking all such actions as are required of Grizzly pursuant to clauses (ii) and (iii) of this with respect to the Spinco Exchange Debt.
Section 8.11(f)
Section 8.3
Article IX
Section 9.2(f)
Section 9.2(f)
Section 9.2(f)
Section 8.11(f)
(g) In the event that the Below Basis Amount is increased or decreased from $225,000,000 pursuant to the Separation Agreement, each party will use its reasonable best efforts to take, or cause to be taken, all actions and to do, or cause to be done, and to assist and cooperate with the other parties in doing or causing to be done, all things necessary, proper or advisable, pursuant to the Burgundy Commitment Letter and the Spinco Commitment Letter and all other financing arrangements contemplated hereby to take into account such increase in the Below Basis Amount.
Section 8.12 . Burgundy and Grizzly shall consult with each other and shall mutually agree upon any press release or public announcement relating to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and neither of them shall issue any such press release or make any such public announcement prior to such consultation and agreement, except as may be required by applicable Law or by obligations pursuant to any listing agreement with any national securities exchange or automated inter-dealer quotation system, in which case the party proposing to issue such press release or make such public announcement shall use all reasonable best efforts to consult in good faith with the other party before issuing any such press release or making any such public announcement; that, subject to , Grizzly will not be required to obtain the prior agreement of or consult with Burgundy in connection with any such press release or public announcement in connection with the Grizzly Board effecting a Change in Recommendation.
Public Announcements
provided
Section 8.10(e)
Section 8.13 . Each of Burgundy, Spinco and Grizzly shall use all reasonable best efforts to defend against all actions, suits or proceedings in which such party is named as a defendant that challenge or otherwise seek to enjoin, restrain or prohibit the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or seek damages with respect to such transactions. None
Defense of Litigation
 
of Burgundy, Spinco or Grizzly shall settle any such action, suit or proceeding or fail to perfect on a timely basis any right to appeal any judgment rendered or order entered against such party therein without having previously consulted with the other parties. Each of Burgundy, Spinco and Grizzly shall use all reasonable best efforts to cause each of its Affiliates, directors and officers to use all reasonable best efforts to defend any such action, suit or proceeding in which such Affiliate, director or officer is named as a defendant and which seeks any such relief to comply with this to the same extent as if such Person was a party.
Section 8.13
Section 8.14 . Burgundy and Grizzly shall as promptly as reasonably practicable after becoming aware thereof advise the other of (a) any representation or warranty made by it contained in this Agreement becoming untrue or inaccurate in any material respect, or (b) the failure by it to comply with or satisfy in any material respect any covenant, condition or agreement that could be complied with or satisfied by it at such time under this Agreement, or which has resulted, or which, insofar as can reasonably be foreseen, would result, in any of the conditions that could be satisfied at such time set forth in not being satisfied; , , that no such notification shall affect the representations, warranties, covenants or agreements of the parties or the conditions to the obligations of the parties under this Agreement. The failure to comply with the covenants, conditions or agreements contained in this shall not be taken into account when determining whether the conditions set forth in or have been satisfied.
Advice of Changes
Article IX
provided
however
Section 8.14
Section 9.2(a)
Section 9.3(a)
Section 8.15 . Prior to the Effective Time, Grizzly and Spinco shall take all such steps as may be required to cause any dispositions of Spinco Common Stock (including derivative securities with respect to Spinco Common Stock) or acquisitions of Grizzly Common Stock (including derivative securities with respect to Grizzly Common Stock) resulting from the transactions contemplated by this Agreement by each individual who is subject to the reporting requirements of Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act with respect to Grizzly or Spinco to be exempt under Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act, such steps to be taken in accordance with applicable SEC rules and regulations and interpretations of the SEC staff.
Section 16 Matters
Section 8.16 . Nothing contained in this Agreement shall give Burgundy or Spinco, directly or indirectly, the right to control or direct Grizzly's operations prior to the Effective Time. Nothing contained in this Agreement shall give Grizzly, directly or indirectly, the right to control or direct the operations of the Eagle Business, or the business of Spinco and the Spinco Subsidiaries prior to the Effective Time. Prior to the Effective Time, each of Burgundy, Spinco and Grizzly shall exercise, consistent with the terms and conditions of this Agreement, complete control and supervision over its respective operations.
Control of Other Party's Business
Section 8.17 . Prior to the Effective Time, Spinco will authorize the issuance of a number of shares of Spinco Common Stock such that the total number of shares of Spinco Common Stock outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time will equal the number of shares of Burgundy Common Stock outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time.
Spinco Share Issuance
Section 8.18 . If any "fair price," "moratorium," "control share acquisition" or other form of antitakeover statute or regulation shall become applicable to the transactions contemplated hereby, Grizzly and Merger Sub and their respective Boards of
Takeover Statutes
 
Directors shall use all reasonable efforts to grant such approvals and take such actions as are reasonably necessary so that the transactions contemplated hereby may be consummated as promptly as practicable on the terms contemplated hereby and otherwise act to eliminate or minimize the effects of such statute or regulation on the transactions contemplated hereby.
Section 8.19 .
Financials
(a) As soon as reasonably practicable after the date of this Agreement, but in no event later than the date that is one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this Agreement, Burgundy will provide Grizzly with the audited combined financial statements of the Eagle Business, including the combined balance sheets of the Eagle Business as of December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2011, and the combined statements of income, equity and cash flows of the Eagle Business for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2009, December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2011 (collectively, the "").
Audited Financial Statements
(b) Burgundy will prepare and furnish to Grizzly, as promptly as practicable after the end of the applicable fiscal period, copies of the combined financial statements of the Eagle Business as of and for any subsequent fiscal periods for which financial statements are required to be included in the documents referred to in prepared in accordance with GAAP consistently applied, subject in the case of unaudited financial statements to normal year-end adjustments and the absence of footnotes.
Section 8.4
(c) Burgundy will prepare and furnish to Grizzly, as promptly as practicable after the end of each calendar month the unaudited income statement, balance sheet and financial summary for the Eagle Business for such month, prepared in accordance with the income statement, balance sheet and financial summary attached as Schedule 8.19(c) of the Burgundy Disclosure Letter.
Section 8.20 . On or prior to the date that is three (3) Business Days prior to the Closing Date, Grizzly shall prohibit the holders of options to purchase Grizzly Common Stock pursuant to the Grizzly Stock Plan from exercising such options until after the Closing and shall instruct Grizzly's transfer and other agent to prohibit the holders of options to purchase Grizzly Common Stock pursuant to the Grizzly Stock Plan from exercising such options until after the Closing.
Grizzly Stock Option Exercise Prohibition
Section 8.21 . To the extent required to obtain a Guarantee Release (as defined in the Separation Agreement) of any member of the Burgundy Group as contemplated by Section 2.10 of the Separation Agreement, Grizzly will use its reasonable best efforts to execute a guarantee agreement in the form of the existing agreement or guarantee or such other form as is agreed to by the relevant parties to such agreement or guarantee.
Agreement With Respect to Release of Burgundy Guarantees
Section 8.22 . Grizzly acknowledges and agrees that, notwithstanding anything in this or any other Transaction Agreement to the contrary, the provisions of the Separation Agreement and any other Transaction Agreements affecting Grizzly, including for the avoidance of doubt Sections 5.7 and 7.8 of the Separation Agreement, shall be binding upon Grizzly, and Grizzly shall be subject to the
Agreement With Respect to Other Transaction Agreements
 
obligations and restrictions imposed by those provisions, as if Grizzly were a party thereto. Burgundy acknowledges and agrees that, notwithstanding anything in this or any other Transaction Agreement to the contrary, the provisions of any of the Transaction Agreements affecting Burgundy shall be binding upon Burgundy, and Burgundy shall be subject to the obligations and restrictions imposed by those provisions, as if Burgundy were a party thereto.
Section 8.23 . Grizzly intends to continue to pay quarterly dividends from and after the Closing at no less than the current rate of $0.32 per share of Grizzly Common Stock per annum, it being understood that the payment of dividends shall be subject to declaration by, and solely within the discretion of, the Grizzly Board.
Dividend Policy
Section 8.24 .
Covenant Not to Compete
(a) In furtherance of the Merger and the transactions contemplated hereby, Burgundy covenants and agrees that, for a period beginning on the Effective Date and ending on the second (2
nd
) anniversary of the Effective Time, neither Burgundy nor any of its Subsidiaries shall, without the prior written consent of Grizzly, engage, directly or indirectly, in the Eagle Business as conducted as of the Effective Date (the "") anywhere throughout the world. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the foregoing:
Grizzly Restricted Business
(i) nothing in this Section 8.24(a) shall prohibit Burgundy or its Subsidiaries from engaging in the businesses conducted by Burgundy or its Subsidiaries (excluding the Eagle Business) on the Effective Date;
(ii) nothing set forth in this shall prohibit Burgundy or its Subsidiaries from owning not in excess of 5% in the aggregate of any class of capital stock or other equity interest of any Person engaged in the Grizzly Restricted Business;
Section 8.24(a)
(iii) in the event that Burgundy completes a business combination transaction with a Person, which transaction results in the holders of the voting securities of Burgundy outstanding immediately prior to the consummation of such transaction owning less than 50% of the voting power of the voting securities of Burgundy or the surviving entity in the transaction or any parent thereof (any such entity, an "") outstanding immediately after the consummation of such transaction, such Acquiror or any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates (but not Burgundy or any of its Subsidiaries) may engage in any Grizzly Restricted Business;
Acquiror
(iv) Burgundy may acquire interests in or securities of any Person as an investment by their pension funds or funds of any other benefit plan of Burgundy whether or not such Person is engaged in any Grizzly Restricted Business;
(v) Burgundy may acquire interests in or securities of any Person that derived 20% or less of its total revenues in its most recent fiscal year from activities that constitute Grizzly Restricted Businesses; provided that such Person may not use the Burgundy name in connection with the activities that constitute Grizzly Restricted Businesses; and
(vi) Burgundy may perform their obligations under this Agreement and the Transaction Agreements.
 
The parties hereto acknowledge and agree that nothing herein shall be deemed to require Burgundy to give notice to or obtain the consent of the Grizzly in order to engage in any activity or transaction of the types described in through and that, in the event the TCI Interests are not transferred to Spinco at the Closing, nothing in this shall prevent or limit in any way Burgundy's ability to hold the TCI Interests and to take any actions in connection with its ownership of the TCI Interests for so long as the TCI Interests are not transferred to Spinco.
Section 8.24(a)(i)
Section 8.24(a)(vi)
Section 8.24(a)
(b) Burgundy acknowledges and agrees that the covenants included in this are, taken as a whole, reasonable in their geographic and temporal coverage and Burgundy shall not raise any issue of geographic or temporal reasonableness in any proceeding to enforce such covenant; , , that if the provisions of this should ever be deemed to exceed the time or geographic limitations or any other limitations permitted by applicable Law in any jurisdiction, then such provisions shall be deemed reformed in such jurisdiction to the minimum extent required by applicable Law to cure such problem. Burgundy acknowledges and agrees that in the event of a breach by Burgundy of the provisions of this , monetary damages shall not constitute a sufficient remedy. Consequently, in the event of any such breach, the Grizzly may, in addition to any other rights and remedies existing in its favor, apply to any court of law or equity of competent jurisdiction for specific performance and/or preliminary and final injunctive relief or other relief in order to enforce or prevent any violation of the provisions hereof, without the necessity of proving actual damages or posting a bond.
Section 8.24
provided
however
Section 8.24
Section 8.24
Section 8.25 .
Non-Solicitation of Employees
(a) Burgundy and Grizzly each agree that, for a period of two (2) years from and after the Closing Date, they shall not, and they shall cause their respective Subsidiaries not to, without the prior written consent of the other party, directly or indirectly, solicit to hire or hire (or cause or seek to cause to leave the employ of the other party or the other party's Subsidiary), or enter into a consulting agreement with, any employee or category of employee of the other party or the other party's Subsidiaries listed in .
Schedule 8.25
(b) The restrictions set forth in shall not apply to (i) general solicitations (such as advertisements) for employment placed by a party or any party's Subsidiary and not specifically targeted at the other party's employees (or the employees of a Subsidiary of the other party) or (ii) responding to or hiring any employee of the other party (or of the other party's Subsidiary) who contacts a party without any prior solicitation (other than as permitted by clause (i) above).
Section 8.25(a)
Section 8.26 . Between the date of this Agreement and the Business Transfer Time, Grizzly, Burgundy and Spinco shall negotiate in good faith to agree upon definitive agreements reflecting the forms of Transition Services Agreement; the Shared Facilities, Services and Supply Agreement; the Electric Generation, Distribution and Transmission Facilities Lease; Shared Facilities Agreement  Monroeville; and the Servitude Agreement attached as Exhibits B, D, C, L and E, respectively, to the Separation Agreement. The parties acknowledge that the current forms have been partially negotiated between the parties but the terms of the forms including the pricing and the scope of services provided therein remain subject to further review and revision after Grizzly is provided appropriate access to personnel and
Certain Transaction Agreements
 
information not available prior to the date hereof. The parties intend that the agreements shall allow the parties to operate in the ordinary course after the Business Transfer Time and facilitate the transition of the Eagle Business to Grizzly and the separation of the Eagle Business from Burgundy. The parties agree that all pricing for the services provided under such agreements shall be consistent with the economics in the financials of the Eagle Business provided by Burgundy to Grizzly prior to the date of this Agreement.
Section 9.1 . The respective obligations of each party to consummate the Merger shall be subject to the fulfillment (or, to the extent permitted by applicable Law, written waiver by Burgundy and Grizzly) at or prior to the Effective Time of the following conditions:
Conditions to the Obligations of Spinco, Burgundy, Grizzly and Merger Sub to Effect the Merger
(a) The Spinco Reorganization and the Distribution shall have been consummated in accordance with the Separation Agreement, the IRS D Reorganization Ruling, the IRS Debt Exchange Ruling, and the Distribution Tax Opinion.
(b) Any applicable waiting period under the HSR Act shall have expired or been terminated, and, if required, Competition Act Approval shall have been obtained.
(c) The Registration Statement and the Spinco Registration Statement, to the extent required, shall have become effective in accordance with the Securities Act and shall not be the subject of any stop order or proceedings seeking a stop order; all necessary permits and authorizations under state securities or "blue sky" laws, the Securities Act and the Exchange Act relating to the issuance and trading of shares of Grizzly Common Stock to be issued pursuant to the Merger shall have been obtained and shall be in effect; and such shares of Grizzly Common Stock and such other shares required to be reserved for issuance pursuant to the Merger shall have been Approved for Listing.
(d) The Grizzly Stockholder Approval shall have been obtained, in accordance with applicable Law and the rules and regulations of the NYSE.
(e) No court of competent jurisdiction or other Governmental Authority shall have enacted any Law or issued any Order, or taken any other action, that is still in effect restraining, enjoining or prohibiting the Spinco Reorganization, the Distribution or the Merger.
Section 9.2 . The obligation of Burgundy and Spinco to consummate the Merger shall be subject to the fulfillment (or, to the extent permitted by applicable Law, waiver by Burgundy) at or prior to the Effective Time of the following additional conditions:
Additional Conditions to the Obligations of Burgundy and Spinco
(a) Grizzly shall have performed in all material respects all obligations and complied in all material respects with all covenants required by this Agreement to be performed or complied with by it prior to the Effective Time.
 
(b) Each of the representations and warranties of Grizzly (i) set forth in and shall be true and correct in all material respects as of the Closing Date as though made as of the Closing Date and (ii) otherwise set forth in (other than and ) shall be true and correct as of the Closing Date as though made as of the Closing Date, except for representations and warranties that speak as of an earlier date or period which shall be true and correct as of such date or period, in each case without giving effect to any materiality qualifiers set forth therein, except in the case of this clause (ii) for such failures to be true and correct as do not have or would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on Grizzly.
Section 7.2(a)
Section 7.3(a)
Article VII
Section 7.2(a)
Section 7.3(a)
(c) Grizzly shall have delivered to Burgundy a certificate, dated as of the Effective Time, of a senior officer of Grizzly certifying the satisfaction by Grizzly of the conditions set forth in subsection (a) and (b) of this .
Section 9.2
(d) Burgundy and Spinco shall have received the Merger Tax Opinion from Burgundy Tax Counsel, dated the Closing Date.
(e) Burgundy and Spinco shall have received the IRS D Reorganization Ruling and the IRS Debt Exchange Ruling, each in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Burgundy and Spinco, and such rulings shall continue to be valid and in full force and effect (and, for the avoidance of doubt, such rulings shall not have been invalidated, modified or otherwise affected by any change in any Law on or after the date such rulings were issued by the IRS).
(f) The Debt Exchange shall have been consummated immediately before the Distribution in full satisfaction of the Burgundy Debt in an amount equal to the Above Basis Amount.
Section 9.3 . The obligation of Grizzly and Merger Sub to consummate the Merger shall be subject to the fulfillment (or, to the extent permitted by applicable Law waiver by Grizzly) at or prior to the Effective Time of the following additional conditions:
Additional Conditions to the Obligations of Grizzly and Merger Sub
(a) Spinco and Burgundy shall have performed in all material respects and complied in all material respects with all covenants required by this Agreement to be performed or complied with at or prior to the Effective Time.
(b) Each of the representations and warranties of Burgundy and Spinco (i) set forth in , and shall be true and correct in all material respects as of the Closing Date as if made on the Closing Date and (ii) otherwise set forth in and (other than , , and ) shall be true and correct as of the Closing Date as though made as of the Closing Date, except for representations and warranties that speak as of an earlier date or period which shall be true and correct as of such date or period, in each case without giving effect to any materiality qualifiers set forth therein, except in the case of this clause (ii) for such failures to be true and correct as do not have or would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on Spinco.
Section 5.2(a)
Section 6.2(a)
Section 6.3(a)
Article V
Article VI
Section 5.2(a)
Section 6.2(a)
Section 6.3(a)
 
(c) Burgundy and Spinco shall have delivered to Grizzly a certificate, dated as of the Effective Time, of a senior officer of each of Burgundy and Spinco certifying the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in subsections (a) and (b) of this .
Section 9.3
(d) Grizzly shall have received the Merger Tax Opinion from Grizzly Tax Counsel, dated the Closing Date.
(e) Spinco and Burgundy (or a Subsidiary thereof) shall have entered into the applicable Transaction Agreements, and to the extent applicable, performed the covenants to be performed prior to the Effective Time in all material respects, and each such agreement shall be in full force and effect.
(f) Income Before Income Taxes of the Eagle Business for the fiscal years 2010 and 2011 as reported in the Audited Financial Statements delivered pursuant to shall not be less than the Income Before Income Taxes target amounts for each of such fiscal years as reported in the unaudited financial statements of the Eagle Business and indicated in Section 9.3(f) of the Burgundy Disclosure Letter.
Section 8.19
Section 10.1 . Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary, this Agreement may be terminated and the transactions contemplated hereby may be abandoned prior to the Effective Time, whether before or after Grizzly Stockholder Approval:
Termination
(a) by the mutual written consent of Burgundy and Grizzly;
(b) by either Burgundy or Grizzly, if the Effective Time shall not have occurred on or before May 18, 2013 (the ""); , , that the right to terminate this Agreement under this shall not be available to any party whose failure to fulfill any obligation under this Agreement (including such party's obligations set forth in , or ) or the Separation Agreement has been the cause of, or has resulted in, the failure of the Effective Time to occur on or before the Termination Date;
Termination Date
provided
however
Section 10.1(b)
Section 8.3
Section 8.7
Section 8.11
(c) by either Burgundy or Grizzly, if any Governmental Authority shall have issued an order, decree or ruling or taken any other action permanently restraining, enjoining or otherwise prohibiting the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, and such order, decree, ruling or other action shall have become final and nonappealable; , , that the right to terminate this Agreement under this shall not be available to any party whose failure to comply with 7 has been the cause of, or has resulted in, such action or inaction;
provided
however
Section 10.1(c)
Section 8.
(d) by Grizzly, if either Burgundy or Spinco shall have breached or failed to perform in any material respect any of its respective representations, warranties, covenants or other agreements contained in this Agreement, which breach or failure to perform (i) would result in a failure of a condition set forth in or and (ii) cannot be cured by the Termination Date; that Grizzly shall have given Burgundy written notice, delivered at least
Section 9.1
Section 9.3
provided
 
thirty (30) days (or such lesser time remaining prior to the Termination Date) prior to such termination, stating Grizzly's intention to terminate this Agreement pursuant to this and the basis for such termination;
Section 10.1(d)
(e) by Burgundy, if Grizzly shall have breached or failed to perform in any material respect any of its representations, warranties, covenants or other agreements contained in this Agreement, which breach or failure to perform (i) would result in a failure of a condition set forth in 1 or and (ii) cannot be cured by the Termination Date; that Burgundy shall have given Grizzly written notice, delivered at least thirty (30) days (or such lesser time remaining prior to the Termination Date) prior to such termination, stating Burgundy's intention to terminate the Agreement pursuant to this and the basis for such termination;
Section 9.
Section 9.2
provided
Section 10.1(e)
(f) by Burgundy or Grizzly if, at the Grizzly Stockholders Meeting (including any adjournment, continuation or postponement thereof), the Grizzly Stockholder Approval shall not be obtained;
(g) by Burgundy, if the Grizzly Board shall have effected a Change in Recommendation; or
(h) by Grizzly, if Burgundy shall not have delivered the Audited Financial Statements by the date that is one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this Agreement or, if upon delivery of the Audited Financial Statements, the condition in is not met.
Section 9.3(f)
Section 10.2 . In the event of tf this Agreement pursuant to , this Agreement shall terminate (except for the Confidentiality Agreement referred to in , the provisions of this , and ), without any liability on the part other than Burgundy and Grizzly to the extent set forth in ; provided that nothing in this Agreement shall relieve any party of liability for fraud or willful breach of this Agreement or the Separation Agreement prior to such termination.
Effect of Termination
ermination o
Section 10.1
Section 11.1
Section 10.2
Section 10.3
Article XI
of any Person
Section 10.3
Section 10.3 .
Termination Fee Payable in Certain Circumstances
(a) Grizzly shall pay to Burgundy or its designee the Grizzly Termination Fee, by wire transfer of immediately available funds to an account or accounts designated in writing by Burgundy, as follows:
(i) (A) In the event that, after the date hereof, a Grizzly Acquisition Proposal shall have been made to Grizzly, or directly to the stockholders of Grizzly generally, or a Grizzly Acquisition Proposal shall have otherwise become publicly known or any Person shall have publicly announced an intention (whether or not conditional) to make a Grizzly Acquisition Proposal, and (B) thereafter this Agreement is terminated (1) by either party pursuant to , (2) by Burgundy pursuant to due to breach by Grizzly of its covenants under this Agreement, or (3) by either party pursuant to (and, in the case of this clause (3) only, such Grizzly Acquisition Proposal or such announcement of an intention to make a Grizzly Acquisition Proposal is publicly known and shall not have been irrevocably withdrawn at least five (5) days prior to the
Section 10.1(b)
Section 10.1(e)
Section 10.1(f)
 
Grizzly Stockholders Meeting), and (C) within twelve (12) months after such termination of this Agreement, any Grizzly Acquisition shall have been consummated or any definitive agreement with respect to any Grizzly Acquisition shall have been entered into (the earlier of entry into such agreement or the consummation thereof, the ""), then, in any such case, Grizzly shall pay Burgundy a fee in the amount of $24,500,000 (the "") (less any amounts paid by Grizzly to Burgundy pursuant to ) within two (2) Business Days of the Grizzly Termination Fee Date; that solely for purposes of this , the term "Grizzly Acquisition Proposal" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in , except that all references in such definition to 25% shall be changed to 50%;
Grizzly Termination Fee Date
Grizzly Termination Fee
Section 10.3(a)(iii)
provided
Section 10.3(a)(i)
Article I
(ii) in the event that this Agreement is terminated by Burgundy pursuant to , Grizzly shall promptly, and in any event not more than two (2) Business Days following such termination, pay Burgundy the Grizzly Termination Fee by wire transfer of same day funds;
Section 10.1(g)
(iii) in the event that this Agreement is terminated by either Grizzly or Burgundy pursuant to , Grizzly shall pay Burgundy all out-of-pocket fees and expenses actually and reasonably incurred by Burgundy, Spinco and their respective Affiliates in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement (the ""), up to a maximum of the Burgundy Expense Limitation. In the event of a termination by Grizzly pursuant to , Grizzly shall pay the Burgundy Expenses concurrently with any such termination and, in the case of a termination by Burgundy pursuant to , Grizzly shall pay the Burgundy Expenses not more than two (2) Business Days following any such termination, in each case by wire transfer of same day funds. The payment of the Burgundy Expenses pursuant to this shall not relieve Grizzly of any subsequent obligation to pay the Grizzly Termination Fee pursuant to , less the amount paid pursuant to this ; and
Section 10.1(f)
Burgundy Expenses
Section 10.1(f)
Section 10.1(f)
Section 10.3(a)(iii)
Section 10.3(a)(i)
Section 10.3(a)(iii)
(iv) in the event that this Agreement is terminated by Grizzly pursuant to Burgundy shall pay Grizzly all out-of-pocket fees and expenses actually and reasonably incurred by Grizzly and its Affiliates in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement (""), up to a maximum of the Grizzly Expense Limitation, not more than two (2) Business Days following any such termination, by wire transfer of same day funds.
Section 10.1(h),
Grizzly Expenses
(b) The parties acknowledge and agree that in no event shall Grizzly be requirhan one Grizzly Termination Fee or to pay the Burgundy Expenses if it has paid the Grizzly Termination Fee. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, upon payment of the Grizzly Termination Fee in accordance with , Grizzly shall have no further liability to Burgundy or Spinco or their respective stockholders with respect to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby (other than the obligation to pay any amount payable pursuant to .
ed to pay more t
Section 10.3(a)
Section 10.3(c)
(c) In the event that Grizzly shall fail to pay when due the Grizzly Termination Fee or the Burgundy Expenses required to be paid by it pursuant to this , or Burgundy shall
Section 10.3
 
fail to pay when due the Grizzly Expenses pursuant to , such Grizzly Termination Fee or Burgundy Expenses, or Grizzly Expenses, as the case may be, shall accrue interest for the period commencing on the date such Grizzly Termination Fee or Burgundy Expenses, or Grizzly Expenses, became past due, at a rate equal to the sum of (x) the prime lending rate prevailing during such period as published in plus (y) 5%, calculated on a daily basis until the date of actual payment. In addition, if either party shall fail to pay the Grizzly Termination Fee or Burgundy Expenses, or Grizzly Expenses, as the case may be, when due, such defaulting party shall also pay to the other party all of the other party's costs and expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees), as applicable, in connection with efforts to collect such amounts.
Section 10.3(a)(iv)
The Wall Street Journal
Section 10.4 . This Agreement may be amended by Burgundy, Spinco, Grizzly and Merger Sub at any time before or after adoption of this Agreement by the stockholders of Grizzly; , , that after such adoption, no amendment shall be made that by Law or in accordance with the rules of any relevant stock exchange or automated inter-dealer quotation system requires further approval by such stockholders without such further approval. This Agreement may not be amended except by an instrument in writing signed by Burgundy, Spinco, Grizzly and Merger Sub.
Amendment
provided
however
Section 10.5 . At any time prior to the Effective Time, Burgundy, Spinco, Grizzly and Merger Sub may, to the extent legally allowed, (i) extend the time for the performance of any of the obligations or acts of the other parties; (ii) waive any inaccuracies in the representations and warranties of any of the other parties contained herein or in any document delivered pursuant to this Agreement; and (iii) waive compliance with any of the agreements or conditions of any of the other parties contained herein; , , that no failure or delay by Burgundy, Spinco, Grizzly or Merger Sub in exercising any right hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof nor shall any single or partial exercise thereof preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right hereunder. Any agreement on the part of Burgundy, Spinco, Grizzly or Merger Sub to any such extension or waiver shall be valid only if set forth in an instrument in writing signed on behalf of such party.
Waivers
provided
however
Section 11.1 . The covenants and agreements that by their terms are to be performed following the Closing pursuant to the Separation Agreement or this Agreement shall survive the Effective Time in accordance with their terms and all other covenants and agreements herein and therein shall terminate and shall not survive the Closing. None of the representations or warranties in this Agreement or in any certificate or instrument delivered pursuant to this Agreement or any other covenant or agreement set forth herein shall survive the Effective Time. The Confidentiality Agreement shall survive the execution and delivery of this Agreement and any termination of this Agreement, and the provisions of the Confidentiality Agreement shall apply to all information and material furnished by any party or its representatives thereunder or hereunder.
Non-Survival of Representations, Warranties and Agreements
 
Section 11.2 . Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, including as provided in or , whether or not the Merger is consummated, all Expenses (as defined below) incurred in connection with this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby shall be paid by the party incurring such Expenses, except (i) Expenses (other than fees and expenses of counsel, accountants, investment bankers, experts and consultants to a party hereto, which shall be borne by such party) incurred in connection with the filing, printing and mailing of the Spinco Registration Statement (if required), the Registration Statement and the Proxy Statement/Prospectus, and (ii) filing fees paid to Governmental Authorities with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby pursuant to the HSR Act and appropriate filings, if any are required, with foreign regulatory authorities in accordance with Foreign Competition Laws, including the Competition Act, each of which shall be shared equally by Grizzly and Burgundy. In addition, any fees and expenses incurred in connection with seeking third party Consents or in connection with Section 2.7 of the Separation Agreement, shall be paid as set forth in the Separation Agreement. As used in this Agreement, "" means all out-of-pocket expenses (including applicable filing and registration fees and all fees and expenses of counsel, accountants, investment bankers, experts and consultants to a party hereto and its affiliates) incurred by a party or on its behalf in connection with or related to the authorization, preparation, negotiation, execution and performance of this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby, including the preparation, printing, filing and mailing of the Spinco Registration Statement (if required), the Registration Statement and the Proxy Statement/Prospectus and the solicitation of stockholder approval and all other matters related to the transactions contemplated hereby.
Expenses
Section 8.11
Section 10.3
Expenses
Section 11.3 . All notices, requests, permissions, waivers and other communications under this Agreement will be in writing and will be deemed to have been duly given (a) five (5) Business Days following sending by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, (b) when sent, if sent by facsimile, provided that the facsimile transmission is promptly confirmed by telephone, (c) when delivered, if delivered personally to the intended recipient, and (d) one Business Day following sending by overnight delivery via a national courier service and, in each case, addressed to a party at the following address for such party:
Notices
 
 
or to such other address(es) as will be furnished in writing by any such party to the other party in accordance with the provisions of this .
Section 11.3
Section 11.4 . (a) When a reference is made in this Agreement to an Article or Section, such reference shall be to an Article or Section of this Agreement unless otherwise indicated. The table of contents to this Agreement is for reference purposes only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement. The descriptive headings herein are inserted for convenience of reference only and are not intended to be a substantive part of or to affect the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement. Whenever the words "include," "includes" or "including" are used in this Agreement, they shall be deemed to be followed by the words "without limitation." The words "hereof," "hereby," "herein" and "hereunder" and words of similar import when used in this Agreement shall refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision of this Agreement. All terms defined in this Agreement shall have the defined meanings when used in any certificate or other document made or delivered pursuant thereto unless otherwise defined therein. The definitions contained in this Agreement are applicable to the singular as well as the plural forms of such terms and to the masculine as well as to the feminine and neuter genders of such term. Any agreement, instrument or statute defined or referred to herein or in any agreement or instrument that is referred to herein means such agreement, instrument or statute as from time to time amended, modified or supplemented, including (in the case of agreements or instruments) by waiver or consent and (in the case of statutes) by succession of comparable successor statutes, including all attachments thereto and instruments incorporated therein. References to a Person are also to its permitted successors and assigns. References to a date or time shall be deemed to be such date or time in New York City, unless otherwise specified. References to dollar amounts are to U.S. dollars, unless otherwise specified. Each of the parties has participated in the drafting and negotiation of this Agreement. If an ambiguity or question of intent or interpretation arises, this Agreement must be construed as if it is drafted by all the parties and no presumption or burden of proof shall arise favoring or disfavoring any party by virtue of authorship of any of the provisions of this Agreement. For avoidance of doubt, "consistent with past practice" when used with respect to Spinco or any of its Subsidiaries means the past practice of Burgundy with respect to the Eagle Business. Except as
Interpretation
 
otherwise expressly provided elsewhere in this Agreement, the Separation Agreement, or any other Transaction Agreement, any provision herein which contemplates the agreement, approval or consent of, or exercise of any right of, a party, such party may give or withhold such agreement, approval or consent, or exercise such right, in its sole and absolute discretion.
(b) Any matter disclosed in any particular Section or Subsection of the Burgundy Disclosure Letter, the Burgundy Disclosure Letter or the Grizzly Disclosure Letter shall be deemed to have been disclosed in any other Section or Subsection of this Agreement, with respect to which such matter is relevant so long as the applicability of such matter to such Section or Subsection is reasonably apparent on its face.
Section 11.5 . If any provision of this Agreement, or the application of any provision to any Person or circumstance, shall be declared judicially to be invalid, unenforceable or void, such decision shall not have the effect of invalidating or voiding the remainder of this Agreement, it being the intent and agreement of the parties hereto that this Agreement shall be deemed amended by modifying such provision to the extent necessary to render it valid, legal and enforceable while preserving its intent or, if such modification is not possible, by substituting therefor another provision that is legal and enforceable and that achieves the same objective.
Severability
Section 11.6 . Neither this Agreement nor any of the rights, benefits or obligations hereunder may be assigned by any of the parties hereto (whether by operation of law or otherwise) without the prior written consent of all of the other parties. Subject to the preceding sentence, this Agreement will be binding upon, inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the parties hereto and their respective successors and permitted assigns.
Assignment; Binding Effect
Section 11.7 . Nothing in this Agreement, express or implied, is intended to or shall confer upon any Person (other than Burgundy, Spinco and Grizzly and their respective successors and permitted assigns) any legal or equitable right, benefit or remedy of any nature whatsoever under or by reason of this Agreement, and no Person (other than as so specified) shall be deemed a third party beneficiary under or by reason of this Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, each financing source under the Spinco Commitment Letter and Related Letters shall be an express third party beneficiary of and shall be entitled to rely upon , and hereof, and each such financing source and its successors and assigns may enforce such provisions.
No Third Party Beneficiaries
Section 11.10
Section 11.12
Section 11.14
Section 11.8 . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, no stockholder, director, officer, Affiliate, agent or representative of any of the parties hereto, in its capacity as such, shall have any liability in respect of or relating to the covenants, obligations, representations or warranties of such party under this Agreement or in respect of any certificate delivered with respect hereto or thereto and, to the fullest extent legally permissible, each of the parties hereto, for itself and its stockholders, directors, officers and Affiliates, waives and agrees not to seek to assert or enforce any such liability that any such Person otherwise might have pursuant to applicable Law.
Limited Liability
Section 11.9 . This Agreement (together with the other Transaction Agreements, the Confidentiality Agreement, the exhibits and the Disclosure Letters and the other documents delivered pursuant hereto) constitutes the entire agreement of all the parties hereto
Entire Agreement
 
and supersedes all prior and contemporaneous agreements and understandings, both written and oral, between the parties, or any of them, with respect to the subject matter hereof. All exhibits attached to this Agreement and the Disclosure Letters are expressly made a part of, and incorporated by reference into, this Agreement.
Section 11.10 . This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of Delaware without giving effect to the conflicts of law principles thereof.
Governing Law
Section 11.11 . This Agreement may be executed in multiple counterparts (any one of which need not contain the signatures of more than one party), each of which will be deemed to be an original but all of which taken together will constitute one and the same agreement. This Agreement, and any amendments hereto, to the extent signed and delivered by means of a facsimile machine or other electronic transmission, will be treated in all manner and respects as an original agreement and will be considered to have the same binding legal effects as if it were the original signed version thereof delivered in person. At the request of a party, the other party will re-execute original forms thereof and deliver them to the requesting party. No party will raise the use of a facsimile machine or other electronic means to deliver a signature or the fact that any signature was transmitted or communicated through the use of facsimile machine or other electronic means as a defense to the formation of a Contract and each such party forever waives any such defense.
Counterparts
Section 11.12 .
Jurisdiction; Consent to Jurisdiction
(a) . Each of the parties irrevocably agrees that any claim, dispute or controversy (of any and every kind or type, whether based on contract, tort, statute, regulation or otherwise, and whether based on state, federal, foreign or any other law), arising out of, relating to or in connection with this Agreement, or any of the transactions contemplated hereby, and including disputes relating to the existence, validity, breach or termination of this Agreement (any such claim being a ""), may be brought and determined in any federal or state court located in the State of Delaware, and each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably submits in respect of Covered Claims for itself and in respect to its property, generally and unconditionally, to the exclusive jurisdiction of the aforesaid courts and agrees that it may be served with such legal process at the address and in the manner set forth in . Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably waives, and agrees not to assert, by way of motion, as a defense, counterclaim or otherwise, in any action or proceeding in respect of Covered Claims (i) any claim that it is not personally subject to the jurisdiction of the above-named courts for any reason other than the failure to lawfully serve process, (ii) that it or its property is exempt or immune from jurisdiction of any such court or from any legal process commenced in such courts (whether through service of notice, attachment prior to judgment, attachment in aid of execution of judgment, execution of judgment or otherwise) and (iii ) to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws, that (A) the suit, action or proceeding in any such court is brought in an inconvenient forum, (B) the venue of such suit, action or proceeding is improper and (C) this Agreement, or the subject matter hereof, may not be enforced in or by such courts. The parties hereby further agree that New York state or United States Federal courts sitting in the borough of Manhattan, City of New York shall have exclusive jurisdiction over any action brought against any financing source under the Spinco Commitment Letter and the Spinco Related Letter in connection with the transactions contemplated under this Agreement.
Exclusive Jurisdiction
Covered Claim
Section 11.3
 
(b) . EACH PARTY ACKNOWLEDGES AND AGREES THAT ANY CONTROVERSY WHICH MAY ARISE UNDER THIS AGREEMENT IS LIKELY TO INVOLVE COMPLICATED AND DIFFICULT ISSUES, AND THEREFORE EACH SUCH PARTY HEREBY IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY WAIVES ANY RIGHT SUCH PARTY MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN RESPECT OF ANY LITIGATION DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT, THE ANCILLARY AGREEMENTS OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED BY THIS AGREEMENT AND THE ANCILLARY AGREEMENTS. EACH PARTY CERTIFIES AND ACKNOWLEDGES THAT (i) NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PARTY HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PARTY WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF ANY LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER, (ii) EACH PARTY UNDERSTANDS AND HAS CONSIDERED THE IMPLICATIONS OF THIS WAIVER, (iii) EACH PARTY MAKES THIS WAIVER VOLUNTARILY, AND (iv) EACH PARTY HAS BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT, BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS .
Waiver of Jury Trial
SECTION 11.12 (b)
Section 11.13 . In the event of any actual or threatened default in, or breach of, any of the terms, conditions and provisions of this Agreement or any other Transaction Agreement, the party who is, or is to be, thereby aggrieved will have the right to specific performance of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or such Transaction Agreement and injunctive or other equitable relief in respect of its rights under this Agreement or such Transaction Agreement, in addition to any and all other rights and remedies at law or in equity. The parties agree that the remedies at law for any breach or threatened breach, including monetary damages, are inadequate compensation for any loss and that any defense in any action for specific performance that a remedy at law would be adequate is waived. Any requirements for the securing or posting of any bond with such remedy are waived by each of the parties to this Agreement.
Specific Performance
Section 11.14 . Burgundy agrees, on behalf of itself and its Affiliates, stockholders and Representatives (collectively, the ""), that the financing sources under the Spinco Commitment Letter and Spinco Related Letter and their Affiliates, stockholders and Representatives and each of their successors and assigns (i) shall be subject to no liability or claims by the Burgundy Related Parties arising out of or relating to this Agreement, the Spinco Financing or the transactions contemplated hereby (except with respect to the enforcement of the Burgundy Commitment Letter) or in connection with the Spinco Financing, or the performance of services by such financing sources or their Affiliates or Representatives with respect to the foregoing and (ii) are express third party beneficiaries of this (which may not be changed as to any financing sources without its prior written consent).
Certain Lender Agreements
Burgundy Related Parties
Section 11.14
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the date first above written.
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
SCHEDULES
 
 
EXHIBITS
 
 
THIS SEPARATION AGREEMENT, dated as of July 18, 2012 (this ""), is by and between PPG Industries, Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation (""), and Eagle Spinco Inc., a Delaware corporation and presently a wholly owned Subsidiary of Burgundy (""). Capitalized terms used in this Agreement and not otherwise defined have the meanings ascribed to such terms in Article I of this Agreement.
Agreement
Burgundy
Spinco
WHEREAS, Burgundy is engaged, directly and indirectly, in the Eagle Business;
WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of Burgundy has determined that it would be in the best interests of Burgundy and its stockholders to separate the Eagle Business from the other businesses of Burgundy;
WHEREAS, Burgundy has caused Spinco, which currently conducts no business operations and has no assets or liabilities other than in connection with its formation, to be formed in order to facilitate such separation;
WHEREAS, Burgundy currently owns all of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock, par value $0.001 per share, of Spinco (the "");
Spinco Common Stock
WHEREAS, Burgundy and Spinco have each determined that it would be appropriate and desirable for (a) Burgundy and its Subsidiaries to transfer or cause to be transferred, to Spinco, the equity of the Spinco Subsidiaries, and to one or more Spinco Subsidiaries, all of the other Spinco Assets (and, to pay in accordance with Section 6.2(d) of the Employee Matters Agreement, the Underfunding Amount (as defined therein), if any), (b) the transfer of certain Excluded Assets to (or the retention of such Excluded Assets by) Burgundy or one or more of its Subsidiaries, and (c) the assumption by Burgundy or one or more of its Subsidiaries of the Excluded Liabilities in exchange for (w) one or more Spinco Subsidiaries assuming the Spinco Liabilities, (x) Spinco issuing to Burgundy shares of Spinco Common Stock pursuant to the Spinco Stock Issuance, (y) Spinco distributing to Burgundy the Special Below Basis Cash Distribution (and, to pay in accordance with Section 6.2(d) of the Employee Matters Agreement, the Grizzly True Up Amount (as defined therein), if any) and (z) Spinco distributing to Burgundy the Special Above Basis Debt/Cash Distribution, as further described herein and in the Merger Agreement (the "");
Spinco Reorganization
WHEREAS, Burgundy and Spinco contemplate that, substantially concurrently with or immediately prior to the Spinco Reorganization as further described herein, Spinco will enter into the definitive debt financing arrangements as contemplated by the Spinco Commitment Letter and the Spinco Related Letter and the Burgundy Commitment Letter and the Burgundy Related Letter, as further described herein and in the Merger Agreement (the "", together with the Spinco Stock Issuance and the Special Distribution, the "");
Spinco Financing Arrangements
Recapitalization
WHEREAS, Burgundy and Spinco contemplate that, following the Spinco Reorganization and Recapitalization as further described herein, Burgundy will either (a) distribute all of the shares of Spinco Common Stock to holders of Burgundy Common Stock without consideration on a pro rata basis (the "") or (b) consummate an offer to exchange (the "") shares of Spinco Common Stock for currently outstanding shares of Burgundy's common stock, $1.66-2/3 par value per share ("") and, in the event that Burgundy's stockholders subscribe for less than all of the Spinco Common Stock in the Exchange Offer, Burgundy will distribute, pro rata to holders of Burgundy Common Stock, any unsubscribed Spinco Common Stock on the Distribution Date immediately following the consummation of the Exchange Offer so that Burgundy will be treated for U.S. federal income Tax purposes as having distributed all of the Spinco Common Stock to its stockholders (the "");
One-Step Spin-Off
Exchange Offer
Burgundy Common Stock
Clean-Up Spin-Off
WHEREAS, the disposition by Burgundy of 100% of the Spinco Common Stock, whether by way of the One-Step Spin-Off or the Exchange Offer (followed by any Clean-Up Spin-Off), is referred to herein as the "";
Distribution
WHEREAS, the Parties intend that, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the contribution (as part of the Spinco Reorganization) by Burgundy to Spinco of all of the Spinco Assets held directly by Burgundy in exchange for (a) the assumption by Spinco Subsidiaries of Spinco Liabilities of Burgundy, (b) the issuance by Spinco to Burgundy of shares of Spinco Common Stock pursuant to the Spinco Stock Issuance, (c) the distribution by Spinco to Burgundy of the Special Below Basis Cash Distribution, and (d) the distribution by Spinco to Burgundy of the Special Above Basis Debt/Cash Distribution (the "") and the Distribution, taken together, will qualify as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code;
Contribution
WHEREAS, Burgundy has requested a private letter ruling (the "") from the IRS substantially to the effect that, among other things, (i) the Contribution and Distribution, taken together, will qualify as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code (the ""), and (ii) Burgundy will not recognize gain or loss for U.S. federal income Tax purposes in connection with the receipt of the Spinco Exchange Debt in the Special Above Basis Debt/Cash Distribution or the consummation of the Debt Exchange (the "");
Private Letter Ruling
IRS D Reorganization Ruling
IRS Debt Exchange Ruling
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated July 18, 2012 (the ""), among Burgundy, Spinco, and Georgia Gulf Corporation, a Delaware corporation (""), immediately following the Distribution, a Subsidiary of Grizzly will merge with and into Spinco, subject to Schedule 8.3(e) to the Merger Agreement (the "") and Spinco Common Stock will be converted into shares of common stock of Grizzly on the terms and subject to the conditions of the Merger Agreement;
Merger Agreement
Grizzly
Merger
WHEREAS, it is a condition to the Merger that, prior to the Effective Time, the Spinco Reorganization and the Distribution be completed;
 
WHEREAS, the Distribution will be carried out for the corporate business purpose of tailoring Spinco's corporate structure to facilitate the Merger (which, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, is intended to qualify as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code);
WHEREAS, Burgundy and Spinco have determined that (a) the Merger will not be undertaken unless the Distribution occurs, (b) the Merger cannot be accomplished by an alternative nontaxable transaction that does not involve the Distribution and is neither impractical nor unduly expensive, and (c) Grizzly is not related to Burgundy or Spinco;
WHEREAS, the Parties intend this Agreement to be, and hereby adopt as, a "plan of reorganization" within the meaning of Treasury Regulation Section 1.368-2(g); and
WHEREAS, the Parties intend in this Agreement to set forth the principal arrangements between them regarding the Spinco Reorganization, the Recapitalization and the Distribution, and certain other agreements that will, following the Distribution, govern certain matters relating to the Spinco Reorganization, the Recapitalization and the Distribution and the relationship of Burgundy, Spinco and their respective Subsidiaries.
NOW, THEREFORE, for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, and intending to be legally bound, the Parties agree as follows:
For purposes of this Agreement, the following terms, when utilized in a capitalized form, will have the following meanings:
Section 1.1 "" means $900 million, minus the TCI Value to the extent the TCI Interests are not transferred at the Business Transfer Time, minus the Below Basis Amount, and , if the Estimated Adjustment Payment is negative, the absolute value of the Estimated Adjustment Payment, and , if the Estimated Adjustment Payment is positive, the Estimated Adjustment Payment (as such terms are used and defined in the Separation Agreement), subject to adjustment as set forth in Section 3.1(d) of the Merger Agreement.
Above Basis Amount
minus
plus
Section 1.2 "" means the exhibits set forth on Schedules 3.7(a), 3.7(b) and 3.7(c) attached hereto and the line items (such line items calculated in accordance with GAAP, consistently applied), methods, practices, categories, estimates, and assumptions reflected therein.
Accounting Exhibit
Section 1.3 "" means any demand, charge, claim, action, suit, counter suit, arbitration, hearing, inquiry, proceeding, audit, review, complaint, litigation or investigation, or proceeding of any nature whether administrative, civil, criminal, regulatory or otherwise, by or before any federal, state, local, foreign or international Governmental Authority or any arbitration or mediation tribunal.
Action
 
Section 1.4 "" means a Person that, directly or indirectly, through one or more intermediaries, controls or is controlled by, or is under common control with, a specified Person. The term "" (including, with correlative meanings, the terms "" and ""), as applied to any Person, means the possession, direct or indirect, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities or other ownership interest, by Contract or otherwise; , , that for purposes of this Agreement, from and after the Distribution Date, no member of either Group shall be deemed an Affiliate of any member of the other Group.
Affiliate
control
controlled by
under common control with
provided
however
Section 1.5 "" has the meaning set forth in the Merger Agreement.
Agent
Section 1.6 "" means the Tax Matters Agreement, the Transition Services Agreement, the Employee Matters Agreement, the Shared Facilities, Services and Supply Agreement, the Electric Generation, Distribution and Transmission Facilities Lease, the Servitude Agreement, the Liquid Caustic Soda Sales Agreement (Fresno), the Liquid Caustic Soda Sales Agreement (Strongsville), the Hydrochloric Acid Sales Agreement - Lake Charles (Silica), the Chlorine and Liquid Caustic Soda Sales Agreement (Barberton), the Liquid Caustic Soda Sales Agreement (Wichita Falls), the Hydrochloric Acid Sales Agreement, the Shared Facilities Agreement (Monroeville) and the Master Terminal Agreement.
Ancillary Agreements
Section 1.7 "" means assets, properties and rights (including goodwill), wherever located (including in the possession of vendors or other third parties or elsewhere), whether real, personal or mixed, tangible, intangible or contingent, in each case whether or not recorded or reflected or required to be recorded or reflected on the books and records or financial statements of any Person.
Assets
Section 1.8 "" means $225 million, the TCI Basis if the TCI Interests are transferred at the Business Transfer Time, (x) unless pursuant to a written notice delivered to Spinco prior to the commencement of the Marketing Period (as defined in the Merger Agreement) (i) Burgundy elects to reduce the Below Basis Amount by the amount specified in such notice; , , that Burgundy shall under no circumstances reduce the Below Basis Amount to an amount that is less than $200 million (exclusive of the TCI Basis); or (ii) Burgundy elects to increase the Below Basis Amount by the amount specified in such notice after considering in good faith the estimated adjusted Tax bases of the assets to be transferred by Burgundy to Spinco and the estimated amount of liabilities to be assumed by Spinco; that in no event shall Burgundy increase the Below Basis Amount to more than $260 million (exclusive of the TCI Basis) without the written consent of Grizzly and (y) (A) if the Estimated Adjustment Payment is negative, the absolute value of the Estimated Adjustment Payment and (B) if the Estimated Adjustment Payment is positive, the Estimated Adjustment Payment.
Below Basis Amount
plus
provided
however
provided
minus
plus
Section 1.9 "" has the meaning set forth in the Merger Agreement.
Burgundy Benefit Plan
Section 1.10 "" has the meaning set forth in the Merger Agreement.
Burgundy Commitment Letter
 
Section 1.11 "" has the meaning set forth in the Tax Matters Agreement.
Burgundy Disqualifying Action
Section 1.12 "" means Burgundy and each of its Subsidiaries, but excluding any member of the Spinco Group.
Burgundy Group
Section 1.13 "" means Burgundy, each member of the Burgundy Group, and all Persons who are or have been stockholders, directors, partners, managers, managing members, officers, agents or employees of any member of the Burgundy Group (in each case, in their respective capacities as such) or, in the event the TCI Interests are transferred to Spinco at or prior to the Business Transfer Time, TCI, in each case, together with their respective heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns.
Burgundy Indemnitees
Section 1.14 "" has the meaning set forth in the Merger Agreement.
Burgundy Related Letter
Section 1.15 "" means any day, other than a Saturday, Sunday or another day on which commercial banking institutions in New York State are authorized or required by Law to be closed.
Business Day
Section 1.16 "" means the entire area set forth in the map attached as Schedule 1.16.
Calcasieu Estuary
Section 1.17 "" means policies issued to Burgundy or its Affiliates by insurers on or after July 1, 1986, on a "claims made" or "occurrence reported" basis, that actually or potentially cover claims, lawsuits, or liabilities for which Burgundy seeks indemnification under this Agreement.
Claims-Made Policies
Section 1.18 "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
Section 1.19 "" and "" means any consents, waivers or approvals from, or notification requirements to, or authorizations by, any third parties.
Consent
Consents
Section 1.20 "" or "" means any loan or credit agreement, note, bond, indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, lease, sublease, franchise, permit, authorization, license, contract, instrument or other commitment, obligation or arrangement, whether written or oral, that is binding on any Person or any part of its property under applicable Law, other than any Burgundy Benefit Plan or Grizzly Benefit Plan, and the term "" shall have the correlative meaning.
Contract
agreement
Contractual
Section 1.21 "" has the meaning set forth in the Merger Agreement.
Debt Exchange
Section 1.22 "" means the date selected by the Board of Directors of Burgundy or its designee for the Distribution, through a One-Step Spin-Off or an Exchange Offer followed by the Clean-Up Spin-Off (if necessary).
Distribution Date
 
Section 1.23 "" means the chlor-alkali, derivatives and other commodity or other chemicals business, as operated at, or at any time prior to, the Business Transfer Time, at or in respect of the Spinco Active Sites which business currently produces chlorine, caustic soda and related chemicals for use in chemical manufacturing, pulp and paper production, water treatment, plastics production, agricultural products, pharmaceuticals and other applications; that, notwithstanding the foregoing, the "" shall include any discontinued chlor-alkali, derivatives and other commodity or other chemical products manufactured by Burgundy or its Affiliates at any Spinco Active Site at any time prior to the Business Transfer Time. For the avoidance of doubt, the Eagle Business includes the production of any products manufactured at a Spinco Active Site and also at a Spinco Inactive Site, including the production of perchlorethylene or trichlorethylene by Burgundy and its Affiliates.
Eagle Business
provided
Eagle Business
Section 1.24 "" has the meaning set forth in the Merger Agreement.
Effective Time
Section 1.25 "" means the Employee Matters Agreement entered into on the date of this Agreement, by and among Burgundy, Grizzly and Spinco.
Employee Matters Agreement
Section 1.26 "" means the presence in the environment, including the land surface or subsurface strata, groundwater, sediment, surface water or indoor and ambient air, of any Hazardous Materials.
Environmental Conditions
Section 1.27 "" means all Laws of any Governmental Authority that relate to pollution or the protection, clean up or restoration of the environment (including indoor and ambient air, surface water, ground water, sediment, land surface or subsurface strata) including the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (42 U.S.C.  9601 et seq.) (""), the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C.  1251 et seq.) (""), the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (42 U.S.C.  6901 et seq., as amended) (""), the Safe Drinking Water Act (21 U.S.C.  349, 42 U.S.C.  201, 300f) (""), the Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C.  2601 et seq.) (""), the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C.  7401 et seq.) (""), the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (""), and any similar state or local Laws or any other binding legal obligation in effect now or in the future relating to the release of Hazardous Materials, or otherwise relating to the treatment, storage, disposal, transport or handling of Hazardous Materials, or to the exposure of any individual to a release of Hazardous Materials.
Environmental Laws
CERCLA
CWA
RCRA
SDWA
TSCA
CAA
OPA
Section 1.28 "" has the meaning set forth in the Merger Agreement.
Exchange Act
Section 1.29 "" has the meaning set forth in the Tax Matters Agreement.
Final Determination
 
Section 1.30 "" means any notices, reports or other filings to be made to, or any Consents, registrations, permits or authorizations to be obtained from, any Governmental Authority.
Governmental Approvals
Section 1.31 "" means any federal, state, local or foreign court, administrative agency, official board, bureau, governmental or quasi-governmental entities having competent jurisdiction over Burgundy or Spinco, any of their respective Subsidiaries and any other tribunal or commission or other governmental department, authority or instrumentality or any subdivision, agency, mediator, commission or authority of competent jurisdiction.
Governmental Authority
Section 1.32 "" has the meaning set forth in the Merger Agreement.
Grizzly Benefit Plan
Section 1.33 "" means Grizzly and each of its Subsidiaries, including, after the Effective Time, the Spinco Group.
Grizzly Group
Section 1.34 "" means the Burgundy Group, the Spinco Group or the Grizzly Group, as the context requires.
Group
Section 1.35 "" means any substance that is listed, defined, designated or classified as, or otherwise determined to be, hazardous, radioactive, infectious, reactive, corrosive, ignitable, flammable or toxic or a pollutant or a contaminant or is otherwise subject to regulation, control or Remediation under any Environmental Law.
Hazardous Material
Section 1.36 "" means any Party that may be obligated to provide indemnification to an Indemnitee pursuant to hereof or any other section of this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement.
Indemnifying Party
Article V
Section 1.37 "" means any Person that may be entitled to indemnification from an Indemnifying Party pursuant to hereof or any other section of this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement.
Indemnitee
Article V
Section 1.38 "" means information in written, oral, electronic or other tangible or intangible form, stored in any medium, including studies, reports, records, books, Contracts, instruments, surveys, discoveries, ideas, concepts, know-how, techniques, designs, specifications, drawings, blueprints, diagrams, models, prototypes, samples, flow charts, data, computer data, disks, diskettes, tapes, computer programs or other software, marketing plans, customer names, communications by or to attorneys (including attorney-client privileged communications), memos and other materials prepared by attorneys or under their direction (including attorney work product), and other technical, financial, employee or business information or data, but in any case excluding back-up tapes.
Information
Section 1.39 "" means those monies: (i) received by an insured from an insurance carrier; or (ii) paid by an insurance carrier on behalf of the insured.
Insurance Proceeds
Section 1.40 "" means, in any and all jurisdictions throughout the world, all (i) inventions and discoveries (whether or not patentable or reduced to
Intellectual Property Rights
 
practice), patents, patent applications, invention disclosures, and statutory invention registrations, including reissues, divisionals, provisionals, continuations, continuations-in-part, extensions, utility models, design patents and reexaminations thereof, (ii) trademarks, service marks, domain names, uniform resource locators, trade dress, slogans, logos, symbols, trade names, brand names and other identifiers of source or goodwill, including registrations and applications for registration thereof and including the goodwill symbolized thereby or associated therewith (the items in this clause (ii) being referred to collectively herein as ""), (iii) published and unpublished works of authorship, whether copyrightable or not, copyrights therein and thereto, registrations, applications, renewals and extensions therefor, industrial designs, mask works, and any and all rights associated therewith, (iv) computer data, computer programs or other software, and databases, in each case whether in source code, object code or other form, and all related documentation, (v) all information to the extent not included in clauses (i)-(iv), such as data, trade secrets, processes, procedures, methods, techniques, compositions, formulas, ingredients, product specifications, mold specifications, drawings, sketches, designs, structural shaping, manufacturing techniques, material specifications, process specifications, engineering specifications, and the like, and all rights to limit the use or disclosure thereof, (vi) rights of privacy and publicity, (vii) any and all other proprietary rights or property similar to any of the foregoing in any jurisdiction, whether registered or not registered, together with the right to apply for the registration of any such rights, and all rights or forms of protection having equivalent or similar effect, in any jurisdiction, and (viii) any and all other intellectual property under the Laws of any country throughout the world.
Trademarks
Section 1.41 "" means the U.S. Internal Revenue Service.
IRS
Section 1.42 "" means any federal, state, local or foreign law, statute, code, ordinance, rule, regulation, judgment, order, injunction, decree, arbitration award, agency requirement, license or permit of any Governmental Authority.
Law
Section 1.43 "" means all debts, liabilities, guarantees, assurances, commitments and obligations, whether fixed, contingent or absolute, asserted or unasserted, matured or unmatured, liquidated or unliquidated, accrued or not accrued, known or unknown, due or to become due, whenever or however arising (including whether arising out of any Contract or tort based on negligence or strict liability) and whether or not the same would be required by U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles to be reflected in financial statements or disclosed in the notes thereto.
Liabilities
Section 1.44 "" means liabilities, damages, penalties, judgments, assessments, losses, costs and expenses in any case, whether arising under strict liability or otherwise (including reasonable attorneys' fees); , , that (a) with respect to claims made hereunder by (i) any member of the Burgundy Group, on the one hand, against any member of the Spinco Group, on the other hand, or (ii) by any member of the Spinco Group, on the one hand, against any member of the Burgundy Group, on the other hand (collectively, ""), "Losses" will not include attorneys' fees or other arbitration or litigation expenses (including without limitation experts' fees and administrative costs) incurred in connection with the prosecution of such Direct Claim under the provisions set forth in and (b) "Losses" will not include any punitive, exemplary, special, or similar damages in excess of compensatory damages, except to the extent awarded by a court of competent jurisdiction in connection with a Third-Party Claim.
Losses
provided
however
Direct Claims
Section 7.14
 
Section 1.45 "" means the area described in the map attached hereto as Schedule 1.45.
Natrium Excess Land
Section 1.46 "" means damages for injury to, destruction of, loss of, or loss of use of, natural resources, including the reasonable costs of assessing the damage, which are recoverable by a United States Trustee, a State Trustee, an Indian tribe trustee, or a foreign trustee pursuant to CERCLA, CWA, OPA or a counterpart state statute.
Natural Resource Damages
Section 1.47 "" means those Intellectual Property Rights that are (i) licensed to the Burgundy Group pursuant to a Shared Contract; (ii) used to conduct the Spinco Business prior to the Business Transfer Time; and (iii) necessary to conduct the Spinco Business in substantially the same manner as conducted immediately prior to the Business Transfer Time.
Necessary Licenses
Section 1.48 "" means all businesses and operations (whether or not such businesses or operations are or have been terminated, divested or discontinued) conducted prior to the Business Transfer Time by Burgundy, the Burgundy Subsidiaries, Spinco or the Spinco Subsidiaries, in each case, that are not included in the Eagle Business.
Non-Spinco Business
Section 1.49 "" means the river, riverbottom and riverbank of the Ohio River to the normal high water mark depicted on the maps attached to Schedule 2.5(b)(ii). For the avoidance of doubt, the maps attached to Schedule 2.5(b)(ii) are only for the purpose of delineating the normal high water mark for the portion of the Ohio River delineated thereon.
Ohio River
Section 1.50 "" means any order, judgment, injunction, award, decree, writ or other legally enforceable requirement handed down, adopted or imposed by, including any consent decree, settlement agreement or similar written agreement with, any Governmental Authority.
Order
Section 1.51 "" means Burgundy and Spinco and, for purposes of the obligations in , the Spinco Group.
Parties
Section 5.2
Section 1.52 "" means a natural person, corporation, company, joint venture, individual business trust, trust association, partnership, limited partnership, limited liability company or other entity, including a Governmental Authority.
Person
Section 1.53 "" means all insurance policies, insurance Contracts and claim administration Contracts of any kind of Burgundy and its Subsidiaries (including members of the Spinco Group) and their predecessors which were or are in effect at any time at or prior to the Business Transfer Time, including commercial general liability, automobile liability, workers' compensation and employer's liability, excess and umbrella liability, aircraft hull and liability, commercial crime (including ERISA bond), property and business interruption, directors' and officers' liability, fiduciary liability, errors and omissions, special accident, environmental, inland and marine, and captive insurance company arrangements, together with all rights, benefits and privileges thereunder.
Policies
 
Section 1.54 "" means all Governmental Approvals associated with the subdivision of any Real Property that is a Spinco Asset from Real Property that is an Excluded Asset and the Conveyance of such Real Property that is a Spinco Asset to Spinco as contemplated by this Agreement, including without limitation any zoning variances, approvals or other relief from the strict requirements of any applicable zoning, subdivision or land development ordinance associated therewith.
Real Estate Approvals
Section 1.55 "" means land together with all easements, rights and interests arising out of the ownership thereof or appurtenant thereto and improvements thereon.
Real Property
Section 1.56 "" means the close of business on the date to be determined by Burgundy's Board of Directors as the record date for determining stockholders of Burgundy entitled to receive shares of Spinco Common Stock in the Distribution, to the extent the Distribution is effected through a One-Step Spin-Off, or in connection with any Clean-Up Spin-Off.
Record Date
Section 1.57 "" means the holders of record of Burgundy Common Stock as of the close of business on the Record Date.
Record Holders
Section 1.58 "" means any spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting, emptying, discharging, injecting, escaping, leaching, dumping, or disposing into the environment, including the abandonment or discarding of barrels, containers, and other closed receptacles containing Hazardous Materials.
Release
Section 1.59 "" means Actions required by a Governmental Authority to clean up, abate, remove, or control Releases of Hazardous Materials into the environment in order to protect public health or the environment pursuant to applicable Environmental Laws, including Actions to study, investigate, monitor and assess such Releases but, for the avoidance of doubt, shall not include any Actions which may be required to address Natural Resource Damages with respect to the Calcasieu Estuary.
Remediation
Section 1.60 "" has the meaning set forth in the Merger Agreement.
Securities Act
Section 1.61 "" means any mortgage, security interest, pledge, lien, charge, claim, option, indenture, right to acquire, right of first refusal, deed of trust, licenses to third parties, leases to third parties, security agreements, voting or other restriction, right-of-way, covenant, condition, easement, encroachment, restriction on transfer, or other encumbrance and other restrictions or limitations on use of real or personal property of any nature whatsoever.
Security Interest
Section 1.62 "" means all Intellectual Property Rights which are (i) owned or controlled by the Burgundy Group as of the Business Transfer Time and not included in the Spinco Assets; (ii) used to conduct the Spinco Business prior to the Business Transfer Time; and (iii) necessary to conduct the Spinco Business in substantially the same manner as conducted immediately prior to the Business Transfer Time; , that the Shared Burgundy IP will exclude any Trademarks, including the trademarks and domain names listed on Schedule 2.4(b)(i).
Shared Burgundy IP
provided, however
 
Section 1.63 "" means the Contracts listed on Schedule 1.63 and any other Contract that relates to both (a) the Eagle Business and (b) the Non-Spinco Business.
Shared Contracts
Section 1.64 "" means (a) all Information provided by any member of the Spinco Group to a member of the Burgundy Group prior to the Business Transfer Time, and (b) any Information in the possession or under the control of such respective Group that relates to the operation of the Eagle Business prior to the Business Transfer Time and that the requesting Party reasonably needs (i) to comply with reporting, disclosure, filing or other requirements imposed on the requesting Party (including under applicable securities and tax Laws) by a Governmental Authority having jurisdiction over the requesting Party, (ii) for use in any other judicial, regulatory, administrative or other proceeding or in order to satisfy audit, accounting, claims, regulatory, litigation or other similar requirements, in each case other than claims or allegations that one Party to this Agreement has against the other, (iii) subject to the foregoing clause (ii) above, to comply with its obligations under this Agreement, the Merger Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement, or (iv) to the extent such Information and cooperation is necessary to comply with such reporting, filing and disclosure obligations, for the preparation of financial statements or completing an audit, and as reasonably necessary to conduct the ongoing businesses of Burgundy or Spinco, as the case may be.
Shared Information
Section 1.65 "" means all Intellectual Property Rights which are (i) included in the Spinco Assets; (ii) used to conduct the Burgundy Group's business prior to the Business Transfer Time; and (iii) necessary to conduct the Burgundy Group's business in substantially the same manner as conducted immediately prior to the Business Transfer Time; , that the Shared Spinco IP will exclude any Trademarks, including the trademarks and domain names listed on Schedule 2.4(b)(i).
Shared Spinco IP
provided, however
Section 1.66 "" means the Eagle Business and also, with respect to events that take place after the Business Transfer Time, the Eagle Business as it is operated by the Spinco Group or the Grizzly Group after the Business Transfer Time, including any new activities, expansions, or other modifications made to the Spinco Assets acquired at the Business Transfer Time.
Spinco Business
Section 1.67 "" has the meaning set forth in the Merger Agreement.
Spinco Commitment Letter
Section 1.68 "" has the meaning set forth in the Merger Agreement.
Spinco Exchange Debt
Section 1.69 "" has the meaning set forth in the Employee Matters Agreement
Spinco Employees
Section 1.70 "" means any facility located on a Spinco Active Site.
Spinco Facility
 
Section 1.71 "" means Spinco and each of its Subsidiaries. The Grizzly Group will be deemed to be members of the Spinco Group as of the Effective Time.
Spinco Group
Section 1.72 "" means any and all Real Property owned, leased or operated prior to the Business Transfer Time by Burgundy or its Affiliates (including the Spinco Group) relating to the Eagle Business, other than (i) the Spinco Active Sites and (ii) other Real Property expressly identified in this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement as Assets to be acquired by any member of the Spinco Group.
Spinco Inactive Sites
Section 1.73 "" means Spinco, each member of the Spinco Group, and all Persons who are or have been stockholders, directors, partners, managers, managing members, officers, agents or employees of any member of the Spinco Group (in each case, in their respective capacities as such), in each case, together with their respective heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns.
Spinco Indemnitees
Section 1.74 "" has the meaning set forth in the Merger Agreement.
Spinco Related Letter
Section 1.75 "" has the meaning set forth in the Merger Agreement.
Spinco Securities
Section 1.76 "" means, with respect to any Person, a corporation, partnership, association, limited liability company, trust or other form of legal entity in which such Person, a Subsidiary of such Person or such Person and one or more Subsidiaries of such Person, directly or indirectly, has either (i) a majority ownership in the equity thereof, (ii) the power, under ordinary circumstances, to elect, or to direct the election of, a majority of the board of directors or other analogous governing body of such entity, or (iii) the title or function of general partner or manager, or the right to designate the Person having such title or function; , , that TCI shall not be deemed a Subsidiary of Burgundy.
Subsidiary
provided
however
Section 1.77 "" means the sum of the Target Working Capital Amount Excluding TCI , in the event the TCI Interests are Conveyed to Spinco at or prior to the Business Transfer Time, the TCI Target Working Capital Amount multiplied by 60%.
Target Working Capital Amount
plus
Section 1.78 "" means 9.18% (as adjusted pursuant to Schedule 3.7(a)) of the annualized quarterly sales of the Eagle Business for the latest quarter ending on or before the Effective Time, excluding TCI, as calculated in accordance with Schedule 3.7(a).
Target Working Capital Amount Excluding TCI
Section 1.79 "" or "" has the meaning set forth in the Tax Matters Agreement.
Tax
Taxes
Section 1.80 "" has the meaning set forth in the Tax Matters Agreement.
Tax Return
Section 1.81 "" has the meaning set forth in the Merger Agreement.
Taxing Authority
 
Section 1.82 "" means Taiwan Chlorine Industries, Ltd., a Taiwanese corporation.
TCI
Section 1.83 "" means that certain Agreement, dated December 12, 1986 by and between Burgundy and China Petrochemical Development Corporation.
TCI Agreement
Section 1.84 "" means $12 million.
TCI Basis
Section 1.85 "" means all shares of TCI owned by Burgundy as of immediately prior to the Business Transfer Time.
TCI Interests
Section 1.86 "" means $4.5 million.
TCI Target Working Capital Amount
Section 1.87 "" has the meaning set forth in Schedule 1.87.
TCI Value
Section 1.88 "" has the meaning set forth in the Tax Matters Agreement.
Transactions
Section 1.89 "" means the sum of the "Adjusted Working Capital Before Normalization Adjustments" of the Eagle Business as set forth on and calculated in accordance with, Schedule 3.7(b) , in the event the TCI Interests are Conveyed to Spinco at or prior to the Business Transfer Time, 60% of the (a) sum of (i) the "Adjusted Working Capital" of TCI as set forth on and calculated in accordance with, Schedule 3.7(c) (ii) any cash or cash equivalents at TCI, (b) any debt at TCI. Working capital will be comprised of the components set forth on and calculated in accordance with the Accounting Exhibit.
Working Capital
plus
plus
less
 
 
 
Section 2.1 . Except as provided in , subject to the terms of this Agreement and effective as of the Business Transfer Time, in accordance with the plan and structure set forth on Schedule 2.1 (such plan and structure being referred to herein as the "") and to the extent not previously effected pursuant to the steps of the Plan of Reorganization:
Transfer of Spinco Assets; Assumption of Spinco Liabilities
Section 2.7(b)
Plan of Reorganization
(a) Burgundy will assign, transfer, convey and deliver ("") (or will cause any applicable Subsidiary to Convey) to Spinco the equity interests in the Spinco Entities that are to be held directly by Spinco and, as set forth in the Plan of Reorganization, to the applicable Spinco Entity, the other Spinco Assets, and Spinco will accept from Burgundy (or the applicable Subsidiary of Burgundy) (or will cause any applicable Spinco Entity to accept) all of Burgundy's and its applicable Subsidiaries' respective direct or indirect right, title and interest in and to all Spinco Assets (other than any Spinco Assets that are already held as of the Business Transfer Time by a Spinco Entity, which Spinco Assets will continue to be held by such Spinco Entity); and
Convey
 
(b) Burgundy will Convey (or will cause any applicable Subsidiary to Convey) to a Spinco Entity other than Spinco, and such Spinco Entity will assume, perform, discharge and fulfill when due and, to the extent applicable, comply with all of the Spinco Liabilities, in accordance with their respective terms (other than any Spinco Liabilities that as of the Business Transfer Time are already Liabilities of a Spinco Entity, which Spinco Liabilities will continue to be Liabilities of such Spinco Entity).
Section 2.2 . Except as provided in , subject to the terms of this Agreement and prior to the Business Transfer Time, in accordance with the Plan of Reorganization and to the extent not previously effected pursuant to the steps of the Plan of Reorganization:
Transfer of Excluded Assets; Assumption of Excluded Liabilities
Section 2.7(b)
(a) Burgundy will cause any applicable member or members of the Spinco Group to Convey to Burgundy or, to the extent set forth in the Plan of Reorganization, a Subsidiary of Burgundy, and Burgundy will accept from such applicable member or members of the Spinco Group (or will cause any applicable Subsidiary of Burgundy to accept) all of such member's or members' direct or indirect right, title and interest in and to all Excluded Assets; and
(b) Burgundy will cause any applicable member or members of the Spinco Group to Convey to Burgundy or, to the extent set forth in the Plan of Reorganization, a Subsidiary of Burgundy, and Burgundy will assume, perform, discharge and fulfill when due, and to the extent applicable, comply with (or will cause the applicable Subsidiary of Burgundy to assume, satisfy, perform, discharge and fulfill when due, and to the extent applicable, comply with) all of the Excluded Liabilities (including any Liabilities of a Spinco Subsidiary that are Excluded Liabilities), in accordance with their respective terms.
Section 2.3 . Other than the TCI Interests, the treatment of which shall be governed by , in the event that at any time or from time to time (whether prior to, at or after the Business Transfer Time), either Party (or any member of the Burgundy Group or the Spinco Group, as applicable) is the owner of, receives or otherwise comes to possess any Asset (including the receipt of payments made pursuant to Contracts and proceeds from accounts receivable) or Liability that is allocated to any Person that is a member of the other Group pursuant to this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement (except in the case of any acquisition of Assets from the other Party for value subsequent to the Business Transfer Time), such Party will promptly transfer, or cause to be transferred, such Asset or Liability to the Person so entitled thereto or responsible therefor. Prior to any such transfer, such Asset or Liability will be held in accordance with .
Misallocated Transfers
Section 2.7(e)
Section 2.7(d)
 
Section 2.4 .
Spinco Assets; Excluded Assets
(a) For purposes of this Agreement, "" means in each case all of Burgundy's and its Affiliates' rights, title and interests in and to the following Assets except as otherwise set forth below and in each case subject to :
Spinco Assets
Section 2.4(b)
(i) all inventories of materials, parts, raw materials, packaging materials, stores, supplies, work-in-process, goods in transit, and finished goods and products that are, in each case, used or held for use primarily in the Eagle Business (the "");
Spinco Inventory
(ii) all Real Property listed or described on Schedule 2.4(a)(ii) (the "");
Spinco Active Sites
(iii) all issued and outstanding capital stock of, or other equity interests in, the Subsidiaries of Burgundy listed or described on Schedule 2.4(a)(iii)(1) (such stock or other equity interests, the "" and such Subsidiaries, the "") and, subject to with respect to the TCI Interests, all capital stock or other equity interests owned by Burgundy that are listed on Schedule 2.4(a)(iii)(2);
Spinco Entity Interests,
Spinco Entities
Section 2.7(e)
(iv) (A) all Contracts that are related primarily to the Eagle Business (including Shared Contracts that are related primarily to the Eagle Business, subject to ) and all interests, rights, claims and benefits of Burgundy and any of its Subsidiaries pursuant to and associated therewith and (B) to the extent provided in , the Contracts for the sole benefit of Spinco into which the Shared Contracts are separated (collectively, the "");
Section 2.7(c)
Section 2.7(c)
Spinco Contracts
(v) Subject to Section 2.7, all approvals, consents, franchises, licenses, permits, registrations, authorizations and certificates or other rights issued or granted by any Governmental Authority and all pending applications therefor that are, in each case, used primarily in, or held primarily for the benefit of, the Eagle Business;
(vi) (A) all patents, patent applications, statutory invention registrations, registered trademarks, registered service marks, registered Internet domain names and copyright registrations (collectively, "") that are, in each case, used or held for use primarily in the Eagle Business, including the Registrable IP listed or described on Schedule 2.4(a)(vi), and (B) all Intellectual Property Rights, other than Registrable IP, that is used or held for use primarily in the Eagle Business;
Registrable IP
 
(vii) (A) all business records related primarily to the Eagle Business, including the minute and other record books and related stock and equity interests records of the Spinco Entities and all employment records related primarily to the Spinco Employees, and (B) all other books, records, ledgers, files, documents, correspondence, lists, plats, drawings, photographs, product literature (including historical), advertising and promotional materials, distribution lists, customer lists, supplier lists, studies, market and product share data (including historical), reports, operating, production and other manuals, manufacturing and quality control records and procedures, research and development files, and accounting and business books, records, files, documentation and materials, in all cases whether in paper, microfilm, microfiche, computer tape or disc, magnetic tape or any other form, in each case that are related primarily to the Eagle Business (collectively, the ""); , that (1) Burgundy will be entitled to retain a copy of the Spinco Books and Records, which will be subject to the provisions of ; (2) neither clause (A) nor (B) will be deemed to include any books, records or other items with respect to which it is not reasonably practicable to identify and extract the portion thereof related primarily to the Eagle Business from the portions thereof that relate primarily to businesses of Burgundy other than the Eagle Business , , that the portion of such books, records and other items that are retained by the Burgundy Group that are related primarily to the Eagle Business will be deemed to be Shared Information; (3) neither clause (A) nor (B) will be deemed to include any tangible copies of books, records or other items unless they are being kept at either a Spinco Facility or a third party storage facility covered by a Spinco Contract; , , that such tangible books, records and other items related primarily to the Eagle Business that are retained by the Burgundy Group will be deemed to be Shared Information; (4) to the extent required to satisfy Burgundy's legal or other obligations, Burgundy will be entitled to retain original copies of the Spinco Books and Records, which will be subject to the provisions of , and will provide Spinco with a copy of all such retained Spinco Books and Records; and (5) the Transition Services Agreement will govern the delivery to Spinco of any such books, records or other items that are maintained in electronic form;
Spinco Books and Records
provided
Section 6.2(f)
provided
however
provided
however
Section 6.2(f)
(viii) all rights in all telephone, mobile telephone and fax numbers and post office boxes, in each case, used or held for use primarily in the Eagle Business; all websites maintained primarily for the Eagle Business and the content, information and databases contained therein (other than any Excluded IP Assets contained therein); and all uniform product codes and other similar data identifiers used or held for use primarily in the Eagle Business;
(ix) all cash and cash equivalents in the Spinco Accounts not withdrawn prior to the Business Transfer Time;
(x) all trade accounts, notes receivable and other receivables arising from the sale or other disposition of goods, or the performance of services, by the Eagle Business;
 
(xi) all prepaid expenses, prepaid property taxes, security deposits, credits, deferred charges, advanced payments that are, in each case, related primarily to the Eagle Business (other than prepaid insurance premiums, deposits, security or other prepaid amounts in connection with workers' compensation and other Policies related to Excluded Liabilities);
(xii) all rights with respect to third party warranties and guaranties that are, in each case, related primarily to the Eagle Business and all related claims, credits, rights of recovery and other similar rights as to such third parties;
(xiii) all rights to causes of Action, lawsuits, judgments, claims and demands that are, in each case, related primarily to the Eagle Business, including those listed or described on Schedule 2.4(a)(xiii) but, for the avoidance of doubt, not including any counter-claims in connection with an underlying claim that is not related primarily to the Eagle Business;
(xiv) all computers and other electronic data processing equipment, fixtures, machinery, equipment, furniture, office equipment, motor vehicles and other transportation equipment, special and general tangible tools, prototypes, models, and other tangible personal property that are, in each case, used or held for use primarily in the Eagle Business, including those listed or described in Schedule 2.4(a)(xiv);
(xv) Burgundy's fee and/or leasehold interest, as applicable, in and to the Starks and Sulphur Mines Salt Dome Facilities in Calcasieu Parish, Louisiana which service the Eagle Business at the Lake Charles site (including any and all personal property, pipelines and other equipment owned by Burgundy in connection therewith);
(xvi) Burgundy's fee and/or leasehold interest, as applicable, in and to the Orange Line ethylene pipeline which services the Eagle Business at the Lake Charles site (including the Real Property and equipment (including any and all personal property, pipelines and other equipment owned by Burgundy in connection therewith); the licenses retained by each member of the Spinco Group pursuant to ; and
Section 6.9(b)
(xvii) all assets expressly identified in this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement as assets to be acquired by any member of the Spinco Group hereunder or thereunder; and any and all other Assets (other than Excluded Assets) owned by Burgundy or any of its Subsidiaries that are used or held for use primarily in, or related primarily to, the Eagle Business. The intention of this clause (xvii) is only to rectify any inadvertent omission of Conveyance of any Assets that, had the Parties given specific consideration to such Asset as of the date of this Agreement, would have otherwise been classified as a Spinco Asset. No Asset will be deemed a Spinco Asset solely as a result of this clause (xvii) unless a claim with respect thereto is made by Spinco on or prior to the two-year anniversary of the Distribution Date.
 
A single Asset may fall within more than one of clauses (i) through (xviii) in this ; such fact does not imply that (x) such Asset must be Conveyed more than once or (y) any duplication of such Asset is required. The fact that an Asset may be excluded under one clause does not imply that it is not intended to be included under another.
Section 2.4(a)
(b) Notwithstanding the foregoing clause (a), the Spinco Assets will not in any event include any of the following Assets (the ""):
Excluded Assets
(i) any Intellectual Property Rights in which the Burgundy Group or the Spinco Group has any right, title or interest, other than Intellectual Property used or held for use primarily in the Eagle Business (the ""). For the avoidance of doubt, the Excluded IP Assets include, but are not limited to, the registered and unregistered rights in the name(s), trademarks, and domain names listed on Schedule 2.4(b)(i) and any Intellectual Property Rights related to titanium dioxide or to the development, production, manufacture or finishing of titanium dioxide products;
Excluded IP Assets
(ii) any cash or cash equivalents withdrawn from any Spinco Accounts prior to the Business Transfer Time;
(iii) any dividends declared by TCI, PHH Monomers, LLC and RS Cogen, LLC prior to the Business Transfer Time but not yet paid as of the Business Transfer Time, except to the extent included as assets in Working Capital;
(iv) except to the extent provided in , all insurance policies, binders and claims and rights thereunder and all prepaid insurance premiums;
Section 6.11
(v) all Spinco Inactive Sites;
(vi) the Real Property designated as being retained by Burgundy in the sites listed or described on Schedule 2.4(b)(vi) (the "");
Excluded Spinco Sites
(vii) all Assets of any member of the Burgundy Group not included in any clauses of Section 2.4(a) above;
(viii) all Assets that are expressly contemplated by this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement as Assets to be retained by any member of the Burgundy Group; and
(ix) the Assets listed or described on Schedule 2.4(b)(ix).
The Parties acknowledge and agree that neither Spinco nor any of its Subsidiaries will acquire or be permitted to retain any direct or indirect right, title and interest in any Excluded Assets through the Conveyance of the Spinco Entity Interests, and that if any of the Spinco Entities owns, leases or has the right to use any such Excluded Assets, such Excluded Assets must be Conveyed to Burgundy as contemplated by this Agreement.
 
Section 2.5 . (a) For the purposes of this Agreement, "" means (except as expressly set forth herein, regardless of (1) whether the facts on which such Liabilities are based occurred prior to, at or subsequent to the Business Transfer Time, (2) whether or not such Liabilities are asserted or determined prior to, at or subsequent to the Business Transfer Time, (3) where or against whom such Liabilities are asserted or determined (including any such Liabilities arising out of claims made by Burgundy's or Spinco respective directors, officers, employees, agents, Subsidiaries or Affiliates against any member of the Burgundy Group or the Spinco Group), and (4) whether or not such Liabilities arise from or are alleged to arise from negligence, recklessness, violation of Law, fraud or misrepresentation by any member of the Burgundy Group or the Spinco Group (including any of their respective directors, officers, employees, agents, Subsidiaries or Affiliates)) the following Liabilities except as otherwise set forth below and in each case subject to :
Spinco Liabilities
Spinco Liabilities
Section 2.5(b)
(i) all Liabilities to the extent relating primarily to the Spinco Assets or the Eagle Business:
(ii) all trade and other accounts payable related primarily to the Eagle Business;
(iii) all operating expenses and other current Liabilities (including Liabilities for services and goods for which an invoice has not been received prior to the Business Transfer Time) related primarily to the Eagle Business;
(iv) all Liabilities under the Spinco Contracts including, to the extent provided in , the Contracts for the sole benefit of Spinco into which the Shared Contracts are separated;
Section 2.7(c)
(v) all Liabilities arising from commitments (in the form of issued purchase orders or otherwise), quotations, proposals and bids to purchase or acquire raw materials, components, supplies or services related primarily to the Eagle Business;
(vi) all Liabilities arising from commitments (in the form of accepted purchase orders or otherwise), quotations, proposals and bids to sell products or provide services related primarily to the Eagle Business;
(vii) all Liabilities with respect to any return, rebate, discount, credit, recall warranty, customer program, or similar Liabilities relating primarily to products of the Eagle Business;
(viii) all Liabilities for death, personal injury, advertising injury, other injury to persons or property damage relating to past, current or future use of or exposure to any of the products (or any part or component) designed, manufactured, serviced or sold, or services performed, by, or on behalf of, the
 
Eagle Business, including any such Liabilities for negligence, strict liability, design or manufacturing defect, failure to warn, or breach of express or implied warranties of merchantability or fitness for any purpose or use;
(ix) all Liabilities relating primarily to the Eagle Business or any Spinco Assets to the extent that the same constitutes a past, current or future tort, breach of Contract or violation of, or non-compliance with, any Law or any approval, consent, franchise, license, permit, registration, authorization or certificate or other right issued or granted by any Governmental Authority;
(x) all Liabilities relating to workers' compensation, or claims for occupational health and safety, occupational disease, or occupational injury, or other claim relating to health, safety, disease or injury, with respect to any Spinco Employee or any other Person who is or was employed, hired or engaged by or to provide services to the Eagle Business;
(xi) all Liabilities relating to any Action related primarily to the Eagle Business;
(xii) all Liabilities under the Spinco Financing Arrangements and all other indebtedness for borrowed money of Spinco as of the Distribution Date;
(xiii) all indebtedness to which Burgundy is subject by virtue of its ownership interests in RS Cogen, LLC, PHH Monomers, LLC and, subject to , TCI;
Section 2.7(e)
(xiv) (A) all Liabilities, known or unknown, for Environmental Conditions relating primarily to activities or operations at any of the Spinco Active Sites, or otherwise existing on or under any of the Spinco Active Sites (including any Release of Hazardous Materials occurring before, at or after the Business Transfer Time that has migrated, is migrating or in the future migrates from any of the Spinco Active Sites) or any violation of Environmental Law arising out of the Eagle Business at any of the Spinco Active Sites; and (B) all Liabilities for Environmental Conditions at any third-party site relating primarily to Hazardous Materials generated by the Spinco Active Sites;
(xv) all Liabilities to the extent arising out of (A) the activities or operations of the Spinco Business or the ownership or use of the Spinco Assets after the Business Transfer Time by any member of the Spinco Group; (B) the activities or operations of any other business conducted by any member of the Spinco Group or the Grizzly Group at any time after the Business Transfer Time (including any Liability relating to, arising out of or resulting from any act or failure to act by any director, officer, employee, agent or representative of any member of the Spinco Group (whether or not such act or failure to act is or was within such Person's authority)) or (C) any of the terminated or discontinued businesses that were operated on Spinco Active Sites;
 
(xvi) all Liabilities that are expressly provided by this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement as Liabilities to be assumed or retained by, or allocated to, any member of the Spinco Group;
(xvii) all Liabilities of any member of the Spinco Group or the Grizzly Group under this Agreement or any of the Ancillary Agreements;
(xviii) all Liabilities (including Shareholder Liabilities) relating to, arising out of or resulting from any Grizzly Disqualifying Action; and
(xix) all Liabilities listed or described on Schedule 2.5(a)(xix).
A single Liability may fall within more than one of clauses (i) through (xvii) in this ; such fact does not imply that (x) such Liability must be Conveyed more than once or (y) any duplication of such Liability is required. The fact that a Liability may be excluded under one clause does not imply that it is not intended to be included under another.
Section 2.5(a)
(b) Notwithstanding the foregoing clause (a), the Spinco Liabilities will not in any event include any of the following Liabilities (the ""):
Excluded Liabilities
(i) all Liabilities to the extent relating to, arising out of, or resulting from any Excluded Assets;
(ii) (A) all Liabilities relating to, arising out of or resulting from the contamination in the Ohio River which was the subject of or related to, directly or indirectly, sediment sampling conducted or to be conducted by or on behalf of Burgundy (along with any associated follow-up sampling or testing), as and to the extent set forth on Schedule 2.5(b)(ii), and (B) all Liabilities relating to, arising out of or resulting from Natural Resource Damages and other third party tort (only) damage claims related to the Calcasieu Estuary, other than (i) Liabilities in the Calcasieu Estuary related to Remediation, including contribution or similar claims for costs of Remediation and (ii) Liabilities arising out of any Release by the Spinco Group to the Ohio River or the Calcasieu Estuary after the Business Transfer Time (subparts (A) and (B), the "");
Ohio River/Calcasieu Estuary Liabilities
(iii) all Liabilities relating to, arising out of, or resulting from any Spinco Inactive Site, Excluded Spinco Site or Non-Spinco Business, including (A) all Liabilities relating to, arising out of, or resulting from any Environmental Conditions or any violation of Environmental Law at any such locations, and (B) all Liabilities relating to, arising out of or resulting from any Environmental Conditions at any third-party site arising from, related to or resulting from Hazardous Materials from any Spinco Inactive Sites, Non-Spinco Business or Excluded Spinco Sites (collectively subpart (A) and (B) and, together with the Excluded Liabilities in , the "");
Section 2.5(b)(ii)
Excluded Environmental Liabilities
 
(iv) all Liabilities that are expressly provided by this Agreement, the Merger Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement as Liabilities to be retained or assumed by Burgundy or any other member of the Burgundy Group;
(v) all Liabilities (including Shareholder Liabilities) relating to, arising out of or resulting from any Burgundy Disqualifying Action;
(vi) all Liabilities of the Burgundy Group constituting an obligation to defend, indemnify or hold harmless any third-party insurers that issued insurance policies to Burgundy (including without limitation any indemnity obligations that Burgundy has assumed or may assume in connection with the Chapter 11 bankruptcy reorganization of Pittsburgh Corning Corporation);
(vii) all Liabilities of the Spinco Entities that are unrelated to the Eagle Business (including Liabilities related to titanium dioxide or to the development, production, manufacture or finishing of titanium dioxide products);
(viii) all Liabilities relating to, arising out of or resulting from the indemnification of any director, officer, agent or employee of Burgundy or any of its Affiliates who was a director, officer, agent or employee of Burgundy or any of its Affiliates on or prior to the Effective Time to the extent such director, officer, agent or employee is or becomes a named defendant in (A) any shareholder derivative suit against Burgundy arising from the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or the Merger Agreement, including the One-Step Spin-Off, the Exchange Offer or the Clean-Up Spin-Off, with respect to which he or she was entitled to such indemnification pursuant to the then existing obligations or (B) any Action related to an Excluded Liability;
(ix) all Liabilities relating to, arising out of or resulting from claims for or relating to exposure to asbestos at any Real Property that is a Spinco Asset on or prior to the Business Transfer Time, whether such claim is made before or after the Business Transfer Time (""), subject to the further terms and conditions provided in Schedule 2.5(b)(ix); and
Asbestos Exposure Claim
(x) all Liabilities described on Schedule 2.5(b)(x).
The Parties acknowledge and agree that neither Spinco nor any other member of the Spinco Group will be required to assume or retain any Excluded Liabilities as a result of the Conveyance of the Spinco Entity Interests, and that if any of the Spinco Entities is liable for any Excluded Liabilities, such Excluded Liabilities will be assumed and satisfied by Burgundy as contemplated by this Agreement.
Section 2.6 .
Termination of Intercompany Agreements; Settlement of Intercompany Accounts
(a) . Except as set forth in and , Spinco, on behalf of itself and each other member of the Spinco Group,
Termination of Intercompany Agreements
Section 2.6(b)
Section 2.6(c)
 
on the one hand, and Burgundy, on behalf of itself and each other member of the Burgundy Group, on the other hand, will terminate, effective as of the Business Transfer Time, any and all Contracts between or among Spinco or any member of the Spinco Group, on the one hand, and Burgundy or any member of the Burgundy Group, on the other hand. No such Contract (including any provision thereof which purports to survive termination) will be of any further force or effect after the Business Transfer Time and all parties will be released from all Liabilities thereunder. Each Party will, at the reasonable request of any other Party, take, or cause to be taken, such other actions as may be necessary to effect the foregoing.
(b) . Notwithstanding , the provisions of will not apply to any of the following Contracts (or to any of the provisions thereof):
Exceptions to Termination of Intercompany Agreements
Section 2.6(a)
Section 2.6(a)
(i) any Contracts listed or described on Schedule 2.6(b)(i);
(ii) this Agreement, the Merger Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements (and each other Contract expressly contemplated by this Agreement, the Merger Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement to be entered into or continued by any of the Parties or any of the members of their respective Groups);
(iii) any Contracts to which any Person other than the Parties and their respective Affiliates is a party (it being understood that to the extent that the rights and Liabilities of the Parties and the members of their respective Groups under any such Contracts constitute Spinco Assets or Spinco Liabilities, they will be Conveyed pursuant to or , or allocated pursuant to ); and
Section 2.1(a)
Section 2.1(b)
Section 2.7(d)
(iv) any Contracts to which any non-wholly owned Subsidiary of Burgundy or Spinco, as the case may be, is a party (it being understood that directors' qualifying shares or similar interests will be disregarded for purposes of determining whether a Subsidiary is wholly owned) (it being understood that to the extent that the rights and Liabilities of the Parties and the members of their respective Groups under any such Contracts constitute Spinco Assets or Spinco Liabilities, they will be Conveyed pursuant to or , or allocated pursuant to ).
Section 2.1(a)
Section 2.1(b)
Section 2.7(d)
(c) . All of the intercompany receivables, payables, loans and other accounts between Spinco or any member of the Spinco Group, on the one hand, and Burgundy or any member of the Burgundy Group, on the other hand, in existence as of immediately prior to the Business Transfer Time set forth on Schedule 2.6(c) (collectively, the "") will be satisfied and/or settled at the Business Transfer Time.
Settlement of Intercompany Accounts
Intercompany Accounts
Section 2.7 .
Governmental Approvals and Third-Party Consents
(a) . To the extent that the consummation of the Spinco Reorganization or the Distribution requires any third-party Consents or Governmental Approvals (including Real Estate Approvals), the Parties will use their respective commercially reasonable
Obtaining Consents
 
efforts to obtain such Consents or Governmental Approvals, as soon as reasonably practicable; , , except with respect to the Necessary Licenses, that neither party will under any circumstance be required to or shall be required to cause any member of its Group to, make any payments or offer or grant any accommodation (financial or otherwise, regardless of any provision to the contrary in the underlying Contract, including any requirements for the securing or posting of any bonds, letters of credit or similar instruments, or the furnishing of any guarantees) to any third party to obtain any Consent or Governmental Approvals unless and to the extent that the member of the other Group agrees to reimburse and make whole, to such person's reasonable satisfaction, for any payment or other accommodation made by its request. Except with respect to the Necessary Licenses, Spinco agrees that in the event that any third party or Governmental Authority requests that Burgundy make a payment or offer or grant an accommodation to obtain any third-party Consents or Governmental Approvals and Spinco or Grizzly does not agree to reimburse or make whole Burgundy in connection therewith, Spinco shall not be entitled to the benefits of the provision in, and Burgundy will not be obligated to take any efforts under, in respect of any Spinco Asset, Spinco Liability, Excluded Asset or Excluded Liability which Conveyance is subject to such third-party Consents or Governmental Approvals. With respect to the Necessary Licenses, Spinco and Burgundy shall share equally any costs related to obtaining Consents (including any remedies related thereto whether negotiated or the result of a judicial process) to separate the Shared Contracts or assign the Necessary License, as applicable; , , that if any Prime Counterparty to a Necessary License requires any payment in the nature of a license fee to be made directly to the Prime Counterparty by a Spinco Group member pursuant to a new license agreement between such Spinco Group member and such Prime Counterparty that will grant rights to such Spinco Group member in complete or partial substitution for rights of a Burgundy Group member under the Shared Contract in question (as opposed to a payment in the nature of a transfer fee or fee for granting consent), such license fee will be borne entirely by such Spinco Group member. For the avoidance of doubt, the required efforts and responsibilities of the Parties (i) to seek the Consents necessary to provide the Services (as defined in the Transition Services Agreement) will be governed by Article 3 of the Transition Services Agreement and (ii) to seek approval pursuant to the HSR Act or Foreign Competition Laws (each as defined in the Merger Agreement) and the Grizzly Stockholder Approval (as defined in the Merger Agreement) will be governed by the Merger Agreement. The obligations set forth in this will terminate on the two-year anniversary of the Distribution Date; , , with respect to Real Estate Approvals, the obligations in this will survive in perpetuity.
provided
however
Section 2.7(d)
provided
however
Section 2.7(a)
provided
however
Section 2.7(a)
(b) .
Transfer in Violation of Laws or Requiring Consent or Governmental Approval
(i) If and to the extent that the valid, complete and perfected Conveyance to the Spinco Group of any Spinco Asset or Spinco Liability, or to the Burgundy Group of any Excluded Asset or Excluded Liability, would be a violation of applicable Laws or require any Consent or Governmental Approval (including Real Estate Approvals) in connection with the Spinco Reorganization, the Recapitalization or the Distribution, then subject to subpart (ii) below, the Conveyance to the Spinco Group of any such Spinco Asset or Spinco Liability, or to the Burgundy Group of any such Excluded Asset or Excluded Liability, will automatically be deferred, and no Conveyance will occur until all legal or
 
Contractual impediments are removed or such Consents or Governmental Approvals have been obtained. Other than the TCI Interests, the treatment of which shall be governed by , any Asset or Liability with respect to which Conveyance has been so deferred will still be considered a Spinco Asset, a Spinco Liability, an Excluded Asset, or an Excluded Liability, as applicable, and will be subject to .
Section 2.7(e)
Section 2.7(d)
(ii) Notwithstanding subpart (i), other than the TCI Interests, the treatment of which shall be governed by , (A) Burgundy (subject to Spinco's rights under subpart (B)) or Spinco may elect to require the immediate Conveyance of any Spinco Asset, Spinco Liability, Excluded Asset or Excluded Liability notwithstanding any requirement that a Consent or Governmental Approval be obtained or (B) with respect to Real Property that includes both a Spinco Asset and an Excluded Asset, Spinco or Burgundy may elect to require the immediate Conveyance of all such Real Property that includes both the Spinco Asset and the Excluded Asset notwithstanding any requirement that a Consent or Governmental Approval (including any Real Estate Approvals) be obtained; , that (A) if Spinco so elects to require the immediate Conveyance of any such Asset or Liability, any Liabilities arising from such Conveyance relating to such violation of Law or failure to secure the requisite Consent or Governmental Approval will be deemed to be Spinco Liabilities, and (B) if Burgundy so elects to require the immediate Conveyance of any such Asset or Liability, any Liabilities arising from such Conveyance relating to such violation of Law or failure to secure the requisite Consent or Governmental Approval will be deemed to be Excluded Liabilities, and (C) if Spinco and Burgundy jointly agree to immediately Convey such Asset or Liability, any Liabilities arising from such Conveyance will be shared evenly between Spinco and Burgundy and, notwithstanding any provision in to the contrary, the defense of any Third-Party Claim relating thereto will be jointly managed by Spinco and Burgundy. The Parties will use their commercially reasonable efforts promptly to obtain any Consents or Governmental Approvals as required by and to take the actions required by pending removal of legal or Contractual impediments or receipt of Consents or Governmental Approvals. If and when the legal or Contractual impediments the presence of which caused the deferral of transfer of any Asset or Liability pursuant to this are removed or any Consents and/or Governmental Approvals the absence of which caused the deferral of transfer of any Asset or Liability pursuant to this are obtained, the transfer of the applicable Asset or Liability will be effected promptly in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and/or the applicable Ancillary Agreement(s). The obligations set forth in this will terminate on the two-year anniversary of the Distribution Date; , , with respect to Real Estate Approvals and transfers of Assets and Liabilities in connection therewith, the obligations in this will survive in perpetuity.
Section 2.7(e)
provided
Section 5.5(b)
Section 2.7(a)
Section 2.7(d)
Section 2.7(b)
Section 2.7(b)
Section 2.7(b)
provided
however
Section 2.7(b)
(c) . The Parties will use their respective commercially reasonable efforts to separate the Shared Contracts into separate Contracts effective as of the
Shared Contracts
 
Business Transfer Time so that from and after the Business Transfer Time Spinco Group will be entitled to rights and benefits and shall assume the related portion of Liabilities with respect to each Shared Contract to the extent related to the Eagle Business and the Burgundy Group will have the rights and benefits and shall assume the related portion of Liabilities with respect to each Shared Contract to the extent not related to the Eagle Business. Upon such separation of a Shared Contract, the separated Contract will be a Spinco Asset or Excluded Asset, as applicable. If the counterparty to any Shared Contract that is entitled under the terms of the Shared Contract to Consent to the separation of the Shared Contract in the manner set forth in this (a "") has not provided such Consent or if the separation of a Shared Contract has not been completed as of the Business Transfer Time for any other reason, then the Parties will use their respective commercially reasonable efforts promptly to develop and implement arrangements to make the portion of the Shared Contract related to the Eagle Business available for use by (and for the benefit of) Spinco Group and to make the portion of the Shared Contract not related to the Eagle Business available for use by (and for the benefit of) Burgundy Group, in each case in accordance with . If and when any such Consent is obtained, the Shared Contract will be separated in accordance with this . The obligations set forth in this will terminate on the two-year anniversary of the Distribution Date. Spinco and Burgundy shall share equally any costs related to separating the Shared Contracts.
Section 2.7(c)
Prime Counterparty
Section 2.7(d)
Section 2.7(c)
Section 2.7(c)
(d) . Other than (i) the TCI Interests, the treatment of which shall be governed by , and (ii) with respect to Real Property that requires Real Estate Approval that has not been secured or Conveyed to Spinco or a Spinco Subsidiary prior to the Business Transfer Time, the treatment of which shall be governed by , if the Conveyance of any Asset or Liability intended to be Conveyed is not consummated prior to or at the Business Transfer Time, whether as a result of the provisions of or or for any other reason (including any misallocated transfers subject to , then, insofar as reasonably possible (taking into account any applicable restrictions or considerations relating to the contemplated Tax treatment of the Transactions) and to the extent permitted by applicable Law, the Person retaining such Asset or Liability, as the case may be, (i) will thereafter hold such Asset or Liability, as the case may be, in trust for the use and benefit and burden of the Person entitled thereto (and at such Person's sole expense) until the consummation of the Conveyance thereof (or as otherwise determined by Burgundy and Spinco, as applicable, in accordance with or ); and (ii) use commercially reasonable efforts to take such other actions as may be reasonably requested by the Person to whom such Asset or Liability is to be Conveyed (at the expense of the Person to whom such Asset or Liability is to be Conveyed) in order to place such Person in substantially the same position as if such Asset or Liability had been Conveyed as contemplated hereby and so that all the benefits and burdens relating to such Asset or Liability, as the case may be, including possession, use, risk of loss, potential for gain, any Tax liabilities in respect thereof and dominion, control and command over such Asset or Liability, as the case may be, are to inure from and after the Business Transfer Time to the Person to whom such Asset or Liability is to be Conveyed. Any Person retaining an Asset or a Liability due to the deferral of the Conveyance of such Asset or Liability, as the case may be, will not be required, in connection with the foregoing, to make any payments or offer or grant any accommodation (financial or otherwise, regardless of any provision to the contrary in the underlying Contract, including any requirements for the securing or posting of any bonds, letters of credit or similar instruments, or the furnishing of any guarantees) to any third party, except to
Conveyances Not Consummated Prior To or At the Business Transfer Time
Section 2.7(e)
Section 2.7(f)
Section 2.7(b)
Section 2.7(c)
Section 2.3)
Section 2.7(b)
Section 2.7(c)
 
the extent that the Person entitled to the Asset or responsible for the Liability, as applicable, agrees to reimburse and make whole the Person retaining an Asset or a Liability, to such Person's reasonable satisfaction, for any payment or other accommodation made by the Person retaining an Asset or a Liability at the request of the Person entitled to the Asset or responsible for the Liability. The obligations set forth in this will terminate on the two-year anniversary of the Distribution Date.
Section 2.7(d)
(e) . Subject to the terms set forth in Schedule 2.7(e), promptly after the date of this Agreement, Burgundy shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to take such steps as may be necessary to permit the Conveyance of the TCI Interests to Spinco at or prior to the Business Transfer Time. In the event that Burgundy does not Convey the TCI Interests at or prior to the Business Transfer Time to Spinco, the Above Basis Amount shall be reduced by the TCI Value and the TCI Interests (and any Assets relating to the TCI Interests) shall be deemed to be Excluded Assets.
Transfer of TCI Interests
(f) . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth herein, in the event that (i) Burgundy shall have failed to obtain a Real Estate Approval to transfer one or more Spinco Assets (whether individually or as part of Real Property that includes Excluded Assets) on or prior to the Business Transfer Date or (ii) the Parties have not exercised their respective rights under to transfer certain Spinco Assets to Spinco or a Spinco Entity, Burgundy and the applicable Spinco Entity shall enter into a lease agreement effective as of the Business Transfer Time in a commercially reasonable form acceptable to Burgundy and such Spinco Entity (a ""), pursuant to which, inter alia, such Spinco Entity shall lease from Burgundy the applicable Real Property from and after the Business Transfer Date through and until such time, if any, as Burgundy shall have received the applicable Real Estate Approval with respect to such Real Property. Upon receipt of such Real Estate Approval, the Temporary Lease Agreement shall terminate and Burgundy shall Convey the applicable Spinco Active Site to the Spinco, or its designated Subsidiary or Affiliate, pursuant to one or more applicable Burgundy Transfer Documents in the manner provided in hereof. For the term of the Temporary Lease Assignment, notwithstanding any term to the contrary herein, (i) rent shall be payable in a nominal amount but the Spinco Entity that is party to the Temporary Lease Agreement shall be responsible for the payment of all taxes, insurance premiums and maintenance and operating charges with respect to the applicable Real Property thereunder from and after the Business Transfer Date, (ii) such Spinco Entity shall be allowed to continue to operate such Real Property as it has been operated prior to the Business Transfer Time in the ordinary course, and (iii) such Spinco Entity shall have the right to assign the Temporary Lease Agreement or sublet the applicable Real Property to Spinco or another Spinco Entity without Burgundy's consent.
Failure to Secure Real Property Approvals Prior to Transfer
Section 2.7(b)(ii)
Temporary Lease Agreement
Section 3.5
Section 2.8 . EXCEPT TO THE EXTENT OTHERWISE EXPRESSLY PROVIDED IN THIS AGREEMENT, THE MERGER AGREEMENT OR ANY ANCILLARY AGREEMENT, SPINCO (ON BEHALF OF ITSELF AND MEMBERS OF THE SPINCO GROUP) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT NEITHER BURGUNDY NOR ANY MEMBER OF THE BURGUNDY GROUP MAKES ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY HEREIN AS TO ANY MATTER WHATSOEVER, INCLUDING ANY REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY
No Representation or Warranty
 
WITH RESPECT TO: (A) THE CONDITION OR THE VALUE OF ANY SPINCO ASSET OR THE AMOUNT OF ANY SPINCO LIABILITY; (B) THE FREEDOM FROM ANY SECURITY INTEREST OF ANY SPINCO ASSET; (C) THE ABSENCE OF DEFENSES OR FREEDOM FROM COUNTERCLAIMS WITH RESPECT TO ANY CLAIM TO BE CONVEYED TO SPINCO OR HELD BY A MEMBER OF THE SPINCO GROUP; OR (D) ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR TITLE. EXCEPT TO THE EXTENT OTHERWISE EXPRESSLY PROVIDED IN THIS AGREEMENT, THE MERGER AGREEMENT OR ANY ANCILLARY AGREEMENT, SPINCO (ON BEHALF OF ITSELF AND MEMBERS OF THE SPINCO GROUP) FURTHER ACKNOWLEDGES THAT ALL OTHER WARRANTIES THAT BURGUNDY OR ANY MEMBER OF THE BURGUNDY GROUP GAVE OR MIGHT HAVE GIVEN, OR WHICH MIGHT BE PROVIDED OR IMPLIED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR COMMERCIAL PRACTICE, ARE HEREBY EXPRESSLY EXCLUDED. EXCEPT TO THE EXTENT OTHERWISE EXPRESSLY PROVIDED IN THIS AGREEMENT, THE MERGER AGREEMENT OR ANY ANCILLARY AGREEMENT, ALL ASSETS TO BE TRANSFERRED TO SPINCO (AND ALL OF THE SPINCO ASSETS HELD BY THE SPINCO ENTITIES) WILL BE TRANSFERRED WITHOUT ANY COVENANT, REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY (WHETHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED) AND ARE HELD "AS IS, WHERE IS" AND FROM AND AFTER THE CLOSING SPINCO WILL BEAR THE ECONOMIC AND LEGAL RISK THAT ANY CONVEYANCE WILL PROVE TO BE INSUFFICIENT TO VEST IN SPINCO GOOD AND MARKETABLE TITLE, FREE AND CLEAR OF ANY SECURITY INTEREST OR ANY NECESSARY CONSENTS OR GOVERNMENTAL APPROVALS THAT ARE NOT OBTAINED OR THAT ANY REQUIREMENTS OF LAWS ARE NOT COMPLIED WITH.
Section 2.9 . Each Party hereby waives compliance by each member of its Group with the requirements and provisions of the "bulk-sale" or "bulk-transfer" Laws of any jurisdiction that may otherwise be applicable with respect to the transfer or sale of any or all of the Assets to any member of the Burgundy Group or Spinco Group, as applicable.
Waiver of Bulk-Sales Laws
Section 2.10 .
Guarantees
(a) On or prior to the Business Transfer Time or as soon as practicable thereafter, Spinco will (with the reasonable cooperation of the applicable member(s) of the Burgundy Group) use its reasonable best efforts to have any member(s) of the Burgundy Group removed as guarantor of or obligor for any Spinco Liability to the extent that they relate to Spinco Liabilities.
(b) On or prior to the Business Transfer Time, to the extent required to obtain a release from an agreement (including any lease of a Real Property) or a guarantee (a "") of any member of the Burgundy Group, a Spinco Subsidiary will execute a guarantee agreement in the form of the existing agreement or guarantee or such other form as is reasonably agreed to by such Spinco Subsidiary and the relevant parties to such agreement or guarantee.
Guarantee Release
 
(c) If the Parties are unable to obtain, or to cause to be obtained, any such required removal as set forth in clauses (a) and (b) of this , (i) Spinco will, and will cause the other members of the Spinco Group (including after the Effective Time, Grizzly) to indemnify, defend and hold harmless each of the Burgundy Indemnitees for any Liability arising from or relating to such guarantee and will, as agent or subcontractor for the applicable Burgundy Group guarantor or obligor, pay, perform and discharge fully all the obligations or other Liabilities of such guarantor or obligor thereunder, and (ii) Spinco will not, and will cause the other members of the Spinco Group not to, agree to renew or extend the term of, increase any obligations under, or transfer to a third Person, any loan, guarantee, lease, Contract or other obligation for which a member of the Burgundy Group is or may be liable unless all obligations of the members of the Burgundy Group with respect thereto are thereupon terminated by documentation satisfactory in form and substance to Burgundy in its sole discretion.
Section 2.10
(d) On or prior to the Business Transfer Time or as soon as practicable thereafter, Burgundy will, at its expense, use its reasonable best efforts to have any member(s) of the Spinco Group removed as guarantor of or obligor for any Excluded Liability to the extent that they relate to Excluded Liabilities (with the reasonable cooperation of the applicable member(s) of the Spinco Group).
(e) On or prior to the Business Transfer Time, to the extent required to obtain a Guarantee Release of any member of the Spinco Group, Burgundy will execute a guarantee agreement in the form of the existing agreement or guarantee or such other form as is reasonably agreed to by Burgundy and the relevant parties to such guarantee agreement or guarantee.
(f) If the Parties are unable to obtain, or to cause to be obtained, any such required removal as set forth in clauses (d) and (e) of this , (i) Burgundy will, and will cause the other members of the Burgundy Group to, indemnify, defend and hold harmless each of the Spinco Indemnitees for any Liability arising from or relating to such agreement or guarantee and will, as agent or subcontractor for the applicable Spinco Group guarantor or obligor, pay, perform and discharge fully all the obligations or other Liabilities of such guarantor or obligor thereunder, and (ii) Burgundy will not, and will cause the other members of the Burgundy Group not to, agree to renew or extend the term of, increase any obligations under, or transfer to a third Person, any loan, guarantee, lease, Contract or other obligation for which a member of the Spinco Group is or may be liable unless all obligations of the members of the Spinco Group with respect thereto are thereupon terminated by documentation satisfactory in form and substance to Spinco in its sole discretion.
Section 2.10
Section 2.11 . Burgundy and Spinco each agrees to take, or cause the respective members of their respective Groups to take, from and after the Business Transfer Time (or such earlier time as Burgundy and Spinco may agree), all actions necessary to amend all Contracts or agreements governing each bank and brokerage account owned by Spinco or any other member of the Spinco Group and used exclusively for the Eagle Business (collectively, the "") so that such Spinco Accounts, if currently linked (whether by automatic withdrawal, automatic deposit or any other authorization to transfer funds from or to, hereinafter "linked") to any bank or brokerage account owned by (i) Burgundy or any other member of the Burgundy Group or (ii) Spinco or any other member of the Spinco Group that is not used exclusively for the Eagle Business (the
Bank Accounts; Cash Balances
Spinco Accounts
 
accounts described in (i) or (ii), collectively, the ""), are delinked from the Burgundy Accounts. Burgundy and Spinco each agrees to take, or cause the respective members of their respective Groups to take, from and after the Business Transfer Time (or such earlier time as Burgundy and Spinco may agree), all actions necessary to amend all Contracts or agreements governing the Burgundy Accounts so that such Burgundy Accounts, if currently linked to a Spinco Account, are de-linked from the Spinco Accounts.
Burgundy Accounts
Section 3.1 . Unless otherwise provided in this Agreement or in any Ancillary Agreement, and subject to the satisfaction and waiver of the conditions set forth in , the effective time and date of each Conveyance and assumption of any Asset or Liability in accordance with Article II in connection with the Spinco Reorganization will be 12:01 a.m., Eastern Time on the date that is no less than two (2) days prior to the Distribution Date (such time, the "," and such date the "").
Business Transfer Time
Section 3.2
Business Transfer Time
Business Transfer Date
Section 3.2 . The obligations of Burgundy pursuant to this Agreement to effect the Spinco Reorganization are subject to the fulfillment (or waiver by Burgundy) at or prior to the Business Transfer Time of the following conditions:
Conditions to the Spinco Reorganization
(a) each of the parties to the Merger Agreement has irrevocably confirmed to each other that each condition in Article IX of the Merger Agreement to such party's respective obligations to effect the Merger (i) has been fulfilled, (ii) will be fulfilled at the Effective Time, or (iii) is or has been waived by such party, as the case may be;
(b) Burgundy shall have received the IRS D Reorganization Ruling and the IRS Debt Exchange Ruling, each in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Burgundy, and such rulings shall continue to be valid and in full force and effect (and, for the avoidance of doubt, such rulings shall not have been invalidated, modified or otherwise affected by any change in any Law on or after the date such rulings were issued by the IRS);
(c) Burgundy shall have received an opinion from Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz, counsel to Burgundy, to the effect that (i) the Distribution will be treated as satisfying the business purpose requirement described in Treasury Regulation Section 1.355-2(b)(1); (ii) the Distribution will not be treated as being used principally as a device for the distribution of earnings and profits of the distributing corporation or the controlled corporation or both under Section 355(a)(1)(B); (iii) the stock of Spinco distributed in the Distribution will not be treated as other than "qualified property" by reason of the application of Section 355(e)(1); and (iv) the Spinco Securities will constitute "securities" for purposes of the application of Section 361(a) of the Code (together with clauses (i), (ii), and (iii), the ""); and
Distribution Tax Opinion
 
(d) Burgundy and Spinco shall have received any necessary permits and authorizations under state securities or "blue sky" laws, the Securities Act and the Exchange Act in connection with the Distribution and such permits and authorizations shall be in effect.
Section 3.3 . Burgundy and Spinco shall cause the following to occur at the Business Transfer Time:
Recapitalization of Spinco
(a) In consideration for the transfer of Assets contemplated by , Spinco shall:
Section 2.1
(i) issue to Burgundy shares of Spinco Common Stock as set forth in Section 8.17 of the Merger Agreement (the ""), which Spinco Common Stock, together with the 100 shares of Spinco Common Stock owned by Burgundy as of the date hereof, will constitute all of the issued and outstanding common stock of Spinco outstanding as of the Business Transfer Time;
Spinco Stock Issuance
(ii) declare a special distribution, which will be payable no later than immediately prior to the Distribution, and will be comprised of (A) an amount in cash equal to the Below Basis Amount (the ""), and (B) Spinco Exchange Debt in an amount equal to the Above Basis Amount, subject to adjustment as set forth in and or an amount in cash determined in accordance with and to the extent provided in Section 8.11(f)(v) of the Merger Agreement (the "," and together with the Special Below Basis Cash Distribution, the "");
Special Below Basis Cash Distribution
Section 2.7(e)
Section 3.7(a)
Special Above Basis Debt/Cash Distribution
Special Distribution
(iii) pay, in accordance with Section 6.2(d) of the Employee Matter Agreement, the Grizzly True Up Amount, if any; and
(iv) assume the Spinco Liabilities in accordance with .
Section 2.1
(b) . Prior to or concurrently with the Spinco Reorganization, Spinco, together with the other members of the Spinco Group, will enter into the Spinco Financing Arrangements and incur the debt contemplated thereby, all on such terms and conditions as are contemplated by the Spinco Commitment Letter and Spinco Related Letter and the Burgundy Commitment Letter and the Burgundy Related Letter, as further described in the Merger Agreement.
Financing Arrangements
 
Section 3.4 .
Transfer of the Eagle Business
(a) . On the Business Transfer Date, Burgundy will deliver, or will cause its appropriate Subsidiaries to deliver, to Spinco all of the following instruments:
Agreements to be Delivered by Burgundy
(i) a Tax Matters Agreement in substantially the form attached hereto as (the ""), duly executed by the members of the Burgundy Group party thereto;
Exhibit A
Tax Matters Agreement
(ii) a Transition Services Agreement negotiated in good faith reflecting the form attached hereto as (the "") in accordance with Section 8.26 of the Merger Agreement, duly executed by the members of the Burgundy Group party thereto;
Exhibit B
Transition Services Agreement
(iii) an Electric Generation, Distribution and Transmission Facilities Lease negotiated in good faith reflecting the form attached hereto as (the "") in accordance with Section 8.26 of the Merger Agreement, duly executed by the members of the Burgundy Group party thereto;
Exhibit C
Electric Generation, Distribution and Transmission Facilities Lease
(iv) a Shared Facilities, Services and Supply Agreement negotiated in good faith reflecting the form attached hereto as (the "") in accordance with Section 8.26 of the Merger Agreement, duly executed by the members of the Burgundy Group party thereto;
Exhibit D
Shared Facilities, Services and Supply Agreement
(v) a Servitude Agreement negotiated in good faith reflecting the form attached hereto as (the "") in accordance with Section 8.26 of the Merger Agreement, duly executed by the members of the Burgundy Group party thereto;
Exhibit E
Servitude Agreement
(vi) a Liquid Caustic Soda Sales Agreement (Fresno) in substantially the form attached hereto as (the ""), duly executed by the members of the Burgundy Group party thereto;
Exhibit F
Liquid Caustic Soda Sales Agreement (Fresno)
(vii) a Liquid Caustic Soda Sales Agreement (Strongsville) in substantially the form attached hereto as (the ""), duly executed by the members of the Burgundy Group party thereto;
Exhibit G
Liquid Caustic Soda Sales Agreement (Strongsville)
(viii) a Hydrochloric Acid Sales Agreement - Lake Charles (Silica) in substantially the form attached hereto as (the "
Exhibit H
Hydrochloric Acid Sales
 
"), duly executed by the members of the Burgundy Group party thereto;
Agreement - Lake Charles (Silica)
(ix) a Chlorine and Liquid Caustic Soda Sales Agreement (Barberton) in substantially the form attached hereto as (the ""), duly executed by the members of the Burgundy Group party thereto;
Exhibit I
Chlorine and Liquid Caustic Soda Sales Agreement (Barberton)
(x) a Liquid Caustic Soda Sales Agreement (Wichita Falls) in substantially the form attached hereto as (the ""), duly executed by the members of the Burgundy Group party thereto;
Exhibit J
Liquid Caustic Soda Sales Agreement (Wichita Falls)
(xi) a Hydrochloric Acid Sales Agreement in substantially the form attached hereto as (the ""), duly executed by the members of the Burgundy Group party thereto;
Exhibit K
Hydrochloric Acid Sales Agreement
(xii) a Shared Facilities Agreement (Monroeville) negotiated in good faith reflecting the form attached hereto as (the "") in accordance with Section 8.26 of the Merger Agreement, duly executed by the members of the Burgundy Group party thereto;
Exhibit L
Shared Facilities Agreement (Monroeville)
(xiii) a Master Terminal Agreement in substantially the form attached hereto as (the ""), duly executed by the members of the Burgundy Group party thereto;
Exhibit M
Master Terminal Agreement
(xiv) all necessary Transfer Documents as described in and ; and
Section 3.5
Section 3.6
(xv) resignations of each of the individuals who serves as an officer or director of members of the Spinco Group as set forth on Schedule 3.4(a)(xv) in his or her capacity as such and the resignation of any other Person who will be an employee of any member of the Burgundy Group after the Business Transfer Time and who is a director or officer of any member of the Spinco Group, to the extent requested by Spinco.
(b) . On the Business Transfer Date, Spinco will deliver, or will cause its Subsidiaries to deliver, as appropriate, to Burgundy all of the following instruments:
Agreements to be Delivered by Spinco
(i) in each case where any member of the Spinco Group is a party to any Ancillary Agreement, a counterpart of such Ancillary Agreement duly executed by the member of the Spinco Group party thereto;
 
(ii) all necessary Transfer Documents as described in and ; and
Section 3.5
Section 3.6
(iii) resignations of each of the individuals who serve as an officer or director of members of the Burgundy Group as set forth on Schedule 3.4(b)(iii) in their capacity as such and the resignations of any other Persons that will be employees of any member of the Spinco Group after the Business Transfer Time and that are directors or officers of any member of the Burgundy Group, to the extent requested by Burgundy.
Section 3.5 . In furtherance of the Conveyance of Spinco Assets and the assumption of Spinco Liabilities provided in : (a) Burgundy will execute and deliver, and will cause its Subsidiaries to execute and deliver, such bills of sale, quitclaim deeds, stock powers, certificates of title, assignments of Contracts and other instruments of transfer, Conveyance and assignment, as and to the extent reasonably necessary to evidence the Conveyance of all of Burgundy's and its Subsidiaries' (other than Spinco and its Subsidiaries) right, title and interest in and to the Spinco Assets to Spinco and its Subsidiaries and (b) a Spinco Subsidiary will execute and deliver such assumptions of Contracts and other instruments of assumption as and to the extent reasonably necessary to evidence the valid and effective assumption of the Spinco Liabilities by the applicable Spinco Subsidiary. All of the foregoing documents contemplated by this will be referred to collectively herein as the "." For the avoidance of doubt, the obligations with respect to the Conveyance of Spinco Assets and the assumption of Spinco Liabilities provided in , and the execution and delivery of documents provided in this , does not extend to the Conveyance of, or execution of delivery of documents with respect to, any Spinco Assets that are already held as of the Business Transfer Time by a Spinco Entity (which Spinco Asset will continue to be held by such Spinco Entity) or any Spinco Liabilities that as of the Business Transfer Time are already a Liability of a Spinco Entity (which Spinco Liability will continue to be a Liability of such Spinco Entity).
Transfer of Spinco Assets and Assumption of Spinco Liabilities
Section 2.1
Section 3.5
Burgundy Transfer Documents
Section 2.1
Section 3.5
Section 3.6 . In furtherance of the Conveyance of Excluded Assets and the assumption of Excluded Liabilities provided in : (a) Spinco will execute and deliver, and will cause its Subsidiaries to execute and deliver, such bills of sale, quitclaim deeds, stock powers, certificates of title, assignments of Contracts and other instruments of transfer, Conveyance and assignment as and to the extent reasonably necessary to evidence the Conveyance of all of Spinco's and its Subsidiaries' right, title and interest in and to the Excluded Assets to Burgundy and its Subsidiaries and (b) Burgundy will execute and deliver such assumptions of Contracts and other instruments of assumption as and to the extent reasonably necessary to evidence the valid and effective assumption of the Excluded Liabilities by Burgundy. All of the foregoing documents contemplated by this will be referred to collectively herein as the "" and, together with the Burgundy Transfer Documents, the "."
Transfer of Excluded Assets; Assumption of Excluded Liabilities
Section 2.2
Section 3.6
Spinco Transfer Documents
Transfer Documents
 
Section 3.7 . (a) At least five (5) Business Days prior to the Business Transfer Date, Spinco, in consultation with Grizzly, will prepare and deliver to Burgundy a statement setting forth a good-faith estimate of the amount of Working Capital as of the Business Transfer Date, calculated in accordance with the Accounting Exhibit (such estimate, the ""). On the Business Transfer Date, (i) if the Estimated Adjustment Payment, if any, is positive, Spinco shall pay to Burgundy the Estimated Adjustment Payment by increasing both the Below Basis Amount and the Above Basis Amount by the absolute value of the Estimated Adjustment Payment and (ii) if the Estimated Adjustment Payment, if any, is negative, Burgundy shall pay to Spinco the absolute value of the Estimated Adjustment Payment by reducing both the Below Basis Amount and the Above Basis Amount by the absolute value of the Estimated Adjustment Payment. For example, on the Business Transfer Date, if the Above Basis Amount, before adjusting for any Estimated Adjustment Payment, is $675 million and (i) the Estimated Adjustment Payment is $10 million, then Spinco shall pay to Burgundy the Estimated Adjustment Payment by increasing the Below Basis Amount by the absolute value of the Estimated Adjustment Payment, such that the Below Basis Amount shall be equal to $235 million (or $225 million $10 million), before any further adjustments in respect of the TCI Basis or any elective reduction of increase in the Below Basis Amount as provided in Section 1.8, and the Above Basis Amount shall remain equal to $675 million (or $900 million, $235 million, $10 million), before any further adjustments in respect of the TCI Value as provided in this Agreement or (ii) the Estimated Adjustment Payment is $10 million, then Burgundy shall pay to Spinco the absolute value of the Estimated Adjustment Payment by reducing both the Below Basis Amount and the Above Basis Amount by the absolute value of the Estimated Adjustment Payment, such that the Below Basis Amount shall be equal to $215 million (or $225 million $10 million), before any further adjustments in respect of the TCI Basis or any elective reduction or increase in the Below Basis Amount as provided in Section 1.8, and the Above Basis Amount shall remain equal to $675 million (or $900 million, $215 million, $10 million), before any further adjustments in respect of the TCI Value as provided in this Agreement. The "" will be equal to the Working Capital as reflected on the Estimated Closing Adjustment Statement (after satisfaction of the intercompany accounts pursuant to ), the Target Working Capital Amount. Within 180 days following the Distribution Date, Spinco will prepare and deliver to Burgundy a statement setting forth the amount of Working Capital, as of the Business Transfer Date, calculated in accordance with the Accounting Exhibit (the ""). Upon the reasonable request of Spinco, Burgundy will provide (or will cause a member of the Burgundy Group to provide) to Spinco and its accountants reasonable access to the books and records, any other information, including working papers of its accountants, and to any employees of Burgundy or any other member of the Burgundy Group necessary for Spinco to prepare the Closing Adjustment Statement, to respond to the Burgundy Objection (if any) and to prepare materials for presentation to the Accounting Firm in connection with this and Burgundy will otherwise cooperate with and assist Spinco as may be reasonably necessary to carry out the purposes of this .
Working Capital Adjustment
Estimated Closing Adjustment Statement
positive
plus
minus
plus
negative
less
minus
minus
Estimated Adjustment Payment
Section 2.6(c)
minus
Closing Adjustment Statement
Section 3.7
Section 3.7
 
(b) For a period of sixty (60) days after delivery of the Closing Adjustment Statement, Spinco will make available to Burgundy, as reasonably requested by Burgundy, all books, records, work papers, personnel (including their accountants and employees) and other materials and sources used by Spinco to prepare the Closing Adjustment Statement and not already in the possession or under the control of Burgundy. The Closing Adjustment Statement will be binding and conclusive upon, and deemed accepted (including a waiver of objection with respect to) by, Burgundy unless Burgundy has notified Spinco in writing within sixty (60) days after delivery of the Closing Adjustment Statement of any good faith objection thereto (the ""). Any Burgundy Objection will set forth a reasonably specific description of the basis of the Burgundy Objection and the adjustments to the line items reflected on the Closing Adjustment Statement which Burgundy believes should be made. Any items not disputed during the foregoing sixty (60) day period will be deemed to have been accepted (including a waiver of objection with respect to) by Burgundy.
Burgundy Objection
(c) If Burgundy and Spinco are unable to resolve any of their disputes with respect to the Closing Adjustment Statement within 30 days following Spinco's receipt of the Burgundy Objection to such Closing Adjustment Statement pursuant to , they will refer their remaining differences to a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants to which Burgundy and Spinco mutually agree (the "") for a decision, which decision will be final and binding and unappealable absent fraud or willful misconduct on the Parties. The Accounting Firm will act as an expert and not an arbitrator and will address only those items in dispute, in accordance with any provisions or policies set forth herein and in accordance with the Accounting Exhibit, and for each item may not assign a value greater than the greatest value for such item claimed by either Party or smaller than the smallest value for such item claimed by either Party. Any expenses relating to the engagement of the Accounting Firm will be shared equally by Burgundy, on the one hand, and Spinco, on the other hand.
Section 3.7(b)
Accounting Firm
(d) The Closing Adjustment Statement will become final and binding on the Parties upon the earliest of (i) if no Burgundy Objection has been given, the expiration of the period within which Burgundy must make its objection pursuant to , (ii) agreement in writing by Burgundy and Spinco that the Closing Adjustment Statement, together with any modifications thereto agreed by Burgundy and Spinco and (iii) the date on which the Accounting Firm issues its written determination with respect to any dispute relating to such Closing Adjustment Statement. The Closing Adjustment Statement, as submitted by Spinco if no timely Burgundy Objection has been given, as adjusted pursuant to any agreement between the Parties or as determined pursuant to the decision of the Accounting Firm, when final and binding on all Parties and upon which a judgment may be entered by a court of competent jurisdiction, is herein referred to as the "."
Section 3.7(b)
Final Closing Adjustment Statement
(e) Within five (5) Business Days following issuance of the Final Closing Adjustment Statement, the Adjustment Payment and interest thereon will be paid by wire transfer of immediately available funds to a bank account designated by Burgundy or Spinco, as the case may be. The "" will be equal to the amount of the Working Capital as reflected on the Final Closing Adjustment Statement, the Target Working Capital Amount, the amount paid pursuant to if
Adjustment Payment
minus
minus
Section 3.7(a)
 
the Estimated Adjustment Payment was paid by Spinco to Burgundy or the amount paid pursuant to if the Estimated Adjustment Payment was made by Burgundy to Spinco. The Adjustment Payment, if any, will be payable by Spinco to Burgundy, if positive, and if the Adjustment Payment is negative, an amount equal to the absolute value of such Adjustment Payment will be payable by Burgundy to Spinco. The Adjustment Payment will bear interest from the Distribution Date to the date of payment at the prime rate (as published in the Wall Street Journal, Northeastern Edition) in effect on the Distribution Date, which interest will be calculated on the basis of a 365-day year and the actual number of days elapsed and such interest will be paid on the same date and in the same manner as such Adjustment Payment.
plus
Section 3.7(a)
Section 4.1 . (a) Burgundy may elect, in its sole discretion, to effect the Distribution in the form of either (i) a One-Step Spin-Off or (ii) an Exchange Offer (including any Clean-Up Spin-Off, as set forth below).
Form of Distribution
(b) If Burgundy elects to effect the Distribution in the form of a One-Step Spin-Off, the Board of Directors of Burgundy, in accordance with applicable Law, will establish (or designate Persons to establish) a Record Date and the Distribution Date and Burgundy will establish appropriate procedures in connection with, and to effectuate in accordance with applicable Law, the Distribution. All shares of Spinco Common Stock held by Burgundy on the Distribution Date will be distributed to the Record Holders in the manner determined by Burgundy and in accordance with .
Section 4.5(b)
(c) If Burgundy elects to effect the Distribution as an Exchange Offer, Burgundy will determine the terms of such Exchange Offer, including the number of shares of Spinco Common Stock that will be offered for each validly tendered share of Burgundy Common Stock, the period during which such Exchange Offer will remain open, the procedures for the tender and exchange of shares and all other terms and conditions of such Exchange Offer, which terms and conditions will comply with all securities Law requirements applicable to such Exchange Offer. In the event that Burgundy's stockholders subscribe for less than all of the Spinco Common Stock in the Exchange Offer, Burgundy will consummate the Clean-Up Spin-Off on the Distribution Date immediately following the consummation of the Exchange Offer and the Record Date for the Clean-Up Spin-Off shall be established as of such date in the same manner as provided in . The terms and conditions of any Clean-Up Spin-Off shall be as determined by Burgundy and will comply with the requirements of all applicable Laws; , , that any shares of Spinco Common Stock that are not subscribed for in the Exchange Offer must be distributed to Burgundy's stockholders in the Clean-Up Spin-Off.
Section 4.1(b)
provided
however
Section 4.2 . (a) To the extent the Distribution is effected as a One-Step Spin-Off, subject to the terms thereof, in accordance with , each Record Holder will be entitled to receive for each share of Burgundy Common Stock held by such Record Holder a number of shares of Spinco Common Stock equal to the total number of shares of Spinco Common Stock held by Burgundy on the Distribution Date, multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is number of shares of Burgundy Common Stock held by such Record Holder and the denominator of which is the total number of shares of Burgundy Common Stock outstanding on the Distribution Date.
Manner of Distribution
Section 4.5(b)
 
(b) To the extent the Distribution is effected as an Exchange Offer, subject to the terms thereof, in accordance with , each Burgundy stockholder may elect in the Exchange Offer to exchange a number of shares of Burgundy Common Stock held by such Burgundy stockholder for shares of Spinco Common Stock in such quantities, at such an exchange ratio and subject to such other terms and conditions as may be determined by Burgundy and set forth in the Spinco Registration Statement; , , the completion of the Exchange Offer shall be subject to a condition (which condition Burgundy may not amend or waive without the written consent of Grizzly) that no one stockholder of Spinco (individually or together with all members of any "group" as defined in the Exchange Act) after giving effect to the Exchange Offer and the Merger, hold greater than 20% of the outstanding common stock of Grizzly; , , that Burgundy may, in its sole discretion, revise the terms of the Exchange Offer, including the number of shares of Spinco Common Stock that will be offered for each validly tendered share of Burgundy Common Stock, and the Clean-Up Spin Off, such that no one stockholder of Spinco (individually or together with all members of any "group" as defined in the Exchange Act) after giving effect to the Exchange Offer and the Merger, will hold greater than 20% of the outstanding common stock of Grizzly. The terms and conditions of any Clean-Up Spin-Off will be as determined by Burgundy, subject to the provisions of , .
Section 4.5(b)
provided
however
provided
further
however
Section 4.2(a)
mutatis mutandis
(c) None of the Parties, nor any of their Affiliates hereto will be liable to any Person in respect of any shares of Spinco Common Stock (or dividends or distributions with respect thereto) that are properly delivered to a public official pursuant to any applicable abandoned property, escheat or similar Law.
Section 4.3 . The obligations of Burgundy pursuant to this Agreement to effect the Distribution will be subject to the fulfillment (or waiver by Burgundy) at or prior to the Distribution Date of the following conditions:
Conditions to the Distribution
(a) the Spinco Reorganization has been consummated;
(b) the Recapitalization shall have occurred on the terms contemplated by this Agreement and the Merger Agreement and Burgundy shall have received the Special Distribution;
(c) Burgundy and Spinco shall have received the IRS D Reorganization Ruling and the IRS Debt Exchange Ruling, each in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Burgundy and Spinco, and such rulings shall continue to be valid and in full force and effect (and, for the avoidance of doubt, such rulings shall not have been invalidated, modified or otherwise affected by any change in any Law on or after the date such rulings were issued by the IRS);
(d) Burgundy shall have received the Distribution Tax Opinion;
(e) Burgundy and Spinco shall have prepared and mailed to the holders of record of Burgundy Common Stock such information concerning Spinco, its business, operations and management, the Distribution and such other matters as Burgundy shall determine and as may otherwise be required by Law; and
 
(f) each of the conditions to Burgundy's obligation to effect the transactions contemplated in the Merger Agreement shall have been satisfied or waived (other than those conditions that by their nature are to be satisfied at the Distribution Date and other than the conditions set forth in Section 9.1(a) of the Merger Agreement).
Section 4.4 . (a) Spinco will cooperate with Burgundy to accomplish the Distribution, including in connection with the preparation of all documents and the making of all filings required in connection with the Distribution. Burgundy will be permitted to reasonably direct and control the efforts of the Parties in connection with the Distribution (including the selection of investment bank or manager in connection with the Distribution, as well as any financial printer, solicitation and/or exchange agent and financial, legal, accounting and other advisors for Burgundy), and Spinco will use commercially reasonable efforts to take, or cause to be taken, all actions and to do, or cause to be done, all other things reasonably necessary to facilitate the Distribution as reasonably directed by Burgundy in good faith. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Spinco will and will cause its employees, advisors, agents, accountants, counsel and other representatives to, as reasonably directed by Burgundy in good faith, reasonably cooperate in and take the following actions: (i) preparing and filing the registration under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act of Spinco Common Stock on an appropriate registration form or forms to be designated by Burgundy (the ""), (ii) participating in meetings, drafting sessions, due diligence sessions, management presentation sessions, and "road shows" in connection with the Distribution (including any marketing efforts), which participation shall be subject to, and may be concurrent with, any such activities required with respect to the Exchange Offer, (iii) furnishing to any dealer manager or other similar agent participating in the Distribution (A) "cold comfort" letters from independent public accountants in customary form and covering such matters as are customary for an underwritten public offering (including with respect to events subsequent to the date of financial statements included in any offering document) and (B) opinions and negative assurance letters of counsel in customary form and covering such matters as may be reasonably requested, and (iv) furnishing all historical and forward-looking financial and other pertinent financial and other information that is available to Spinco and is reasonably required in connection with the Distribution. Without limiting the foregoing, the Parties will perform the marketing activities set forth in Schedule 4.4 as provided therein.
Actions Prior to Distribution
Spinco Registration Statement
(b) Burgundy and Spinco will prepare and mail, prior to any Distribution Date, to the holders of Burgundy Common Stock, such information concerning Spinco, Grizzly, their respective businesses, operations and management, the Distribution and such other matters as Burgundy will reasonably determine and as may be required by Law. Burgundy and Spinco will prepare, and Spinco will, to the extent required under applicable Law, file with the SEC any such documentation and any requisite no-action letters which Burgundy determines are necessary or desirable to effectuate the Distribution and Burgundy and Spinco will each use its reasonable best efforts to obtain all necessary approvals from the SEC with respect thereto as soon as practicable.
 
(c) Burgundy and Spinco will take all such action as may be necessary or appropriate under the securities or blue sky Laws of the United States (and any comparable Laws under any foreign jurisdiction) in connection with the Distribution.
(d) Burgundy and Spinco will take all reasonable steps necessary and appropriate to cause the conditions set forth in to be satisfied and to effect the Distribution on any Distribution Date.
Section 4.3
Section 4.5 .
Additional Matters
(a) . Burgundy, Spinco, or the transfer agent or the exchange agent in the Distribution, as applicable, shall be entitled to deduct and withhold from the consideration otherwise payable pursuant to this Agreement such amounts as are required to be deducted and withheld with respect to the making of such payments under the Code or any provision of local or foreign Tax Law. Any withheld amounts will be treated for all purposes of this Agreement as having been paid to the Persons otherwise entitled thereto.
Tax Withholding
(b) . Upon the consummation of the One-Step Spin-Off or the Exchange Offer, Burgundy will deliver to the Agent, a global certificate representing the Spinco Common Stock being distributed in the One-Step Spin-Off or exchanged in the Exchange Offer, as the case may be, for the account of the Burgundy stockholders that are entitled thereto. Upon a Clean-Up Spin-Off, if any, Burgundy will deliver to the Agent an additional global certificate representing the Spinco Common Stock being distributed in the Clean-Up Spin-Off for the account of the Burgundy stockholders that are entitled thereto. The Agent will hold such certificate or certificates, as the case may be, for the account of the Burgundy stockholders pending the Merger, as provided in Section 3.2 of the Merger Agreement. Immediately after the time of the Distribution and prior to the Effective Time, the shares of Spinco Common Stock will not be transferable and the transfer agent for the Spinco Common Stock will not transfer any shares of Spinco Common Stock. The Distribution will be deemed to be effective upon written authorization from Burgundy to the transfer agent or the exchange agent in the Distribution to proceed as set forth in .
Delivery of Certificate
Section 4.2
Section 5.1 .
Release of Pre-Business Transfer Time Claims
(a) . Except as provided in , effective as of the Business Transfer Time, Spinco will, for itself and each other member of the Spinco Group, and their respective successors and assigns, remise, release and forever discharge the Burgundy Indemnitees from any and all Liabilities whatsoever, whether at Law or in equity (including any right of contribution), whether arising under any Contract, by operation of Law or otherwise, existing or arising from any acts or events occurring or failing to occur or alleged to have occurred or to have failed to occur at or before the Business Transfer Time or any conditions existing or alleged to have existed at or before the Business Transfer Time, including in connection with the transactions and all other activities to implement the Spinco Reorganization,
Spinco Release
Section 5.1(c)
 
the Recapitalization and the Distribution. Without limitation, the foregoing release includes a release of any rights and benefits with respect to such Liabilities that Spinco and each member of the Spinco Group, and their respective successors and assigns, now has or in the future may have conferred upon them by virtue of any statute or common law principle which provides that a general release does not extend to claims which a party does not know or suspect to exist in its favor at the time of executing the release, if knowledge of such claims would have materially affected such party's settlement with the obligor. In this connection, Spinco hereby acknowledges that it is aware that factual matters now unknown to it may have given or may hereafter give rise to Liabilities that are presently unknown, unanticipated and unsuspected, and it further agrees that this release has been negotiated and agreed upon in light of that awareness and it nevertheless hereby intends to release the Burgundy Indemnitees from the Liabilities described in the first sentence of this .
Section 5.1(a)
(b) . Except as provided in , effective as of the Business Transfer Time, Burgundy will, for itself and each other member of the Burgundy Group, and their respective successors and assigns, remise, release and forever discharge the Spinco Indemnitees from any and all Liabilities whatsoever, whether at Law or in equity (including any right of contribution), whether arising under any Contract, by operation of Law or otherwise, existing or arising from any acts or events occurring or failing to occur or alleged to have occurred or to have failed to occur at or before the Business Transfer Time or any conditions existing or alleged to have existed at or before the Business Transfer Time, including in connection with the transactions and all other activities to implement any of the Spinco Reorganization, the Recapitalization and the Distribution. Without limitation, the foregoing release includes a release of any rights and benefits with respect to such Liabilities that Burgundy and each member of the Burgundy Group, and their respective successors and assigns, now has or in the future may have conferred upon them by virtue of any statute or common law principle which provides that a general release does not extend to claims which a party does not know or suspect to exist in its favor at the time of executing the release, if knowledge of such claims would have materially affected such party's settlement with the obligor. In this connection, Burgundy hereby acknowledges that it is aware that factual matters now unknown to it may have given or may hereafter give rise to Liabilities that are presently unknown, unanticipated and unsuspected, and it further agrees that this release has been negotiated and agreed upon in light of that awareness and it nevertheless hereby intends to release the Spinco Indemnitees from the Liabilities described in the first sentence of this .
Burgundy Release
Section 5.1(c)
Section 5.1(b)
(c) . Nothing contained in or releases or will release any Person from (nor impairs or will impair any right of any Person to enforce the applicable agreements, arrangements, commitments or understandings relating thereto) the obligations under this Agreement, the Merger Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement, in each case in accordance with its terms. In addition, nothing in or shall release any Person from:
No Impairment
Section 5.1(a)
5.1(b)
Section 5.1(a)
5.1(b)
(i) any Liability provided in or resulting from any agreement or obligation among any members of the Burgundy Group or the Spinco Group that is specified in this Agreement, the Merger Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement as not terminating on or before Distribution Date;
 
(ii) any Liability assumed, transferred, assigned or allocated to the Group of which such Person is a member in accordance with this Agreement, the Merger Agreement or any other Ancillary Agreement, or any other Liability of any member of any Group under this Agreement, the Merger Agreement or any other Ancillary Agreement;
(iii) any Liability for unpaid amounts for products or services or refunds owing on products or services due on a value-received basis for work done by a member of one Group at the request or on behalf of a member of the other Group;
(iv) any Liability that the Parties may have with respect to indemnification or contribution pursuant to this Agreement for claims brought against the Parties by third Persons, and, if applicable, the appropriate provisions of the Merger Agreement and Ancillary Agreements;
(v) any Liability the release of which would result in the release of any Person other than a Person released pursuant to this ; or
Section 5.1
(vi) any Liability for fraud or willful misconduct.
(d) . Following the Business Transfer Time, Spinco will not, and will cause its Affiliates not to, make any claim or demand, or commence any Action asserting any claim or demand, including any claim of contribution or any indemnification, against Burgundy or any member of the Burgundy Group, or any other Person released pursuant to , with respect to any Liabilities released pursuant to . Following the Business Transfer Time, Burgundy will not, and will cause each other member of the Burgundy Group not to, make any claim or demand, or commence any Action asserting any claim or demand, including any claim of contribution or any indemnification, against Spinco or any member of the Spinco Group, or any other Person released pursuant to , with respect to any Liabilities released pursuant to .
No Actions as to Released Pre-Business Transfer Time Claims
Section 5.1(a)
Section 5.1(a)
Section 5.1(b)
Section 5.1(b)
(e) . It is the intent of each of Burgundy and Spinco, by virtue of the provisions of this , to provide for a full and complete release and discharge of all Liabilities existing or arising from all acts and events occurring or failing to occur or alleged to have occurred or to have failed to occur and all conditions existing or alleged to have existed on or before the Business Transfer Time, between or among Spinco or any member of the Spinco Group, on the one hand, and Burgundy or any member of the Burgundy Group, on the other hand (including any Contractual agreements or arrangements existing or alleged to exist between or among any such members on or before the Business Transfer Time), except as expressly set forth in . At any time, at the request of any other Party, each Party will cause each member of its Group to execute and deliver releases reflecting the provisions hereof.
General Intent
Section 5.1
Section 5.1(c)
Section 5.2 . Without limiting or otherwise affecting the indemnity provisions of the Ancillary Agreements, from and after the Business Transfer Time, Spinco, and each member of the Spinco Group will, on a joint and several basis,
Indemnification by the Spinco Group
 
indemnify, defend (or, where applicable, pay the defense costs for) and hold harmless the Burgundy Indemnitees from and against, and will reimburse such Burgundy Indemnitees with respect to, any and all Losses that result from, relate to or arise, whether prior to, at or following the Business Transfer Time, out of any of the following items (without duplication):
(a) any failure of Spinco or any other member of the Spinco Group or any other Person to pay, perform, fulfill, discharge and, to the extent applicable, comply with, in due course and in full, any Spinco Liabilities;
(b) any breach by Spinco or any other member of the Spinco Group of any agreement or obligation to be performed by such Persons pursuant to this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement unless such Ancillary Agreement expressly provides for separate indemnification therein (which shall be controlling); and
(c) the enforcement by the Burgundy Indemnitees of their rights to be indemnified, defended and held harmless under this .
Section 5.2
Section 5.3 . Without limiting or otherwise affecting the indemnity provisions of the Ancillary Agreements, from and after the Business Transfer Time, Burgundy, and each member of the Burgundy Group will, on a joint and several basis, indemnify, defend (or, where applicable, pay the defense costs for) and hold harmless the Spinco Indemnitees from and against, and will reimburse such Spinco Indemnitee with respect to, any and all Losses that result from, relate to or arise, whether prior to or following the Business Transfer Time, out of any of the following items (without duplication):
Indemnification by Burgundy
(a) any failure of Burgundy or any other member of the Burgundy Group or any other Person to pay, perform, fulfill, discharge and, to the extent applicable, comply with, in due course and in full the Excluded Liabilities, whether prior to or after the Business Transfer Date or the date hereof;
(b) any breach by Burgundy or any other member of the Burgundy Group of any agreement or obligation to be performed by such Persons pursuant to this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement unless such Ancillary Agreement expressly provides for separate indemnification therein (which, including any limitations on liability contained therein, shall be controlling); and
(c) the enforcement by the Spinco Indemnitees of their rights to be indemnified, defended and held harmless under this .
Section 5.3
Section 5.4 .
Payments; Reductions for Insurance Proceeds and Other Recoveries
(a) . Indemnification payments in respect of any Liabilities for which an Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification under this will be paid by the Indemnifying Party to the Indemnitee as such Liabilities are incurred upon demand by the Indemnitee, including reasonably satisfactory documentation setting forth the basis for the amount of such indemnification payment, including documentation with respect to calculations made and consideration of any Insurance Proceeds that actually reduce the amount of such
Payments
Article V
 
Liabilities. The indemnity agreements contained in this will remain operative and in full force and effect, regardless of (i) any investigation made by or on behalf of any Indemnitee, (ii) the knowledge by the Indemnitee of Liabilities for which it might be entitled to indemnification hereunder and (iii) any termination of this Agreement.
Article V
(b) . The amount that any Indemnifying Party is or may be required to provide indemnification to or on behalf of any Indemnitee pursuant to or as applicable, will be reduced (retroactively or prospectively) by any Insurance Proceeds or other amounts actually recovered from unaffiliated third parties (and excluding any captive insurance companies of the Indemnitee or its Affiliates or any Taxing Authority) by or on behalf of such Indemnitee in respect of the related Loss (net of increased insurance premiums and charges related directly and solely to the related indemnifiable Losses and costs and expenses (including reasonable legal fees and expenses) incurred by such Indemnitee in connection with seeking to collect and collecting such amounts). The existence of a claim by an Indemnitee for monies from an insurer or against a third party in respect of any indemnifiable Loss will not, however, delay any payment pursuant to the indemnification provisions contained herein and otherwise determined to be due and owing by an Indemnifying Party. Rather, the Indemnifying Party will make payment in full of the amount determined to be due and owing by it against an assignment by the Indemnitee to the Indemnifying Party of the entire claim of the Indemnitee for Insurance Proceeds or against such third party. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement, it is the intention of the Parties that no insurer or any other third party will be (i) entitled to a "windfall" or other benefit it would not be entitled to receive in the absence of the foregoing indemnification provisions or otherwise have any subrogation rights with respect thereto, or (ii) relieved of the responsibility to pay any claims for which it is obligated. The Indemnitee will use and will cause its Affiliates to use commercially reasonable efforts to pursue claims against applicable insurers for coverage of such Loss under such policies, subject to .
Insurance Proceeds
Section 5.2
Section 5.3
Section 6.11
(c) .
Tax Treatment; Adjustments for Tax Benefits and Cost
(i) In the absence of a Final Determination to the contrary and except for any interest for any period beginning after the Distribution Date, any amount payable by Spinco to Burgundy or by Burgundy to Spinco under this Agreement shall be treated for Tax purposes as a distribution or capital contribution, respectively, occurring immediately prior to the Distribution.
(ii) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the amount that any Indemnifying Party is or may be required to provide indemnification to or on behalf of any Indemnitee pursuant to or as applicable, will be (i) decreased to take into account the present value of any Tax benefit made allowable to the Indemnitee (or an Affiliate thereof) arising from the incurrence or payment of the relevant indemnified item, and (ii) increased to take into account any Tax cost of the Indemnitee (or an Affiliate thereof) arising from the receipt of the relevant indemnity payment. For purposes of this , any Tax benefit or Tax cost, as applicable, shall be determined (i) using the highest marginal rates in effect at the time of the determination, (ii) assuming the Indemnitee will be liable for such Taxes at such rate and has no Tax attributes at
Section 5.2
Section 5.3
Section 5.4(c)(ii)
 
the time of the determination, and (iii) assuming that any such Tax benefit is used at the earliest date allowable by applicable Law. The present value referred to in the first sentence of this shall be determined using a discount rate equal to the mid term applicable federal rate in effect at the time of the payment of the relevant indemnity payment.
Section 5.4(c)(ii)
Section 5.5 .
Procedures for Defense, Settlement and Indemnification of Third-Party Claims
(a) . All claims made hereunder on account of indemnifiable Losses that do not involve Third-Party Claims shall be asserted by reasonably prompt written notice given by the Indemnitee to the Indemnifying Party from whom such indemnification is sought. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the delay or failure of any Indemnitee to give notice as provided in this will not relieve the relevant Indemnifying Party of its obligations under this , except to the extent that such Indemnifying Party is actually prejudiced by such delay or failure to give notice.
Direct Claims
Section 5.5(a)
Article V
(b) .
Third-Party Claims
(i) . If an Indemnitee receives notice or otherwise learns of the assertion by a Person (including any Governmental Authority) who is not a member of the Burgundy Group or Grizzly or any of its Affiliates (including after the Spinco Reorganization, the Spinco Group) of any claim or of the commencement by any such Person of any Action with respect to which an Indemnifying Party may be obligated to provide indemnification under this Agreement (collectively, a ""), such Indemnitee will give such Indemnifying Party prompt written notice (a "") thereof but in any event within 15 calendar days after becoming aware of such Third-Party Claim. Any such notice will describe the Third-Party Claim in reasonable detail and include copies of all notices and documents (including court papers) received by the Indemnitee relating to the Third-Party Claim. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the delay or failure of any Indemnitee or other Person to give notice as provided in this will not relieve the related Indemnifying Party of its obligations under this , except to the extent that such Indemnifying Party is actually prejudiced by such delay or failure to give notice.
Notice of Claims
Third-Party Claim
Claims Notice
Section 5.5
Article V
(ii) . The Indemnifying Party shall have the right, exercisable by written notice to the Indemnitee within 30 days after receipt of a Claims Notice from the Indemnitee of the commencement or assertion of any Third-Party Claim in respect of which indemnity may be sought under this , to assume and conduct the defense of such Third-Party Claim in accordance with the limits set forth in this Agreement with counsel selected by the Indemnifying Party and reasonably acceptable to the Indemnitee; , , that the (A) defense of such Third-Party Claim by the Indemnifying Party will not, in the reasonable judgment of the Indemnitee, (1) if Burgundy or
Opportunity to Defend
Article V
provided
however
 
any member of the Burgundy Group is the Indemnifying Party, reasonably be expected to affect Grizzly or any of its controlled Affiliates (including after the Merger, any member of the Spinco Group) in a materially adverse manner (for the avoidance of doubt, any Third Party Claim relating to or arising in connection with any criminal proceeding, Action, indictment, allocation or investigation against Grizzly or its Affiliates shall be deemed materially adverse), and (2) if Spinco or any member of the Spinco Group is the Indemnifying Party, reasonably be expected to affect Burgundy or any of its controlled Affiliates in a materially adverse manner (for the avoidance of doubt, any Third Party Claim relating to or arising in connection with any criminal proceeding, Action, indictment, allocation or investigation against Burgundy or its Affiliates shall be deemed materially adverse) and (B) the Third-Party Claim solely seeks (and continues to seek) monetary damages (the conditions set forth in clauses (A) and (B) are, collectively, the ""). If the Indemnifying Party does not assume the defense of a Third-Party Claim in accordance with this , the Indemnitee may continue to defend the Third-Party Claim. If the Indemnifying Party has assumed the defense of a Third-Party Claim as provided in this , the Indemnifying Party will not be liable for any legal expenses subsequently incurred by the Indemnitee in connection with the defense of the Third-Party Claim; , , that if (x) either of the Litigation Conditions ceases to be met or (y) the Indemnifying Party fails to take reasonable steps necessary to defend diligently such Third-Party Claim, the Indemnitee may assume its own defense, and the Indemnifying Party will be liable for all reasonable costs or expenses paid or incurred in connection with such defense. The Indemnifying Party or the Indemnitee, as the case may be, has the right to participate in (but, subject to the prior sentence, not control), at its own expense, the defense of any Third-Party Claim that the other is defending as provided in this Agreement. The Indemnifying Party, if it has assumed the defense of any Third-Party Claim as provided in this Agreement, may not, without the prior written consent of the Indemnitee, consent to a settlement of, or the entry of any judgment arising from, any such Third-Party Claim that (I) does not include as an unconditional term thereof the giving by the claimant or the plaintiff to the Indemnitee of a complete release from all liability in respect of such Third-Party Claim, (II) provides for injunctive or other nonmonetary relief affecting the Indemnitee or any of its Affiliates, or (III) in the reasonable opinion of the Indemnitee, would otherwise materially adversely affect the Indemnitee or any of its Affiliates. The Indemnitee may settle any Third-Party Claim, the defense of which has not been assumed by the Indemnifying Party, only with the prior written consent of the Indemnifying Party, not to be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed.
Litigation Conditions
Section 5.5
Section 5.5
provided
however
Section 5.6 .
Additional Matters
(a) . With respect to any Third-Party Claim for which Spinco, on the one hand, and Burgundy, on the other hand, may have Liability under this Agreement or any of the Ancillary Agreements, the Parties agree to cooperate fully and maintain a joint defense (in a manner that will preserve the attorney-client privilege, joint
Cooperation in Defense and Settlement
 
defense or other privilege with respect thereto) so as to seek to minimize such Liabilities and defense costs associated therewith. The Party that is not responsible for managing the defense of such Third-Party Claims will, upon reasonable request, be consulted with respect to significant matters relating thereto and may retain counsel to monitor or assist in the defense of such claims at its own cost.
(b) .
Certain Actions
(i) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in , Burgundy may elect to have exclusive authority and control over the investigation, prosecution, defense and appeal of all Actions (excluding any Actions relating to the Ohio River/Calcesieu Liabilities, which are subject to ) pending at the Business Transfer Time which relate to or arise out of the Eagle Business, the Spinco Assets or the Spinco Liabilities if such Action primarily relates to the Excluded Assets and Excluded Liabilities and a member of the Burgundy Group is also named as a target or defendant thereunder; that (i) Burgundy will consult with Spinco on a regular basis with respect to strategy and developments with respect to any such Action, (ii) if Burgundy fails to take reasonable steps necessary to defend diligently such Action, Spinco may assume such defense, and Burgundy will be liable for all reasonable costs or expenses paid or incurred in connection with such defense, (iii) Spinco has the right to participate in (but, subject to clause (ii) above, not control) the defense of such Action, and (iv) Burgundy obtains the written consent of Spinco, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed, to settle or compromise or consent to the entry of judgment with respect to such Action if such settlement, consent or judgment would (x) provide for injunctive or other nonmonetary relief affecting Spinco or any of its Affiliates, or (y) in the reasonable opinion of Spinco, would otherwise materially adversely affect Spinco or any of its Affiliates or reasonably expected to result in a payment by Spinco Group in excess of $2 million. After any such compromise, settlement, consent to entry of judgment or entry of judgment, Burgundy and Spinco will agree upon a reasonable allocation to Spinco and Spinco will be responsible for or receive, as the case may be, Spinco' proportionate share of any such compromise, settlement, consent or judgment attributable to the Spinco Business, the Spinco Assets or the Spinco Liabilities, including its proportionate share of the reasonable costs and expenses associated with defending same.
Section 5.5
Section 5.6(e)
provided
(ii) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in , Burgundy shall have exclusive authority and control over the investigation, prosecution, defense and appeal of all Actions relating to the matters set forth on Schedule 2.5(b)(ix).
Section 5.5
(c) . In the event of an Action that involves solely matters that are indemnifiable and in which the Indemnifying Party is not a named defendant, if either the Indemnitee or the Indemnifying Party so requests, the Parties will endeavor to substitute the Indemnifying Party for the named defendant. If such substitution or addition cannot be achieved
Substitution
 
for any reason or is not requested, the rights and obligations of the Parties regarding indemnification and the management of the defense of claims as set forth in this will not be affected.
Article V
(d) . In the event of payment by or on behalf of any Indemnifying Party to or on behalf of any Indemnitee in connection with any Third-Party Claim, such Indemnifying Party will be subrogated to and will stand in the place of such Indemnitee, in whole or in part based upon whether the Indemnifying Party has paid all or only part of the Indemnitee's Liability, as to any events or circumstances in respect of which such Indemnitee may have any right, defense or claim relating to such Third-Party Claim against any claimant or plaintiff asserting such Third-Party Claim or against any other Person. Such Indemnitee will cooperate with such Indemnifying Party in a reasonable manner, and at the cost and expense of such Indemnifying Party, in prosecuting any subrogated right, defense or claim.
Subrogation
(e) . Without limiting , but subject to the Parties entering into a written agreement with respect thereto, Spinco shall provide reasonable cooperation to enable Burgundy to satisfy its obligations relating to the Ohio River/Calcesieu Estuary Liabilities including providing reasonable access to, through and over the Natrium and Lake Charles sites that are Spinco Active Sites for Burgundy, its employees, contractors, and consultants. In the event that Spinco brings a claim for indemnification for the Ohio River/Calcesieu Estuary Liabilities against Burgundy related to the Ohio River sediments, Burgundy shall have the right, but not the obligation, to control any such Remediation; , , Burgundy (i) keeps Spinco apprised of the status of the Remediation; (ii) provides drafts of any significant workplan, report, study or other deliverable before submission to a Governmental Authority or interested third party for review and comment by Spinco; and (iii) promptly provides Spinco with copies of any and all data, analyses, reports, or other documents and significant communications generated in connection with the Remediation. Burgundy shall elect to either control the Remediation of the Ohio River sediments set forth in such notice or not to control the Remediation of the Ohio River sediments in writing within thirty (30) days of receiving written notice of the Claim. Should Burgundy elect not to assume control of the Remediation of the Ohio River sediments pursuant to this section, then Spinco shall (i) keep Burgundy apprised of the status of the Remediation; (ii) provide drafts of any significant workplan, report, study or other deliverable before submission to a Governmental Authority or interested third party for review and comment by Burgundy; and (iii) promptly provide Burgundy with copies of any and all data, analyses, reports, or other documents and significant communications generated in connection with the Remediation. Subject to the satisfaction of the terms and conditions of , Burgundy may take control of all negotiations and proceedings with Governmental Agencies and relevant third parties relating to the Ohio River/Calcasieu Estuary Liabilities.
Special Provisions Related to Environmental Matters
Section 2.5(b)
provided
however
Section 5.5(b)
Section 5.7 . Each of Grizzly and Burgundy is an established business entity that has been represented by experienced counsel in connection with the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements, and intends and hereby agrees that this sets forth the exclusive remedy and rights of the Parties following the Business Transfer Time in respect of the matters indemnified under this , except that nothing contained in this will impair any right of any Person (a) to exercise all of their rights and seek all damages available to them under Law in the event of claims or causes of action
Exclusive Remedy
Article V
Article V
Section 5.7
 
arising from fraud or willful misconduct; (b) to specific performance under this Agreement; and (c) to equitable relief as provided in hereof. In furtherance of the foregoing, each of the Parties hereto hereby waives, to the fullest extent permitted under applicable Law, any and all rights, claims and causes of action it may have against the other Party in connection herewith, arising under or based upon any Law other than the right to seek indemnity pursuant to this and the right to seek the relief described in clauses (a), (b) and (c) of the preceding sentence.
Section 7.15
Article V
Section 5.8 . The rights and obligations of Burgundy and Spinco and its Indemnitees under this will survive the sale or other transfer by any Party of any Assets or businesses or the assignment by any Party of any Liabilities.
Survival of Indemnities
Article V
Section 6.1 . Subject to the limitations of :
Further Assurances
Section 2.7
(a) In addition to the actions specifically provided for elsewhere in this Agreement, the Merger Agreement or in any Ancillary Agreement, each of the Parties hereto will cooperate with each other and use (and will cause its Subsidiaries and Affiliates to use) commercially reasonable efforts, prior to, at and after the Business Transfer Time, to take, or to cause to be taken, all actions, and to do, or to cause to be done, all things reasonably necessary, proper or advisable on its part under applicable Law or Contractual obligations to consummate and make effective the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements as promptly as reasonably practicable.
(b) Without limiting the generality of , where the cooperation of third parties such as insurers or trustees would be necessary in order for a Party to completely fulfill its obligations under this Agreement or the Ancillary Agreements, such Party will use commercially reasonable efforts to cause such third Parties to provide such cooperation. If any Affiliate of Burgundy or Spinco is not a party to this Agreement or, as applicable, any Ancillary Agreement, and it becomes necessary or desirable for such Affiliate to be a party hereto or thereto to carry out the purpose hereof or thereof, then Burgundy or Spinco, as applicable, will cause such Affiliate to become a party hereto or thereto or cause such Affiliate to undertake such actions as if such Affiliate were such a party.
Section 6.1(a)
Section 6.2 .
Agreement for Exchange of Information
(a) . Except as otherwise provided in the Transition Services Agreement, each Party, on behalf of its Group, will provide, or cause to be provided, to the other Party's Group, at any time after the Business Transfer Time and until the later of (x) the sixth anniversary of the Business Transfer Time and (y) the expiration of the relevant statute of limitations period, if applicable, as soon as reasonably practicable after written request therefor, any Shared Information in its possession or under its control. Each of Burgundy and Spinco agree to make its personnel available during regular business hours to discuss the Information exchanged pursuant to this . The obligations set forth in this with respect
Generally
Section 6.2
Section 6.2
 
to the data required for worker's compensation claim handling and filings will survive the sixth anniversary time period herein and will instead survive indefinitely. The parties agree that, after Closing, Shared Information will be subject to the confidentiality obligations in the Confidentiality Agreement as if such Information were provided prior to the Business Transfer Time.
(b) . Without limitation to , until the end of the first full fiscal year occurring after the Distribution Date (and for a reasonable period of time afterwards as required by Law for Burgundy to prepare consolidated financial statements or complete a financial statement audit for any period during which the financial results of the Spinco Group were consolidated with those of Burgundy), Spinco will use its reasonable best efforts to enable Burgundy to meet its timetable for dissemination of its financial statements and to enable Burgundy's auditors to timely complete their annual audit and quarterly reviews of financial statements. As part of such efforts, to the extent reasonably necessary for the preparation of financial statements or completing an audit or review of financial statements or an audit of internal control over financial reporting, (i) Spinco will authorize and direct its auditors to make available to Burgundy's auditors, within a reasonable time prior to the date of Burgundy's auditors' opinion or review report, both (x) the personnel who performed or will perform the annual audits and quarterly reviews of Spinco and (y) work papers related to such annual audits and quarterly reviews, to enable Burgundy's auditors to perform any procedures they consider reasonably necessary to take responsibility for the work of Spinco's auditors as it relates to Burgundy's auditors' opinion or report and (ii) until all governmental audits are complete, Spinco will provide reasonable access during normal business hours for Burgundy's internal auditors, counsel and other designated representatives to (x) the premises of Spinco and its Subsidiaries and all Information (and duplicating rights) within the knowledge, possession or control of Spinco and its Subsidiaries and (y) the officers and employees of Spinco and its Subsidiaries, so that Burgundy may conduct reasonable audits relating to the financial statements provided by Spinco and its Subsidiaries; , , that such access will not be unreasonably disruptive to the business and affairs of the Spinco Group.
Financial Information for Burgundy
Section 6.2(a)
provided
however
(c) . Without limitation to , until the end of the first full fiscal year occurring after the Distribution Date (and for a reasonable period of time afterwards or as required by Law), Burgundy will use its reasonable best efforts to enable Spinco to meet its timetable for dissemination of its financial statements and to enable Spinco's auditors to timely complete their annual audit and quarterly reviews of financial statements. As part of such efforts, to the extent reasonably necessary for the preparation of financial statements or completing an audit or review of financial statements or an audit of internal control over financial reporting, (i) Burgundy will authorize and direct its auditors to make available to Spinco's auditors, within a reasonable time prior to the date of Spinco's auditors' opinion or review report, both (x) the personnel who performed or will perform the annual audits and quarterly reviews of Burgundy and (y) work papers related to such annual audits and quarterly reviews, to enable Spinco's auditors to perform any procedures they consider reasonably necessary to take responsibility for the work of Burgundy's auditors as it relates to Spinco's auditors' opinion or report and (ii) until all governmental audits are complete, Burgundy will provide reasonable access during normal business hours for Spinco's internal auditors, counsel and other designated representatives to (x) the premises of Burgundy and its Subsidiaries and all Information (and duplicating rights) within the knowledge, possession or
Financial Information for Spinco
Section 6.2(a)
 
control of Burgundy and its Subsidiaries and (y) the officers and employees of Burgundy and its Subsidiaries, so that Spinco may conduct reasonable audits relating to the financial statements provided by Burgundy and its Subsidiaries; , , that such access will not be unreasonably disruptive to the business and affairs of the Burgundy Group.
provided
however
(d) . Neither Party will have any Liability to the other Party in the event that any Information exchanged or provided pursuant to this Agreement that is an estimate or forecast, or that is based on an estimate or forecast, is found to be inaccurate in the absence of fraud or willful misconduct by the providing Person.
Limitations of Liability
(e) . Any Information owned by a Party that is provided to the other Party pursuant to this remains the property of the Party that owned and provided such Information. Each Party will, and will cause members of its Group to, remove and destroy any hard drives or other electronic data storage devices from any computer or server that is reasonably likely to contain Information that is protected by this and that is transferred or sold to a third-party or otherwise disposed of in accordance with this , unless required by Law to retain such materials.
Ownership of Information
Section 6.2(e)
Section 6.2(e)
Section 6.2(e)
(f) . Each Party agrees to use its commercially reasonable efforts to retain all Information that relates to the operations of the Eagle Business in its possession or control at the Business Transfer Time in accordance with the policies of such Person as in effect on the Business Transfer Time or such other policies as may be adopted by such Person thereafter (provided, in the case of Spinco, that Burgundy notify Spinco of any such change). No Party will destroy, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to destroy, any Information which the other Party may have the right to obtain pursuant to this Agreement without notifying the other Party of the proposed destruction and giving the other Party the reasonable opportunity to take possession or make copies of such Information prior to such destruction. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Section 7.02 of the Tax Matters Agreement will govern the retention of Tax Returns, schedules and work papers and all material records or other documents relating thereto.
Record Retention
(g) . The rights and obligations granted under this are subject to any specific limitations, qualifications or additional provisions on the sharing, exchange or confidential treatment of Information set forth in this Agreement, the Confidentiality Agreement and any Ancillary Agreement.
Other Agreements Providing for Exchange of Information
Section 6.2
(h) . The Party requesting Information agrees to reimburse the other Party for the reasonable out-of-pocket costs, if any, actually incurred in creating, gathering and copying such Information, to the extent that such costs are incurred for the benefit of the requesting Party.
Compensation for Providing Information
(i) .
Production of Witnesses; Records; Cooperation
(i) After the Business Transfer Time, except in the case of any Action by one Party or its Affiliates against another Party or its Affiliates, each Party will use its commercially reasonable efforts to make available to each other Party, upon written request, the former, current and future directors, officers, employees,
 
other personnel and agents of the members of its Group as witnesses and any books, records or other documents within its control or which it otherwise has the ability to make available, to the extent that any such person (giving consideration to business demands of such directors, officers, employees, other personnel and agents) or books, records or other documents may reasonably be required in connection with any Action in which the requesting Party may from time to time be involved, regardless of whether such Action is a matter with respect to which indemnification may be sought hereunder. The requesting Party agrees to reimburse the other Party for the reasonable out-of-pocket costs, if any, incurred in connection therewith.
(ii) If an Indemnifying Party chooses to defend or to seek to compromise or settle any Third-Party Claim, the other Party will make available to such Indemnifying Party, upon written request, the former, current and future directors, officers, employees, other personnel and agents of the members of its Group as witnesses and any books, records or other documents within its control or which it otherwise has the ability to make available, to the extent that any such person (giving consideration to business demands of such directors, officers, employees, other personnel and agents) or books, records or other documents may reasonably be required in connection with such defense, settlement or compromise, or the prosecution, evaluation or pursuit thereof, as the case may be, and will otherwise cooperate in such defense, settlement or compromise, or such prosecution, evaluation or pursuit, as the case may be.
(iii) Without limiting the foregoing, the Parties will cooperate and consult to the extent reasonably necessary with respect to Third-Party Claims.
(iv) The obligation of the Parties to provide witnesses pursuant to this is intended to be interpreted in a manner so as to facilitate cooperation and will include the obligation to provide witnesses without regard to whether the witness or the employer of the witness could assert a possible business conflict.
Section 6.2(i)
(v) In connection with any matter contemplated by this , the Parties will enter into a mutually acceptable joint defense agreement so as to maintain to the extent practicable any applicable attorney-client privilege or work product immunity of any member of any Group.
Section 6.2(i)
(j) . Except as expressly provided in this Agreement or the Ancillary Agreements, no Party or member of such Party's Group hereunder grants or confers rights of license in any Information owned by any member of such Party's Group to any member of the other Party's Group hereunder.
Restrictions
Section 6.3 .
Privileged Matters
(a) The respective rights and obligations of the Parties to maintain, preserve, assert or waive any or all privileges belonging to either Party or its Subsidiaries with respect to
 
the Spinco Business or the Non-Spinco Business, including the attorney-client and work product privileges (collectively, ""), will be governed by the provisions of this . With respect to Privileged Information of Burgundy, Burgundy will have sole authority in perpetuity to determine whether to assert or waive any or all Privileges, and Spinco will not take any action (or permit any member of its Group to take action) without the prior written consent of Burgundy that could result in any waiver of any Privilege that could be asserted by Burgundy or any member of its Group under applicable Law and this Agreement. With respect to Privileged Information of Spinco arising after the Business Transfer Time, Spinco will have sole authority in perpetuity to determine whether to assert or waive any or all Privileges, and Burgundy will take no action (nor permit any member of its Group to take action) without the prior written consent of Spinco that could result in any waiver of any Privilege that could be asserted by Spinco or any member of its Group under applicable Law and this Agreement. The rights and obligations created by this will apply to all Information as to which a Party or its Group would be entitled to assert or have asserted a Privilege without regard to the effect, if any, of the Spinco Reorganization, the Recapitalization or the Distribution ("").
Privileges
Section 6.3
Section 6.3
Privileged Information
(b) Privileged Information of Burgundy and its Group includes (i) any and all Information regarding the Non-Spinco Business and the Burgundy Group (other than Information relating to the Eagle Business ("")), whether or not such Information (other than Spinco Information) is in the possession of Spinco or any Affiliate thereof, (ii) all communications subject to a Privilege between counsel for Burgundy (other than counsel for the Eagle Business) (including any person who, at the time of the communication, was an employee of Burgundy or its Group in the capacity of in-house counsel, regardless of whether such employee is or becomes an employee of Grizzly, Spinco or any Affiliate thereof) and any person who, at the time of the communication, was an employee of Burgundy, regardless of whether such employee is or becomes an employee of Spinco or any Affiliate thereof, and (iii) all Information generated, received or arising after the Business Transfer Time that refers or relates to and discloses Privileged Information of Burgundy or its Group generated, received or arising prior to the Business Transfer Time.
Spinco Information
(c) Privileged Information of Spinco and its Group includes (i) any and all Spinco Information, whether or not it is in the possession of Burgundy or any member of its Group, (ii) all communications subject to a Privilege between counsel for the Eagle Business (including any person who, at the time of the communication, was an employee of Burgundy or its Group in the capacity of in-house counsel, regardless of whether such employee is or remains an employee of Burgundy or any Affiliate thereof) and any person who, at the time of the communication, was an employee of Burgundy, Spinco or any member of either Group or the Eagle Business regardless of whether such employee was, is or becomes an employee of Burgundy or any of its Subsidiaries, and (iii) all Information generated, received or arising after the Business Transfer Time that refers or relates to and discloses Privileged Information of Spinco or its Group generated, received or arising after the Business Transfer Time.
(d) Upon receipt by Burgundy or Spinco, or any of their respective Affiliates, as the case may be, of any subpoena, discovery or other request from any third-party that actually or arguably calls for the production or disclosure of Privileged Information of the other or if Burgundy or Spinco, or any of their respective Affiliates, as the case may be, obtains knowledge
 
that any current or former employee of Burgundy or Spinco, or any of their respective Affiliates, as the case may be, receives any subpoena, discovery or other request from any third-party that actually or arguably calls for the production or disclosure of Privileged Information of the other, Burgundy or Spinco, as the case may be, will promptly notify the relevant other Party of the existence of the request and will provide such other Party a reasonable opportunity to review the Information and to assert any rights it may have under this or otherwise to prevent the production or disclosure of Privileged Information. Burgundy or Spinco, as the case may be, will not, and will cause their respective Affiliates not to, produce or disclose to any third-party any of the other Party's Privileged Information under this unless (i) the other Party has provided its express written consent to such production or disclosure or (ii) a court of competent jurisdiction has entered an Order not subject to interlocutory appeal or review finding that the Information is not entitled to protection from disclosure under any applicable privilege, doctrine or rule.
Section 6.3
Section 6.3
(e) Burgundy's transfer of books and records pertaining to the Eagle Business and other Information to Spinco, Burgundy's agreement to permit Spinco to obtain Information existing prior to the Spinco Reorganization, Spinco's transfer of books and records pertaining to Burgundy, if any, and other Information to Burgundy and Spinco's agreement to permit Burgundy to obtain Information existing prior to the Spinco Reorganization are made in reliance on Burgundy's and Spinco's respective agreements, as set forth in and this , to maintain the confidentiality of such Information and to take the steps provided herein for the preservation of all Privileges that may belong to or be asserted by Burgundy or Spinco, as the case may be. The access to Information, witnesses and individuals being granted pursuant to and the disclosure to Spinco and Burgundy of Privileged Information relating to the Spinco Business or the Non-Spinco Business pursuant to this Agreement in connection with the Spinco Reorganization will not be asserted by Burgundy or Spinco to constitute, or otherwise deemed, a waiver of any Privilege that has been or may be asserted under this or otherwise. Nothing in this Agreement will operate to reduce, minimize or condition the rights granted to Burgundy and Spinco in, or the obligations imposed upon Burgundy and Spinco by, this .
Section 6.2
Section 6.3
Section 6.2
Section 6.3
Section 6.3
Section 6.4 . Each Party will be responsible for, and will pay all expenses (whether incurred before, at or after the Business Transfer Time) involved in notarization, authentication, legalization and/or consularization of the signatures of any representatives of its Group on any of the Transfer Documents relating to the transfer of Intellectual Property Rights. Spinco will be responsible for, and will pay all expenses (whether incurred before or after the Business Transfer Time) relating to, the recording of any such Transfer Documents relating to the transfer of Intellectual Property Rights to any member of the Spinco Group with any Governmental Authorities as may be necessary or appropriate.
Intellectual Property Assignment/Recordation
Section 6.5 . Except as specifically set forth in this , from and after the Effective Time, Spinco will take all actions necessary to assure that no member of the Spinco Group operates the Spinco Business utilizing, based on or taking advantage of the name, reputation, Trademarks or goodwill of any member of the Burgundy Group, provided that Grizzly and members of the Spinco Group may refer to the Burgundy Group and Trademarks of the Burgundy Group in connection with describing the historical relationship of the Spinco Group to the Burgundy Group. In addition, Spinco and each member of
Intellectual Property Matters
Section 6.5
 
the Spinco Group may use labeling, packaging, advertising, sale and promotional materials, printed stationery, brochures and literature bearing any of the corporate names, Trademarks, product identification numbers or consumer information telephone numbers of the Burgundy Group after the Business Transfer Time; , that Spinco will, and will cause each member of the Spinco Group to, cease use of the labeling, packaging, advertising, sale and promotional materials, printed stationery, brochures and literature bearing any of the corporate names, Trademarks, product identification numbers or consumer information telephone numbers beginning on the six (6) month anniversary of the Effective Time; , , that there will be no time limit with respect to Spinco's sale of products bearing the corporate name, Trademarks or consumer information telephone numbers or that use any packaging bearing the same included in the Spinco Inventory. The Spinco Group will use commercially reasonable efforts to cease the sale or use of such products, product labeling or packaging as promptly as reasonably practicable following the Business Transfer Time, consistent with their ordinary course of business. Spinco will, and will cause each member of the Spinco Group to, maintain quality standards for products of the Spinco Business not materially different from those maintained by the Eagle business prior to the Business Transfer Time for so long as any member of the Spinco Group continues to use any labeling, packaging, advertising, sales or promotional materials, printed stationery, brochures or literature bearing the corporate names, Trademarks, product identification numbers or consumer information telephone numbers of any member of the Burgundy Group.
provided
provided
further
Section 6.6 . At the Business Transfer Time, the domain name registrations set forth on Schedule 2.4(a)(vi), including all content, text, descriptions, photographs, drawings, or other work comprising the associated web pages (collectively the ""), shall be assigned to, and subsequently owned and maintained by, the Spinco Group. The Burgundy Group will take commercially reasonable steps to effectuate the assignment of the Assigned Domains. On or before the three (3) month anniversary of the Business Transfer Time, the Spinco Group will be required to remove any and all references to any name, Trademarks, or goodwill owned by any member of the Burgundy Group that exist on the Assigned Domain Names.
Assigned Domain Names
Assigned Domains
Section 6.7 . The domain names and web pages set forth on Schedule 2.4(b)(i) include a Trademark owned by the Burgundy Group and were used primarily for the Eagle Business prior to the Business Transfer Time (""). The Unassigned Domains are registered in the name of the Burgundy Group and will not be assigned to the Spinco Group. However, from and after the Business Transfer Time, each member of the Spinco Group may coordinate with the Burgundy Group to redirect Internet traffic and site visits from the Unassigned Domains to a domain name or web page of its choosing. On or before the three (3) month anniversary of the Business Transfer Time, the Unassigned Domains will be disabled and the registrations will be permitted to lapse. From and after the Business Transfer Time, no member of the Spinco Group will take steps to register or utilize the Unassigned Domains or any other domain name or web page that includes a Trademark owned by the Burgundy Group.
Unassigned Domain Names
Unassigned Domains
Section 6.8 . From and after the Business Transfer Time, all right, title, and interest, including any copyrights, related to the content, text, descriptions, photographs, drawings, or other work included on the Unassigned Domains prior to the Business Transfer Time shall be the sole and exclusive property of the Spinco Group, except
Unassigned Domain Name Content
 
for any text, descriptions, photographs, drawings, or other work that primarily relates to any name, reputation, Trademarks or goodwill primarily associated with any member of the Burgundy Group.
Section 6.9 .
Shared IP Licenses
(a) Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, each member of the Burgundy Group shall retain an irrevocable, non-terminable, perpetual, worldwide, nonexclusive, royalty-free, fully paid-up license to use the Shared Spinco IP solely and exclusively for the purpose of conducting the Burgundy Group's business in substantially the same manner as it was conducted immediately prior to the Effective Date (the ""). No member of the Burgundy Group may assign or sublicense its rights under the Shared Spinco IP License to any Person other than an Affiliate thereof without Spinco's prior written consent; provided, however, that without consent any member of the Burgundy Group may (a) assign its rights under the Shared Spinco IP License to any entity that acquires all or substantially all of the assets of such Burgundy Group member's business; (b) assign its rights under the Shared Spinco IP License to any successor by merger, consolidation, or acquisition to a member of the Burgundy Group for the purpose of conducting such Burgundy Group member's business; (c) sublicense its rights under the Shared Spinco IP License to any purchaser of substantially all the assets of one of the plants used in the Burgundy Business only to the extent reasonably necessary to enable such purchaser to operate such plant in the same manner as the licensed member of the Burgundy Group operated the same; and (d) assign its rights under the Shared Spinco IP License to any lender (or agent for any lender) to the owner of any such assets for collateral purposes only. Following the grant of any sublicense permitted hereinabove to the transferee of any such plant, the sublicensee may further sublicense the Shared Spinco IP to which it has been sublicensed but only together with a transfer of substantially all the assets of such plant and only to the extent reasonably necessary to enable the transferee to operate such plant in the same manner as the sublicensing Person operated the same. Any attempted assignment or sublicense in breach of this will be null and void.
Shared Spinco IP License
Section 6.9(a)
(b) At the Business Transfer Time, each member of the Burgundy Group hereby grants each member of the Spinco Group an irrevocable, non-terminable, perpetual, worldwide, nonexclusive, royalty-free, fully paid-up license to use the Shared Burgundy IP solely and exclusively for the purpose of conducting the Spinco Group's business in substantially the same manner as it was conducted immediately prior to the Effective Date (the ""). No member of the Spinco Group may assign or sublicense its rights under the Shared Burgundy IP License to any Person other than an Affiliate thereof without Burgundy's prior written consent; provided, however, that without consent any member of the Spinco Group may (a) assign its rights under the Shared Burgundy IP License to any entity that acquires all or substantially all of the assets of such Spinco Group member's business; (b) assign its rights under the Shared Burgundy IP License to any successor by merger, consolidation, or acquisition to a member of the Spinco Group for the purpose of conducting such Spinco Group member's business; (c) sublicense its rights under the Shared Burgundy IP License to any purchaser of substantially all the assets of one of the plants used in the Spinco Business only to the extent reasonably necessary to enable such purchaser to operate such plant in the same manner as the licensed member of the Spinco
Shared Burgundy IP License
 
Group operated the same; and (d) assign its rights under the Shared Burgundy IP License to any lender (or agent for any lender) to the owner of any such assets for collateral purposes only. Following the grant of any sublicense permitted hereinabove to the transferee of any such plant, the sublicensee may further sublicense the Shared Burgundy IP to which it has been sublicensed but only together with a transfer of substantially all the assets of such plant and only to the extent reasonably necessary to enable the transferee to operate such plant in the same manner as the sublicensing Person operated the same. Any attempted assignment or sublicense in breach of this will be null and void.
Section 6.9(b)
Section 6.10 . (a) Except as may be otherwise provided in the Transition Services Agreement, or otherwise agreed to by the Parties, all tangible Spinco Assets that are located at any sites of Burgundy or its Subsidiaries that are not Spinco Active Sites will be moved as promptly as practicable after the Business Transfer Time from such sites, at Spinco's expense and in a manner so as not to unreasonably interfere with the operations of any member of the Burgundy Group and to not cause damage to such facility, and such member of the Burgundy Group will provide reasonable access to such facility to effectuate same. Spinco will remove any Spinco Assets that remain at any such sites in connection with the performance of services under the Transition Services Agreement as promptly as practicable after the termination of such service pursuant to the same terms and conditions stated in the immediately preceding sentence.
Removal of Tangible Assets
(b) Except as may be otherwise provided in the Transition Services Agreement or otherwise agreed to by the Parties, all tangible Excluded Assets that are located at any of the Spinco Active Sites will be moved as promptly as practicable after the Business Transfer Time from such facilities, at Burgundy's expense and in a manner so as not to unreasonably interfere with the operations of any member of the Spinco Group and to not cause damage to such Spinco Facility, and such member of the Spinco Group will provide reasonable access to such Spinco Facility to effectuate such movement. Burgundy will remove any Excluded Assets that remain at any such Spinco Active Sites in connection with the performance of services under the Transition Services Agreement as promptly as practicable after the termination of such service pursuant to the same terms and conditions stated in the immediately preceding sentence.
Section 6.11 .
Insurance
(a) . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, from and after the Business Transfer Date, none of Spinco nor any other member of the Spinco Group will have any rights whatsoever with respect to any Policies, except that Burgundy will, if requested by Spinco, use commercially reasonable efforts (as set forth in above) to pursue Insurance Proceeds under Claims-Made Policies for any liabilities for which indemnification is sought from Spinco pursuant to this Agreement (to the extent such Claims-Made Policies provide coverage for such liabilities); provided that all of Burgundy's and each member of the Burgundy Group's reasonable costs and expenses incurred in connection with the foregoing shall be promptly paid by Spinco. All claims for Insurance Proceeds under Claims-Made Policies pursued by Burgundy will be subject to all of the terms and conditions of the applicable Claims Made Policy and Spinco shall promptly pay to Burgundy any applicable deductible or retention that applies to the Claim subject to indemnification.
Rights Under Policies
Section 5.4
 
(b) . Burgundy may, at any time, without Liability or obligation to Spinco (other than as set forth in this ), amend, commute, terminate, buy-out, extinguish liability under or otherwise modify or reduce the amount of coverage available under any Claims-Made Policies after the Distribution Date. In the event that any such transaction would affect or reduce the amount of Insurance Proceeds that otherwise would be available to Spinco for a claim that is subject to indemnification under this Agreement, Burgundy will give Spinco prior written notice thereof. In the event of an insurance transaction described in this section, Burgundy will pay to Spinco its equitable share (which must be determined in good faith based on the amount of premiums paid or allocated to the Eagle Business in respect of the applicable Claims-Made Policies and the effect the insurance transaction would have on Spinco's actual or potential indemnification obligations) of any net proceeds actually received by Burgundy from the insurer under the applicable Claims-Made Policy as a result of such transaction (after deducting Burgundy's reasonable costs and expenses incurred in connection with such action). The Tax treatment of any such payments to Spinco by Burgundy will be handled in accordance with .
Commutations or Buyouts of Claims-Made Policies
Section 6.11(b)
Section 5.4(c)
(c) . Nothing in this will be construed to limit or otherwise alter in any way the indemnity obligations of the parties to this Agreement, including those created by this Agreement.
No Limitation to Indemnity
Section 6.11
Section 6.12 .
Right of First Refusal
(a) If at any time and each time prior to the twenty (20) year anniversary of the Business Transfer Time, Burgundy desires to sell all or a portion of the Natrium Excess Land to a third party, Burgundy shall give notice (the "") thereof to Spinco, together with the price and a summary of the other material terms and conditions pursuant to which Burgundy desires to sell all or a portion of the Natrium Excess Land. Spinco shall have the right (the "") to give to Burgundy a notice (the ""), which shall specify that Spinco elects to purchase, as applicable, all or the portion of Natrium Excess Land proposed to be sold upon the same material terms and conditions (subject to the execution of a mutually satisfactory Contract of sale as hereinafter provided) as set forth in the Offer Notice. Spinco and Burgundy shall record in the appropriate public land records an instrument setting forth the foregoing First Refusal Right. The Election Notice must be delivered within 15 Business Days following Burgundy's delivery to Spinco of the Offer Notice (such period is hereinafter referred to as the ""). Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, the First Refusal Right described in this shall not be applicable to any sale of the Natrium Excess Land by Burgundy to a Subsidiary or Affiliate of Burgundy, , that following any such sale, such Subsidiary or Affiliate of Burgundy shall be subject in all respects to this Agreement.
Offer Notice
First Refusal Right
Election Notice
Response Period
Section 6.12
provided
(b) If Spinco shall give the Election Notice within the Response Period, Spinco and Burgundy shall promptly proceed to negotiate an agreement (the "") to purchase the Natrium Excess Land at the price and otherwise on all of the material terms and conditions set forth in the Offer Notice and otherwise on such other customary terms for the purchase of comparable properties, as Spinco and Burgundy may mutually agree upon.
Natrium Excess Land Agreement
 
(c) If Spinco shall fail to give an Election Notice within the Response Period, (i) Burgundy shall have the right to sell the Natrium Excess Land at the price and on other terms and conditions no less advantageous in any material respect to Burgundy than that set forth in the Offer Notice, free and clear of any rights or claims of Spinco under this , and (ii) provided Burgundy has not materially breached its obligations under this , this shall terminate and be null, void and of no further force or effect; , that Spinco shall again have the right to exercise the First Refusal Right pursuant to the provisions of this if any of the following conditions occurs: (a) the terms and conditions of sale to the third party are less advantageous in any material respect to Burgundy than set forth in the Offer Notice, or (b) the definitive agreement(s) providing for the sale are not executed and delivered with a purchaser within 120 days after the giving of the applicable Offer Notice and subsequently consummated with such purchaser within six (6) months of execution of the definitive agreements.
Section 6.12
Section 6.12
Section 6.12
provided
Section 6.12
Section 7.1 . Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, each Party will be responsible for the fees and expenses of the Parties as provided in the Merger Agreement.
Expenses
Section 7.2 . This Agreement, the Merger Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements and the Confidentiality Agreement, including any related annexes, schedules and exhibits, as well as any other agreements and documents referred to herein and therein, will together constitute the entire agreement between the Parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and thereof and will supersede all prior negotiations, agreements and understandings of the Parties of any nature, whether oral or written, with respect to such subject matter.
Entire Agreement
Section 7.3 . This Agreement and, unless expressly provided therein, each Ancillary Agreement (and any claims or disputes arising out of or related hereto or thereto or to the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby or to the inducement of any Party to enter herein and therein, whether for breach of Contract, tortious conduct or otherwise and whether predicated on common law, statute or otherwise) is governed by and construed and interpreted in accordance with the Laws of the State of Delaware irrespective of the choice of laws principles of the State of Delaware, including all matters of validity, construction, effect, enforceability, performance and remedies.
Governing Law
 
Section 7.4 . All notices, requests, permissions, waivers and other communications under this Agreement will be in writing and will be deemed to have been duly given (a) five (5) Business Days following sending by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, (b) when sent, if sent by facsimile, provided that the facsimile transmission is promptly confirmed by telephone, (c) when delivered, if delivered personally to the intended recipient, and (d) one Business Day following sending by overnight delivery via a national courier service and, in each case, addressed to a Party at the following address for such Party:
Notices
If to Burgundy or, prior to the Effective Time, Spinco:
 
with a copy (which shall not constitute notice) to:
 
If to Spinco, a]fter the Effective Time:
 
with a copy (which shall not constitute notice) to:
 
or to such other address(es) as will be furnished in writing by any such party to the other party in accordance with the provisions of this .
Section 7.4
Section 7.5 . If there is a conflict between any provision of this Agreement and a provision in any of the Ancillary Agreements (other than the Tax Matters Agreement and Employee Matters Agreement), the provision of this Agreement shall control unless specifically provided otherwise in this Agreement or in the Ancillary Agreement. Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, this Agreement will not apply to matters relating to Taxes or employees, employee benefits plans, and related assets and liabilities including pension and other post-employment benefit assets and liabilities, which shall be exclusively governed by the Tax Matters Agreement and Employee Matters Agreement, respectively. In the case of any conflict between this Agreement and the Tax Matters Agreement or Employee Matters Agreement, respectively, in relation to any matters addressed by the Tax Matters Agreement or Employee Matters Agreement, the Tax Matters Agreement or Employee Matters Agreement, as applicable, will prevail.
Priority of Agreements
 
Section 7.6 . (a) This Agreement may be amended and any provision of this Agreement may be waived; that any such amendment or waiver will be binding upon a Party only if such amendment or waiver is set forth in a writing executed by such Party. In addition, unless the Merger Agreement shall have been terminated in accordance with its terms, any such amendment or waiver shall be subject to the written consent of Grizzly. No course of dealing between or among any Persons having any interest in this Agreement will be deemed effective to modify, amend or discharge any part of this Agreement or any rights or obligations of any Party hereto under or by reason of this Agreement.
Amendments and Waivers
provided
(b) No delay or failure in exercising any right, power or remedy hereunder will affect or operate as a waiver thereof; nor will any single or partial exercise thereof or any abandonment or discontinuance of steps to enforce such a right, power or remedy preclude any further exercise thereof or of any other right, power or remedy. Any waiver, permit, consent or approval of any kind or character of any breach or default under this Agreement or any such waiver of any provision of this Agreement must satisfy the conditions set forth in and will be effective only to the extent in such writing specifically set forth.
Section 7.6(a)
Section 7.7 . This Agreement will terminate without further action at any time before the Effective Time upon termination of the Merger Agreement. If terminated, no Party will have any Liability of any kind to the other Party or any other Person on account of this Agreement, except as provided in the Merger Agreement.
Termination
Section 7.8 . This Agreement is binding upon and is for the benefit of the Parties hereto and their respective successors and permitted assigns. Grizzly shall be a third party beneficiary of the rights of Spinco under this Agreement and of the provisions of . As of the Effective Time, this Agreement shall be binding on Grizzly and Grizzly shall, as between Burgundy and Grizzly, be subject to the obligations and restrictions imposed on, and shall be the beneficiary of the rights of, Spinco under this Agreement. This Agreement is not made for the benefit of any Person not a Party hereto, and no Person other than the Parties hereto or their respective successors and permitted assigns will acquire or have any benefit, right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement, except (i) as contemplated in the preceding sentence and (ii) for the provisions of with respect to indemnification of Indemnitees.
Parties in Interest
Section 4.2(b)
Article V
Section 7.9 . No Party may assign its rights or delegate its duties under this Agreement without the written consent of the other Party, except that a Party may assign its rights or delegate its duties under this Agreement to a member of its Group and a Party may assign or sublicense the rights granted in as provided therein; provided that the member agrees in writing to be bound by the terms and conditions contained in this Agreement; provided, further, that the assignment or delegation will not relieve any Party of its indemnification obligations or obligations in the event of a breach of this Agreement; and provided, further, that Spinco may assign this agreement, without obtaining the prior written consent of Burgundy, to any lender (or agent for any lender) for collateral purposes only (and upon any assignment permitted by this proviso, the references to Spinco Group shall also apply to any such assignee unless the context otherwise acquires). Any attempted assignment or delegation in breach of this will be null and void.
Assignability
Section 6.9
Section 7.9
 
Section 7.10 . When a reference is made in this Agreement to an Article or Section, such reference shall be to an Article or Section of this Agreement unless otherwise indicated. The table of contents to this Agreement is for reference purposes only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement. The descriptive headings herein are inserted for convenience of reference only and are not intended to be a substantive part of or to affect the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement. Whenever the words "include," "includes" or "including" are used in this Agreement, they shall be deemed to be followed by the words "without limitation." The words "hereof," "hereby," "herein" and "hereunder" and words of similar import when used in this Agreement shall refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision of this Agreement. All terms defined in this Agreement shall have the defined meanings when used in any certificate or other document made or delivered pursuant thereto unless otherwise defined therein. The definitions contained in this Agreement are applicable to the singular as well as the plural forms of such terms and to the masculine as well as to the feminine and neuter genders of such term. Any agreement, instrument or statute defined or referred to herein or in any agreement or instrument that is referred to herein means such agreement, instrument or statute as from time to time amended, modified or supplemented, including (in the case of agreements or instruments) by waiver or consent and (in the case of statutes) by succession of comparable successor statutes, including all attachments thereto and instruments incorporated therein. References to a Person are also to its permitted successors and assigns. References to a date or time shall be deemed to be such date or time in New York City, unless otherwise specified. References to dollar amounts are to U.S. dollars, unless otherwise specified. Each of the parties has participated in the drafting and negotiation of this Agreement. If an ambiguity or question of intent or interpretation arises, this Agreement must be construed as if it is drafted by all the parties and no presumption or burden of proof shall arise favoring or disfavoring any party by virtue of authorship of any of the provisions of this Agreement. Except as otherwise expressly provided elsewhere in this Agreement, the Merger Agreement, or any Ancillary Agreement, any provision herein which contemplates the agreement, approval or consent of, or exercise of any right of, a Party, such Party may give or withhold such agreement, approval or consent, or exercise such right, in its sole and absolute discretion, the Parties hereto hereby expressly disclaim any implied duty of good faith and fair dealing or similar concept.
Interpretation
Section 7.11 . If any provision of this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement, or the application of any provision to any Person or circumstance, shall be declared judicially to be invalid, unenforceable or void, such decision shall not have the effect of invalidating or voiding the remainder of this Agreement or such Ancillary Agreement, it being the intent and agreement of the parties hereto that this Agreement and any Ancillary Agreement shall be deemed amended by modifying such provision to the extent necessary to render it valid, legal and enforceable while preserving its intent or, if such modification is not possible, by substituting therefor another provision that is legal and enforceable and that achieves the same objective.
Severability
Section 7.12 . This Agreement may be executed in multiple counterparts (any one of which need not contain the signatures of more than one Party), each of which will be deemed to be an original but all of which taken together will constitute one and the same agreement. This Agreement, and any amendments hereto, to the extent signed and delivered by means of a facsimile machine or other electronic transmission, will be treated in all manner and respects as an original agreement and will be considered to have the same binding legal effects as
Counterparts
 
if it were the original signed version thereof delivered in person. At the request of a Party, the other Party will re-execute original forms thereof and deliver them to the requesting Party. No Party will raise the use of a facsimile machine or other electronic means to deliver a signature or the fact that any signature was transmitted or communicated through the use of facsimile machine or other electronic means as a defense to the formation of a Contract and each such Party forever waives any such defense.
Section 7.13 . Except as expressly set forth in any Ancillary Agreement, the covenants, representations and warranties contained in this Agreement and each Ancillary Agreement, and liability for the breach of any obligations contained herein, will survive each of the Spinco Reorganization, the Recapitalization and the Distribution and will remain in full force and effect.
Survival of Covenants
Section 7.14 .
Jurisdiction; Consent to Jurisdiction
(a) . Except as otherwise expressly provided in any Ancillary Agreement, each of the Parties irrevocably agrees that any claim, dispute or controversy (of any and every kind or type, whether based on Contract, tort, statute, regulation or otherwise, and whether based on state, federal, foreign or any other law), arising out of, relating to or in connection with this Agreement, the Ancillary Agreements, the documents referred to in this Agreement, or any of the transactions contemplated thereby, and including disputes relating to the existence, validity, breach or termination of this Agreement (any such claim being a "") will be brought and determined in any federal or state court located in the State of Delaware, and each of the Parties hereto hereby irrevocably submits and consents in respect of Covered Claims for itself and in respect to its property, generally and unconditionally, to the exclusive jurisdiction of the aforesaid courts and agrees that it may be served with such legal process at the address and in the manner set forth in . Each of the Parties hereto hereby irrevocably waives, and agrees not to assert, by way of motion, as a defense, counterclaim or otherwise, in any Action in respect of Covered Claims (a) any claim that it is not personally subject to the jurisdiction of the above-named courts for any reason other than the failure to lawfully serve process, (b) that it or its property is exempt or immune from jurisdiction of any such court or from any legal process commenced in such courts (whether through service of notice, attachment prior to judgment, attachment in aid of execution of judgment, execution of judgment or otherwise) and (c) to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws, that (i) the Action in any such court is brought in an inconvenient forum, (ii) the venue of such Action is improper and (iii) this Agreement, or the subject matter hereof, may not be enforced in or by such courts.
Exclusive Jurisdiction
Covered Claim
Section 7.4
(b) . EACH PARTY ACKNOWLEDGES AND AGREES THAT ANY CONTROVERSY WHICH MAY ARISE UNDER THIS AGREEMENT OR THE ANCILLARY AGREEMENTS IS LIKELY TO INVOLVE COMPLICATED AND DIFFICULT ISSUES, AND THEREFORE EACH SUCH PARTY HEREBY IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY WAIVES ANY RIGHT SUCH PARTY MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN RESPECT OF ANY LITIGATION DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT, THE ANCILLARY AGREEMENTS OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED BY THIS AGREEMENT AND THE ANCILLARY AGREEMENTS. EACH PARTY CERTIFIES AND
Waiver of Jury Trial
 
ACKNOWLEDGES THAT (i) NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PARTY HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PARTY WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF ANY LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER, (ii) EACH PARTY UNDERSTANDS AND HAS CONSIDERED THE IMPLICATIONS OF THIS WAIVER, (iii) EACH PARTY MAKES THIS WAIVER VOLUNTARILY, AND (iv) EACH PARTY HAS BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT, BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS .
SECTION 7.14(b)
Section 7.15 . In the event of any actual or threatened default in, or breach of, any of the terms, conditions and provisions of this Agreement or any other Ancillary Agreement, the Party who is, or is to be, thereby aggrieved will have the right to specific performance and injunctive or other equitable relief in respect of its rights under this Agreement or such Ancillary Agreement, in addition to any and all other rights and remedies at law or in equity, subject to . The Parties agree that the remedies at law for any breach or threatened breach, including monetary damages, are inadequate compensation for any loss and that any defense in any Action for specific performance that a remedy at law would be adequate is waived. Any requirements for the securing or posting of any bond with such remedy are waived by each of the Parties to this Agreement.
Specific Performance
Section 5.7
Section 7.16 . Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, neither Spinco or its Affiliates, on the one hand, nor Burgundy or its Affiliates, on the other hand, will be liable under this Agreement to the other for any punitive, exemplary, special or similar damages in excess of compensatory damages, except to the extent awarded by a court of competent jurisdiction in connection with a Third-Party Claim.
Limitations of Liability
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the Parties has caused this Separation Agreement to be executed on its behalf by its officers hereunto duly authorized effective on the day and year first above written.
 


