FILE:CSCO/CSCO-8K-20021227164517.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Table of Contents
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported):
December 23, 2002
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
(408) 526-4000
Table of Contents
Item 5. Other Events.
          On December 23, 2002, Cisco Systems, Inc. (the "Registrant") announced that it completed the acquisition of privately-held Psionic Software, Inc., a Delaware corporation. A copy of the press release issued by the Registrant on December 23, 2002 concerning the foregoing transaction is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 7. Financial Statements,
Pro Forma
Financial Information and Exhibits.
Table of Contents
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 99.1 PRESS RELEASE
     SAN JOSE, Calif., December 23, 2002  Cisco Systems, Inc., today announced it has completed the acquisition of privately-held Psionic Software, Inc. of Austin, Texas. Psionic Software develops network security software designed to increase the efficiency of intrusion detection systems (IDS) by reducing false alarms. The acquisition of Psionic Software augments Cisco's network security portfolio, which consists of VPN firewall, IDS, and SSL-accelerators. Cisco's security solutions are offered through specialized security appliances as well as Cisco IOS routers, switches, and security and identity management applications.
About Cisco Systems
     Cisco Systems, Inc. (NASDAQ: CSCO) is the worldwide leader in networking for the Internet. News and information are available at www.cisco.com.
Cisco, Cisco Systems, and the Cisco Systems logo are registered trademarks of Cisco Systems, Inc. and/or its affiliates in the U.S. and certain other countries. All other trademarks mentioned in this document are the property of their respective owners.


