FILE:CSCO/CSCO-8K-20030506161327.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Table of Contents
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported):
May 6, 2003
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
(408) 526-4000
Table of Contents
Item 7. Financial Statements,
Pro Forma
Financial Information and Exhibits.
     (c)  Exhibits.
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure. (Information furnished pursuant to Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition)
          On May 6, 2003, the Registrant reported its results of operations for its fiscal third quarter ended April 26, 2003. A copy of the press release issued by the Registrant concerning the foregoing results is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
          The information contained herein and in the accompanying exhibit is being furnished pursuant to "Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition" in accordance with interim guidance issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission in Release No. 33-8216. The information contained herein and in the accompanying exhibit shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Registrant, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing, unless expressly incorporated by specific reference to such filing. The information in this report, including the exhibit hereto, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
          In addition to reporting financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, the Registrant provides pro forma net income and pro forma net income per share in the press release as additional information for its operating results. These measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, GAAP and may be different from pro forma measures used by other companies. The Registrant's management believes that this presentation of pro forma net income and pro forma net income per share provides useful information to management and investors regarding certain additional financial and business trends relating to its financial condition and results of operations. In addition, management uses these measures for reviewing the financial results of the Registrant and for budget planning purposes.
Table of Contents
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
          SAN JOSE, Calif.  May 6, 2003  Cisco Systems, Inc., the worldwide leader in networking for the Internet, today reported its third quarter results for the period ended April 26, 2003.
          of fiscal 2003 were $4.6 billion, compared with $4.8 billion for the third quarter of fiscal 2002, a decrease of 4.2 percent, and compared with $4.7 billion for the second quarter of fiscal 2003.
Net sales for the third quarter
          of fiscal 2003, on a generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) basis, was $987 million or $0.14 per share, compared with $729 million or $0.10 per share for the third quarter of fiscal 2002, and compared with $991 million or $0.14 per share for the second quarter of fiscal 2003. of fiscal 2003 was $1.1 billion or $0.15 per share, compared with pro forma net income of $838 million or $0.11 per share for the third quarter of fiscal 2002, and compared with $1.1 billion or $0.15 per share for the second quarter of fiscal 2003. A reconciliation between net income on a GAAP basis and pro forma net income is provided in a table immediately following the Pro Forma Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Net income for the third quarter
Pro forma net income for the third quarter
          of fiscal 2003 were $14.2 billion, compared with $14.1 billion for the first nine months of fiscal 2002, an increase of 0.6 percent.
Net sales for the first nine months
          of fiscal 2003, on a GAAP basis, was $2.6 billion or $0.36 per share, compared with $1.1 billion or $0.15 per share for the first nine months of fiscal 2002. of fiscal 2003 was $3.2 billion or $0.44 per share, compared with pro forma net income of $1.8 billion or $0.25 per share for the first nine months of fiscal 2002.
Net income for the first nine months
Pro forma net income for the first nine months
          During the third quarter of fiscal 2003, Cisco completed the acquisition of Okena, Inc. The purchase price, including assumed liabilities, was approximately $160 million.
          "As we navigate through these challenging market transitions, we are particularly pleased with our solid financial and operational performance during the quarter," said John Chambers, president and CEO of Cisco Systems. "By focusing on managing our business and making strategic investments in R&D and advanced technology markets, we are positioning ourselves for growth as the economy recovers, whenever that may be."
 
          Chambers continued, "What's becoming increasingly clear is that productivity growth fueled by information technology will continue to contribute to the broader economic recovery. This quarter, we continued to meet with CEOs and CIOs from the world's leading companies who view information technology as the enabler of their business strategies, allowing for greater productivity and competitive advantage. Cisco is well positioned to help customers integrate the applications, business processes and technologies that will continue to drive these productivity gains."
Financial Highlights
Business Highlights
 
Editors Note:
About Cisco Systems
          Cisco Systems, Inc., (NASDAQ: CSCO) is the worldwide leader in networking for the Internet. News and information are available at www.cisco.com.
 
This release may be deemed to contain forward-looking statements which are subject to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements regarding future events and the future financial performance of Cisco that involve risks and uncertainties. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are only predictions and may differ materially from actual future events or results. Readers are referred to the documents filed by Cisco with the SEC, specifically the most recent reports on Form 10-K and 10-Q, each as it may be amended from time to time, which identify important risk factors that could cause actual results to differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements. Among the important factors or risks that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements in this release are: business and economic conditions and growth trends in the networking industry in various geographic regions; global economic conditions and uncertainties in the geopolitical environment; overall information technology spending; the growth of the Internet and levels of capital spending on Internet-based systems; variations in customer demand for products and services, including sales to the service provider market; the timing of orders and manufacturing lead times; changes in customer order patterns; insufficient, excess or obsolete inventory; variations in sales channels, product costs, or mix of products sold; the ability to successfully reduce overhead and manage expenses; the ability to successfully acquire businesses and technologies and to successfully integrate and operate these acquired businesses and technologies; increased competition in the networking industry; dependence on the introduction and market acceptance of new product offerings and standards; rapid technological and market change; the trend toward sales of integrated network solutions; manufacturing and sourcing risks; Internet infrastructure problems and government regulation of the Internet; international operations; litigation involving patents, intellectual property, antitrust, stockholder and other matters; possible disruption in commercial activities occasioned by terrorist activity and armed conflict, such as changes in logistics and security arrangements, and reduced end-user purchases relative to expectations; the ability to recruit and retain key personnel; stock price volatility; financial risk management; and potential volatility in operating results, among others. The financial information contained in this release should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in Cisco's most recent reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q, each as it may be amended from time to time. Cisco's results of operations for the three and nine months ended April 26, 2003 are not necessarily indicative of Cisco's operating results for the full fiscal year or any future periods. Any projections in this release are based on limited information currently available to Cisco, which is subject to change. Although any such projections and the factors influencing them will likely change, Cisco will not necessarily update the information, since Cisco is only to provide guidance at certain points during the year. Actual events or results could differ materially and no reader of this release should assume later that the information provided today is still valid. Such information speaks only as of the date of this release.
Cisco provides pro forma net income and pro forma net income per share data as additional information for its operating results. These measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from pro forma measures used by other companies. Cisco believes that this presentation of pro forma net income and pro forma net income per share provides useful information to management and investors regarding certain additional financial and business trends relating to its financial condition and results of operations. In addition, Cisco's management uses these measures for reviewing the financial results of Cisco and for budget planning purposes.
Copyright  2003 Cisco Systems, Inc. All rights reserved. Aironet, Catalyst, Cisco, Cisco IOS, Cisco Systems and the Cisco Systems logo are registered trademarks or trademarks of Cisco Systems, Inc. and/or its affiliates in the U.S. and certain other countries. All other trademarks mentioned in this document or Web site are the property of their respective owners. The use of the word partner does not imply a partnership relationship between Cisco and any other company.
 
 
 
 


