FILE:CSCO/CSCO-8K-20030805161055.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
 
 
On August 5, 2003, the Registrant reported its results of operations for its fiscal fourth quarter and fiscal year ended July 26, 2003. A copy of the press release issued by the Registrant concerning the foregoing results is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information contained herein and in the accompanying exhibit shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Registrant, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing, unless expressly incorporated by specific reference to such filing. The information in this report, including the exhibit hereto, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
In addition to reporting financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, the Registrant provides pro forma net income and pro forma net income per share in the press release as additional information for its operating results. These measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, GAAP and may be different from pro forma measures used by other companies. The Registrant's management believes that this presentation of pro forma net income and pro forma net income per share provides useful information to management and investors regarding certain additional financial and business trends relating to its financial condition and results of operations. In addition, management uses these measures for reviewing the financial results of the Registrant and for budget planning purposes.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
SAN JOSE, Calif.  August 5, 2003  Cisco Systems, Inc., the worldwide leader in networking for the Internet, today reported its fourth quarter and fiscal year results for the periods ended July 26, 2003.
 
of fiscal 2003 were $4.7 billion, compared with $4.8 billion for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002, a decrease of 2.6 percent, and compared with $4.6 billion for the third quarter of fiscal 2003.
Net sales for the fourth quarter
 
of fiscal 2003, on a generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) basis, was $982 million or $0.14 per share, compared with $772 million or $0.10 per share for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002, and compared with $987 million or $0.14 per share for the third quarter of fiscal 2003. of fiscal 2003 was $1.1 billion or $0.15 per share, compared with pro forma net income of $1.0 billion or $0.14 per share for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002, and compared with $1.1 billion or $0.15 per share for the third quarter of fiscal 2003. A reconciliation between net income on a GAAP basis and pro forma net income is provided in a table immediately following the Pro Forma Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Net income for the fourth quarter
Pro forma net income for the fourth quarter
 
were $18.9 billion, compared with $18.9 billion for fiscal 2002.
Net sales for fiscal 2003
 
, on a GAAP basis, was $3.6 billion or $0.50 per share, compared with $1.9 billion or $0.25 per share for fiscal 2002. was $4.3 billion or $0.59 per share, compared with pro forma net income of $2.9 billion or $0.39 per share for fiscal 2002.
Net income for fiscal 2003
Pro forma net income for fiscal 2003
 
During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003, Cisco completed the acquisition of SignalWorks, Inc. for a purchase price of approximately $16 million and completed the acquisition of the business of The Linksys Group, Inc. for a purchase price of approximately $480 million.
 
"We are pleased to report another solid quarter in a challenging market," said John Chambers, President and CEO, Cisco Systems. "We continue to achieve some of the best financial measurements in our company's history, with solid momentum spanning net income, gross margins, profitable market share gains, focus on profit contribution, geographic balance and advanced technology results."
 
Chambers continued, "The investments and strategies of the past three years are paying off. This is particularly true in high-end routing and switching, where we saw solid sequential growth. Advanced technologies in total exceeded 20 percent sequential growth, with IP telephony, storage and optical growing the fastest in terms of orders."
 
Cisco will discuss fourth quarter and fiscal year 2003 results and business outlook on a conference call and Webcast at 1:30 p.m. PT today. Call information and related charts are available at
http://investor.cisco.com.
 
Financial Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
"Cisco's solid financial performance reflects our ongoing focus on operational excellence," said Dennis Powell, Chief Financial Officer, Cisco Systems. "For over a year, our quarterly pro forma net income has consistently exceeded $1 billion and profit has exceeded 20 percent of revenue. Cash flows from operations were also particularly strong and we continued to actively engage in our stock repurchase program while maintaining over $20 billion in cash and investments."
 
Business Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Editors Note:
 
 
 
 
 
About Cisco Systems
 
Cisco Systems, Inc., (NASDAQ: CSCO) is the worldwide leader in networking for the Internet. News and information are available at
www.cisco.com.
 
 
This release may be deemed to contain forward-looking statements, which are subject to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements regarding future events and the future financial performance of Cisco that involve risks and uncertainties. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are only predictions and may differ materially from actual future events or results. Readers are referred to the documents filed by Cisco with the SEC, specifically the most recent reports on Form 10-K and 10-Q, each as it may be amended from time to time, which identify important risk factors that could cause actual results to differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements. Among the important factors or risks that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements in this release are: business and economic conditions and growth trends in the networking industry in various geographic regions; global economic conditions and uncertainties in the geopolitical environment; overall information technology spending; the growth of the Internet and levels of capital spending on Internet-based systems; variations in customer demand for products and services, including sales to the service provider market; the timing of orders and manufacturing lead times; changes in customer order patterns or customer mix; insufficient, excess or obsolete inventory; variability of component costs; increased price competition; variations in sales channels, product costs, or mix of products sold; the ability to successfully acquire businesses and technologies and to successfully integrate and operate these acquired businesses and technologies; increased competition in the networking industry; dependence on the introduction and market acceptance of new product offerings and standards; rapid technological and market change; manufacturing and sourcing risks; litigation involving patents, intellectual property, antitrust, stockholder and other matters; the ability to recruit and retain key personnel; financial risk management; and potential volatility in operating results, among others. The financial information contained in this release should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in Cisco's most recent reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q, each as it may be amended from time to time. Cisco's results of operations for the three and twelve months ended July 26, 2003 are not necessarily indicative of Cisco's operating results for any future periods. Any projections in this release are based on limited information currently available to Cisco, which is subject to change. Although any such projections and the factors influencing them will likely change, Cisco will not necessarily update the information, since Cisco will only provide guidance at certain points during the year. Such information speaks only as of the date of this release.
 
Cisco provides pro forma net income and pro forma net income per share data as additional information for its operating results. These measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from pro forma measures used by other companies. Cisco believes that this presentation of pro forma net income and pro forma net income per share provides useful information to management and investors regarding certain additional financial and business trends relating to its financial condition and results of operations. In addition, Cisco's management uses these measures for reviewing the financial results of Cisco and for budget planning purposes.
 
Copyright 2003 Cisco Systems, Inc. All rights reserved. Cisco, Cisco Systems, the Cisco Systems logo and Aironet are registered trademarks or trademarks of Cisco Systems, Inc. and/or its affiliates in the U.S. and certain other countries. All other trademarks mentioned in this document or Website are the property of their respective owners. The use of the word partner does not imply a partnership relationship between Cisco and any other company.
 
 
 
 
 
For the three month period ended April 26, 2003, pro forma net income and pro forma net income per share excluded the following items: In-process research and development of $3 million, amortization of deferred stock-based compensation of $25 million, amortization of purchased intangible assets of $92 million and income tax effect of ($26) million.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


