FILE:CSCO/CSCO-8K-20030416213810.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 5. Other Events and Regulation FD Disclosure.
     On April 11, 2003, Cisco Systems, Inc. (the "Registrant") announced that it had completed its acquisition of privately-held Okena, Inc., a Delaware corporation. A copy of the press release issued by the Registrant concerning the foregoing transaction is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 99.1 PRESS RELEASE
Cisco Systems Completes Acquisition of Okena, Inc.
SAN JOSE, Calif.(BUSINESS WIRE)April 11, 2003Cisco Systems, Inc., today announced it has completed the acquisition of privately-held Okena, Inc. of Waltham, Mass. Okena's next-generation network security software enhances threat protection for desktop and server computing systems, also known as "endpoints," by identifying and preventing malicious behavior before it causes harm. With the addition of Okena's endpoint security software, Cisco will offer its customers the most comprehensive network security threat protection portfolios for securing large corporate networks. The acquisition of Okena enhances Cisco's leadership in the rapidly growing networking security market.
About Cisco Systems
Cisco Systems, Inc. (Nasdaq:CSCO  News) is the worldwide leader in networking for the Internet. News and information are available at www.cisco.com.
Cisco, Cisco Systems, and the Cisco Systems logo are registered trademarks of Cisco Systems, Inc. and/or its affiliates in the U.S. and certain other countries. All other trademarks mentioned in this document are the property of their respective owners.
Contact:


