FILE:CSCO/CSCO-8K-20030128131851.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported):
January 24, 2003
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
(408) 526-4000
 
Item 5. Other Events.
          On January 24, 2003, Cisco Systems, Inc. (the "Registrant") announced that it has signed a definitive agreement to acquire privately-held Okena, Inc., a Delaware corporation. A copy of the press release issued by the Registrant on January 24, 2003 concerning the foregoing transaction is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 7. Financial Statements,
Pro Forma
Financial Information and Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

EXHIBIT 99.1 PRESS RELEASE PRESS CONTACTS: INVESTOR RELATIONS CONTACT: Jim Brady Blair Christie Cisco Systems, Inc. Cisco Systems, Inc. (408) 853-3168 (408) 525-4856 jambrady@cisco.com blchrist@cisco.com Amy Hughes Cisco Systems, Inc. (408) 525-8471 amhughes@cisco.com CISCO SYSTEMS TO ACQUIRE OKENA, INC. Acquisition Extends Cisco's Network Security Portfolio with Next-Generation Endpoint Security Solution SAN JOSE, Calif., January 24, 2003 - - Cisco Systems, Inc., today announced a definitive agreement to acquire privately-held Okena, Inc. of Waltham, Mass. Okena's next-generation network security software provides threat protection for desktop and server computing systems, also known as "endpoints," by identifying and preventing malicious behavior before it causes harm. With the addition of Okena's endpoint security software, Cisco will offer its customers the most comprehensive network security threat protection portfolios for securing large corporate networks. The acquisition of Okena enhances Cisco's leadership in the rapidly growing market segment for networking security. Under the terms of the agreement, Cisco common stock worth an aggregate value of approximately $154 million will be exchanged for all outstanding shares and options of Okena. In connection with the acquisition of Okena, Cisco expects a one-time charge for purchased in-process research and development expenses not to exceed $0.01 per share. The acquisition of Okena is expected to close in the third quarter of Cisco's fiscal year 2003. The acquisition has been approved by the board of directors of each company and is subject to various closing conditions. "The acquisition of Okena reinforces Cisco's commitment to leadership in the network security market and is part of a significant initiative to more tightly integrate network and
endpoint security," said Richard Palmer, vice president and general manager, Cisco Virtual Private Network and Security (VSEC) Business Unit. "By removing endpoint vulnerabilities, Okena's preventive software solution enhances the overall security, availability and integrity of corporate networks." Okena's technology extends beyond conventional desktop and server security solutions. Rather than relying on signature-based techniques, Okena technology intercepts all operating system, file system, configuration, registry, and network requests, preventing malicious activity from occurring. This unique, behavior-based approach provides customers robust protection and reduces operational costs. Okena's security software aggregates and extends multiple endpoint security functions - Host-based Intrusion Detection (HIDS), distributed firewall, malicious code protection and operating system lockdown - in a single, integrated solution. Additionally, because it protects against Day Zero viruses and worms, Okena's technology is complementary to conventional desktop Anti-Virus solutions. The acquisition of Okena further enhances Cisco's comprehensive security portfolio of network-integrated solutions and appliances for Virtual Private Networks (VPN), firewalling, intrusion protection, and security management. Okena was founded in 1999. Okena's 52 employees will join the Cisco Virtual Private Network and Security Business Unit under the direction of Richard Palmer. ABOUT CISCO SYSTEMS Cisco Systems, Inc. (NASDAQ: CSCO) is the worldwide leader in networking for the Internet. News and information are available at www.cisco.com. # # # Cisco, Cisco Systems, and the Cisco Systems logo are registered trademarks of Cisco Systems, Inc. and/or its affiliates in the U.S. and certain other countries. All other trademarks mentioned in this document are the property of their respective owners.


