FILE:CSCO/CSCO-8K-20040511161458.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 12.    Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On May 11, 2004, Cisco Systems, Inc. (the "Registrant") reported its results of operations for its fiscal third quarter ended May 1, 2004. A copy of the press release issued by the Registrant concerning the foregoing results is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information contained herein and in the accompanying exhibit shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Registrant, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing, unless expressly incorporated by specific reference to such filing. The information in this report, including the exhibit hereto, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
In addition to reporting financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, the Registrant provides pro forma net income and pro forma net income per share in the press release as additional information to help investors better understand its operating results. These measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, GAAP and may be different from pro forma measures used by other companies. The Registrant's management believes that this presentation of pro forma net income and pro forma net income per share provides useful information to management and investors regarding certain additional financial and business trends relating to its financial condition and results of operations. The Registrant's management believes when GAAP net income and GAAP net income per share is viewed in conjunction with pro forma net income and pro forma net income per share, investors are provided with a more meaningful understanding of the Registrant's ongoing operating performance. In addition, the Registrant's management uses these measures for reviewing the financial results of the Registrant.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
PRESS RELEASE
 
 
 
 
 
 
SAN JOSE, Calif.May 11, 2004Cisco Systems, Inc., the worldwide leader in networking for the Internet, today reported its third quarter results for the period ended May 1, 2004.
 
were $5.6 billion, compared with $4.6 billion for the third quarter of fiscal 2003, an increase of 21.7 percent, and compared with $5.4 billion for the second quarter of fiscal 2004, an increase of 4.1 percent.
Net sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2004
 
, on a generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) basis, was $1.2 billion or $0.17 per share, compared with $987 million or $0.14 per share for the third quarter of fiscal 2003, and compared with $724 million or $0.10 per share for the second quarter of fiscal 2004. was $1.4 billion or $0.19 per share, compared with $1.1 billion or $0.15 per share for the third quarter of fiscal 2003, and compared with $1.3 billion or $0.18 per share for the second quarter of fiscal 2004. A reconciliation between net income on a GAAP basis and pro forma net income is provided in a table immediately following the Pro Forma Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Net income for the third quarter of fiscal 2004
Pro forma net income for the third quarter of fiscal 2004
 
were $16.1 billion, compared with $14.2 billion for the first nine months of fiscal 2003, an increase of 13.7 percent.
Net sales for the first nine months of fiscal 2004
 
, on a GAAP basis, was $3.0 billion or $0.43 per share, compared with $2.6 billion or $0.36 per share for the first nine months of fiscal 2003. was $3.9 billion or $0.54 per share, compared with $3.2 billion or $0.44 per share for the first nine months of fiscal 2003.
Net income for the first nine months of fiscal 2004
Pro forma net income for the first nine months of fiscal 2004
 
During the third quarter of fiscal 2004, Cisco completed the acquisition of Riverhead Networks, Inc. for a purchase price of approximately $36 million and completed the acquisition of Twingo Systems, Inc. for a purchase price of approximately $5 million.
 
"We are pleased to have achieved record earnings per share this quartermarking our eighth consecutive quarter with pro forma net income exceeding $1 billion, and the strongest cash flow from operations in the company's history," said John Chambers, president and CEO, Cisco. "This momentum was achieved through sequential order growth across all major product categories and solid progress in our advanced technologies including security, wireless LAN and IP telephony." Chambers continued, "Equally important has been our continuing strength in internal innovation, our ability to form successful, mutually beneficial partnerships, and our effective integration of acquisitions to accelerate growth into existing and new markets."
 
Cisco will discuss third quarter 2004 results and business outlook on a conference call and Webcast at 1:30 p.m. Pacific Time (PT) today. Call information and related charts are available at http://investor.cisco.com.
 
Financial Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
"We are pleased with our performance this quarter on a number of operational fronts. Our execution was strong, with solid revenue growth, gross margins, profit generation and market share gains," said Dennis Powell, CFO, Cisco. "We continue to remain focused on key financial priorities, including generating profitable growth, internal productivity and maintaining a healthy and conservative balance sheet."
 
Business Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Editors Note:
 
 
 
 
 
About Cisco Systems
 
Cisco Systems, Inc., (NASDAQ: CSCO) is the worldwide leader in networking for the Internet. News and information are available at www.cisco.com.
 
 
This release may be deemed to contain forward-looking statements, which are subject to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements regarding new product releases, future events and the future financial performance of Cisco that involve risks and uncertainties. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are only predictions and may differ materially from actual future events or results due to a variety of factors, including: business and economic conditions and growth trends in the networking industry and in various geographic regions; global economic conditions and uncertainties in the geopolitical environment; overall information technology spending; the growth of the Internet and levels of capital spending on Internet-based systems; variations in customer demand for products and services, including sales to the service provider market; the timing of orders and manufacturing lead times; changes in customer order patterns or customer mix; insufficient, excess or obsolete inventory; variability of component costs; increased price competition; variations in sales channels, product costs or mix of products sold; the ability to successfully acquire businesses and technologies and to successfully integrate and operate these acquired businesses and technologies; increased competition in the networking industry; dependence on the introduction and market acceptance of new product offerings and standards; rapid technological and market change; manufacturing and sourcing risks; product defects and returns; litigation involving patents, intellectual property, antitrust, stockholder and other matters; the ability to recruit and retain key personnel; financial risk management; currency fluctuations and other international factors; potential volatility in operating results and other factors listed in Cisco's most recent reports on Form 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K. The financial information contained in this release should be read in conjunction with the consolidated
 
financial statements and notes thereto included in Cisco's most recent reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q, each as it may be amended from time to time. Cisco's results of operations for the three and nine months ended May 1, 2004 are not necessarily indicative of Cisco's operating results for any future periods. Any projections in this release are based on limited information currently available to Cisco, which is subject to change. Although any such projections and the factors influencing them will likely change, Cisco will not necessarily update the information, since Cisco will only provide guidance at certain points during the year. Such information speaks only as of the date of this release.
 
Cisco provides pro forma net income and pro forma net income per share data as additional information to help investors better understand its operating results. These measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from pro forma measures used by other companies. Cisco believes that this presentation of pro forma net income and pro forma net income per share provides useful information to management and investors regarding certain additional financial and business trends relating to its financial condition and results of operations. Cisco believes when GAAP net income and GAAP net income per share is viewed in conjunction with pro forma net income and pro forma net income per share, investors are provided with a more meaningful understanding of Cisco's ongoing operating performance. In addition, Cisco's management uses these measures for reviewing the financial results of Cisco.
 
Copyright 2004 Cisco Systems, Inc. All rights reserved. Cisco, Cisco Systems, the Cisco Systems logo, MGX and Linksys are registered trademarks or trademarks of Cisco Systems, Inc. and/or its affiliates in the U.S. and certain other countries. All other trademarks mentioned in this document or Website are the property of their respective owners. The use of the word partner does not imply a partnership relationship between Cisco and any other company.
 
 
 
 
 
For the three month period ended January 24, 2004, pro forma net income and pro forma net income per share excluded the following items: in-process research and development of $1 million, payroll tax on stock option exercises of $7 million, amortization of deferred stock-based compensation of $36 million, amortization of purchased intangible assets of $60 million, gain on publicly traded equity securities of ($85) million, income tax effect of $5 million and cumulative effect of accounting change, net of tax, of $567 million.
 
 
 
Certain reclassifications have been made to prior year balances in order to conform to the current period's presentation.
 
 
 
 
 


