FILE:CSCO/CSCO-8K-20040203162032.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
 
 
 
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported):
February 3, 2004
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 3, 2004, Cisco Systems, Inc. (the "Registrant") reported its results of operations for its fiscal second quarter ended January 24, 2004. A copy of the press release issued by the Registrant concerning the foregoing results is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information contained herein and in the accompanying exhibit shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Registrant, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing, unless expressly incorporated by specific reference to such filing. The information in this report, including the exhibit hereto, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
In addition to reporting financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, the Registrant provides pro forma net income and pro forma net income per share in the press release as additional information for its operating results. These measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, GAAP and may be different from pro forma measures used by other companies. The Registrant's management believes that this presentation of pro forma net income and pro forma net income per share provides useful information to management and investors regarding certain additional financial and business trends relating to its financial condition and results of operations. In addition, management uses these measures for reviewing the financial results of the Registrant and for budget planning purposes.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
 
SAN JOSE, Calif.  February 3, 2004  Cisco Systems, Inc., the worldwide leader in networking for the Internet, today reported its second quarter results for the period ended January 24, 2004.
 
were $5.4 billion, compared with $4.7 billion for the second quarter of fiscal 2003, an increase of 14.5 percent, and compared with $5.1 billion for the first quarter of fiscal 2004, an increase of 5.8 percent.
Net sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2004
 
on a generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) basis, before the non-cash cumulative effect of an accounting change, was $1.3 billion or $0.18 per share, compared with $991 million or $0.14 per share for the second quarter of fiscal 2003, and compared with $1.1 billion or $0.15 per share for the first quarter of fiscal 2004. Net income on a GAAP basis, after the non-cash cumulative effect of the accounting change, was $724 million or $0.10 per share. was $1.3 billion or $0.18 per share, compared with $1.1 billion or $0.15 per share for the second quarter of fiscal 2003, and compared with $1.2 billion or $0.17 per share for the first quarter of fiscal 2004. A reconciliation between net income on a GAAP basis and pro forma net income is provided in a table immediately following the Pro Forma Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Net income for the second quarter of fiscal 2004,
Pro forma net income
for the second quarter
of fiscal 2004
 
were $10.5 billion, compared with $9.6 billion for the first six months of fiscal 2003, an increase of 9.8 percent.
Net sales for the first six months of fiscal 2004
 
on a GAAP basis, before the non-cash cumulative effect of the accounting change, was $2.4 billion or $0.33 per share, compared with $1.6 billion or $0.22 per share for the first six months of fiscal 2003. Net income for the first six months of fiscal 2004, on a GAAP basis, after the non-cash cumulative effect of the accounting change, was $1.8 billion or $0.25 per share. was $2.5 billion or $0.35 per share, compared with $2.1 billion or $0.29 per share for the first six months of fiscal 2003.
Net income for the first six months of fiscal 2004,
Pro forma net income for the first six months of fiscal 2004
 
During the second quarter of fiscal 2004, Cisco completed the acquisition of Latitude Communications, Inc. for a purchase price of approximately $86 million.
 
"Having just met with business and government leaders from around the world at the World Economic Forum, it is becoming increasingly clear that the global economy is improving," said John Chambers, president and CEO, Cisco Systems. "As customers feel more confident to invest, we believe that we are well positioned to provide compelling value as a strategic business adviser and technology partner. Our strong position in the core switching and routing business continues to be complemented by positive momentum in our Advanced Technologies,
 
especially this quarter in storage, security, wireless and IP telephony. The company is also gaining significant momentum in the consumer space, driven by innovative products delivered by the Linksys division."
 
Cisco will discuss second quarter 2004 results and business outlook on a conference call and Webcast at 1:30 p.m. Pacific Time (PT) today. Call information and related charts are available at http://investor.cisco.com.
 
Financial Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"Cisco saw strong profitability and operational performance, while maintaining a healthy balance sheet, with approximately $20 billion in cash and investments as well as continued productivity gains," said Dennis Powell, chief financial officer, Cisco Systems. "We are pleased with our sustained financial performance, and continued focus on core and advanced technology research that is key to future growth."
 
Business Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Editors Note:
 
 
 
 
 
About Cisco Systems
 
Cisco Systems, Inc., (NASDAQ: CSCO) is the worldwide leader in networking for the Internet. News and information are available at .
www.cisco.com
 
 
This release may be deemed to contain forward-looking statements, which are subject to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements regarding future events and the future financial performance of Cisco that involve risks and uncertainties. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are only predictions and may differ materially from actual future events or results. Readers are urged to read the documents filed by Cisco with the SEC, specifically the most recent reports on Form 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K, each as it may be amended from time to time, which identify risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. Among the important factors or risks that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements in this release are: business and economic conditions and growth trends in the networking industry and in various geographic regions; global economic conditions and uncertainties in the geopolitical environment; overall information technology spending; the growth of the Internet and levels of capital spending on Internet-based systems; variations in customer demand for products and services, including sales to the service provider market; the timing of orders and manufacturing lead times; changes in customer order patterns or customer mix; insufficient, excess or obsolete inventory; variability of component costs; increased price competition; variations in sales channels, product costs or mix of products sold; the ability to successfully acquire businesses and technologies and to successfully integrate and operate these acquired businesses and technologies; increased competition in the networking industry; dependence on the introduction and market acceptance of new product offerings and standards; rapid technological and market change; manufacturing and sourcing risks; product defects and returns; litigation involving patents, intellectual property, antitrust, stockholder and other matters; the ability to recruit and retain key personnel; financial risk management; currency fluctuations and other international factors; and potential volatility in operating results. The financial information contained in this release should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in Cisco's most recent reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q, each as it may be amended from time to time. Cisco's results of operations for the three and six months ended January 24, 2004 are not necessarily indicative of Cisco's operating results for any future periods. Any projections in this release are based on limited information currently available to Cisco, which is subject to change. Although any such projections and the factors influencing them will likely change, Cisco will not necessarily update the information, since Cisco will only provide guidance at certain points during the year. Such information speaks only as of the date of this release.
 
Cisco provides pro forma net income and pro forma net income per share data as additional information for its operating results. These measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, generally accepted
 
accounting principles and may be different from pro forma measures used by other companies. Cisco believes that this presentation of pro forma net income and pro forma net income per share provides useful information to management and investors regarding certain additional financial and business trends relating to its financial condition and results of operations. In addition, Cisco's management uses these measures for reviewing the financial results of Cisco and for budget planning purposes.
 
Copyright 2004 Cisco Systems, Inc. All rights reserved. Cisco, Cisco Systems, the Cisco Systems logo, Catalyst and Linksys are registered trademarks or trademarks of Cisco Systems, Inc. and/or its affiliates in the U.S. and certain other countries. All other trademarks mentioned in this document or Website are the property of their respective owners. The use of the word partner does not imply a partnership relationship between Cisco and any other company.
 
 
 
 
 
For the three month period ended October 25, 2003, pro forma net income and pro forma net income per share excluded the following items: payroll tax on stock option exercises of $2 million, amortization of deferred stock-based compensation of $51 million, amortization of purchased intangible assets of $62 million and income tax effect of ($18) million.
 
 
 
Certain reclassifications have been made to prior year balances in order to conform to the current period's presentation.
 
 
 
 
 


