FILE:CSCO/CSCO-8K-20050510162006.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On May 10, 2005, Cisco Systems, Inc. (the "Registrant") reported its results of operations for its fiscal third quarter ended April 30, 2005. A copy of the press release issued by the Registrant concerning the foregoing results is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
 
The information contained herein and in the accompanying exhibit shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Registrant, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing, unless expressly incorporated by specific reference to such filing. The information in this report, including the exhibit hereto, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
In addition to reporting financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, the Registrant provides pro forma net income and pro forma net income per share in the press release as additional information to help investors better understand its operating results. These measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, GAAP and may be different from pro forma measures used by other companies. The Registrant believes that this presentation of pro forma net income and pro forma net income per share provides useful information to management and investors regarding certain additional financial and business trends relating to its financial condition and results of operations. The Registrant believes when GAAP net income and GAAP net income per share are viewed in conjunction with pro forma net income and pro forma net income per share, investors are provided with a more meaningful understanding of the Registrant's ongoing operating performance. In addition, the Registrant's management uses these measures for reviewing the financial results of the Registrant.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
SAN JOSE, Calif.  May 10, 2005  Cisco Systems, Inc., the worldwide leader in networking for the Internet, today reported its third quarter results for the period ended April 30, 2005.
 
were $6.2 billion, compared with $5.6 billion for the third quarter of fiscal 2004, an increase of 10.1 percent, and compared with $6.1 billion for the second quarter of fiscal 2005, an increase of 2.1 percent.
Net sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2005
 
, on a generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) basis, was $1.4 billion or $0.21 per share, compared with $1.2 billion or $0.17 per share for the third quarter of fiscal 2004, and compared with $1.4 billion or $0.21 per share for the second quarter of fiscal 2005. was $1.5 billion or $0.23 per share, compared with $1.4 billion or $0.19 per share for the third quarter of fiscal 2004, and compared with $1.5 billion or $0.22 per share for the second quarter of fiscal 2005. A reconciliation between net income on a GAAP basis and pro forma net income is provided in a table immediately following the Pro Forma Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Net income for the third quarter of fiscal 2005
Pro
forma net income for the third quarter of fiscal 2005
 
were $18.2 billion, compared with $16.1 billion for the first nine months of fiscal 2004, an increase of 13.0 percent.
Net sales for the first nine months of fiscal 2005
 
, on a GAAP basis, was $4.2 billion or $0.63 per share, compared with $3.0 billion or $0.43 per share for the first nine months of fiscal 2004. Net income on a GAAP basis for the first nine months of fiscal 2004 included a non-cash cumulative stock compensation charge of $567 million, or $0.08 per share relating to the implementation of Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 46(R). was $4.4 billion or $0.67 per share, compared with $3.9 billion or $0.54 per share for the first nine months of fiscal 2004.
Net income for the first nine months of fiscal 2005
Pro forma net income for the first nine months of fiscal 2005
 
During the third quarter of fiscal 2005, Cisco completed the acquisitions of Airespace, Inc. and Protego Networks, Inc.
 
"Today's results are a clear indication that our integrated technology strategy is workingcustomers are realizing the benefits of an intelligent network architecture," said John Chambers, president and CEO, Cisco Systems, Inc. "The long-term momentum we are seeing across product families, geographies and market segments clearly points to Cisco's strong competitive advantage."
 
Chambers continued, "As we continue to manage the business for long-term growth, we are pleased with our very solid results in what is typically a seasonally challenging quarter. Customers are experiencing how the network can provide tremendous value to their businesses. We are seeing service providers, in particular, realize the true power of IP networking in delivering comprehensive products and services to their end users, with Cisco as a key business partner every step of the way."
 
Cisco will discuss third quarter fiscal 2005 results and business outlook on a conference call and Webcast at 1:30 p.m. Pacific Time today. Call information and related charts are available at http://investor.cisco.com.
 
Financial Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
"This quarter's results demonstrate that we have the right strategy in place to deliver profitable growth," said Dennis Powell, chief financial officer, Cisco Systems. "Cisco is clearly delivering on its long-term financial priorities with revenue up 13 percent and pro forma operating profit up 18 percent year to date."
 
Business Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Editor's Note:
 
 
 
 
 
About Cisco Systems
 
Cisco Systems, Inc. (NASDAQ: CSCO), the worldwide leader in networking for the Internet, celebrates 20 years of commitment to technology innovation, industry leadership and corporate social responsibility. Information about Cisco can be found at . For ongoing news, go to http://newsroom.cisco.com.
http://www.cisco.com
 
 
This release may be deemed to contain forward-looking statements, which are subject to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements regarding future events and the future financial performance of Cisco that involve risks and uncertainties. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are only predictions and may differ materially from actual future events or results due to a variety of factors, including: business and economic conditions and growth trends in the networking industry and in various geographic regions; global economic conditions and uncertainties in the geopolitical environment; overall information technology spending; the growth of the Internet and levels of capital spending on Internet-based systems; variations in customer demand for products and services, including sales to the service provider market; the timing of orders and manufacturing lead times; changes in customer order patterns or customer mix; insufficient, excess or obsolete inventory; variability of component costs; variations in sales channels, product costs or mix of products sold; our ability to successfully acquire businesses and technologies and to successfully integrate and operate these acquired businesses and technologies; increased competition in the networking industry; dependence on the introduction and market acceptance of new product offerings and standards; rapid technological and market change; manufacturing and sourcing risks; product defects and returns; litigation involving patents, intellectual property, antitrust, shareholder and other matters; our ability to recruit and retain key personnel; our ability to manage financial risk; currency fluctuations and other international factors; potential volatility in operating results and other factors listed in Cisco's most recent reports on Form 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K. The financial information
 
contained in this release should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in Cisco's most recent reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q, each as it may be amended from time to time. Cisco's results of operations for the three and nine months ended April 30, 2005 are not necessarily indicative of Cisco's operating results for any future periods. Any projections in this release are based on limited information currently available to Cisco, which is subject to change. Although such projections and the factors influencing them will likely change, Cisco will not necessarily update the information, since Cisco will only provide guidance at certain points during the year. Such information speaks only as of the date of this release.
 
Cisco provides pro forma net income and pro forma net income per share data as additional information to help investors better understand its operating results. These measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from pro forma measures used by other companies. Cisco believes that this presentation of pro forma net income and pro forma net income per share provides useful information to management and investors regarding certain additional financial and business trends relating to its financial condition and results of operations. Cisco believes when GAAP net income and GAAP net income per share are viewed in conjunction with pro forma net income and pro forma net income per share, investors are provided with a more meaningful understanding of Cisco's ongoing operating performance. In addition, Cisco's management uses these measures for reviewing the financial results of Cisco.
 
Copyright 2005 Cisco Systems, Inc. All rights reserved. Cisco, Cisco Systems, the Cisco Systems logo and Linksys are registered trademarks or trademarks of Cisco Systems, Inc. and/or its affiliates in the U.S. and certain other countries. All other trademarks mentioned in this document are the property of their respective owners. The use of the word partner does not imply a partnership relationship between Cisco and any other company.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the three-month period ended January 29, 2005, pro forma net income and pro forma net income per share excluded the following items: in-process research and development of $2 million; payroll tax on stock option exercises of $3 million; stock-based compensation related to acquisitions and investments of $39 million; amortization of purchased intangible assets of $57 million and income tax effect of ($19) million.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: Certain reclassifications have been made to prior period balances in order to conform to the current period's presentation.
 
 
 
 
Note: Certain reclassifications have been made to prior period balances in order to conform to the current period's presentation.
 
 


