FILE:CSCO/CSCO-8K-20050921164655.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry Into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
On September 15, 2005, the Compensation and Management Development Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of Cisco Systems, Inc. (the "Company") approved the Professional and Leadership Incentive PlanFY 2006 (the "Plan"). Under the Plan, all eligible employees, including each named executive officer, other than John Chambers whose bonus is determined by the Committee in its sole discretion, would be eligible at fiscal 2006 year end for the award of a cash bonus. The cash bonus of each named executive officer who currently serves as an executive officer is based on an incentive target of 60% of base salary and the achievement of the following objective and subjective factors as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion: company performance (based on worldwide revenue and profit before interest and tax targets); customer satisfaction; individual performance; and teamwork and collaboration. Actual bonuses may be greater or less than the 60% incentive target based on the level of achievement of the foregoing factors as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion. The Committee may also authorize mid-fiscal year advances of fiscal year end incentive payments under the Plan if the company performance factors are satisfied.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All payments under the Plan rest within the sole and absolute discretion of Cisco and, in particular, any payment for employees ranked in the bottom 5% of their organization and/or for employees who have been offered an employment termination agreement (including, but not limited to, any agreement, other than an employment agreement or offer letter, in respect of termination of employment) must be approved in writing by Cisco's President/CEO or Senior Vice President of Human Resources or, with respect to payments to Executive Officers, the Compensation Committee.
 
Employees meeting all eligibility requirements of the Plan who have less than one year of service will be eligible to receive a discretionary P&L Plan payout that is prorated from the effective date of participation in the Plan up to and including the Expiration Date.
 
 
Subject to all other terms of the Plan, incentives under this Plan are calculated in accordance with the following formula:
 
 
 
 
 
purposes of calculating year-end payments, if any. If the Plan Participant's salary currency changes during the Fiscal Year, the salary currency in effect before the change will be used as the basis for the P&L Plan calculation for the period in which that currency was in effect and the post-change currency will be the basis for the P&L Plan calculation for the period in which that currency was in effect. These two prorated base salary amounts will be added together to determine the Base Salary. P&L Plan payments will be made in the Plan Participant's salary currency in effect at the end of Q2 of the Fiscal Year for midyear advances, if any, and at the end of Q4 of the Fiscal Year for year-end payments, if any. Except as otherwise required by applicable law, Base Salary shall not include variable forms of compensation including, but not limited to, overtime, on-call pay, lead premiums, shift differentials, bonuses, incentive compensation, commissions, stock options, or expense allowances, or reimbursement. Payment in lieu of Paid Time Off during active employment or upon termination is not included in base salary for purposes of the Plan.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Pro-ration Factor may be modified for any Plan Participant, provided that any modification to the Pro-ration Factor must be approved in writing in advance of the year-end close date by the next-level Manager and the Senior Vice President of Human Resources, unless the Plan Participant is an Executive Officer, in which case, such modification must be approved by the Compensation Committee.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In this example, the total incentive equals 9.45% of base salary.
 
 
working day of the second quarter of the Fiscal Year and are actively employed as a regular employee by Cisco on the day of distribution will be eligible to receive a midyear advance.
 
If Cisco determines, in its sole and absolute discretion, that the Company Performance Factor is not at a minimum of 1.00 at the midpoint of the Fiscal Year, but is at least .80, then a partial mid-year advance may, at the sole discretion of Cisco's President/CEO, be distributed at that time. Such distribution may be made to some or all Plan Participants. Such discretionary payment, if any, will be subject to the same terms and conditions set forth above for a mid-year advance based on a 1.00 Company Performance Factor, except that the maximum amount paid will be 25% of the Incentive Target Percentage, times Base Salary.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It is not Cisco's intention that employees of Cisco or its subsidiaries be eligible for more than one bonus or incentive plan, unless expressly stated to the contrary. The Compensation Committee may approve plans or arrangements for eligible individuals that may operate as an addendum to, or an addition or supplement to, this Plan.
 
 
 
This Plan was approved by the Compensation Committee on September 15, 2005.


