FILE:CSCO/CSCO-8K-20051109162841.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On November 9, 2005, Cisco Systems, Inc. (the "Registrant") reported its results of operations for its fiscal first quarter ended October 29, 2005. A copy of the press release issued by the Registrant concerning the foregoing results is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
 
The information contained herein and in the accompanying exhibit shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Registrant, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing, unless expressly incorporated by specific reference to such filing. The information in this report, including the exhibit hereto, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
The attached press release includes non-GAAP (pro forma) net income, non-GAAP (pro forma) net income per share data, non-GAAP (pro forma) inventory turns, non-GAAP (pro forma) gross margin, and other non-GAAP line items from the Consolidated Statements of Operations, including cost of sales information, gross margin, operating expenses (including research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses), other income (loss), net, and provision for income taxes. These measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from non-GAAP (pro forma) measures used by other companies. The Registrant believes that the presentation of non-GAAP (pro forma) net income, non-GAAP (pro forma) net income per share data, non-GAAP (pro forma) inventory turns and non-GAAP (pro forma) gross margin, when shown in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures, provides useful information to management and investors regarding financial and business trends relating to its financial condition and results of operations. The Registrant further believes that where the adjustments used in calculating non-GAAP (pro forma) net income and non-GAAP (pro forma) net income per share are based on specific, identified charges that impact different line items in the statements of operations (including cost of sales, research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expense), that it is useful to investors to know how these specific line items in the statements of operations are affected by these adjustments. In particular, as the Registrant begins to apply SFAS 123(R), it believes that it is useful to investors to understand how the expenses associated with the application of SFAS 123(R) are reflected on its statements of operations. For its internal budgets, the Registrant's management uses financial statements that do not include stock-based compensation expense, payroll tax on stock option exercises, in-process research and development, compensation expense related to acquisitions and investments, amortization of purchased intangible assets, gain (loss) on publicly traded equity securities and the income tax effects of the foregoing on cost of sales, research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses, as applicable. The Registrant's management also uses the foregoing non-GAAP measures, in addition to the corresponding GAAP measures, in reviewing the financial results of the Registrant.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
PRESS RELEASE
 
 
 
 
 
 
SAN JOSE, Calif.  November 9, 2005  Cisco Systems, Inc., the worldwide leader in networking for the Internet, today reported its first quarter results for the period ended October 29, 2005.
 
were $6.5 billion, compared with $6.0 billion for the first quarter of fiscal 2005, an increase of 9.7 percent, and compared with $6.6 billion for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, a decrease of 0.5 percent.
Net sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2006
 
, on a generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) basis, was $1.3 billion or $0.20 per share which includes stock-based compensation expense of $228 million, net of tax, or $0.04 per share, due to the implementation of SFAS 123(R). Net income prior to fiscal 2006 did not include stock-based compensation expense. Including the pro forma stock-based compensation expense previously disclosed in Cisco's financial statements footnotes, net income for the first quarter of fiscal 2005 would have been $1.1 billion or $0.17 per share and net income for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 would have been $1.3 billion or $0.20 per share. Please refer to the table on page 8 for a quarter-to-quarter comparison of net income including the effect of stock-based compensation expense. Net income on a GAAP basis, which does not include the effect of stock-based compensation expense, for the first quarter of fiscal 2005 was $1.4 billion or $0.21 per share and for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 was $1.5 billion or $0.24 per share.
Net income for the first quarter of fiscal 2006
 
was $1.6 billion or $0.25 per share, compared with $1.5 billion or $0.21 per share for the first quarter of fiscal 2005, and compared with $1.6 billion or $0.25 per share for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005. A reconciliation between net income on a GAAP basis and non-GAAP (pro forma) net income is provided in a table on page 8.
Non-GAAP (pro forma) net income for the first quarter of fiscal 2006
 
During the first quarter of fiscal 2006, Cisco completed the acquisitions of KiSS Technology A/S, Nemo Systems, Inc. and Sheer Networks, Inc.
 
"Q1 was a solid quarter for Cisco, with balanced execution across most of our geographies, market segments and product categories," said John Chambers, president and CEO, Cisco Systems, Inc. "We are especially pleased with the improving business momentum in the U.S. and Asia Pacific, the strength of our product families and the accelerated growth of the commercial marketplace, which has become our fastest growing customer segment."
 
Chambers continued, "Cisco's long-term product architecture strategy is taking hold. We are seeing an increased trend toward customers choosing integrated networking solutions that combine our core products with advanced technologies. By coupling routing and switching with our advanced technologies such as security, enterprise IP communications and wireless, Cisco's architectural approach is allowing customers to more effectively scale their IT operations. Going forward, we will continue to foster a culture of innovation, incorporating internal development, acquisitions and partnerships to anticipate the evolving needs of customers and extend our core competitive advantage."
 
Cisco will discuss first quarter 2006 results and business outlook on a conference call and Webcast at 1:30 p.m. Pacific Time today. Call information and related charts are available at http://investor.cisco.com.
 
Financial Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
"Our performance this quarter demonstrated once again that our focus and execution on long-term financial priorities translates to sustained profitable growth and a strong competitive advantage," said Dennis Powell, chief financial officer, Cisco Systems. "Non-GAAP (pro forma) quarterly earnings per share of $0.25, net income of $1.6 billion, and 68.5 percent product gross margins are all strong indicators of the momentum we're achieving in our business, while we continue to ramp resources for continued execution throughout the fiscal year."
 
Business Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Editor's Note:
 
 
 
 
 
About Cisco Systems
 
Cisco Systems, Inc. (NASDAQ: CSCO) is the worldwide leader in networking for the Internet. Information about Cisco can be found at. For ongoing news, please go to.
http://www.cisco.com
http://newsroom.cisco.com
 
 
This release may be deemed to contain forward-looking statements, which are subject to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements regarding future events and the future financial performance of Cisco that involve risks and uncertainties. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are only predictions and may differ materially from actual future events or results due to a variety of factors, including: business and economic conditions and growth trends in the networking industry and in various geographic regions; global economic conditions and uncertainties in the geopolitical environment; overall information technology spending; the growth of the Internet and levels of capital spending on Internet-based systems; variations in customer demand for products and services, including sales to the service provider market; the timing of orders and manufacturing and customer lead times; changes in customer order patterns or customer mix; insufficient, excess or obsolete inventory; variability of component costs; variations in sales channels, product costs or mix of products sold; our ability to successfully acquire businesses and technologies and to successfully integrate and operate these acquired businesses and technologies; increased competition in the networking industry; dependence on the introduction and market acceptance of new product offerings and standards; rapid technological and market change; manufacturing and sourcing risks; product defects and returns; litigation involving patents, intellectual property, antitrust, shareholder and other matters; natural catastrophic events; achievement of the benefits anticipated from our investments in sales and engineering activities; our ability to recruit and retain key personnel; our ability to manage financial risk; currency fluctuations and other international factors; potential volatility in operating results and other factors listed in Cisco's most recent reports on Form 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K. The financial information contained in this release should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in Cisco's most recent reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q, each as it may be amended from time to time. Cisco's results of operations for the three months ended October 29, 2005 are not necessarily indicative of Cisco's operating results for any future periods. Any projections in this release are based on limited information currently available to Cisco, which is subject to change. Although any such projections and the factors influencing them will likely change, Cisco will not necessarily update the information, since Cisco will only provide guidance at certain points during the year. Such information speaks only as of the date of this release.
 
This release includes non-GAAP (pro forma) net income, non-GAAP (pro forma) net income per share data, non-GAAP (pro forma) inventory turns, non-GAAP (pro forma) gross margin, and other non-GAAP line items from the Consolidated Statements of Operations, including cost of sales information, gross margin, operating expenses (including research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses), other income
 
(loss), net, and provision for income taxes. These measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from non-GAAP (pro forma) measures used by other companies. Cisco believes that the presentation of non-GAAP (pro forma) net income, non-GAAP (pro forma) net income per share data, non-GAAP (pro forma) inventory turns and non-GAAP (pro forma) gross margin, when shown in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures, provides useful information to management and investors regarding financial and business trends relating to its financial condition and results of operations. Cisco further believes that where the adjustments used in calculating non-GAAP (pro forma) net income and non-GAAP (pro forma) net income per share are based on specific, identified charges that impact different line items in the statements of operations (including cost of sales, research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expense), that it is useful to investors to know how these specific line items in the statements of operations are affected by these adjustments. In particular, as Cisco begins to apply SFAS 123(R), it believes that it is useful to investors to understand how the expenses associated with the application of SFAS 123(R) are reflected on its statements of operations. For its internal budgets, Cisco's management uses financial statements that do not include stock-based compensation expense, payroll tax on stock option exercises, in-process research and development, compensation expense related to acquisitions and investments, amortization of purchased intangible assets, gain (loss) on publicly traded equity securities and the income tax effects of the foregoing on cost of sales, research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses, as applicable. Cisco's management also uses the foregoing non-GAAP measures, in addition to the corresponding GAAP measures, in reviewing the financial results of Cisco.
 
Copyright 2005 Cisco Systems, Inc. All rights reserved. Cisco, Cisco Systems, the Cisco Systems logo, Catalyst and Linksys are registered trademarks or trademarks of Cisco Systems, Inc. and/or its affiliates in the U.S. and certain other countries. All other trademarks mentioned in this document are the property of their respective owners. The use of the word partner does not imply a partnership relationship between Cisco and any other company.
 
 
 
 
Note:
 
A reconciliation between net income on a GAAP basis and non-GAAP (pro forma) net income including items (a) - (g) is provided in a table on page 8
 
 
Note:
 
 
 
Notes:
 
 
 
Note:
 
Long-term investments and the related deferred taxes on unrealized gains and losses on investments as of July 30, 2005 have been reclassified to current assets in order to conform to the current period's presentation.
 
 
Note:
 
Net income for Q1 FY'06 includes stock-based compensation expense of $228, net of tax, due to the implementation of SFAS 123(R). Net income for Q1 FY'05 did not include stock-based compensation expense under SFAS 123.
 
Certain reclassifications have been made to prior period balances in order to conform to the current period's presentation.
 
 
Notes:
 
 


