FILE:CSCO/CSCO-8K-20060509161217.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02.     Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On May 9, 2006, Cisco Systems, Inc. (the "Registrant") reported its results of operations for its fiscal third quarter ended April 29, 2006. A copy of the press release issued by the Registrant concerning the foregoing results is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
The information contained herein and in the accompanying exhibit shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Registrant, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing, unless expressly incorporated by specific reference to such filing. The information in this report, including the exhibit hereto, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
The attached press release includes non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per share data, non-GAAP shares used in net income per share calculation, non-GAAP inventory turns and other non-GAAP line items from the Non-GAAP Consolidated Statements of Operations, including cost of sales, gross margin, operating expenses (including research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses), operating income, other income, net, interest and other income, net, income before provision for income taxes, and provision for income taxes.
These non-GAAP measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies. In addition, these non-GAAP measures and the Non-GAAP Consolidated Statements of Operations are not based on any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles.The Registrant believes that non-GAAP measures have limitations in that they do not reflect all of the amounts associated with the Registrant's results of operations as determined in accordance with GAAP and that these measures should only be used to evaluate the Registrant's results of operations in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures.
The Registrant believes that the presentation of non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per share data and non-GAAP shares used in net income per share calculation, when shown in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures, provides useful information to investors and management regarding financial and business trends relating to its financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the Registrant believes that the presentation of non-GAAP inventory turns provides useful information to investors and management regarding financial and business trends relating to inventory management based on the operating activities of the period presented.
For its internal budgeting process, the Registrant's management uses financial statements that do not include stock-based compensation expense related to employee stock options and employee stock purchases, impact to cost of sales from purchase accounting adjustments to inventory, payroll tax on stock option exercises, compensation expense related to acquisitions and investments, in-process research and development, amortization of purchased intangible assets, (gain) loss on publicly traded equity securities and the income tax effects of the foregoing. The Registrant's management also uses the foregoing non-GAAP measures, in addition to the corresponding GAAP measures, in reviewing the financial results of the Registrant.
As described above, the Registrant excludes the following items from one or more of its non-GAAP measures:
These expenses consist of expenses for employee stock options and employee stock purchases under SFAS123(R). The Registrant excludes stock-based compensation expenses from its non-GAAP measures primarily because they are non-cash expenses that the Registrant does not believe are reflective of ongoing operating results. Further, as the Registrant applies SFAS 123(R), it believes that it is useful to investors to understand the impact of the application of SFAS 123(R) to its results of operations.
Stock-based compensation related to employee stock options and employee stock purchases.
This represents the amount of increase in inventory valuation resulting from the fair value adjustments required under purchase accounting for business combinations. These amounts arise from the Registrant's prior acquisitions and have no direct correlation to the operation of the Registrant's business.
Impact to cost of sales from purchase accounting adjustments to inventory.
. This amount is dependent on the Registrant's stock price and the timing and exercise by employees of their stock options, over which management has virtually no control, and as such do not correlate to the Registrant's operation of the business.
Payroll tax on stock option exercises
. This amount arises from the Registrant's prior acquisitions and has no direct correlation to the operation of the Registrant's business.
Compensation expense related to acquisitions and investments
. The Registrant incurs in-process research and development expenses when technological feasibility for acquired technology has not been established and no future alternative use for such technology exists. These amounts arise from the Registrant's prior acquisitions and have no direct correlation to the operation of the Registrant's business.
In-process research and development
.The Registrant incurs amortization of purchased intangible assets in connection with acquisitions and investments. The Registrant excludes these items because these expenses are not reflective of ongoing operating results in the period incurred. These amounts arise from the Registrant's prior acquisitions and have no direct correlation to the operation of the Registrant's business.
Amortization of purchased intangible assets
. The Registrant does not actively trade public equity securities nor does it plan on these securities positions for funding of ongoing operations. The Registrant excludes (gain) loss on publicly traded equity securities because this item is unrelated to the Registrant's ongoing business and operating results.
(Gain) loss on publicly traded equity securities
. This amount is used to present each of the amounts described above on an after-tax basis consistent with the presentation of non-GAAP net income.
Income tax effects of the foregoing
The Registrant will incur stock-based compensation expense related to employee stock options and employee stock purchases, payroll tax on stock option exercises, amortization of purchased intangible assets and compensation expense related to acquisitions and investments in future periods. Impact to cost of sales from purchase accounting adjustments to inventory, in-process research and development expenses, and (gain) loss on publicly traded equity securities are each a function of underlying transactions, and the Registrant expects to engage in transactions of this nature in future periods.
The Registrant further believes that where the adjustments used in calculating non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per share are based on specific, identified amounts that impact different line items in the Consolidated Statements of Operations (including cost of sales, gross margin, operating expenses (including research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses), operating income, other income, net, interest and other income, net, income before provision for income taxes, and provision for income taxes) that it is useful to investors to understand how these specific line items in the Consolidated Statements of Operations are affected by these adjustments for the following reasons:
. Excluding stock-based compensation expense related to employee stock options and employee stock purchases from cost of sales and gross margin calculations assists investors in evaluating period-over-period changes without giving effect to these charges which are non-cash in nature. Excluding impact to cost of sales from purchase accounting adjustments to inventory and amortization of purchased intangible assets assists investors in evaluating period-over-period changes without giving effect to these charges which are a function of current and prior period acquisition transactions rather than the underlying operating activities of the period presented.
Cost of sales (product, service, and total) and gross margin
. Excluding stock-based compensation expense related to employee stock options and employee stock purchases assists investors in evaluating period-over-period changes in each line item of operating expenses without giving effect to these charges which are non-cash in nature. Excluding payroll tax on stock option exercises assists investors in understanding changes in each line of operating expenses based on the Registrant's operation of the business as management has virtually no control over these payroll tax expenses. Excluding compensation expense related to acquisitions and investments, in-process research and development expenses, and amortization of purchased intangible assets from total operating expenses assists investors in evaluating period-over-period changes to the affected line items in the Consolidated Statement of Operations without giving effect to these charges which are a function of current and prior period acquisition transactions rather than the underlying operating activities of the period presented.
Operating expenses (including research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses)
. Excluding stock-based compensation expense related to employee stock options and employee stock purchases from the calculation of operating income assists investors in evaluating period-over-period changes without giving effect to these charges which
Operating income
are non-cash in nature. Excluding payroll tax on stock option exercises assists investors in understanding changes based on the Registrant's operation of the business as management has virtually no control over these payroll tax expenses. Excluding impact to cost of sales from purchase accounting adjustments to inventory, compensation expense related to acquisitions and investments, in-process research and development expenses, and amortization of purchased intangible assets assists investors in evaluating period-over-period changes to the Registrant's operating income without giving effect to these charges which are a function of current and prior period acquisition transactions rather than the underlying operating activities of the period presented.
Excluding (gain) loss on publicly traded equity securities assists investors in evaluating changes in these measures without giving effect to transactions in publicly traded equity securities which do not relate to the funding of the Registrant's ongoing operations.
Other income, net, and interest and other income, net.
Excluding stock-based compensation expense related to employee stock options and employee stock purchases from the calculation of income before provision for income taxes assists investors in evaluating period-over-period changes without giving effect to these charges which are non-cash in nature. Excluding payroll tax on stock option exercises assists investors in understanding changes based on the Registrant's operation of the business as management has virtually no control over these payroll tax expenses. Excluding impact to cost of sales from purchase accounting adjustments to inventory, compensation expense related to acquisitions and investments, in-process research and development expenses, and amortization of purchased intangible assets assists investors in evaluating period-over-period changes to the Registrant's results of operations without giving effect to these charges which are a function of current and prior period acquisition transactions rather than the underlying operating activities of the period presented. Excluding (gain) loss on publicly traded equity securities assists investors in evaluating period-over-period changes to the Registrant's operating results without giving effect to transactions in publicly traded equity securities which do not relate to the funding of the Registrant's ongoing operations.
Income before provision for income taxes.
. Excluding the income tax effect of the non-GAAP pre-tax adjustments from provision for income taxes assists investors in understanding the tax provision associated with those adjustments.
Provision for income taxes
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
PRESS RELEASE
 
 
 
 
SAN JOSE, Calif.  May 9, 2006  Cisco Systems, Inc., the worldwide leader in networking for the Internet, today reported its third quarter results for the period ended April 29, 2006.
were $7.3 billion, compared with $6.2 billion for the third quarter of fiscal 2005 and compared with $6.6 billion for the second quarter of fiscal 2006. On February 24, 2006, Cisco completed the acquisition of Scientific-Atlanta, Inc., which contributed $407 million to net sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2006.
Net sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2006
, on a generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) basis, was $1.4 billion or $0.22 per share, which includes stock-based compensation expense related to employee stock options and employee stock purchases of $188 million, net of tax, or $0.03 per share. Net income prior to fiscal 2006 did not include stock-based compensation expense related to employee stock options and employee stock purchases. Including the pro forma stock-based compensation expense previously disclosed in Cisco's financial statements footnotes, net income for the third quarter of fiscal 2005 was $1.2 billion or $0.18 per share. Net income for the second quarter of fiscal 2006, on a GAAP basis, was $1.4 billion or $0.22 per share, which includes stock-based compensation expense related to employee stock options and employee stock purchases of $188 million, net of tax, or $0.03 per share. Please refer to the table on page 9 for a comparison of net income, including the effect of stock-based compensation expense. Net income on a GAAP basis, which does not include the effect of stock-based compensation expense, for the third quarter of fiscal 2005 was $1.4 billion or $0.21 per share.
Net income for the third quarter of fiscal 2006
was $1.8 billion or $0.29 per share, compared with $1.5 billion or $0.23 per share for the third quarter of fiscal 2005, and compared with $1.6 billion or $0.26 per share for the second quarter of fiscal 2006. A reconciliation between net income on a GAAP basis and non-GAAP net income is provided in a table on page 8.
Non-GAAP net income for the third quarter of fiscal 2006
relating to a foreign tax settlement was reflected in both the GAAP and the non-GAAP results for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2006.
A tax benefit of $124 million or $0.02 per share
were $20.5 billion, compared with $18.2 billion for the first nine months of fiscal 2005.
Net sales for the first nine months of fiscal 2006
, on a GAAP basis, was $4.0 billion or $0.64 per share, which includes stock-based compensation related to employee stock options and employee stock purchases of $604 million, net of tax, or $0.10 per share. Including the pro forma stock-based compensation expense previously disclosed in Cisco's financial statements footnotes, net income for the first nine months of fiscal 2005 was $3.4 billion or $0.52 per share. Net income on a GAAP basis, which does not include the effect of
Net income for the first nine months of fiscal 2006
 
stock-based compensation expense, for the first nine months of fiscal 2005 was $4.2 billion or $0.63 per share.
was $5.0 billion or $0.80 per share, compared with $4.4 billion or $0.67 per share for the first nine months of fiscal 2005.
Non-GAAP net income for the first nine months of fiscal 2006
During the third quarter of fiscal 2006, Cisco completed the aforementioned acquisition of Scientific-Atlanta, Inc. and the acquisition of SyPixx Networks, Inc.
"Cisco's third quarter was marked by record revenues and strong results in orders and earnings per share," said John Chambers, president and CEO, Cisco Systems, Inc. "We saw a number of highlights this quarter, notably the growth of our U.S. and emerging markets, the continued strength of the commercial market segment and advanced technologies, and the balanced performance across most of our key product categories."
"The technology industry is being redefined as intelligence moves throughout the network," Chambers continued. "Not only is the network becoming the primary driver of IT, but it is also driving all forms of communications. Cisco anticipated this market evolution years ago, and today, we are seeing the benefits from our investments. We believe Cisco is uniquely positioned to enable the future of IT and communications."
Cisco will discuss third quarter 2006 results and business outlook on a conference call and Webcast at 1:30 p.m. Pacific Time today. Call information and related charts are available at http://investor.cisco.com.
Financial Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
"Our third quarter results demonstrate another solid quarter of profitable growth," said Dennis Powell, chief financial officer, Cisco Systems, Inc. "With total revenue of $7.3 billion, up 12% year over year, excluding the impact of Scientific-Atlanta, $2.3 billion of cash generated from operations and strong earnings per share growth, we are pleased with how we are executing against our plan for long-term growth."
 
Powell continued, "We would like to congratulate the Scientific-Atlanta and Cisco teams on a successful combined first quarter of operations."
Business Highlights
 
Editor's Note:
 
 
 
 
About Cisco Systems
Cisco Systems, Inc. (NASDAQ: CSCO) is the worldwide leader in networking for the Internet. Information about Cisco can be found at. For ongoing news, visit.
http://www.cisco.com
http://newsroom.cisco.com
This release may be deemed to contain forward-looking statements, which are subject to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements regarding future events and the future financial performance of Cisco that involve risks and uncertainties. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are only predictions and may differ materially from actual future events or results due to a variety of factors, including: business and economic conditions and growth trends in the networking industry and in various geographic
 
regions; global economic conditions and uncertainties in the geopolitical environment; overall information technology spending; the growth of the Internet and levels of capital spending on Internet-based systems; variations in customer demand for products and services, including sales to the service provider market; the timing of orders and manufacturing and customer lead times; changes in customer order patterns or customer mix; insufficient, excess or obsolete inventory; variability of component costs; variations in sales channels, product costs or mix of products sold; our ability to successfully acquire businesses and technologies and to successfully integrate and operate these acquired businesses and technologies including the businesses and technologies of Scientific-Atlanta, Inc.; increased competition in the networking industry; dependence on the introduction and market acceptance of new product offerings and standards; rapid technological and market change; manufacturing and sourcing risks, including risks relating to our transition to a new manufacturing model; product defects and returns; litigation involving patents, intellectual property, antitrust, shareholder and other matters; natural catastrophic events; a pandemic or epidemic; achievement of the benefits anticipated from our investments in sales and engineering activities; our ability to recruit and retain key personnel; our ability to manage financial risk; currency fluctuations and other international factors; potential volatility in operating results and other factors listed in Cisco's most recent reports on Form 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K. The financial information contained in this release should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in Cisco's most recent report on Form 10-Q and report on Form 8-K filed on February 10, 2006, each as it may be amended from time to time. Cisco's results of operations for the three and nine months ended April 29, 2006 are not necessarily indicative of Cisco's operating results for any future periods. Any projections in this release are based on limited information currently available to Cisco, which is subject to change. Although any such projections and the factors influencing them will likely change, Cisco will not necessarily update the information, since Cisco will only provide guidance at certain points during the year. Such information speaks only as of the date of this release.
This release includes non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per share data, non-GAAP shares used in net income per share calculation, non-GAAP inventory turns and other non-GAAP line items from the Non-GAAP Consolidated Statements of Operations, including cost of sales, gross margin, operating expenses (including research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses), operating income, other income, net, interest and other income, net, income before provision for income taxes, and provision for income taxes.
These non-GAAP measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies. In addition, these non-GAAP measures and the Non-GAAP Consolidated Statements of Operations are not based on any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles. Cisco believes that non-GAAP measures have limitations in that they do not reflect all of the amounts associated with Cisco's results of operations as determined in accordance with GAAP and that these measures should only be used to evaluate Cisco's results of operations in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures.
Cisco believes that the presentation of non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per share data and non-GAAP shares used in net income per share calculation, when shown in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures, provides useful information to investors and management regarding financial and business trends relating to its financial condition and results of operations. In addition, Cisco believes that the presentation of non-GAAP inventory turns provides useful information to investors and management regarding financial and business trends relating to inventory management based on the operating activities of the period presented.
For its internal budgeting process, Cisco's management uses financial statements that do not include stock-based compensation expense related to employee stock options and employee stock purchases, impact to cost of sales from purchase accounting adjustments to inventory, payroll tax on stock option exercises, compensation expense related to acquisitions and investments, in-process research and development, amortization of purchased intangible assets, (gain) loss on publicly traded equity securities and the income tax effects of the foregoing. Cisco's management also uses the foregoing non-GAAP measures, in addition to the corresponding GAAP measures, in reviewing the financial results of Cisco.
 
Cisco further believes that where the adjustments used in calculating non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per share are based on specific, identified amounts that impact different line items in the Consolidated Statements of Operations (including cost of sales, gross margin, operating expenses (including research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses), operating income, other income, net, interest and other income, net, income before provision for income taxes, and provision for income taxes) that it is useful to investors to understand how these specific line items in the Consolidated Statements of Operations are affected by these adjustments. For additional information on the items excluded by Cisco from one or more of its non-GAAP financial measures, and for additional information regarding these non-GAAP measures, we refer you to the Form 8-K regarding this release furnished today with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Copyright 2006 Cisco Systems, Inc. All rights reserved. Cisco, Cisco Systems and the Cisco Systems logo are registered trademarks or trademarks of Cisco Systems, Inc. and/or its affiliates in the U.S. and certain other countries. All other trademarks mentioned in this document are the property of their respective owners. The use of the word partner does not imply a partnership relationship between Cisco and any other company.
 
 
Net income for the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2006 included stock-based compensation expense related to employee stock options and employee stock purchases, net of tax, of $188 and $604, respectively, under SFAS 123(R). There was no stock-based compensation expense related to employee stock options and employee stock purchases under SFAS 123 in fiscal 2005 because the Company did not adopt the recognition provisions of SFAS 123.
ALLOCATION OF STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION EXPENSE RELATED TO EMPLOYEE STOCK OPTIONS AND EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASES
The following table summarizes stock-based compensation expense related to employee stock options and employee stock purchases which was allocated as follows (in millions):
 
Net income including pro forma stock-based compensation expense as previously disclosed in Cisco's financial statements footnotes for the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2005 was $1.2 billion or $0.18 per diluted share and $3.4 billion or $0.52 per diluted share, respectively. Please refer to the table on page 9 for a comparison of net income including the effect of stock-based compensation expense.
 
 
Cisco's non-GAAP measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies. In addition, the above Non-GAAP Consolidated Statements of Operations are not based on a comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles.
A reconciliation between net income on a GAAP basis and non-GAAP net income including items (a)-(h) is provided in a table on page 8.
 
 
For the three month period ended January 28, 2006, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per share excluded the following items: stock-based compensation expense related to employee stock options and employee stock purchases of $261; payroll tax on stock option exercises of $3; compensation expense related to acquisitions and investments of $30; amortization of purchased intangible assets of $56 million; and income tax effect of ($93).
Note:
 
In calculating non-GAAP inventory turns for the third quarter of fiscal 2006 stock-based compensation expense of $39, amortization of purchased intangible assets of $24 and impact to cost of sales from purchase accounting adjustments to inventory of $22 were excluded from cost of sales. In calculating non-GAAP inventory turns for the second quarter of fiscal 2006 stock-based compensation expense of $39 was excluded from cost of sales. In calculating non-GAAP gross margins for the third quarter of fiscal 2006, stock-based compensation expense of $39 was excluded from cost of sales ($11 from product cost of sales and $28 from service cost of sales), and amortization of purchased intangible assets of $24 and impact to cost of sales from purchase accounting adjustments to inventory of $22 were excluded from product cost of sales. In calculating non-GAAP gross margins for the first nine months of fiscal 2006, stock-based compensation expense of $131 was excluded from cost of sales ($41 from product cost of sales and $90 from service cost of sales), and amortization of purchased intangible assets of $24 and impact to cost of sales from purchase accounting adjustments to inventory of $22 were excluded from product cost of sales.
 
 
 
Notes:
 
 
Note:
Long-term investments and the related deferred taxes on unrealized gains and losses on investments as of July 30, 2005 have been reclassified to current assets in order to conform to the current period's presentation.
 
 
Note:
Certain reclassifications have been made to prior period balances in order to conform to the current period's presentation.
 
 
Notes:
 
 


