FILE:CSCO/CSCO-8K-20060808161646.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On August 8, 2006, Cisco Systems, Inc. (the "Registrant") reported its results of operations for its fiscal fourth quarter and fiscal year ended July 29, 2006. A copy of the press release issued by the Registrant concerning the foregoing results is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
The information contained herein and in the accompanying exhibit shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Registrant, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing, unless expressly incorporated by specific reference to such filing. The information in this report, including the exhibit hereto, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
The attached press release includes non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per share data, non-GAAP shares used in net income per share calculation and non-GAAP inventory turns.
These non-GAAP measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies. In addition, these non-GAAP measures are not based on any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles.The Registrant believes that non-GAAP measures have limitations in that they do not reflect all of the amounts associated with the Registrant's results of operations as determined in accordance with GAAP and that these measures should only be used to evaluate the Registrant's results of operations in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures.
The Registrant believes that the presentation of non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per share data and non-GAAP shares used in net income per share calculation, when shown in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures, provides useful information to investors and management regarding financial and business trends relating to its financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the Registrant believes that the presentation of non-GAAP inventory turns provides useful information to investors and management regarding financial and business trends relating to inventory management based on the operating activities of the period presented.
For its internal budgeting process, the Registrant's management uses financial statements that do not include stock-based compensation expense related to employee stock options and employee stock purchases, impact to cost of sales from purchase accounting adjustments to inventory, payroll tax on stock option exercises, compensation expense related to acquisitions and investments, in-process research and development, amortization of purchased intangible assets, (gain) loss on publicly traded equity securities and the income tax effects of the foregoing. The Registrant's management also uses the foregoing non-GAAP measures, in addition to the corresponding GAAP measures, in reviewing the financial results of the Registrant.
As described above, the Registrant excludes the following items from one or more of its non-GAAP measures:
These expenses consist of expenses for employee stock options and employee stock purchases under SFAS123(R). The Registrant excludes stock-based compensation expenses from its non-GAAP measures primarily because they are non-cash expenses that the Registrant does not believe are reflective of ongoing operating results. Further, as the Registrant applies SFAS 123(R), it believes that it is useful to investors to understand the impact of the application of SFAS 123(R) to its results of operations.
Stock-based compensation related to employee stock options and employee stock purchases.
This represents the amount of increase in inventory valuation resulting from the fair value adjustments required under purchase accounting for business combinations. These amounts arise from the Registrant's prior acquisitions and have no direct correlation to the operation of the Registrant's business.
Impact to cost of sales from purchase accounting adjustments to inventory.
. This amount is dependent on the Registrant's stock price and the timing and exercise by employees of their stock options, over which management has virtually no control, and as such do not correlate to the Registrant's operation of the business.
Payroll tax on stock option exercises
. This amount arises from the Registrant's prior acquisitions and has no direct correlation to the operation of the Registrant's business.
Compensation expense related to acquisitions and investments
. The Registrant incurs in-process research and development expenses when technological feasibility for acquired technology has not been established and no future alternative use for such technology exists. These amounts arise from the Registrant's prior acquisitions and have no direct correlation to the operation of the Registrant's business.
In-process research and development
.The Registrant incurs amortization of purchased intangible assets in connection with acquisitions and investments. The Registrant excludes these items because these expenses are not reflective of ongoing operating results in the period incurred. These amounts arise from the Registrant's prior acquisitions and have no direct correlation to the operation of the Registrant's business.
Amortization of purchased intangible assets
. The Registrant does not actively trade public equity securities nor does it plan on these securities positions for funding of ongoing operations. The Registrant excludes (gain) loss on publicly traded equity securities because this item is unrelated to the Registrant's ongoing business and operating results.
(Gain) loss on publicly traded equity securities
. This amount is used to present each of the amounts described above on an after-tax basis consistent with the presentation of non-GAAP net income.
Income tax effects of the foregoing
The Registrant will incur stock-based compensation expense related to employee stock options and employee stock purchases, payroll tax on stock option exercises, amortization of purchased intangible assets and compensation expense related to acquisitions and investments in future periods. Impact to cost of sales from purchase accounting adjustments to inventory, in-process research and development expenses, and (gain) loss on publicly traded equity securities are each a function of underlying transactions, and the Registrant expects to engage in transactions of this nature in future periods.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
PRESS RELEASE
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SAN JOSE, Calif.  August 8, 2006  Cisco Systems, Inc., the worldwide leader in networking for the Internet, today reported its fourth quarter and fiscal year results for the periods ended July 29, 2006.
were $7.98 billion, compared with $6.6 billion for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 and compared with $7.3 billion for the third quarter of fiscal 2006. Scientific-Atlanta, Inc., acquired during Cisco's third quarter of fiscal 2006 on February 24, 2006, contributed $582 million to net sales for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006.
Net sales for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006
, on a generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) basis, was $1.5 billion or $0.25 per share, which includes stock-based compensation expense related to employee stock options and employee stock purchases of $152 million, net of tax, or $0.02 per share. Net income prior to fiscal 2006 did not include stock-based compensation expense related to employee stock options and employee stock purchases. Including the pro forma stock-based compensation expense previously disclosed in Cisco's financial statements footnotes, net income for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 was $1.3 billion or $0.20 per share. Net income for the third quarter of fiscal 2006, on a GAAP basis, was $1.4 billion or $0.22 per share, which includes stock-based compensation expense related to employee stock options and employee stock purchases of $188 million, net of tax, or $0.03 per share. Refer to the table on page 10 for a comparison of net income, including the effect of stock-based compensation expense. Net income on a GAAP basis, which does not include the effect of stock-based compensation expense, for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 was $1.5 billion or $0.24 per share.
Net income for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006
was $1.9 billion or $0.30 per share, compared with $1.6 billion or $0.25 per share for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, and compared with $1.8 billion or $0.29 per share for the third quarter of fiscal 2006. A reconciliation between net income on a GAAP basis and non-GAAP net income is provided in a table on page 6.
Non-GAAP net income for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006
were $28.5 billion, compared with $24.8 billion for fiscal 2005. Scientific-Atlanta contributed $989 million to net sales for fiscal 2006.
Net sales for fiscal 2006
, on a GAAP basis, was $5.6 billion or $0.89 per share, which includes stock-based compensation expense related to employee stock options and employee stock purchases of $756 million, net of tax, or $0.12 per share. Including the pro forma stock-based compensation expense previously disclosed in Cisco's financial statements footnotes, net income for fiscal 2005 was $4.7 billion or $0.71 per share. Net income on a GAAP basis, which does not include the effect of stock-based compensation expense, for fiscal 2005 was $5.7 billion or $0.87 per share.
Net income for fiscal 2006
was $6.9 billion or $1.10 per share, compared with $6.1 billion or $0.92 per share for fiscal 2005.
Non-GAAP net income for fiscal 2006
During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, Cisco completed the acquisitions of Audium Corporation and Metreos Corporation, and purchased selected assets of OpGate, Ltd.
 
"Cisco delivered a record quarter across the board, ending a fiscal year that demonstrated our strong momentum and balance across geographies, products and customer segments," said John Chambers, president and CEO, Cisco Systems. "It's clear we are executing well and on target against our long-term strategy and our vision of the network enabling almost all forms of communications and IT. Our vision and unique ability to innovate and capture market transitions are why we believe we are poised for continued growth. Not only is the network becoming the primary driver of IT and communications, it is becoming the platform for life's experiences. Our ability to anticipate these changes and execute on our strategy is increasing our market share as well as our share of our customers' total IT spend."
Cisco will discuss fourth quarter and fiscal year 2006 results and business outlook on a conference call and Webcast at 1:30 p.m. Pacific Time today. Call information and related charts are available at
http://investor.cisco.com.
Financial Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
"We are very pleased with our performance for the fourth quarter and fiscal year 2006," said Dennis Powell, chief financial officer, Cisco Systems. "Revenue for both Cisco stand-alone and Scientific Atlanta exceeded our expectations this quarter, highlighting the strength we saw across geographies, product categories and customer segments. Operational results also showed momentum, with solid growth in operating income stemming from enhanced financial leverage with strong gross margins and improved operating expense productivity."
Business Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Editor's Note:
 
 
 
 
About Cisco Systems
Cisco Systems, Inc. (NASDAQ: CSCO) is the worldwide leader in networking for the Internet. Information about Cisco can be found at. For ongoing news, visit .
http://www.cisco.com
http://newsroom.cisco.com
This release may be deemed to contain forward-looking statements, which are subject to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements regarding future events and the future financial performance of Cisco that involve risks and uncertainties. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are only predictions and may differ materially from actual future events or results due to a variety of factors, including: business and economic conditions and growth trends in the networking industry and in various geographic regions; global economic conditions and uncertainties in the geopolitical environment; overall information technology spending; the growth of the Internet and levels of capital spending on Internet-based systems; variations in customer demand for products and services, including sales to the service provider market; the timing of orders and manufacturing and customer lead times; changes in customer order patterns or customer mix; insufficient, excess or obsolete inventory; variability of component costs; variations in sales channels, product costs or mix of products sold; our ability to successfully acquire businesses and technologies and to successfully integrate and operate these acquired businesses and technologies including the businesses and technologies of Scientific-Atlanta, Inc.; increased competition in the networking industry; dependence on the introduction and market acceptance of new product offerings and standards; rapid technological and market change; manufacturing and sourcing risks, including risks relating to our transition to a new manufacturing model; product defects and returns; litigation involving patents, intellectual property, antitrust, shareholder and other matters; natural catastrophic events; a pandemic or epidemic; achievement of the benefits anticipated from our investments in sales and engineering activities; our ability to recruit and retain key personnel; our ability to manage financial risk; currency fluctuations and other international factors; potential volatility in operating results and other factors listed in Cisco's most recent reports on Form 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K. The financial information contained in this release should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in Cisco's most recent report on Form 10-Q and report on Form 8-K filed on February 10, 2006, each as it may be amended from time to time. Cisco's results of operations for the three and twelve months ended July 29, 2006 are not necessarily indicative of Cisco's operating results for any future periods. Any projections in this release are based on limited information currently available to Cisco, which is subject to change. Although any such projections and the factors influencing them will likely change, Cisco will not necessarily update the information, since Cisco will only provide guidance at certain points during the year. Such information speaks only as of the date of this release.
 
This release includes non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per share data, non-GAAP shares used in net income per share calculation and non-GAAP inventory turns.
These non-GAAP measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies. In addition, these non-GAAP measures are not based on any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles. Cisco believes that non-GAAP measures have limitations in that they do not reflect all of the amounts associated with Cisco's results of operations as determined in accordance with GAAP and that these measures should only be used to evaluate Cisco's results of operations in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures.
Cisco believes that the presentation of non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per share data and non-GAAP shares used in net income per share calculation, when shown in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures, provides useful information to investors and management regarding financial and business trends relating to its financial condition and results of operations. In addition, Cisco believes that the presentation of non-GAAP inventory turns provides useful information to investors and management regarding financial and business trends relating to inventory management based on the operating activities of the period presented.
For its internal budgeting process, Cisco's management uses financial statements that do not include stock-based compensation expense related to employee stock options and employee stock purchases, impact to cost of sales from purchase accounting adjustments to inventory, payroll tax on stock option exercises, compensation expense related to acquisitions and investments, in-process research and development, amortization of purchased intangible assets, (gain) loss on publicly traded equity securities and the income tax effects of the foregoing. Cisco's management also uses the foregoing non-GAAP measures, in addition to the corresponding GAAP measures, in reviewing the financial results of Cisco.
For additional information on the items excluded by Cisco from one or more of its non-GAAP financial measures we refer you to the Form 8-K regarding this release furnished today with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Copyright 2006 Cisco Systems, Inc. All rights reserved. Cisco, Cisco Systems, the Cisco Systems logo and Catalyst are registered trademarks or trademarks of Cisco Systems, Inc. and/or its affiliates in the U.S. and certain other countries.
All other trademarks mentioned in this document are the property of their respective owners. The use of the word partner does not imply a partnership relationship between Cisco and any other company.
 
 
Net income for the fourth quarter and fiscal 2006 included stock-based compensation expense related to employee stock options and employee stock purchases, net of tax, of $152 and $756 respectively, under SFAS 123(R). There was no stock-based compensation expense related to employee stock options and employee stock purchases under SFAS 123 in fiscal 2005 because the Company did not adopt the recognition provisions of SFAS 123.
Net income including pro forma stock-based compensation expense as previously disclosed in Cisco's financial statements footnotes for the fourth quarter and fiscal 2005 was $1.3 billion or $0.20 per diluted share and $4.7 billion or $0.71 per diluted share, respectively. Please refer to the table on page 10 for a comparison of net income including the effect of stock-based compensation expense.
 
 
For the three month period ended April 29, 2006, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per share excluded the following items: stock-based compensation expense related to employee stock options and employee stock purchases of $261; impact to cost of sales from purchase accounting adjustments to inventory of $22; payroll tax on stock option exercises of $8; compensation expense related to acquisitions and investments of $32; in-process research and development of $88; amortization of purchased intangible assets of $123 million; and income tax effect of ($121).
 
For the three month period ended April 29, 2006, diluted shares used in per-share calculation  GAAP and Non-GAAP were 6,289 and 6,291, respectively. Diluted shares used in per-share calculation  Non-GAAP excluded the effect of SFAS 123(R).
 
 
 
Note:
Long-term investments and the related deferred taxes on unrealized gains and losses on investments as of July 30, 2005 have been reclassified to current assets in order to conform to the current period's presentation.
 
 
Note:
Certain reclassifications have been made to prior period balances in order to conform to the current period's presentation.
 
 
Notes:
 
 
 
ALLOCATION OF STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION EXPENSE RELATED TO EMPLOYEE STOCK OPTIONS AND EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASES
The following table summarizes stock-based compensation expense related to employee stock options and employee stock purchases which was allocated as follows (in millions):
 
 
Notes:
 
 
 
 


