FILE:CSCO/CSCO-8K-20060731165604.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry Into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On July 27, 2006, the Compensation and Management Development Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of Cisco Systems, Inc. (the "Company") approved the Professional and Leadership Incentive Plan  FY 2007 (the "Plan"). Under the Plan, all eligible employees, including each named executive officer, other than John Chambers whose bonus is determined by the Committee in its sole discretion, would be eligible at fiscal 2007 year end for the award of a cash bonus. The cash bonus of each named executive officer is based on an incentive target of 60% of base salary and the achievement of the following objective and subjective factors as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion: company performance (based on worldwide revenue and profit before interest and tax targets); customer satisfaction; and individual performance. Actual bonuses may be greater or less than the 60% incentive target based on the level of achievement of the foregoing factors as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion. The Committee may also authorize mid-fiscal year advances on fiscal year end incentive payments under the Plan if the company performance factors are satisfied.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
Professional & Leadership Plan FY 2007
must be approved in writing by resolution of the Cisco Systems Inc. Compensation & Management Development Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Compensation Committee").
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Professional & Leadership Plan FY 2007
 
 
 
 
All payments under the Plan rest within the sole and absolute discretion of Cisco and, in particular, any payment for employees ranked by their management in the bottom 5% to 10% of their organization and/or for employees who have been offered an employment termination agreement (including, but not limited to, any agreement, other than an employment agreement or offer letter, in respect of termination of employment) must be approved in writing by Cisco's President/CEO, Senior Vice President of Human Resources, Vice President of Compensation and Benefits or Senior Vice President of Operations, Process and Systems or their respective successor(s) or designee(s) or, with respect to payments to Executive Officers, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.
Employees meeting all eligibility requirements of the Plan who have less than one year of service will be eligible to receive a discretionary P&L Plan payout that is prorated from the effective date of participation in the Plan up to and including the Expiration Date.
 
Subject to all other terms of the Plan, incentives under this Plan are calculated in accordance with the following formula:
 
 
 
 
Professional & Leadership Plan FY 2007
 
"Base Salary" for Plan Participants who transfer from a position compensated under the terms of the Sales Incentive Compensation Plan to a Plan-eligible position will be their last salary while in a Plan-eligible position.
If the Plan Participant's salary currency changes during the Fiscal Year, the salary currency in effect before the change will be used as the basis for the P&L Plan calculation for the period in which that currency was in effect and the post-change currency will be the basis for the P&L Plan calculation for the period in which that currency was in effect. These two prorated base salary amounts will be added together to determine the Base Salary. P&L Plan payments will be made in the Plan Participant's salary currency in effect at the end of Q2 of the Fiscal Year for midyear advances, if any, and at the end of Q4 of the Fiscal Year for year-end payments, if any.
Except as otherwise required by applicable law, Base Salary shall not include variable forms of compensation including, but not limited to, overtime, on-call pay, lead premiums, shift differentials, bonuses, incentive compensation, commissions, stock options, or expense allowances, or reimbursement. Payment in lieu of Paid Time Off during active employment or upon termination is not included in base salary for purposes of the Plan.
 
 
 
Professional & Leadership Plan FY 2007
Plan Participants who transfer or whose grade/level is changed during the Fiscal Year will have their Incentive Target Percentage adjusted to reflect the applicable time spent in each grade/level.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Professional & Leadership Plan FY 2007
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Pro-ration Factor may be modified for any Plan Participant, provided that any modification to the Pro-ration Factor must be approved in writing in advance of the year-end close date by the next-level Manager and the Vice President of Compensation and Benefits, or his or her successor or designee unless the Plan Participant is an Executive Officer, in which case, such modification must be approved by the Compensation Committee.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Professional & Leadership Plan FY 2007
In this example, the total incentive equals 9.45% of base salary.
 
If Cisco determines, in its sole and absolute discretion, that the Company Performance Factor is not at a minimum of 1.00 at the midpoint of the Fiscal Year, but is at least .80, then a partial mid-year advance may, at the sole discretion of Cisco's President/CEO, be distributed at that time. Such distribution may be made to some or all Plan Participants. Such discretionary payment, if any, will be subject to the same terms and conditions set forth above for a mid-year advance based on a 1.00 Company Performance Factor, except that the maximum amount paid will be 25% of the Incentive Target Percentage, times Base Salary.
 
 
Professional & Leadership Plan FY 2007
 
 
 
 
 
It is not Cisco's intention that employees of Cisco or its subsidiaries be eligible for more than one bonus or incentive plan, unless expressly stated to the contrary. The Compensation Committee, Senior Vice President of Human Resources, Vice President of Compensation and Benefits or Senior Vice President of Operations, Process and Systems may approve plans or arrangements for eligible individuals that may operate as an addendum to, or an addition or supplement to, this Plan.
 
 
Professional & Leadership Plan FY 2007
employment, will be resolved solely and exclusively pursuant to final and binding arbitration in lieu of any evidentiary hearing before a government agency and/or a court trial before a judge or jury, pursuant to the terms of Cisco's Arbitration Agreement and Policy, a copy of which can be found at The parties' agreement to arbitrate means that both Cisco and the Plan Participant have expressly waived any and all rights to a trial before a court or a jury.
http://wwwin.cisco.com/HR/employee/proprietary_info/agreement2arbitrate.shtml
 
This Plan was approved by the Compensation Committee on July 27, 2006.
 


