FILE:CSCO/CSCO-8K-20070817170418.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On August 17, 2007, Cisco Systems, Inc. ("Cisco") entered into a Credit Agreement (the "Credit Agreement") by and among Cisco, certain lenders party thereto (the "Lenders"), and Bank of America, N.A., as administration agent, swing line lender and a letter of credit issuer.
The Credit Agreement provides for a $3 billion unsecured revolving credit facility (the "Facility") that is scheduled to expire on August 17, 2012. Cisco may also, upon the agreement of either the then existing Lenders or of additional lenders not currently parties to the Credit Agreement, increase the commitments under the Facility up to a total of $5 billion, and/or extend the expiration date of the Facility up to August 15, 2014. At this time, Cisco has not borrowed any funds under the Credit Agreement.
The interest rate applicable to outstanding balances under the Credit Agreement will be based on either (i) the higher of the Federal Funds rate plus 0.50% or Bank of America's "prime rate" as announced from time to time, or (ii) the London interbank offered rate plus a margin that is based on Cisco's senior debt credit ratings as published by Standard & Poor's Ratings Services and Moody's Investors Service, Inc. Cisco will pay an annual commitment fee during the term of the Credit Agreement which also varies depending on Cisco's credit ratings.
The Credit Agreement contains customary representations and warranties as well as customary affirmative and negative covenants. Negative covenants include, among others, limitations on incurrence of liens and secured indebtedness, and limitations on incurrence of any indebtedness by Cisco's subsidiaries. In addition, the Credit Agreement requires that Cisco maintain a ratio of consolidated EBITDA to consolidated interest expense of not less than 3.00 to 1.00.
The Credit Agreement also contains customary events of default. Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an event of default, the Lenders may declare the outstanding loans and all other obligations under the Credit Agreement immediately due and payable.
Banc of America Securities LLC and Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. are acting as joint lead arrangers and joint book managers for the Facility.
Cisco and its affiliates maintain various commercial and service relationships with the Lenders and their affiliates in the ordinary course of business. In the ordinary course of their respective businesses, the Lenders and their affiliates have engaged, and may in the future engage, in commercial banking, investment banking, financial advisory or other services with Cisco and its affiliates for which they have in the past and/or may in the future receive customary compensation and expense reimbursement. In addition, Richard M. Kovacevich, a member of Cisco's Board of Directors, is the Chairman of the Board of Directors of Wells Fargo & Company, an affiliate of one of the Lenders.
The description of the Credit Agreement contained herein is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Credit Agreement, a copy of which is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
On August 17, 2007, Cisco entered into the Credit Agreement described in Item 1.01 above, which information is incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
Published CUSIP Number:
            
 
 
 
 
 
 
This CREDIT AGREEMENT ("Agreement") is entered into as of August 17, 2007, among CISCO SYSTEMS, INC, a California corporation (the ""), each lender from time to time party hereto (collectively, the "" and individually, a ""), and BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender and an L/C Issuer.
Borrower
Lenders
Lender
The Borrower has requested that the Lenders provide a credit facility, and the Lenders are willing to do so on the terms and conditions set forth herein.
In consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements herein contained, the parties hereto covenant and agree as follows:
 
As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
"", by any Person, means the acquisition by such Person, in a single transaction or in a series of related transactions, of either (a) all or any substantial portion of the property of, or a line of business or division of, another Person or (b) at least a majority of the voting capital stock or other voting equity interests of another Person, in each case whether or not involving a merger or consolidation with such other Person.
Acquisition
"" means Bank of America in its capacity as administrative agent under any of the Loan Documents, or any successor administrative agent.
Administrative Agent
"" means the fee letter agreement, dated as of June 18, 2007, among the Borrower, Administrative Agent and Banc of America Securities LLC.
Administrative Agent Fee Letter
"" means, with respect to any currency, the Administrative Agent's address and, as appropriate, account as set forth on with respect to such currency, or such other address or account with respect to such currency as the Administrative Agent may from time to time notify to the Borrower and the Lenders.
Administrative Agent's Office
Schedule 10.02
"" means an Administrative Questionnaire in a form supplied by the Administrative Agent.
Administrative Questionnaire
"" means, with respect to any Person, another Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls or is Controlled by or is under common Control with the Person specified.
Affiliate
"" means the Commitments of all the Lenders.
Aggregate Commitments
"" means this Credit Agreement.
Agreement
"" means each of Euro, Sterling, Yen and each other currency (other than Dollars) that is approved in accordance with .
Alternative Currency
Section 1.06
"" means, at any time, with respect to any amount denominated in Dollars, the equivalent amount thereof in the applicable Alternative Currency as determined by the Administrative Agent or the applicable L/C Issuer, as the case may be, at such time on the basis of the Spot Rate (determined in respect of the most recent Revaluation Date) for the purchase of such Alternative Currency with Dollars.
Alternative Currency Equivalent
"" means an amount equal to the lesser of the Aggregate Commitments and $1,000,000,000. The Alternative Currency Sublimit is part of, and not in addition to, the Aggregate Commitments.
Alternative Currency Sublimit
"" has the meaning specified in .
Applicable Anniversary Date
Section 2.14(a)
"" means with respect to any Lender at any time, the percentage (carried out to the ninth decimal place) of the Aggregate Commitments represented by such Lender's Commitment at such time. If the commitment of each Lender to make Loans and the obligation of the L/C Issuers to make L/C Credit Extensions have been terminated pursuant to or if the Aggregate Commitments have expired, then the Applicable Percentage of each Lender shall be determined based on the Applicable Percentage of such Lender most recently in effect, giving effect to any subsequent assignments. The initial Applicable Percentage of each Lender is set forth opposite the name of such Lender on or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender becomes a party hereto, as applicable.
Applicable Percentage
Section 8.02
Schedule 2.01
"" means, from time to time, the following percentages per annum, based upon the Debt Rating as set forth below:
Applicable Rate
 
Each change in the Applicable Rate resulting from a publicly announced change in the Debt Rating shall be effective during the period commencing on the date of the public announcement thereof and ending on the date immediately preceding the effective date of the next such change.
"" means, with respect to any borrowings and payments in any Alternative Currency, the local time in the place of settlement for such Alternative Currency as may be determined by the Administrative Agent or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, to be necessary for timely settlement on the relevant date in accordance with normal banking procedures in the place of payment.
Applicable Time
"" means any Fund that is administered or managed by (a) a Lender, (b) an Affiliate of a Lender or (c) an entity or an Affiliate of an entity that administers or manages a Lender.
Approved Fund
 
"" means Banc of America Securities LLC and Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., in their capacities as joint lead arrangers and joint book managers.
Arrangers
"" means two or more Eligible Assignees that are Affiliates of one another or two or more Approved Funds managed by the same investment advisor.
Assignee Group
"" means an assignment and assumption entered into by a Lender and an assignee (with the consent of any party whose consent is required by ), and accepted by the Administrative Agent, in substantially the form of or any other form approved by the Administrative Agent.
Assignment and Assumption
Section 10.06(b)
Exhibit 10.06
"" means, on any date, (a) in respect of any capital lease of any Person, the capitalized amount thereof that would appear on a balance sheet of such Person prepared as of such date in accordance with GAAP, and (b) in respect of any Synthetic Lease Obligation, the capitalized amount of the remaining lease payments under the relevant lease that would appear on a balance sheet of such Person prepared as of such date in accordance with GAAP if such lease were accounted for as a capital lease.
Attributable Indebtedness
"" means the audited consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the fiscal year ended July 29, 2006, and the related consolidated statements of income or operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for such fiscal year of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, including the notes thereto.
Audited Financial Statements
"" means the period from and including the Closing Date to the earliest of (a) the Maturity Date, (b) the date of termination of the Aggregate Commitments pursuant to , and (c) the date of termination of the commitment of each Lender to make Loans and of the obligation of the L/C Issuer to make L/C Credit Extensions pursuant to .
Availability Period
Section 2.06
Section 8.02
"" means Bank of America, N.A. and its successors.
Bank of America
"" means for any day a fluctuating rate per annum equal to the higher of (a) the Federal Funds Rate plus 1/2 of 1% and (b) the rate of interest in effect for such day as publicly announced from time to time by Bank of America as its "prime rate." The "prime rate" is a rate set by Bank of America based upon various factors including Bank of America's costs and desired return, general economic conditions and other factors, and is used as a reference point for pricing some loans, which may be priced at, above, or below such announced rate. Any change in such rate announced by Bank of America shall take effect at the opening of business on the day specified in the public announcement of such change.
Base Rate
"" means a Committed Loan that is a Base Rate Loan.
Base Rate Committed Loan
"" means a Loan that bears interest based on the Base Rate. All Base Rate Loans shall be denominated in Dollars.
Base Rate Loan
"" has the meaning specified in the introductory paragraph hereto.
Borrower
"" has the meaning specified in .
Borrower Materials
Section 6.02
"" means a Committed Borrowing or a Swing Line Borrowing, as the context may require.
Borrowing
 
"" means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks are authorized to close under the Laws of, or are in fact closed in, the state where the Administrative Agent's Office with respect to Obligations denominated in Dollars is located and:
Business Day
(a) if such day relates to any interest rate settings as to a Eurocurrency Rate Loan denominated in Dollars, any fundings, disbursements, settlements and payments in Dollars in respect of any such Eurocurrency Rate Loan, or any other dealings in Dollars to be carried out pursuant to this Agreement in respect of any such Eurocurrency Rate Loan, means any such day on which dealings in deposits in Dollars are conducted by and between banks in the London interbank eurodollar market;
(b) if such day relates to any interest rate settings as to a Eurocurrency Rate Loan denominated in Euro, any fundings, disbursements, settlements and payments in Euro in respect of any such Eurocurrency Rate Loan, or any other dealings in Euro to be carried out pursuant to this Agreement in respect of any such Eurocurrency Rate Loan, means a TARGET Day;
(c) if such day relates to any interest rate settings as to a Eurocurrency Rate Loan denominated in a currency other than Dollars or Euro, means any such day on which dealings in deposits in the relevant currency are conducted by and between banks in the London or other applicable offshore interbank market for such currency; and
(d) if such day relates to any fundings, disbursements, settlements and payments in a currency other than Dollars or Euro in respect of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan denominated in a currency other than Dollars or Euro, or any other dealings in any currency other than Dollars or Euro to be carried out pursuant to this Agreement in respect of any such Eurocurrency Rate Loan (other than any interest rate settings), means any such day on which banks are open for foreign exchange business in the principal financial center of the country of such currency.
"" has the meaning specified in .
Cash Collateralize
Section 2.03(g)
"" means the occurrence, after the date of this Agreement, of any of the following: (a) the adoption or taking effect of any law, rule, regulation or treaty, (b) any change in any law, rule, regulation or treaty or in the administration, interpretation or application thereof by any Governmental Authority charged with the enforcement or administration thereof or (c) the making or issuance of any request, guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law) by any such Governmental Authority.
Change in Law
"" means an event or series of events by which any "person" or "group" (as such terms are used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, but excluding any employee benefit plan of such person or its subsidiaries, and any person or entity acting in its capacity as trustee, agent or other fiduciary or administrator of any such plan) becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934), directly or indirectly, of 35% or more of the equity securities of the Borrower entitled to vote for members of the board of directors or equivalent governing body of the Borrower on a fully-diluted basis.
Change of Control
"" means the first date all the conditions precedent in are satisfied or waived in accordance with .
Closing Date
Section 4.01
Section 10.01
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
Code
 
"" means, as to each Lender, its obligation to (a) make Committed Loans to the Borrower pursuant to , (b) purchase participations in L/C Obligations, and (c) purchase participations in Swing Line Loans, in an aggregate principal amount at any one time outstanding not to exceed the Dollar amount set forth opposite such Lender's name on or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender becomes a party hereto, as applicable, as such amount may be adjusted from time to time in accordance with this Agreement. The aggregate amount of the Commitments on the Closing Date is $3,000,000,000.
Commitment
Section 2.01
Schedule 2.01
"" means a borrowing consisting of simultaneous Committed Loans of the same Type, in the same currency and, in the case of Eurocurrency Rate Loans, having the same Interest Period made by each of the Lenders pursuant to .
Committed Borrowing
Section 2.01
"" has the meaning specified in .
Committed Loan
Section 2.01
"" means a notice of (a) a Committed Borrowing, (b) a conversion of Committed Loans from one Type to the other, or (c) a continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans, pursuant to , which, if in writing, shall be substantially in the form of .
Committed Loan Notice
Section 2.02(a)
Exhibit 2.02
"" means a certificate substantially in the form of .
Compliance Certificate
Exhibit 6.02
"" means, for any period, for the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, an amount equal to Consolidated Net Income for such period (a) the following to the extent deducted in calculating such Consolidated Net Income: (i) Consolidated Interest Charges for such period, (ii) the provision for Federal, state, local and foreign income taxes payable by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for such period, determined in accordance with GAAP, (iii) depreciation and amortization expense, determined in accordance with GAAP, (iv) non-cash charges or expenses relating to the refinancing or redemption of Indebtedness in such period, (v) non-cash charges or expenses relating to the impairment of property, plant and equipment, investments, goodwill or other intangible assets in such period, and charges for in-process research and development, (vi) non-recurring non-cash charges in connection with acquisitions, Dispositions and discontinued operations, and cash and non-cash restructuring charges, (vii) non-cash charges or expenses related to stock option awards or other equity compensation, (viii) the cumulative effect of changes in accounting, and (ix) other non-recurring expenses of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries reducing such Consolidated Net Income which do not represent a cash item in such period or any future period and (b) to the extent included in calculating such Consolidated Net Income, all non-cash items of the types set forth in clauses (iv) through (vii) above increasing Consolidated Net Income for such period.
Consolidated EBITDA
plus
minus
"" means, for any period, for the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, the sum of all interest, premium payments, debt discount, fees, charges and related expenses of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in connection with borrowed money (including capitalized interest) or in connection with the deferred purchase price of assets, in each case to the extent treated as interest in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Interest Charges
"" means, as of any date of determination, the ratio of (a) Consolidated EBITDA for the period of the four prior fiscal quarters ending on such date to (b) Consolidated Interest Charges for such period.
Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio
"" means, for any period, for the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, the net income of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (excluding extraordinary gains and extraordinary losses and excluding income (loss) attributable to discontinued operations) for that period, in each case as determined in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Net Income
 
"" means, as of any date of determination, the total book value of all assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries the total book value of all intangible assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Tangible Net Worth
minus
"" means, as to any Person, any provision of any security issued by such Person or of any agreement, instrument or other undertaking to which such Person is a party or by which it or any of its property is bound.
Contractual Obligation
"" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ability to exercise voting power, by contract or otherwise. "Controlling" and "Controlled" have meanings correlative thereto.
Control
"" means each of the following: (a) a Borrowing and (b) an L/C Credit Extension.
Credit Extension
"" means, as of any date of determination, the rating as determined by either S&P or Moody's (collectively, the "") of the Borrower's non-credit-enhanced, senior unsecured long-term debt; that (a) if the respective Debt Ratings issued by foregoing rating agencies differ by one level, then the Pricing Level for the higher of such Debt Ratings shall apply (with the Debt Rating for Pricing Level I being the highest and the Debt Rating for Pricing Level V being the lowest); (b) if there is a split in Debt Ratings of more than one level, then the Pricing Level that is one level lower than the Pricing Level of the higher Debt Rating shall apply; (c) if the Borrower has only one Debt Rating, such Debt Rating shall apply; and (d) if the Borrower does not have any Debt Rating, Pricing Level V shall apply.
Debt Rating
Debt Ratings
provided
"" means the Bankruptcy Code of the United States, and all other liquidation, conservatorship, bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors, moratorium, rearrangement, receivership, insolvency, reorganization, or similar debtor relief Laws of the United States or other applicable jurisdictions from time to time in effect and affecting the rights of creditors generally.
Debtor Relief Laws
"" means any event or condition that constitutes an Event of Default or that, with the giving of any notice, the passage of time, or both, would be an Event of Default.
Default
"" means (a) when used with respect to Obligations other than Letter of Credit Fees, an interest rate equal to (i) the Base Rate (ii) 2% per annum; , , that with respect to a Eurocurrency Rate Loan, the Default Rate shall be an interest rate equal to the interest rate (including any Applicable Rate and any Mandatory Cost) otherwise applicable to such Loan plus 2% per annum, and (b) when used with respect to Letter of Credit Fees, a rate equal to the Applicable Rate plus 2% per annum.
Default Rate
plus
provided
however
"" means any Lender that (a) has failed to fund any portion of the Committed Loans, participations in L/C Obligations or participations in Swing Line Loans required to be funded by it hereunder within one Business Day of the date required to be funded by it hereunder unless such failure has been cured, (b) has otherwise failed to pay over to the Administrative Agent or any other Lender any other amount required to be paid by it hereunder within one Business Day of the date when due, unless the subject of a good faith dispute or unless such failure has been cured, or (c) has been deemed insolvent or become the subject of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding.
Defaulting Lender
"" or "" means the sale, transfer, exclusive license, lease or other disposition (including any sale and leaseback transaction) of property of any Person, including any sale, assignment, transfer or other disposal, with or without recourse, of any notes or accounts receivable or any rights and claims associated therewith.
Disposition
Dispose
 
"" and "" mean lawful money of the United States.
Dollar
$
"" means, at any time, (a) with respect to any amount denominated in Dollars, such amount, and (b) with respect to any amount denominated in any Alternative Currency, the equivalent amount thereof in Dollars as determined by the Administrative Agent or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, at such time on the basis of the Spot Rate (determined in respect of the most recent Revaluation Date) for the purchase of Dollars with such Alternative Currency.
Dollar Equivalent
"" means any Subsidiary that is organized under the laws of any political subdivision of the United States.
Domestic Subsidiary
"" means any Person that meets the requirements to be an assignee under , ,  and  (subject to such consents, if any, as may be required under ).
Eligible Assignee
Section 10.06(b)(iii)
(v)
(vi)
(vii)
Section 10.06(b)(iii)
"" means the economic and monetary union in accordance with the Treaty of Rome 1957, as amended by the Single European Act 1986, the Maastricht Treaty of 1992 and the Amsterdam Treaty of 1998.
EMU
"" means the legislative measures of the European Council for the introduction of, changeover to or operation of a single or unified European currency.
EMU Legislation
"" means any and all Federal, state, local, and foreign statutes, laws, regulations, ordinances, rules, judgments, orders, decrees, permits, concessions, grants, franchises, licenses or governmental restrictions relating to pollution and the protection of the environment or the release of any materials into the environment, including those related to hazardous substances or wastes, air emissions and discharges to waste or public systems.
Environmental Laws
"" means any liability, contingent or otherwise (including any liability for damages, costs of environmental remediation, fines, penalties or indemnities), of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries directly or indirectly resulting from or based upon (a) violation of any Environmental Law, (b) the generation, use, handling, transportation, storage, treatment or disposal of any Hazardous Materials, (c) exposure to any Hazardous Materials, (d) the release or threatened release of any Hazardous Materials into the environment or (e) any contract, agreement or other consensual arrangement pursuant to which liability is assumed or imposed with respect to any of the foregoing.
Environmental Liability
"" means, with respect to any Person, all of the shares of capital stock of (or other ownership or profit interests in) such Person, all of the warrants, options or other rights for the purchase or acquisition from such Person of shares of capital stock of (or other ownership or profit interests in) such Person, all of the securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of capital stock of (or other ownership or profit interests in) such Person or warrants, rights or options for the purchase or acquisition from such Person of such shares (or such other interests), and all of the other ownership or profit interests in such Person (including partnership, member or trust interests therein), whether voting or nonvoting, and whether or not such shares, warrants, options, rights or other interests are outstanding on any date of determination.
Equity Interests
"" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.
ERISA
 
"" means any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) under common control with the Borrower within the meaning of Section 414(b) or (c) of the Code (and Sections 414(m) and (o) of the Code for purposes of provisions relating to Section 412 of the Code).
ERISA Affiliate
"" means (a) a Reportable Event with respect to a Pension Plan; (b) a withdrawal by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate from a Pension Plan subject to Section 4063 of ERISA during a plan year in which it was a substantial employer (as defined in Section 4001(a)(2) of ERISA) or a cessation of operations that is treated as such a withdrawal under Section 4062(e) of ERISA; (c) a complete or partial withdrawal by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate from a Multiemployer Plan or notification that a Multiemployer Plan is in reorganization; (d) the filing of a notice of intent to terminate, the treatment of a Plan amendment as a termination under Section 4041 or 4041A of ERISA, or the commencement of proceedings by the PBGC to terminate a Pension Plan or Multiemployer Plan; (e) an event or condition which constitutes grounds under Section 4042 of ERISA for the termination of, or the appointment of a trustee to administer, any Pension Plan or Multiemployer Plan; or (f) the imposition of any liability under Title IV of ERISA, other than for PBGC premiums due but not delinquent under Section 4007 of ERISA, upon the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate.
ERISA Event
"" and "" mean the lawful currency of the Participating Member States introduced in accordance with the EMU Legislation.
Euro
EUR
"" means, for any Interest Period with respect to a Eurocurrency Rate Loan, the rate per annum equal to the British Bankers Association LIBOR Rate ("BBA LIBOR"), as published by Reuters (or other commercially available source providing quotations of BBA LIBOR as designated by the Administrative Agent from time to time) at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period, for deposits in the relevant currency (for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period) with a term equivalent to such Interest Period. If such rate is not available at such time for any reason, then the "Eurocurrency Rate" for such Interest Period shall be the rate per annum determined by the Administrative Agent to be the rate at which deposits in the relevant currency for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period in Same Day Funds in the approximate amount of the Eurocurrency Rate Loan being made, continued or converted by Bank of America and with a term equivalent to such Interest Period would be offered by Bank of America's London Branch (or other Bank of America branch or Affiliate) to major banks in the London or other offshore interbank market for such currency at their request at approximately 11:00 a.m. (London time) two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period.
Eurocurrency Rate
"" means a Committed Loan that bears interest at a rate based on the Eurocurrency Rate. Eurocurrency Rate Loans may be denominated in Dollars or in an Alternative Currency. All Committed Loans denominated in an Alternative Currency must be Eurocurrency Rate Loans.
Eurocurrency Rate Loan
"" has the meaning specified in .
Event of Default
Section 8.01
"" means, with respect to the Administrative Agent, any Lender, the L/C Issuer or any other recipient of any payment to be made by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower hereunder, (a) Taxes imposed on or measured by its overall net income (however denominated), and franchise taxes imposed on it (in lieu of net income taxes), by the jurisdiction (or any political subdivision thereof) under the laws of which such recipient is organized or in which its principal office is located or with which it has a present or former connection (other than any such connection resulting in whole or in part from its having executed, delivered or performed its obligations or received a payment under, or enforced, this Agreement or any other Loan Document) or, in the case of any Lender, in which its applicable Lending Office is located, (b) any branch profits taxes imposed by the United States or any
Excluded Taxes
 
similar tax imposed by any other jurisdiction in which the Borrower is located and (c) in the case of a Foreign Lender (other than an assignee pursuant to a request by the Borrower under ), any withholding tax that is imposed on amounts payable to such Foreign Lender at the time such Foreign Lender becomes a party hereto (or designates a new Lending Office) or is attributable to such Foreign Lender's failure or inability (other than as a result of a Change in Law) to comply with , except to the extent that such Foreign Lender (or its assignor, if any) was entitled, at the time of designation of a new Lending Office (or assignment), to receive additional amounts from the Borrower with respect to such withholding tax pursuant to .
Section 10.13
Section 3.01(e)
Section 3.01(a)
"" has the meaning specified in .
Existing Maturity Date
Section 2.14(a)
"" means, for any day, the rate per annum equal to the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers on such day, as published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on the Business Day next succeeding such day; that (a) if such day is not a Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be such rate on such transactions on the next preceding Business Day as so published on the next succeeding Business Day, and (b) if no such rate is so published on such next succeeding Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be the average rate (rounded upward, if necessary, to a whole multiple of 1/100 of 1%) charged to Bank of America on such day on such transactions as determined by the Administrative Agent.
Federal Funds Rate
provided
"" means the Joint Fee Letter and the Administrative Agent Fee Letter.
Fee Letters
"" means, with respect to the Borrower, any Lender that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than that in which the Borrower is resident for tax purposes. For purposes of this definition, the United States, each State thereof and the District of Columbia shall be deemed to constitute a single jurisdiction.
Foreign Lender
"" means any Subsidiary that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than the United States, a State thereof or the District of Columbia.
Foreign Subsidiary
"" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States.
FRB
"" means any Person (other than a natural Person) that is (or will be) engaged in making, purchasing, holding or otherwise investing in commercial loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its activities.
Fund
"" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board or such other principles as may be approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession in the United States, that are applicable to the circumstances as of the date of determination, consistently applied.
GAAP
"" means the government of the United States or any other nation, or of any political subdivision thereof, whether state or local, and any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government (including any supra-national bodies such as the European Union or the European Central Bank).
Governmental Authority
 
"" means, as to any Person, any (a) any obligation, contingent or otherwise, of such Person guaranteeing or having the economic effect of guaranteeing any Indebtedness payable or performable by another Person (the "primary obligor") in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, and including any obligation of such Person, direct or indirect, (i) to purchase or pay (or advance or supply funds for the purchase or payment of) such Indebtedness, (ii) to purchase or lease property, securities or services for the purpose of assuring the obligee in respect of such Indebtedness or other obligation of the payment or performance of such Indebtedness, (iii) to maintain working capital, equity capital or any other financial statement condition or liquidity or level of income or cash flow of the primary obligor so as to enable the primary obligor to pay such Indebtedness or other obligation, or (iv) entered into for the purpose of assuring in any other manner the obligee in respect of such Indebtedness of the payment or performance thereof or to protect such obligee against loss in respect thereof (in whole or in part), or (b) any Lien on any assets of such Person securing any Indebtedness of any other Person, whether or not such Indebtedness is assumed by such Person (or any right, contingent or otherwise, of any holder of such Indebtedness to obtain any such Lien). The amount of any Guarantee shall be deemed to be an amount equal to the stated or determinable amount of the related primary obligation, or portion thereof, in respect of which such Guarantee is made or, if not stated or determinable, the maximum reasonably anticipated liability in respect thereof as determined by the guaranteeing Person in good faith. The term "Guarantee" as a verb has a corresponding meaning.
Guarantee
"" means all explosive or radioactive substances or wastes and all hazardous or toxic substances, wastes or other pollutants, including petroleum or petroleum distillates, asbestos or asbestos-containing materials, polychlorinated biphenyls, radon gas, infectious or medical wastes and all other substances or wastes of any nature regulated pursuant to any Environmental Law.
Hazardous Materials
"" means, as to any Person at a particular time, without duplication, all of the following, whether or not included as indebtedness or liabilities in accordance with GAAP:
Indebtedness
(a) all obligations of such Person for borrowed money and all obligations of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes, loan agreements or other similar instruments;
(b) all direct or contingent obligations of such Person arising under letters of credit (including standby and commercial), bankers' acceptances, bank guaranties, surety bonds and similar instruments;
(c) net obligations of such Person under any Swap Contract as determined in accordance with GAAP;
(d) all obligations of such Person to pay the deferred purchase price of property or services (other than trade accounts payable in the ordinary course of business and, in each case, not past due for more than 60 days after the date on which such trade account payable was created or which is being contested in good faith);
(e) indebtedness (excluding prepaid interest thereon) secured by a Lien on property owned or being purchased by such Person (including indebtedness arising under conditional sales or other title retention agreements), whether or not such indebtedness shall have been assumed by such Person or is limited in recourse;
(f) capital leases and Synthetic Lease Obligations;
(g) all obligations of such Person to purchase, redeem, retire, defease or otherwise make any payment in respect of any Equity Interest in such Person or any other Person, valued, in the case of a redeemable preferred interest, at the greater of its voluntary or involuntary liquidation preference plus accrued and unpaid dividends; and
 
(h) all Guarantees of such Person in respect of any of the foregoing.
For all purposes hereof, the Indebtedness of any Person shall include the Indebtedness of any partnership or joint venture (other than a joint venture that is itself a corporation or limited liability company) in which such Person is a general partner or a joint venturer to the extent that such Person is liable therefore as a result of such Person's ownership of such partnership or joint venture, except to the extent that such Indebtedness is expressly made non-recourse to such Person. The amount of any capital lease or Synthetic Lease Obligation as of any date shall be deemed to be the amount of Attributable Indebtedness in respect thereof as of such date.
"" means Taxes other than Excluded Taxes.
Indemnified Taxes
"" has the meaning specified in .
Indemnitees
Section 10.04(b)
"" has the meaning specified in .
Information
Section 10.07
"" means, (a) as to any Loan other than a Base Rate Loan, the last day of each Interest Period applicable to such Loan and the Maturity Date; , , that if any Interest Period for a Eurocurrency Rate Loan exceeds three months, the respective dates that fall every three months after the beginning of such Interest Period shall also be Interest Payment Dates; and (b) as to any Base Rate Loan (including a Swing Line Loan), the last Business Day of each January, April, July and October and the Maturity Date.
Interest Payment Date
provided
however
"" means, as to each Eurocurrency Rate Loan, the period commencing on the date such Eurocurrency Rate Loan is disbursed or converted to or continued as a Eurocurrency Rate Loan and ending on the date one week or one, two, three or six months thereafter, as selected by the Borrower in its Committed Loan Notice or such other period that is twelve months or less requested by the Borrower and consented to by all the Lenders; that:
Interest Period
provided
(i) any Interest Period that would otherwise end on a day that is not a Business Day shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless such Business Day falls in another calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the next preceding Business Day;
(ii) any Interest Period that begins on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the calendar month at the end of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Business Day of the calendar month at the end of such Interest Period; and
(iii) no Interest Period shall extend beyond the Maturity Date.
"" means, as to any Person, any direct or indirect acquisition or investment by such Person, whether by means of (a) the purchase or other acquisition of capital stock or other securities of another Person, (b) a loan, advance or capital contribution to, Guarantee or assumption of debt of, or purchase or other acquisition of any other debt or equity participation or interest in, another Person, including any partnership or joint venture interest in such other Person and any arrangement pursuant to which the investor Guarantees Indebtedness of such other Person, or (c) the purchase or other acquisition (in one transaction or a series of transactions) of assets of another Person that constitute a business unit.
Investment
 
"" means the United States Internal Revenue Service.
IRS
"" means, with respect to any Letter of Credit, the "International Standby Practices 1998" published by the Institute of International Banking Law & Practice, Inc. (or such later version thereof as may be in effect at the time of issuance).
ISP
"" means with respect to any Letter of Credit, the Letter of Credit Application, and any other document, agreement and instrument entered into by an L/C Issuer and the Borrower (or any Subsidiary) or in favor of such L/C Issuer and relating to such Letter of Credit.
Issuer Documents
"" means the fee letter agreement, dated as of June 18, 2007, among the Borrower, Administrative Agent, Deutsche Bank AG New York Branch and the Arrangers.
Joint Fee Letter
"" means, collectively, all international, foreign, Federal, state and local statutes, treaties, rules, guidelines, regulations, ordinances, codes and administrative or judicial precedents or authorities, including the interpretation or administration thereof by any Governmental Authority charged with the enforcement, interpretation or administration thereof, and all applicable administrative orders, directed duties, requests, licenses, authorizations and permits of, and agreements with, any Governmental Authority, in each case whether or not having the force of law.
Laws
"" means, with respect to each Lender, such Lender's funding of its participation in any L/C Borrowing in accordance with its Applicable Percentage. All L/C Advances shall be denominated in Dollars.
L/C Advance
"" means an extension of credit resulting from a drawing under any Letter of Credit which has not been reimbursed on the date when made or refinanced as a Committed Borrowing. All L/C Borrowings shall be denominated in Dollars.
L/C Borrowing
"" means, with respect to any Letter of Credit, the issuance thereof or extension of the expiry date thereof, or the increase of the amount thereof.
L/C Credit Extension
"" means, with respect to any particular Letter of Credit, (a) Bank of America in its capacity as issuer of such Letters of Credit hereunder, (b) Deutsche Bank AG New York Branch in its capacity as issuer of such Letters of Credit hereunder, or, in each case, any successor issuer of Letters of Credit hereunder or (c) if the L/C Issuers in clauses (a) and (b) above are unable to issue Letters of Credit for the reasons set forth in or , such other Lender selected by the Borrower and consented to by such Lender (upon notice to the Administrative Agent) from time to time to issue such Letter of Credit.
L/C Issuer
Sections 2.03(a)(iii)(B)
(E)
"" means, as at any date of determination, the aggregate amount available to be drawn under all outstanding Letters of Credit plus the aggregate of all Unreimbursed Amounts, including all L/C Borrowings. For purposes of computing the amount available to be drawn under any Letter of Credit, the amount of such Letter of Credit shall be determined in accordance with . For all purposes of this Agreement, if on any date of determination a Letter of Credit has expired by its terms but any amount may still be drawn thereunder by reason of the operation of Rule 3.14 of the ISP, such Letter of Credit shall be deemed to be "outstanding" in the amount so remaining available to be drawn.
L/C Obligations
Section 1.09
"" has the meaning specified in the introductory paragraph hereto and, as the context requires, includes the Swing Line Lender.
Lender
 
"" means, as to any Lender, the office or offices of such Lender described as such in such Lender's Administrative Questionnaire, or such other office or offices as a Lender may from time to time notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
Lending Office
"" means any standby letter of credit issued hereunder. Letters of Credit may be issued in Dollars or in an Alternative Currency.
Letter of Credit
"" means an application and agreement for the issuance or amendment of a Letter of Credit in the form from time to time in use by the applicable L/C Issuer.
Letter of Credit Application
"" means the day that is seven days prior to the Maturity Date then in effect (or, if such day is not a Business Day, the next preceding Business Day).
Letter of Credit Expiration Date
"" has the meaning specified in .
Letter of Credit Fee
Section 2.03(i)
"" means an amount equal to $500,000,000. The Letter of Credit Sublimit is part of, and not in addition to, the Aggregate Commitments.
Letter of Credit Sublimit
"" means any mortgage, pledge, hypothecation, assignment, deposit arrangement, encumbrance, lien (statutory or other), charge, or preference, priority or other security interest or preferential arrangement in the nature of a security interest of any kind or nature whatsoever (including any conditional sale or other title retention agreement, any easement, right of way or other encumbrance on title to real property, and any financing lease having substantially the same economic effect as any of the foregoing).
Lien
"" means an extension of credit by a Lender to a Borrower under in the form of a Committed Loan or a Swing Line Loan.
Loan
Article II
"" means this Agreement, each Note, each Issuer Document and the Fee Letters.
Loan Documents
"" means, with respect to any period, the percentage rate per annum determined in accordance with .
Mandatory Cost
Schedule 1.01
"" means (a) a material adverse change in, or a material adverse effect on, the operations, business, assets, properties or financial condition of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole or (b) a material impairment of the ability of the Borrower to perform its obligations under any Loan Documents.
Material Adverse Effect
"" means the later of (a) August 17, 2012 and (b) if maturity is extended pursuant to , such extended maturity date as determined pursuant to such Section; , , that with respect to any Non-Extending Lender, its Maturity Date shall be the Existing Maturity Date; , that, in each case, if such date is not a Business Day, the Maturity Date shall be the next preceding Business Day.
Maturity Date
Section 2.14
provided
however
provided
further
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and any successor thereto.
Moody's
"" means any employee benefit plan of the type described in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA, to which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate makes or is obligated to make contributions, or during the preceding five plan years, has made or been obligated to make contributions.
Multiemployer Plan
 
"" has the meaning specified in .
Non-Extending Lender
Section 2.14(b)
"" means a promissory note made by a Borrower in favor of a Lender evidencing Loans made by such Lender to the Borrower, substantially in the form of .
Note
Exhibit 2.11
"" means all advances to, and debts, liabilities, obligations, covenants and duties of, the Borrower arising under any Loan Document or otherwise with respect to any Loan or Letter of Credit, whether direct or indirect (including those acquired by assumption), absolute or contingent, due or to become due, now existing or hereafter arising and including interest and fees that accrue after the commencement by or against the Borrower or any Affiliate thereof of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Laws naming such Person as the debtor in such proceeding, regardless of whether such interest and fees are allowed claims in such proceeding.
Obligations
"" means the certificate or articles of incorporation and the bylaws (or equivalent or comparable constitutive documents).
Organization Documents
"" means all present or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies arising from any payment made hereunder or under any other Loan Document or from the execution, delivery or enforcement of, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
Other Taxes
"" means (a) with respect to Committed Loans on any date, the Dollar Equivalent amount of the aggregate outstanding principal amount thereof after giving effect to any borrowings and prepayments or repayments of such Committed Loans occurring on such date; (b) with respect to Swing Line Loans on any date, the aggregate outstanding principal amount thereof after giving effect to any borrowings and prepayments or repayments of such Swing Line Loans occurring on such date; and (c) with respect to any L/C Obligations on any date, the Dollar Equivalent amount of the aggregate outstanding amount of such L/C Obligations on such date after giving effect to any L/C Credit Extension occurring on such date and any other changes in the aggregate amount of the L/C Obligations as of such date, including as a result of any reimbursements by the Borrower of Unreimbursed Amounts.
Outstanding Amount
"" means, for any day, (a) with respect to any amount denominated in Dollars, the greater of (i) the Federal Funds Rate and (ii) an overnight rate determined by the Administrative Agent, the applicable L/C Issuer, or the Swing Line Lender, as the case may be, in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation, and (b) with respect to any amount denominated in an Alternative Currency, the rate of interest per annum at which overnight deposits in the applicable Alternative Currency, in an amount approximately equal to the amount with respect to which such rate is being determined, would be offered for such day by a branch or Affiliate of Bank of America in the applicable offshore interbank market for such currency to major banks in such interbank market.
Overnight Rate
"" has the meaning specified in .
Participant
Section 10.06(d)
"" means each state so described in any EMU Legislation.
Participating Member State
"" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation.
PBGC
"" means any "employee pension benefit plan" (as such term is defined in Section 3(2) of ERISA), other than a Multiemployer Plan, that is subject to Title IV of ERISA and is sponsored or maintained by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate or to which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate contributes or has an obligation to contribute, or in the case of a multiple employer or other plan described in Section 4064(a) of ERISA, has made contributions at any time during the immediately preceding five plan years.
Pension Plan
 
"" means Investments consisting of an Acquisition by the Borrower or its Subsidiaries, that in the case of an Acquisition of the voting capital stock or other voting equity interests of another Person, the board of directors (or other comparable governing body) of such other Person shall have duly approved such Acquisition.
Permitted Acquisitions
provided
"" means any natural person, corporation, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association, company, partnership, Governmental Authority or other entity.
Person
"" means any "employee benefit plan" (as such term is defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA) established by the Borrower or, with respect to any such plan that is subject to Section 412 of the Code or Title IV of ERISA, any ERISA Affiliate.
Plan
"" has the meaning specified in .
Platform
Section 6.02
"" has the meaning specified in .
Public Lender
Section 6.02
"" has the meaning specified in .
Register
Section 10.06(c)
"" means, with respect to any Person, such Person's Affiliates and the partners, directors, officers, employees, agents and advisors of such Person and of such Person's Affiliates.
Related Parties
"" means any of the events set forth in Section 4043(c) of ERISA, other than events for which the 30 day notice period has been waived.
Reportable Event
"" means (a) with respect to a Borrowing, conversion or continuation of Committed Loans, a Committed Loan Notice, (b) with respect to an L/C Credit Extension, a Letter of Credit Application, and (c) with respect to a Swing Line Loan, a Swing Line Loan Notice.
Request for Credit Extension
"" means, as of any date of determination, Lenders having more than 50% of the Aggregate Commitments or, if the commitment of each Lender to make Loans and the obligation of each L/C Issuer to make L/C Credit Extensions have been terminated pursuant to or an Event of Default exists under Section 8.01(a)(i), Lenders holding in the aggregate more than 50% of the Total Outstandings (with the aggregate amount of each Lender's risk participation and funded participation in L/C Obligations and Swing Line Loans being deemed "held" by such Lender for purposes of this definition); that the Commitment of, and the portion of the Total Outstandings held or deemed held by, any Defaulting Lender shall be excluded for purposes of making a determination of Required Lenders.
Required Lenders
Section 8.02
provided
"" means the chief executive officer, chief financial officer, treasurer or, assistant treasurer of the Borrower and any other officer of the Borrower so designated by any of the foregoing officers in a written notice to the Administrative AgentAny document delivered hereunder that is signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower shall be conclusively presumed to have been authorized by all necessary corporate, partnership and/or other action on the part of the Borrower and such Responsible Officer shall be conclusively presumed to have acted on behalf of the Borrower.
Responsible Officer
.
"" means (a) with respect to any Loan, each of the following: (i) each date of a Borrowing of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan denominated in an Alternative Currency, (ii) each date of a continuation of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan denominated in an Alternative Currency pursuant to , and (iii) such additional dates as the Administrative Agent shall determine or the Required
Revaluation Date
Section 2.02
 
Lenders shall require; and (b) with respect to any Letter of Credit, each of the following: (i) each date of issuance of a Letter of Credit denominated in an Alternative Currency, (ii) each date of an amendment of any such Letter of Credit having the effect of increasing the amount thereof (solely with respect to the increased amount), (iii) each date of any payment by the applicable L/C Issuer under any Letter of Credit denominated in an Alternative Currency, and (iv) such additional dates as the Administrative Agent or the applicable L/C Issuer shall determine or the Required Lenders shall require.
"" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. and any successor thereto.
S&P
"" means (a) with respect to disbursements and payments in Dollars, immediately available funds, and (b) with respect to disbursements and payments in an Alternative Currency, same day or other funds as may be determined by the Administrative Agent or the applicable L/C Issuer, as the case may be, to be customary in the place of disbursement or payment for the settlement of international banking transactions in the relevant Alternative Currency.
Same Day Funds
"" means the Securities and Exchange Commission, or any Governmental Authority succeeding to any of its principal functions.
SEC
"" or "" means, with respect to any Person as of a particular date, that on such date (a) such Person is able to pay its debts and other liabilities, contingent obligations and other commitments as they mature in the ordinary course of business, (b) such Person does not intend to, and does not believe that it will, incur debts or liabilities beyond such Person's ability to pay such debts and liabilities as they mature in the ordinary course of business, (c) such Person is not engaged in a business or a transaction, and is not about to engage in a business or a transaction, for which such Person's property would constitute unreasonably small capital, (d) the fair value of the property of such Person is greater than the total amount of liabilities, including contingent liabilities, of such Person and (e) the present fair salable value of the assets of such Person is not less than the amount that will be required to pay the probable liability of such Person on its debts as they become absolute and matured. The amount of contingent liabilities at any time shall be computed as the amount that, in the light of all the facts and circumstances existing at such time, represents the amount that can reasonably be expected to become an actual or matured liability.
Solvent
Solvency
"" means at any time an Alternative Currency, other than the currency of a country that is a member of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development at such time located in North America or Europe.
Special Notice Currency
"" for a currency means the rate determined by the Administrative Agent or an L/C Issuer, as applicable, to be the rate quoted by the Person acting in such capacity as the spot rate for the purchase by such Person of such currency with another currency through its principal foreign exchange trading office at approximately 10:00 a.m. on the date two Business Days prior to the date as of which the foreign exchange computation is made (which shall be no less favorable to the Borrower than the rate then generally quoted by the Administrative Agent or such L/C Issuer, as applicable, for transactions of like size); that the Administrative Agent or such L/C Issuer may obtain such spot rate from another financial institution designated by the Administrative Agent or such L/C Issuer if the Person acting in such capacity does not have as of the date of determination a spot buying rate for any such currency; and that such L/C Issuer may use such spot rate quoted on the date as of which the foreign exchange computation is made in the case of any Letter of Credit denominated in an Alternative Currency.
Spot Rate
provided
provided
further
"" and "" mean the lawful currency of the United Kingdom.
Sterling
 
"" of a Person means a corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company or other business entity which is consolidated with such Person under GAAP. Unless otherwise specified, all references herein to a "Subsidiary" or to "Subsidiaries" shall refer to a Subsidiary or Subsidiaries of the Borrower.
Subsidiary
"" means (a) any and all rate swap transactions, basis swaps, credit derivative transactions, forward rate transactions, commodity swaps, commodity options, forward commodity contracts, equity or equity index swaps or options, bond or bond price or bond index swaps or options or forward bond or forward bond price or forward bond index transactions, interest rate options, forward foreign exchange transactions, cap transactions, floor transactions, collar transactions, currency swap transactions, cross-currency rate swap transactions, currency options, spot contracts, or any other similar transactions or any combination of any of the foregoing (including any options to enter into any of the foregoing), whether or not any such transaction is governed by or subject to any master agreement, and (b) any and all transactions of any kind, and the related confirmations, which are subject to the terms and conditions of, or governed by, any form of master agreement published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc., any International Foreign Exchange Master Agreement, or any similar master agreement (any such master agreement, together with any related schedules, a "Master Agreement"), including any such obligations or liabilities under any Master Agreement.
Swap Contract
"" means, in respect of any one or more Swap Contracts, after taking into account the effect of any legally enforceable netting agreement relating to such Swap Contracts, (a) for any date on or after the date such Swap Contracts have been closed out and termination value(s) determined in accordance therewith, such termination value(s), and (b) for any date prior to the date referenced in clause (a), the amount(s) determined as the mark-to-market value(s) for such Swap Contracts, as determined based upon one or more mid-market or other readily available quotations provided by any recognized dealer in such Swap Contracts (which may include a Lender or any Affiliate of a Lender).
Swap Termination Value
"" means a borrowing of a Swing Line Loan pursuant to .
Swing Line Borrowing
Section 2.04
"" means Bank of America in its capacity as provider of Swing Line Loans, or any successor swing line lender hereunder.
Swing Line Lender
"" has the meaning specified in .
Swing Line Loan
Section 2.04(a)
"" means a notice of a Swing Line Borrowing pursuant to , which, if in writing, shall be substantially in the form of .
Swing Line Loan Notice
Section 2.04(b)
Exhibit 2.04
"" means an amount equal to the lesser of (a) $250,000,000 and (b) the Aggregate Commitments. The Swing Line Sublimit is part of, and not in addition to, the Aggregate Commitments.
Swing Line Sublimit
"" means the monetary obligation of a Person under (a) a so-called synthetic, off-balance sheet or tax retention lease, or (b) an agreement for the use or possession of property creating obligations that do not appear on the balance sheet of such Person but which, upon the insolvency or bankruptcy of such Person, would be characterized as the indebtedness of such Person (without regard to accounting treatment).
Synthetic Lease Obligation
"" means any day on which the Trans-European Automated Real-time Gross Settlement Express Transfer (TARGET) payment system (or, if such payment system ceases to be operative, such other payment system (if any) determined by the Administrative Agent to be a suitable replacement) is open for the settlement of payments in Euro.
TARGET Day
 
"" means all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, deductions, withholdings, assessments, fees or other charges imposed by any Governmental Authority, including any interest, additions to tax or penalties applicable thereto.
Taxes
"" means $150,000,000.
Threshold Amount
"" means the aggregate Outstanding Amount of all Loans and all L/C Obligations.
Total Outstandings
"" means, with respect to a Committed Loan, its character as a Base Rate Loan or a Eurocurrency Rate Loan.
Type
"" means the excess of a Pension Plan's benefit liabilities under Section 4001(a)(16) of ERISA, over the current value of that Pension Plan's assets, determined in accordance with the assumptions used for funding the Pension Plan pursuant to Section 412 of the Code for the applicable plan year.
Unfunded Pension Liability
"" and "" mean the United States of America.
United States
U.S.
"" has the meaning specified in .
Unreimbursed Amount
Section 2.03(c)(i)
"" and "" mean the lawful currency of Japan.
Yen
 
With reference to this Agreement and each other Loan Document, unless otherwise specified herein or in such other Loan Document:
(a) The definitions of terms herein shall apply equally to the singular and plural forms of the terms defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words "," "" and "" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation." The word "" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the word "." Unless the context requires otherwise, (i) any definition of or reference to any agreement, instrument or other document (including any Organization Document) shall be construed as referring to such agreement, instrument or other document as from time to time amended, supplemented or otherwise modified (subject to any restrictions on such amendments, supplements or modifications set forth herein or in any other Loan Document), (ii) any reference herein to any Person shall be construed to include such Person's successors and assigns, (iii) the words "," "" and "," and words of similar import when used in any Loan Document, shall be construed to refer to such Loan Document in its entirety and not to any particular provision thereof, (iv) all references in a Loan Document to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules shall be construed to refer to Articles and Sections of, and Exhibits and Schedules to, the Loan Document in which such references appear, (v) any reference to any law shall include all statutory and regulatory provisions consolidating, amending, replacing or interpreting such law and any reference to any law or regulation shall, unless otherwise specified, refer to such law or regulation as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, and (vi) the words "" and "" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect and to refer to any and all tangible and intangible assets and properties, including cash, securities, accounts and contract rights.
include
includes
including
will
shall
herein
hereof
hereunder
asset
property
 
(b) In the computation of periods of time from a specified date to a later specified date, the word "" means ";" the words "" and "" each mean ";" and the word "" means "."
from
from and including
to
until
to but excluding
through
to and including
(c) Section headings herein and in the other Loan Documents are included for convenience of reference only and shall not affect the interpretation of this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
 
(a) . All accounting terms not specifically or completely defined herein shall be construed in conformity with, and all financial data (including financial ratios and other financial calculations) required to be submitted pursuant to this Agreement shall be prepared in conformity with, GAAP as in effect from time to time, applied in a manner consistent with that used in preparing the Audited Financial Statements, as otherwise specifically prescribed herein.
Generally
except
(b) . If at any time any change in GAAP would affect the computation of any financial ratio or requirement set forth in any Loan Document, and either the Borrower or the Required Lenders shall so request, the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the Borrower shall negotiate in good faith to amend such ratio or requirement to preserve the original intent thereof in light of such change in GAAP (subject to the approval of the Required Lenders); , until so amended, (i) such ratio or requirement shall continue to be computed in accordance with GAAP prior to such change therein and (ii) the Borrower shall provide to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders financial statements and other documents required under this Agreement or as reasonably requested hereunder setting forth a reconciliation between calculations of such ratio or requirement made before and after giving effect to such change in GAAP.
Changes in GAAP
provided
that
(c) . All references herein to consolidated financial statements of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries or to the determination of any amount for the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis or any similar reference shall, in each case, be deemed to include each variable interest entity that the Borrower is required to consolidate pursuant to FASB Interpretation No. 46  Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities: an interpretation of ARB No. 51 (January 2003) as if such variable interest entity were a Subsidiary as defined herein.
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities
 
Any financial ratios required to be maintained by the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement shall be calculated by dividing the appropriate component by the other component, carrying the result to one place more than the number of places by which such ratio is expressed herein and rounding the result up or down to the nearest number with the same number of places as such ratio is expressed herein (with a rounding-up if there is no nearest number).
 
(a) The Administrative Agent or an L/C Issuer, as applicable, shall determine the Spot Rates as of each Revaluation Date to be used for calculating Dollar Equivalent amounts of Credit Extensions and Outstanding Amounts denominated in Alternative Currencies. Such Spot Rates shall become effective as of such Revaluation Date and shall be the Spot Rates employed in converting any amounts
 
between the applicable currencies until the next Revaluation Date to occur. Except for purposes of financial statements delivered by the Borrower hereunder or calculating financial covenants hereunder or except as otherwise provided herein, the applicable amount of any currency (other than Dollars) for purposes of the Loan Documents shall be such Dollar Equivalent amount as so determined by the Administrative Agent or an L/C Issuer, as applicable.
(b) Wherever in this Agreement in connection with a Committed Borrowing, conversion, continuation or prepayment of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan or the issuance, amendment or extension of a Letter of Credit, an amount, such as a required minimum or multiple amount, is expressed in Dollars, but such Committed Borrowing, Eurocurrency Rate Loan or Letter of Credit is denominated in an Alternative Currency, such amount shall be the relevant Alternative Currency Equivalent of such Dollar amount (rounded to the nearest unit of such Alternative Currency, with 0.5 of a unit being rounded upward), as determined by the Administrative Agent or an L/C Issuer, as the case may be.
 
(a) The Borrower may from time to time request that Eurocurrency Rate Loans be made and/or Letters of Credit be issued in a currency other than those specifically listed in the definition of "Alternative Currency;" that such requested currency is a lawful currency (other than Dollars) that is readily available and freely transferable and convertible into Dollars. In the case of any such request with respect to the making of Eurocurrency Rate Loans, such request shall be subject to the approval of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders; and in the case of any such request with respect to the issuance of Letters of Credit, such request shall be subject to the approval of the Administrative Agent and the L/C Issuers.
provided
(b) Any such request shall be made to the Administrative Agent not later than 10:00 a.m., ten Business Days (20 Business Days in the case of a Special Notice Currency) prior to the date of the desired Credit Extension (or such other time or date as may be agreed by the Administrative Agent and, in the case of any such request pertaining to Letters of Credit, the applicable L/C Issuer, in its or their sole discretion). In the case of any such request pertaining to Eurocurrency Rate Loans, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender thereof; and in the case of any such request pertaining to Letters of Credit, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the applicable L/C Issuer thereof. Each Lender (in the case of any such request pertaining to Eurocurrency Rate Loans) or the applicable L/C Issuer (in the case of a request pertaining to Letters of Credit) shall notify the Administrative Agent, not later than 10:00 a.m., five Business Days (ten Business Days in the case of a Special Notice Currency) after receipt of such request whether it consents, in its sole discretion, to the making of Eurocurrency Rate Loans or the issuance of Letters of Credit, as the case may be, in such requested currency.
(c) Any failure by a Lender or an L/C Issuer, as the case may be, to respond to such request within the time period specified in the preceding sentence shall be deemed to be a refusal by such Lender or such L/C Issuer, as the case may be, to permit Eurocurrency Rate Loans to be made or Letters of Credit to be issued in such requested currency. If the Administrative Agent and all the Lenders consent to making Eurocurrency Rate Loans in such requested currency, the Administrative Agent shall so notify the Borrower and such currency shall thereupon be deemed for all purposes to be an Alternative Currency hereunder for purposes of any Committed Borrowings of Eurocurrency Rate Loans; and if the Administrative Agent and the applicable L/C Issuer consent to the issuance of Letters of Credit in such requested currency, the Administrative Agent shall so notify the Borrower and such currency shall thereupon be deemed for all purposes to be an Alternative Currency hereunder for purposes of any Letter of Credit issuances. If the Administrative Agent shall fail to obtain consent to any request for an additional currency under this , the Administrative Agent shall promptly so notify the Borrower.
Section 1.06
 
(a) Each obligation of the Borrower to make a payment denominated in the national currency unit of any member state of the European Union that adopts the Euro as its lawful currency after the date hereof shall be redenominated into Euro at the time of such adoption (in accordance with the EMU Legislation). If, in relation to the currency of any such member state, the basis of accrual of interest expressed in this Agreement in respect of that currency shall be inconsistent with any convention or practice in the London interbank market for the basis of accrual of interest in respect of the Euro, such expressed basis shall be replaced by such convention or practice with effect from the date on which such member state adopts the Euro as its lawful currency; that if any Committed Borrowing in the currency of such member state is outstanding immediately prior to such date, such replacement shall take effect, with respect to such Committed Borrowing, at the end of the then current Interest Period.
provided
(b) Each provision of this Agreement shall be subject to such reasonable changes of construction as the Administrative Agent may from time to time specify to be appropriate to reflect the adoption of the Euro by any member state of the European Union and any relevant market conventions or practices relating to the Euro.
(c) Each provision of this Agreement also shall be subject to such reasonable changes of construction as the Administrative Agent may from time to time specify to be appropriate to reflect a change in currency of any other country and any relevant market conventions or practices relating to the change in currency.
 
Unless otherwise specified, all references herein to times of day shall be references to Pacific time (daylight or standard, as applicable).
 
Unless otherwise specified herein, the amount of a Letter of Credit at any time shall be deemed to be the Dollar Equivalent of the stated amount of such Letter of Credit in effect at such time; , , that with respect to any Letter of Credit that, by its terms or the terms of any Issuer Document related thereto, provides for one or more automatic increases in the stated amount thereof, the amount of such Letter of Credit shall be deemed to be the Dollar Equivalent of the maximum stated amount of such Letter of Credit after giving effect to all such increases, whether or not such maximum stated amount is in effect at such time.
provided
however
 
Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Lender severally agrees to make loans (each such loan, a "") to the Borrower in Dollars or in one or more Alternative Currencies from time to time, on any Business Day during the Availability Period, in an aggregate amount not to exceed at any time outstanding the amount of such Lender's Commitment; , , that after giving effect to any Committed Borrowing, (i) the Total Outstandings shall not exceed the Aggregate Commitments, and (ii) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of the Committed Loans of any
Committed Loan
provided
however
 
Lender, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all L/C Obligations, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all Swing Line Loans shall not exceed such Lender's Commitment, and (iv) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of all Committed Loans denominated in Alternative Currencies shall not exceed the Alternative Currency Sublimit. Within the limits of each Lender's Commitment, and subject to the other terms and conditions hereof, the Borrower may borrow under this , prepay under , and reborrow under this . Committed Loans may be Base Rate Loans or Eurocurrency Rate Loans, as further provided herein.
plus
plus
Section 2.01
Section 2.05
Section 2.01
 
(a) Each Committed Borrowing, each conversion of Committed Loans from one Type to the other, and each continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans shall be made upon the Borrower's irrevocable notice to the Administrative Agent, which may be given by telephone. Each such notice must be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 11:00 a.m. (i) three Business Days prior to the requested date of any Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans denominated in Dollars or of any conversion of Eurocurrency Rate Loans denominated in Dollars to Base Rate Committed Loans, (ii) four Business Days (or five Business Days in the case of a Special Notice Currency) prior to the requested date of any Borrowing or continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans denominated in Alternative Currencies, and (iii) on the requested date of any Borrowing of Base Rate Committed Loans; , , that if the Borrower wishes to request Eurocurrency Rate Loans having an Interest Period other than one week or one, two, three or six months in duration as provided in the definition of "Interest Period," the applicable notice must be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 11:00 a.m. (i) four Business Days prior to the requested date of such Borrowing, conversion or continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans denominated in Dollars, or (ii) five Business Days (or six Business days in the case of a Special Notice Currency) prior to the requested date of such Borrowing, conversion or continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans denominated in Alternative Currencies, whereupon the Administrative Agent shall give prompt notice to the Lenders of such request and determine whether the requested Interest Period is acceptable to all of them. Not later than 11:00 a.m., (i) three Business Days before the requested date of such Borrowing, conversion or continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans denominated in Dollars, or (ii) four Business Days (or five Business days in the case of a Special Notice Currency) prior to the requested date of such Borrowing, conversion or continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans denominated in Alternative Currencies, the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower (which notice may be by telephone) whether or not the requested Interest Period has been consented to by all the Lenders. Each telephonic notice by the Borrower pursuant to this  must be confirmed promptly by delivery to the Administrative Agent of a written Committed Loan Notice, appropriately completed and signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower. Each Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $5,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof. Except as provided in  and , each Committed Borrowing of or conversion to Base Rate Committed Loans shall be in a principal amount of $500,000 or a whole multiple of $100,000 in excess thereof. Each Committed Loan Notice (whether telephonic or written) shall specify (i) whether the Borrower is requesting a Committed Borrowing, a conversion of Committed Loans from one Type to the other, or a continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans, (ii) the requested date of the Borrowing, conversion or continuation, as the case may be (which shall be a Business Day), (iii) the principal amount of Committed Loans to be borrowed, converted or continued, (iv) the Type of Committed Loans to be borrowed or to which existing Committed Loans are to be converted, (v) if applicable, the duration of the Interest Period with respect thereto and (vi) the currency of the Committed Loans to be borrowed. If the Borrower fails to specify a currency in a Committed Loan Notice requesting a Borrowing, then the Committed Loans so requested shall be made in Dollars. If the Borrower fails to specify a Type of Committed Loan in a Committed Loan Notice or if the Borrower fails to give a timely notice requesting a conversion or continuation, then the applicable Committed Loans shall be made as, or converted to, Base Rate Loans; , ,
provided
however
Section 2.02(a)
Sections 2.03(c)
2.04(c)
provided
however
 
that in the case of a failure to timely request a continuation of Committed Loans denominated in an Alternative Currency, such Loans shall be continued as Eurocurrency Rate Loans in their original currency with an Interest Period of one month. Any automatic conversion to Base Rate Loans shall be effective as of the last day of the Interest Period then in effect with respect to the applicable Eurocurrency Rate Loans. If the Borrower requests a Borrowing of, conversion to, or continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans in any such Committed Loan Notice, but fails to specify an Interest Period, it will be deemed to have specified an Interest Period of one month. No Committed Loan may be converted into or continued as a Committed Loan denominated in a different currency, but instead must be prepaid in the original currency of such Committed Loan and reborrowed in the other currency.
(b) Following receipt of a Committed Loan Notice, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of the amount (and currency) of its Applicable Percentage of the applicable Committed Loans, and if no timely notice of a conversion or continuation is provided by the Borrower, the Administrative Agent shall notify each Lender of the details of any automatic conversion to Base Rate Loans or continuation of Committed Loans denominated in a currency other than Dollars, in each case as described in the preceding clause. In the case of a Committed Borrowing, each Lender shall make the amount of its Committed Loan available to the Administrative Agent in Same Day Funds at the Administrative Agent's Office for the applicable currency not later than 12:00 noon, in the case of any Committed Loan denominated in Dollars, and not later than the Applicable Time specified by the Administrative Agent in the case of any Committed Loan in an Alternative Currency, in each case on the Business Day specified in the applicable Committed Loan Notice. Upon satisfaction of the applicable conditions set forth in (and, if such Borrowing is the initial Credit Extension, ), the Administrative Agent shall make all funds so received available to the Borrower in like funds as received by the Administrative Agent either by (i) crediting the account of the Borrower on the books of Bank of America with the amount of such funds or (ii) wire transfer of such funds, in each case in accordance with instructions provided to (and reasonably acceptable to) the Administrative Agent by the Borrower; , , that if, on the date the Committed Loan Notice with respect to such Borrowing denominated in Dollars is given by the Borrower, there are L/C Borrowings outstanding, then the proceeds of such Borrowing, , shall be applied to the payment in full of any such L/C Borrowings, and, , shall be made available to the Borrower as provided above.
Section 4.02
Section 4.01
provided
however
first
second
(c) Except as otherwise provided herein, a Eurocurrency Rate Loan may be continued or converted only on the last day of an Interest Period for such Eurocurrency Rate Loan. During the existence of a Default, no Loans may be requested as, converted to or continued as Eurocurrency Rate Loans (whether in Dollars or any Alternative Currency) without the consent of the Required Lenders, and the Required Lenders may demand that any or all of the then outstanding Eurocurrency Rate Loans denominated in an Alternative Currency be prepaid, or redenominated into Dollars in the amount of the Dollar Equivalent thereof, on the last day of the then current Interest Period with respect thereto.
(d) The Administrative Agent shall promptly (and in any event on the date of determination) notify the Borrower and the Lenders of the interest rate applicable to any Interest Period for Eurocurrency Rate Loans upon determination of such interest rate. At any time that Base Rate Loans are outstanding, the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders of any change in Bank of America's prime rate used in determining the Base Rate promptly following the public announcement of such change.
(e) After giving effect to all Committed Borrowings, all conversions of Committed Loans from one Type to the other, and all continuations of Committed Loans as the same Type, there shall not be more than ten Interest Periods in effect with respect to Committed Loans.
 
(a) .
The Letter of Credit Commitment
(i) Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, (A) each L/C Issuer agrees, in reliance upon the agreements of the Lenders set forth in this , (1) from time to time on any Business Day during the period from the Closing Date until the Letter of Credit Expiration Date, to issue Letters of Credit denominated in Dollars or in one or more Alternative Currencies for the account of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, as specified by the Borrower in requesting such Letter of Credit, and to amend or extend Letters of Credit previously issued by it, in accordance with clause (b) below, and (2) to honor drawings under the Letters of Credit; and (B) the Lenders severally agree to participate in Letters of Credit issued for the account of the Borrower or its Subsidiaries and any drawings thereunder; that after giving effect to any L/C Credit Extension with respect to any Letter of Credit, (x) the Total Outstandings shall not exceed the Aggregate Commitments, (y) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of the Committed Loans of any Lender, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all L/C Obligations, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all Swing Line Loans shall not exceed such Lender's Commitment, and (z) the Outstanding Amount of the L/C Obligations shall not exceed the Letter of Credit Sublimit. Each request by the Borrower for the issuance or amendment of a Letter of Credit shall be deemed to be a representation by the Borrower that the L/C Credit Extension so requested complies with the conditions set forth in the proviso to the preceding sentence. Within the foregoing limits, and subject to the terms and conditions hereof, the Borrower's ability to obtain Letters of Credit shall be fully revolving, and accordingly the Borrower may, during the foregoing period, obtain Letters of Credit to replace Letters of Credit that have expired or that have been drawn upon and reimbursed.
Section 2.03
provided
plus
plus
(ii) An L/C Issuer shall not issue any Letter of Credit, if:
(A) subject to , the expiry date of such requested Letter of Credit would occur more than twelve months after the date of issuance or last extension, unless the Required Lenders have approved such expiry date; or
Section 2.03(b)(iii)
(B) the expiry date of such requested Letter of Credit would occur after the Letter of Credit Expiration Date, unless all the Lenders have approved such expiry date.
(iii) An L/C Issuer shall not be under any obligation to issue any Letter of Credit if:
(A) any order, judgment or decree of any Governmental Authority or arbitrator shall by its terms purport to enjoin or restrain such L/C Issuer from issuing such Letter of Credit, or any Law applicable to such L/C Issuer or any request or directive (whether or not having the force of law) from any Governmental Authority with jurisdiction over such L/C Issuer shall prohibit, or request that such L/C Issuer refrain from, the issuance of letters of credit generally or such Letter of Credit in particular or shall impose upon such L/C Issuer with respect to such Letter of Credit any restriction, reserve or capital requirement (for which such L/C Issuer is not otherwise compensated hereunder) not in effect on the Closing Date, or shall impose upon such L/C Issuer any unreimbursed loss, cost or expense which was not applicable on the Closing Date and which such L/C Issuer in good faith deems material to it;
 
(B) the issuance of such Letter of Credit would violate one or more policies of such L/C Issuer applicable to letters of credit generally;
(C) except as otherwise agreed by the Administrative Agent and such L/C Issuer, such Letter of Credit is in an initial stated amount less than $100,000;
(D) except as otherwise agreed by the Administrative Agent and such L/C Issuer, such Letter of Credit is to be denominated in a currency other than Dollars or an Alternative Currency;
(E) the L/C Issuer does not as of the issuance date of such requested Letter of Credit issue Letters of Credit in the requested currency;
(F) such Letter of Credit contains any provisions for automatic reinstatement of the stated amount after any drawing thereunder; or
(G) a default of any Lender's obligations to fund under  exists or any Lender is at such time a Defaulting Lender hereunder, unless such L/C Issuer has entered into satisfactory arrangements with the Borrower or such Lender to eliminate such L/C Issuer's risk with respect to such Lender.
Section 2.03(c)
(iv) An L/C Issuer shall not amend any Letter of Credit if such L/C Issuer would not be permitted at such time to issue such Letter of Credit in its amended form under the terms hereof.
(v) An L/C Issuer shall be under no obligation to amend any Letter of Credit if (a) such L/C Issuer would have no obligation at such time to issue such Letter of Credit in its amended form under the terms hereof, or (b) the beneficiary of such Letter of Credit does not accept the proposed amendment to such Letter of Credit.
(vi) An L/C Issuer shall act on behalf of the Lenders with respect to any Letters of Credit issued by it and the documents associated therewith, and such L/C Issuer shall have all of the benefits and immunities (a) provided to the Administrative Agent in with respect to any acts taken or omissions suffered by such L/C Issuer in connection with Letters of Credit issued by it or proposed to be issued by it and Issuer Documents pertaining to such Letters of Credit as fully as if the term "Administrative Agent" as used in included such L/C Issuer with respect to such acts or omissions, and (b) as additionally provided herein with respect to such L/C Issuer.
Article IX
Article IX
(b) .
Procedures for Issuance and Amendment of Letters of Credit; Auto-Extension Letters of Credit
(i) Each Letter of Credit shall be issued or amended, as the case may be, upon the request of the Borrower delivered to applicable L/C Issuer (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) in the form of a Letter of Credit Application, appropriately completed and signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower. Such Letter of Credit Application must be received by the applicable L/C Issuer and the Administrative Agent not later than 11:00 a.m. at least two Business Days (or such later date and time as the Administrative Agent and such L/C Issuer may agree in a particular instance in their sole discretion) prior to the proposed issuance date or date of amendment, as the case may be. In the case of a request for an initial issuance of a Letter of Credit, such Letter of Credit Application shall specify in form and detail reasonably satisfactory
 
to the applicable L/C Issuer: (A) the proposed issuance date of the requested Letter of Credit (which shall be a Business Day); (B) the amount and currency thereof; (C) the expiry date thereof; (D) the name and address of the beneficiary thereof; (E) the documents to be presented by such beneficiary in case of any drawing thereunder; (F) the full text of any certificate to be presented by such beneficiary in case of any drawing thereunder; (G) the purpose and nature of the requested Letter of Credit; and (H) such other matters as such L/C Issuer may require. In the case of a request for an amendment of any outstanding Letter of Credit, such Letter of Credit Application shall specify in form and detail satisfactory to such L/C Issuer (A) the Letter of Credit to be amended; (B) the proposed date of amendment thereof (which shall be a Business Day); (C) the nature of the proposed amendment; and (D) such other matters as such L/C Issuer may reasonably require. Additionally, the Borrower shall furnish to such L/C Issuer and the Administrative Agent such other documents and information pertaining to such requested Letter of Credit issuance or amendment, including any Issuer Documents, as such L/C Issuer or the Administrative Agent may reasonably require.
(ii) Promptly after receipt of any Letter of Credit Application, the applicable L/C Issuer will confirm with the Administrative Agent (by telephone or in writing) that the Administrative Agent has received a copy of such Letter of Credit Application from the Borrower and, if not, such L/C Issuer will provide the Administrative Agent with a copy thereof. Unless the applicable L/C Issuer has received written notice from any Lender, the Administrative Agent or the Borrower, at least one Business Day prior to the requested date of issuance or amendment of the applicable Letter of Credit, that one or more applicable conditions contained in shall not then be satisfied, then, subject to the terms and conditions hereof, such L/C Issuer shall, on the requested date, issue a Letter of Credit for the account of the Borrower (or the applicable Subsidiary) or enter into the applicable amendment, as the case may be, in each case in accordance with such L/C Issuer's usual and customary business practices. Immediately upon the issuance of each Letter of Credit, each Lender shall be deemed to, and hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees to, purchase from such L/C Issuer a risk participation in such Letter of Credit in an amount equal to the product of such Lender's Applicable Percentage times the amount of such Letter of Credit.
Article IV
(iii) If the Borrower so requests in any applicable Letter of Credit Application, the applicable L/C Issuer may, in its sole and absolute discretion, agree to issue a Letter of Credit that has automatic extension provisions (each, an ""); that any such Auto-Extension Letter of Credit must permit such L/C Issuer to prevent any such extension at least once in each twelve-month period (commencing with the date of issuance of such Letter of Credit) by giving prior notice to the beneficiary thereof not later than a day (the "") in each such twelve-month period to be agreed upon at the time such Letter of Credit is issued. Unless otherwise directed by the applicable L/C Issuer, the Borrower shall not be required to make a specific request to such L/C Issuer for any such extension. Once an Auto-Extension Letter of Credit has been issued, the Lenders shall be deemed to have authorized (but may not require) the applicable L/C Issuer to permit the extension of such Letter of Credit at any time to an expiry date not later than the Letter of Credit Expiration Date; , , that such L/C Issuer shall not permit any such extension if (A) such L/C Issuer has determined that it would not be permitted, or would have no obligation, at such time to issue such Letter of Credit in its revised form (as extended) under the terms hereof (by reason of the provisions of clause (ii) or (iii) of  or otherwise), or (B) it has received notice (which may be by telephone or in writing) on or before the day that is seven Business Days before the Non-Extension Notice Date (1) from the Administrative Agent that the Required Lenders have elected not to permit such extension or (2) from the Administrative Agent, any Lender or the Borrower that one or more of the applicable conditions specified in is not then satisfied, and in each such case directing such L/C Issuer not to permit such extension.
Auto-Extension Letter of Credit
provided
Non-Extension Notice Date
provided
however
Section 2.03(a)
Section 4.02
 
(iv) Promptly after its delivery of any Letter of Credit or any amendment to a Letter of Credit to an advising bank with respect thereto or to the beneficiary thereof, the applicable L/C Issuer will also deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent a true and complete copy of such Letter of Credit or amendment.
(c) .
Drawings and Reimbursements; Funding of Participations
(i) Upon receipt from the beneficiary of any Letter of Credit of any notice of a drawing under such Letter of Credit, the applicable L/C Issuer shall notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent thereof. In the case of a Letter of Credit denominated in an Alternative Currency, the Borrower shall reimburse such L/C Issuer in such Alternative Currency, unless (A) such L/C Issuer (at its option) shall have specified in such notice that it will require reimbursement in Dollars, or (B) in the absence of any such requirement for reimbursement in Dollars, the Borrower shall have notified such L/C Issuer promptly following receipt of the notice of drawing that the Borrower will reimburse such L/C Issuer in Dollars. In the case of any such reimbursement in Dollars of a drawing under a Letter of Credit denominated in an Alternative Currency, the applicable L/C Issuer shall notify the Borrower of the Dollar Equivalent of the amount of the drawing promptly following the determination thereof. Not later than 11:00 a.m. on the date of any payment by the applicable L/C Issuer under a Letter of Credit to be reimbursed in Dollars, or the Applicable Time on the date of any payment by such L/C Issuer under a Letter of Credit to be reimbursed in an Alternative Currency (each such date, an ""), the Borrower shall reimburse such L/C Issuer through the Administrative Agent in an amount equal to the amount of such drawing and in the applicable currency. If the Borrower fails to so reimburse the applicable L/C Issuer by such time, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of the Honor Date, the amount of the unreimbursed drawing (expressed in Dollars in the amount of the Dollar Equivalent thereof in the case of a Letter of Credit denominated in an Alternative Currency) (the ""), and the amount of such Lender's Applicable Percentage thereof. In such event, the Borrower shall be deemed to have requested a Committed Borrowing of Base Rate Loans to be disbursed on the Honor Date in an amount equal to the Unreimbursed Amount, without regard to the minimum and multiples specified in for the principal amount of Base Rate Loans, but subject to the amount of the unutilized portion of the Aggregate Commitments and the conditions set forth in (other than the delivery of a Committed Loan Notice). Any notice given by the applicable L/C Issuer or the Administrative Agent pursuant to this  may be given by telephone if immediately confirmed in writing; that the lack of such an immediate confirmation shall not affect the conclusiveness or binding effect of such notice.
Honor Date
Unreimbursed Amount
Section 2.02
Section 4.02
Section 2.03(c)(i)
provided
(ii) Each Lender shall upon any notice pursuant to  make funds available to the Administrative Agent for the account of the applicable L/C Issuer, in Dollars, at the Administrative Agent's Office for Dollar-denominated payments in an amount equal to its Applicable Percentage of the Unreimbursed Amount not later than 12:00 noon on the Business Day specified in such notice by the Administrative Agent, whereupon, subject to the provisions of , each Lender that so makes funds available shall be deemed to have made a Base Rate Committed Loan to the Borrower in such amount. The Administrative Agent shall remit the funds so received to such L/C Issuer in Dollars.
Section 2.03(c)(i)
Section 2.03(c)(iii)
(iii) With respect to any Unreimbursed Amount that is not fully refinanced by a Committed Borrowing of Base Rate Loans because the conditions set forth in cannot
Section 4.02
 
be satisfied or for any other reason, the Borrower shall be deemed to have incurred from the applicable L/C Issuer an L/C Borrowing in the amount of the Unreimbursed Amount that is not so refinanced, which L/C Borrowing shall be due and payable on demand (together with interest) and shall bear interest at the Default Rate. In such event, each Lender's payment to the Administrative Agent for the account of the applicable L/C Issuer pursuant to  shall be deemed payment in respect of its participation in such L/C Borrowing and shall constitute an L/C Advance from such Lender in satisfaction of its participation obligation under this .
Section 2.03(c)(ii)
Section 2.03
(iv) Until each Lender funds its Committed Loan or L/C Advance pursuant to this  to reimburse the applicable L/C Issuer for any amount drawn under any Letter of Credit, interest in respect of such Lender's Applicable Percentage of such amount shall be solely for the account of such L/C Issuer.
Section 2.03(c)
(v) Each Lender's obligation to make Committed Loans or L/C Advances to reimburse the applicable L/C Issuer for amounts drawn under Letters of Credit, as contemplated by this , shall be absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance, including (A) any setoff, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other right which such Lender may have against such L/C Issuer, the Borrower, any Subsidiary or any other Person for any reason whatsoever; (B) the occurrence or continuance of a Default, or (C) any other occurrence, event or condition, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing; , , that each Lender's obligation to make Committed Loans pursuant to this  is subject to the conditions set forth in (other than delivery by the Borrower of a Committed Loan Notice). No such making of an L/C Advance shall relieve or otherwise impair the obligation of the Borrower to reimburse the applicable L/C Issuer for the amount of any payment made by such L/C Issuer under any Letter of Credit, together with interest as provided herein.
Section 2.03(c)
provided
however
Section 2.03(c)
Section 4.02
(vi) If any Lender fails to make available to the Administrative Agent for the account of the applicable L/C Issuer any amount required to be paid by such Lender pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this  by the time specified in , such L/C Issuer shall be entitled to recover from such Lender (acting through the Administrative Agent), on demand, such amount with interest thereon for the period from the date such payment is required to the date on which such payment is immediately available to such L/C Issuer at a rate per annum equal to the applicable Overnight Rate from time to time in effect, plus any administrative, processing or similar fees customarily charged by such L/C Issuer in connection with the foregoing. If such Lender pays such amount (with interest and fees as aforesaid), the amount so paid shall constitute such Lender's Committed Loan included in the relevant Committed Borrowing or L/C Advance in respect of the relevant L/C Borrowing, as the case may be. A certificate of the applicable L/C Issuer submitted to any Lender (through the Administrative Agent) with respect to any amounts owing under this clause (vi) shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
Section 2.03(c)
Section 2.03(c)(ii)
(d) .
Repayment of Participations
(i) At any time after the applicable L/C Issuer has made a payment under any Letter of Credit and has received from any Lender such Lender's L/C Advance in respect of such payment in accordance with , if the Administrative Agent receives for the account of such L/C Issuer any payment in respect of the related Unreimbursed Amount or interest thereon (whether directly from the Borrower or otherwise, including proceeds of Cash Collateral applied thereto by the Administrative Agent), the Administrative Agent will distribute to such Lender its Applicable Percentage thereof in Dollars and in the same funds as those received by the Administrative Agent.
Section 2.03(c)
 
(ii) If any payment received by the Administrative Agent for the account of the applicable L/C Issuer pursuant to  is required to be returned under any of the circumstances described in (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by such L/C Issuer in its reasonable discretion), each Lender shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of such L/C Issuer its Applicable Percentage thereof on demand of the Administrative Agent, plus interest thereon from the date of such demand to the date such amount is returned by such Lender, at a rate per annum equal to the applicable Overnight Rate from time to time in effect. The obligations of the Lenders under this clause shall survive the payment in full of the Obligations and the termination of this Agreement.
Section 2.03(c)(i)
Section 10.05
(e) . The obligation of the Borrower to reimburse the applicable L/C Issuer for each drawing under each Letter of Credit and to repay each L/C Borrowing shall be absolute, unconditional and irrevocable, and shall be paid strictly in accordance with the terms of this Agreement under all circumstances, including the following:
Obligations Absolute
(i) any lack of validity or enforceability of such Letter of Credit, this Agreement, or any other Loan Document;
(ii) the existence of any claim, counterclaim, setoff, defense or other right that the Borrower or any Subsidiary may have at any time against any beneficiary or any transferee of such Letter of Credit (or any Person for whom any such beneficiary or any such transferee may be acting), such L/C Issuer or any other Person, whether in connection with this Agreement, the transactions contemplated hereby or by such Letter of Credit or any agreement or instrument relating thereto, or any unrelated transaction;
(iii) any draft, demand, certificate or other document presented under such Letter of Credit proving to be forged, fraudulent, invalid or insufficient in any respect or any statement therein being untrue or inaccurate in any respect; or any loss or delay in the transmission or otherwise of any document required in order to make a drawing under such Letter of Credit;
(iv) any payment by such L/C Issuer under such Letter of Credit against presentation of a draft or certificate that does not strictly comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit; or any payment made by such L/C Issuer under such Letter of Credit to any Person purporting to be a trustee in bankruptcy, debtor-in-possession, assignee for the benefit of creditors, liquidator, receiver or other representative of or successor to any beneficiary or any transferee of such Letter of Credit, including any arising in connection with any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law;
(v) any adverse change in the relevant exchange rates or in the availability of the relevant Alternative Currency to the Borrower or any Subsidiary or in the relevant currency markets generally; or
(vi) any other circumstance or happening whatsoever, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing, including any other circumstance that might otherwise constitute a defense available to, or a discharge of, the Borrower or any Subsidiary.
The Borrower shall promptly examine a copy of each Letter of Credit and each amendment thereto that is delivered to it and, in the event of any claim of noncompliance with the Borrower's instructions or other irregularity, the Borrower will immediately notify the applicable L/C Issuer. The Borrower shall be conclusively deemed to have waived any such claim against such L/C Issuer and its correspondents unless such notice is given as aforesaid.
 
(f) . Each Lender and the Borrower agree that, in paying any drawing under a Letter of Credit, the applicable L/C Issuer shall not have any responsibility to obtain any document (other than any sight draft, certificates and documents expressly required by the Letter of Credit) or to ascertain or inquire as to the validity or accuracy of any such document or the authority of the Person executing or delivering any such document. None of the L/C Issuers, the Administrative Agent, any of their respective Related Parties nor any correspondent, participant or assignee of the L/C Issuers shall be liable to any Lender for (i) any action taken or omitted in connection herewith at the request or with the approval of the Lenders or the Required Lenders, as applicable; (ii) any action taken or omitted in the absence of gross negligence or willful misconduct; or (iii) the due execution, effectiveness, validity or enforceability of any document or instrument related to any Letter of Credit or Issuer Document. The Borrower hereby assumes all risks of the acts or omissions of any beneficiary or transferee with respect to its use of any Letter of Credit; , , that this assumption is not intended to, and shall not, preclude the Borrower's pursuing such rights and remedies as it may have against the beneficiary or transferee at law or under any other agreement. None of the L/C Issuers, the Administrative Agent, any of their respective Related Parties nor any correspondent, participant or assignee of the L/C Issuers shall be liable or responsible for any of the matters described in clauses (i) through (v) of ; , , that anything in such clauses to the contrary notwithstanding, the Borrower may have a claim against the L/C Issuer, and the L/C Issuers may be liable to the Borrower, to the extent, but only to the extent, of any direct, as opposed to consequential or exemplary, damages suffered by the Borrower which the Borrower proves in a final non-appealable judgment by a court of competent jurisdiction were caused by the L/C Issuers' willful misconduct or gross negligence or the L/C Issuers' failure to pay under any Letter of Credit after the presentation to it by the beneficiary of a sight draft and certificate(s) strictly complying with the terms and conditions of a Letter of Credit. In furtherance and not in limitation of the foregoing, the L/C Issuers may accept documents that appear on their face to be in order, without responsibility for further investigation, regardless of any notice or information to the contrary, and the L/C Issuers shall not be responsible for the validity or sufficiency of any instrument transferring or assigning or purporting to transfer or assign a Letter of Credit or the rights or benefits thereunder or proceeds thereof, in whole or in part, which may prove to be invalid or ineffective for any reason.
Role of L/C Issuer
provided
however
Section 2.03(e)
provided
however
(g) .
Cash Collateral
(i) Upon the request of the Administrative Agent, (A) if the applicable L/C Issuer has honored any full or partial drawing request under any Letter of Credit and such drawing has resulted in an L/C Borrowing, or (B) if, as of the Letter of Credit Expiration Date, any L/C Obligation for any reason remains outstanding, the Borrower shall, in each case, Cash Collateralize the then Outstanding Amount of all L/C Obligations and shall do so not later than 1:00 p.m. on the Business Day the Borrower receives such request if the Borrower receives such request prior to 11:00 a.m.; otherwise, no later than 11:00 a.m. on the next Business Day.
(ii) If the Administrative Agent notifies the Borrower at any time that the Outstanding Amount of all L/C Obligations at such time exceeds 105% of the Letter of Credit Sublimit then in effect, then, within two Business Days after receipt of such notice, the Borrower shall Cash Collateralize the L/C Obligations in an amount equal to the amount by which the Outstanding Amount of all L/C Obligations exceeds the Letter of Credit Sublimit.
(iii) The Administrative Agent may, at any time and from time to time after the initial deposit of Cash Collateral, request that additional Cash Collateral be provided in order to protect
 
against the results of exchange rate fluctuations and Borrower shall provide such additional Cash Collateral not later than 1:00 p.m. on the Business Day the Borrower receives such request if the Borrower receives such request prior to 11:00 a.m.; otherwise, no later than 11:00 a.m. on the next Business Day.
(iv) and  set forth certain additional requirements to deliver Cash Collateral hereunder. For purposes of this , and , "ralize" means to pledge and deposit with or deliver to the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the applicable L/C Issuer and the Lenders, as collateral for the L/C Obligations, cash or deposit account balances pursuant to documentation in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and such L/C Issuer (which documents are hereby consented to by the Lenders). Derivatives of such term have corresponding meanings. The Borrower hereby grants to the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the applicable L/C Issuer and the Lenders, a security interest in all such cash, deposit accounts and all balances therein and all proceeds of the foregoing. Cash Collateral shall be maintained in blocked, non-interest bearing deposit accounts at Bank of America.
Sections 2.05
8.02(c)
Section 2.03
Section 2.05
Section 8.02(c)
Cash Collate
(v) Upon the drawing of any Letter of Credit for which funds are on deposit as Cash Collateral, such funds shall be applied, to the extent permitted under applicable Law, to reimburse the relevant L/C Issuer. If any amount remains on deposit as Cash Collateral after such reimbursement and so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the excess shall be applied to Cash Collateralize any other Letter of Credit pursuant to this Section 2.03(g) and then the remainder shall be refunded to the Borrower.
(h) . Unless otherwise expressly agreed by the applicable L/C Issuer and the Borrower when a Letter of Credit is issued, the rules of the ISP shall apply to each standby Letter of Credit.
Applicability of ISP
(i) . The Borrower shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender in accordance with its Applicable Percentage, in Dollars, a Letter of Credit fee (the "") for each Letter of Credit equal to the Applicable Rate the Dollar Equivalent of the daily amount available to be drawn under such Letter of Credit. For purposes of computing the daily amount available to be drawn under any Letter of Credit, the amount of such Letter of Credit shall be determined in accordance with . Letter of Credit Fees shall be (i) due and payable on the last Business Day of each of January, April, July and October, commencing with the first such date to occur after the issuance of such Letter of Credit, on the Letter of Credit Expiration Date and thereafter on demand and (ii) computed on a quarterly basis in arrears. If there is any change in the Applicable Rate during any quarter, the daily amount available to be drawn under each Letter of Credit shall be computed and multiplied by the Applicable Rate separately for each period during such quarter that such Applicable Rate was in effect. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, upon the request of the Required Lenders, while any Event of Default exists, all Letter of Credit Fees shall accrue at the Default Rate.
Letter of Credit Fees
Letter of Credit Fee
times
Section 1.09
(j) . The Borrower shall pay directly to the applicable L/C Issuer for its own account, in Dollars, a fronting fee with respect to each Letter of Credit, at the rate per annum specified in the Joint Fee Letter, computed on the Dollar Equivalent of the daily amount available to be drawn under such Letter of Credit on a quarterly basis in arrears. Such fronting fee shall be due and payable on the tenth Business Day after the end of each January, April, July and October, in respect of the most recently-ended quarterly period (or portion thereof, in the case of the first payment), commencing with the first such date to occur after the issuance of such Letter of Credit, on the Letter of Credit Expiration Date and thereafter on demand. For purposes
Fronting Fee and Documentary and Processing Charges Payable to L/C Issuer
 
of computing the daily amount available to be drawn under any Letter of Credit, the amount of such Letter of Credit shall be determined in accordance with . In addition, the Borrower shall pay directly to the applicable L/C Issuer for its own account, in Dollars, the customary issuance, presentation, amendment and other processing fees, and other standard costs and charges, of the applicable L/C Issuer relating to letters of credit as from time to time in effect. Such customary fees and standard costs and charges are due and payable promptly following demand and are nonrefundable.
Section 1.09
(k) . In the event of any conflict between the terms hereof and the terms of any Issuer Document, the terms hereof shall control.
Conflict with Issuer Documents
(l) . Notwithstanding that a Letter of Credit issued or outstanding hereunder is in support of any obligations of, or is for the account of, a Subsidiary, the Borrower shall be obligated to reimburse the applicable L/C Issuer hereunder for any and all drawings under such Letter of Credit. The Borrower hereby acknowledges that the issuance of Letters of Credit for the account of Subsidiaries inures to the benefit of the Borrower, and that the Borrower's business derives substantial benefits from the businesses of such Subsidiaries.
Letters of Credit Issued for Subsidiaries
 
(a) . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Swing Line Lender agrees, in reliance upon the agreements of the other Lenders set forth in this , to make loans in Dollars (each such loan, a "") to the Borrower from time to time on any Business Day during the Availability Period in an aggregate amount not to exceed at any time outstanding the amount of the Swing Line Sublimit, notwithstanding the fact that such Swing Line Loans, when aggregated with the Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of Committed Loans and L/C Obligations of the Lender acting as Swing Line Lender, may exceed the amount of such Lender's Commitment; , , that after giving effect to any Swing Line Loan, (i) the Total Outstandings shall not exceed the Aggregate Commitments, and (ii) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of the Committed Loans of any Lender, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all L/C Obligations, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all Swing Line Loans shall not exceed such Lender's Commitment, and , , that the Borrower shall not use the proceeds of any Swing Line Loan to refinance any outstanding Swing Line Loan. Within the foregoing limits, and subject to the other terms and conditions hereof, the Borrower may borrow under this , prepay under , and reborrow under this . Each Swing Line Loan shall be a Base Rate Loan. Immediately upon the making of a Swing Line Loan, each Lender shall be deemed to, and hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees to, purchase from the Swing Line Lender a risk participation in such Swing Line Loan in an amount equal to the product of such Lender's Applicable Percentage the amount of such Swing Line Loan.
The Swing Line
Section 2.04
Swing Line Loan
provided
however
plus
plus
provided
further
Section 2.04
Section 2.05
Section 2.04
times
(b) . Each Swing Line Borrowing shall be made upon the Borrower's irrevocable notice to the Swing Line Lender and the Administrative Agent, which may be given by telephone. Each such notice must be received by the Swing Line Lender and the Administrative Agent not later than 12:00 noon on the requested borrowing date, and shall specify (i) the amount to be borrowed, which shall be a minimum of $5,000,000, and (ii) the requested borrowing date, which shall be a Business Day. Each such telephonic notice must be confirmed promptly by delivery to the Swing Line Lender and the Administrative Agent of a written Swing Line Loan Notice, appropriately completed and signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower. Promptly after receipt by the Swing Line Lender of any telephonic Swing Line Loan Notice, the Swing Line Lender will confirm with the Administrative Agent (by telephone or in writing) that the Administrative Agent has also received such Swing Line Loan Notice and, if not, the Swing Line Lender will notify the Administrative Agent (by telephone or in writing) of the contents thereof. Unless the Swing Line Lender has received notice (by telephone or in writing) from the
Borrowing Procedures
 
Administrative Agent (including at the request of any Lender) prior to 1:00 p.m. on the date of the proposed Swing Line Borrowing (A) directing the Swing Line Lender not to make such Swing Line Loan as a result of the limitations set forth in the first proviso to the first sentence of , or  that one or more of the applicable conditions specified in is not then satisfied, then, subject to the terms and conditions hereof, the Swing Line Lender will, not later than 2:00 p.m. on the borrowing date specified in such Swing Line Loan Notice, make the amount of its Swing Line Loan available to the Borrower at its office by crediting the account of the Borrower on the books of the Swing Line Lender in Same Day Funds (or by wire transfer to such account as may be designated by the Borrower in writing to the Administrative Agent and the Swing Line Lender).
Section 2.04(a)
(B)
Article IV
(c) .
Refinancing of Swing Line Loans
(i) Each Swing Line Loan shall be due and payable on the tenth Business Day following the making of such Swing Line Loan; that the Swing Line Lender at any time in its sole and absolute discretion may request, on behalf of the Borrower (which hereby irrevocably authorizes the Swing Line Lender to so request on its behalf), that each Lender make a Base Rate Committed Loan in an amount equal to such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the amount of Swing Line Loans then outstanding. Such request shall be made in writing (which written request shall be deemed to be a Committed Loan Notice for purposes hereof) and in accordance with the requirements of , without regard to the minimum and multiples specified therein for the principal amount of Base Rate Loans, but subject to the unutilized portion of the Aggregate Commitments and the conditions set forth in . The Swing Line Lender shall furnish the Borrower with a copy of the applicable Committed Loan Notice promptly after delivering such notice to the Administrative Agent. Each Lender shall make an amount equal to its Applicable Percentage of the amount specified in such Committed Loan Notice available to the Administrative Agent in Same Day Funds for the account of the Swing Line Lender at the Administrative Agent's Office for Dollar-denominated payments not later than 12:00 noon on the day specified in such Committed Loan Notice, whereupon, subject to , each Lender that so makes funds available shall be deemed to have made a Base Rate Committed Loan to the Borrower in such amount. The Administrative Agent shall remit the funds so received to the Swing Line Lender.
provided
Section 2.02
Section 4.02
Section 2.04(c)(ii)
(ii) If for any reason any Swing Line Loan cannot be refinanced by such a Committed Borrowing in accordance with , the request for Base Rate Committed Loans submitted by the Swing Line Lender as set forth herein shall be deemed to be a request by the Swing Line Lender that each of the Lenders fund its risk participation in the relevant Swing Line Loan and each Lender's payment to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Swing Line Lender pursuant to  shall be deemed payment in respect of such participation.
Section 2.04(c)(i)
Section 2.04(c)(i)
(iii) If any Lender fails to make available to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Swing Line Lender any amount required to be paid by such Lender pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this  by the time specified in , the Swing Line Lender shall be entitled to recover from such Lender (acting through the Administrative Agent), on demand, such amount with interest thereon for the period from the date such payment is required to the date on which such payment is immediately available to the Swing Line Lender at a rate per annum equal to the applicable Overnight Rate from time to time in effect, plus any administrative, processing or similar fees customarily charged by the Swing Line Lender in connection with the foregoing. If such Lender pays such amount (with interest and fees as aforesaid), the amount so paid shall constitute such Lender's Committed Loan included in the relevant Committed Borrowing or funded participation in the relevant Swing Line Loan, as the
Section 2.04(c)
Section 2.04(c)(i)
 
case may be. A certificate of the Swing Line Lender submitted to any Lender (through the Administrative Agent) with respect to any amounts owing under this clause (iii) shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
(iv) Each Lender's obligation to make Committed Loans or to purchase and fund risk participations in Swing Line Loans pursuant to this  shall be absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance, including (A) any setoff, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other right which such Lender may have against the Swing Line Lender, the Borrower or any other Person for any reason whatsoever, (B) the occurrence or continuance of a Default, or (C) any other occurrence, event or condition, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing; , , that each Lender's obligation to make Committed Loans pursuant to this  is subject to the conditions set forth in . No such funding of risk participations shall relieve or otherwise impair the obligation of the Borrower to repay Swing Line Loans, together with interest as provided herein.
Section 2.04(c)
provided
however
Section 2.04(c)
Section 4.02
(d) .
Repayment of Participations
(i) At any time after any Lender has purchased and funded a risk participation in a Swing Line Loan, if the Swing Line Lender receives any payment on account of such Swing Line Loan, the Swing Line Lender will distribute to such Lender its Applicable Percentage thereof in the same funds as those received by the Swing Line Lender.
(ii) If any payment received by the Swing Line Lender in respect of principal or interest on any Swing Line Loan is required to be returned by the Swing Line Lender under any of the circumstances described in (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by the Swing Line Lender in its discretion), each Lender shall pay to the Swing Line Lender its Applicable Percentage thereof on demand of the Administrative Agent, plus interest thereon from the date of such demand to the date such amount is returned, at a rate per annum equal to the applicable Overnight Rate. The Administrative Agent will make such demand upon the request of the Swing Line Lender. The obligations of the Lenders under this clause shall survive the payment in full of the Obligations and the termination of this Agreement.
Section 10.05
(e) . The Swing Line Lender shall be responsible for invoicing the Borrower for interest on the Swing Line Loans. Until each Lender funds its Base Rate Committed Loan or risk participation pursuant to this to refinance such Lender's Applicable Percentage of any Swing Line Loan, interest in respect of such Applicable Percentage shall be solely for the account of the Swing Line Lender.
Interest for Account of Swing Line Lender
Section 2.04
(f) . The Borrower shall make all payments of principal and interest in respect of the Swing Line Loans directly to the Swing Line Lender.
Payments Directly to Swing Line Lender
 
(a) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrative Agent, at any time or from time to time voluntarily prepay Committed Loans in whole or in part without premium or penalty; that (i) such notice must be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 10:00 a.m. (A) three Business Days prior to any date of prepayment of Eurocurrency Rate Loans denominated in Dollars, (B) four Business Days (or five, in the case of prepayment of Loans denominated in Special Notice Currencies) prior to any date of prepayment of Eurocurrency Rate Loans denominated in Alternative Currencies, and (C) on the date of prepayment of Base Rate Committed Loans; (ii) any prepayment of Eurocurrency Rate Loans denominated in Dollars shall be in a principal amount of $5,000,000 or a whole multiple of
provided
 
$1,000,000 in excess thereof; (iii) any prepayment of Eurocurrency Rate Loans denominated in Alternative Currencies shall be in a minimum principal amount of $5,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof; and (iv) any prepayment of Base Rate Committed Loans shall be in a principal amount of $500,000 or a whole multiple of $100,000 in excess thereof or, in each case, if less, the entire principal amount thereof then outstanding. Each such notice shall specify the date and amount of such prepayment and the Type(s) of Committed Loans to be prepaid and, if Eurocurrency Rate Loans are to be prepaid, the Interest Period(s) of such Loans. The Administrative Agent will promptly notify each Lender of its receipt of each such notice, and of the amount of such Lender's Applicable Percentage of such prepayment. If such notice is given by the Borrower, the Borrower shall make such prepayment and the payment amount specified in such notice shall be due and payable on the date specified therein. Any prepayment of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan shall be accompanied by all accrued interest on the amount prepaid, together with any additional amounts required pursuant to . Each such prepayment shall be applied to the Committed Loans of the Lenders in accordance with their respective Applicable Percentages.
Section 3.05
(b) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Swing Line Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), at any time or from time to time, voluntarily prepay Swing Line Loans in whole or in part without premium or penalty; that (i) such notice must be received by the Swing Line Lender and the Administrative Agent not later than 12:00 noon on the date of the prepayment, and (ii) any such prepayment shall be in a minimum principal amount of $100,000. Each such notice shall specify the date and amount of such prepayment. If such notice is given by the Borrower, the Borrower shall make such prepayment and the payment amount specified in such notice shall be due and payable on the date specified therein.
provided
(c) If the Administrative Agent notifies the Borrower at any time that the Total Outstandings at such time exceed an amount equal to 105% of the Aggregate Commitments then in effect, then, within two Business Days after receipt of such notice, the Borrower shall prepay Loans and/or the Borrower shall Cash Collateralize the L/C Obligations in an aggregate amount sufficient to reduce such Outstanding Amount as of such date of payment to an amount not to exceed 100% of the Aggregate Commitments then in effect; , , that, subject to the provisions of , the Borrower shall not be required to Cash Collateralize the L/C Obligations pursuant to this  unless after the prepayment in full of the Loans the Total Outstandings exceed the Aggregate Commitments then in effect. The Administrative Agent may, at any time and from time to time after the initial deposit of such Cash Collateral, request that additional Cash Collateral be provided in order to protect against the results of further exchange rate fluctuations.
provided
however
Section 2.03(g)(ii)
Section 2.05(c)
(d) If the Administrative Agent notifies the Borrower at any time that the Outstanding Amount of all Loans denominated in Alternative Currencies at such time exceeds an amount equal to 105% of the Alternative Currency Sublimit then in effect, then, within two Business Days after receipt of such notice, the Borrower shall prepay Loans in an aggregate amount sufficient to reduce such Outstanding Amount as of such date of payment to an amount not to exceed 100% of the Alternative Currency Sublimit then in effect.
 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrative Agent, terminate the Aggregate Commitments, or from time to time permanently reduce the Aggregate Commitments; that (i) any such notice shall be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 10:00 a.m. five Business Days prior to the date of termination or reduction, (ii) any such partial reduction shall be in an aggregate amount of $10,000,000 or any whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof, (iii) the Borrower shall not terminate or reduce the Aggregate Commitments if, after giving effect thereto and to any concurrent
provided
 
prepayments hereunder, the Total Outstandings would exceed the Aggregate Commitments, and (iv) if, after giving effect to any reduction of the Aggregate Commitments, the Alternative Currency Sublimit, the Letter of Credit Sublimit or the Swing Line Sublimit exceeds the amount of the Aggregate Commitments, such Sublimit shall be automatically reduced by the amount of such excess. The Administrative Agent will promptly notify the Lenders of any such notice of termination or reduction of the Aggregate Commitments. The amount of any such Aggregate Commitment reduction shall not be applied to the Alternative Currency Sublimit or the Letter of Credit Sublimit unless otherwise specified by the Borrower. Any reduction of the Aggregate Commitments shall be applied to the Commitment of each Lender according to its Applicable Percentage. All fees accrued until the effective date of any termination of the Aggregate Commitments shall be paid on the effective date of such termination.
 
(a) The Borrower shall repay to each Lender, on the applicable Maturity Date, the aggregate principal amount of Committed Loans made to the Borrower by such Lender outstanding on such date and such Lender's Commitment shall terminate on such date.
(b) The Borrower shall repay each Swing Line Loan on the earlier to occur of (i) the date ten Business Days after such Loan is made and (ii) the Maturity Date.
 
(a) Subject to the provisions of clause (b) below, (i) each Eurocurrency Rate Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof for each Interest Period at a rate per annum equal to the Eurocurrency Rate for such Interest Period the Applicable Rate (in the case of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan of any Lender which is lent from a Lending Office in the United Kingdom or a Participating Member State) the Mandatory Cost; (ii) each Base Rate Committed Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof from the applicable borrowing date at a rate per annum equal to the Base Rate; and (iii) each Swing Line Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof from the applicable borrowing date at a rate per annum equal to the Base Rate.
plus
plus
(b) (i) If any amount of principal of any Loan is not paid when due (without regard to any applicable grace periods), whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, such amount shall thereafter bear interest at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws.
(ii) If any amount (other than principal of any Loan) payable by the Borrower under any Loan Document is not paid when due (without regard to any applicable grace periods), whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, then upon the request of the Required Lenders, such amount shall thereafter bear interest at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws.
(iii) Upon the request of the Required Lenders, while any Event of Default exists, the Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of all outstanding Obligations hereunder at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws.
(iv) Accrued and unpaid interest on past due amounts (including interest on past due interest) shall be due and payable upon demand.
 
(c) Interest on each Loan shall be due and payable in arrears on each Interest Payment Date applicable thereto and at such other times as may be specified herein. Interest hereunder shall be due and payable in accordance with the terms hereof before and after judgment, and before and after the commencement of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law.
 
In addition to certain fees described in clauses (i) and (j) of :
Section 2.03
(a) . The Borrower shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender in accordance with its Applicable Percentage, a commitment fee in Dollars equal to the Applicable Rate the actual daily amount by which the Aggregate Commitments exceed the sum of (i) the Outstanding Amount of Committed Loans and (ii) the Outstanding Amount of L/C Obligations. The commitment fee shall accrue at all times during the Availability Period, including at any time during which one or more of the conditions in is not met, and shall be due and payable quarterly in arrears on the last Business Day of each January, April, July and October, commencing with the first such date to occur after the Closing Date, and on the last day of the Availability Period. The commitment fee shall be calculated quarterly in arrears, and if there is any change in the Applicable Rate during any quarter, the actual daily amount shall be computed and multiplied by the Applicable Rate separately for each period during such quarter that such Applicable Rate was in effect.
Commitment Fee
times
Article IV
(b) .
Other Fees
(i) The Borrower shall pay to the Arrangers and the Administrative Agent for their own respective accounts, in Dollars, fees in the amounts and at the times specified in the applicable Fee Letter. Such fees shall be fully earned when paid and shall not be refundable for any reason whatsoever.
(ii) The Borrower shall pay to the Lenders, in Dollars, such fees as shall have been separately agreed upon in writing in the amounts and at the times so specified. Such fees shall be fully earned when paid and shall not be refundable for any reason whatsoever.
 
(a) All computations of interest for Base Rate Loans when the Base Rate is determined by Bank of America's "prime rate" shall be made on the basis of a year of 365 or 366 days, as the case may be, and actual days elapsed. All other computations of fees and interest shall be made on the basis of a 360-day year and actual days elapsed (which results in more fees or interest, as applicable, being paid than if computed on the basis of a 365-day year), or, in the case of interest in respect of Committed Loans denominated in Alternative Currencies as to which market practice differs from the foregoing, in accordance with such market practice. Interest shall accrue on each Loan for the day on which the Loan is made, and shall not accrue on a Loan, or any portion thereof, for the day on which the Loan or such portion is paid; that any Loan that is repaid on the same day on which it is made shall, subject to , bear interest for one day. Each determination by the Administrative Agent of an interest rate or fee hereunder shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
provided
Section 2.12(a)
 
(a) The Credit Extensions made by each Lender shall be evidenced by one or more accounts or records maintained by such Lender and by the Administrative Agent in the ordinary course of business. The accounts or records maintained by the Administrative Agent and each Lender shall be conclusive
 
absent manifest error of the amount of the Credit Extensions made by the Lenders to the Borrower and the interest and payments thereon. Any failure to so record or any error in doing so shall not, however, limit or otherwise affect the obligation of the Borrower hereunder to pay any amount owing with respect to the Obligations. In the event of any conflict between the accounts and records maintained by any Lender and the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent in respect of such matters, the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent shall control in the absence of manifest error. Upon the request of any Lender to the Borrower made through the Administrative Agent, the Borrower shall execute and deliver to such Lender (through the Administrative Agent) a Note, which shall evidence such Lender's Loans to the Borrower in addition to such accounts or records. Each Lender may attach schedules to a Note and endorse thereon the date, Type (if applicable), amount, currency and maturity of its Loans and payments with respect thereto.
(b) In addition to the accounts and records referred to in clause (a), each Lender and the Administrative Agent shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice accounts or records evidencing the purchases and sales by such Lender of participations in Letters of Credit and Swing Line Loans. In the event of any conflict between the accounts and records maintained by the Administrative Agent and the accounts and records of any Lender in respect of such matters, the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent shall control in the absence of manifest error.
 
(a) . All payments to be made by the Borrower shall be made without condition or deduction for any counterclaim, defense, recoupment or setoff. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein and except with respect to principal of and interest on Loans denominated in an Alternative Currency, all payments by the Borrower hereunder shall be made to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the respective Lenders to which such payment is owed, at the applicable Administrative Agent's Office in Dollars and in Same Day Funds not later than 1:00 p.m. on the date specified herein. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all payments by the Borrower hereunder with respect to principal and interest on Loans denominated in an Alternative Currency shall be made to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the respective Lenders to which such payment is owed, at the applicable Administrative Agent's Office in such Alternative Currency and in Same Day Funds not later than the Applicable Time specified by the Administrative Agent on the dates specified herein. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Administrative Agent may require that any payments due under this Agreement be made in the United States. If, for any reason, the Borrower is prohibited by any Law from making any required payment hereunder in an Alternative Currency, the Borrower shall make such payment in Dollars in the Dollar Equivalent of the Alternative Currency payment amount. The Administrative Agent will promptly distribute to each Lender its Applicable Percentage (or other applicable share as provided herein) of such payment in like funds as received by wire transfer to such Lender's Lending Office. All payments received by the Administrative Agent (i) after 1:00 p.m., in the case of payments in Dollars, or (ii) after the Applicable Time specified by the Administrative Agent in the case of payments in an Alternative Currency, shall in each case be deemed received on the next succeeding Business Day and any applicable interest or fee shall continue to accrue. If any payment to be made by the Borrower shall come due on a day other than a Business Day, payment shall be made on the next following Business Day, and such extension of time shall be reflected in computing interest or fees, as the case may be.
General
(b) (i) . Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the proposed date of any Committed Borrowing of Eurocurrency Rate Loans (or, in the case of any Committed Borrowing of Base Rate Loans, prior to 12:00 noon on the date of such Committed Borrowing) that such Lender will not make available to the Administrative Agent such Lender's share of such Committed Borrowing, the
Funding by Lenders; Presumption by Administrative Agent
 
Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has made such share available on such date in accordance with (or, in the case of a Committed Borrowing of Base Rate Loans, that such Lender has made such share available in accordance with and at the time required by ) and may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Borrower a corresponding amount. In such event, if a Lender has not in fact made its share of the applicable Committed Borrowing available to the Administrative Agent, then the applicable Lender and the Borrower severally agree to pay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount in Same Day Funds with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is made available to the Borrower to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at (A) in the case of a payment to be made by such Lender, the Overnight Rate, plus any administrative, processing or similar fees customarily charged by the Administrative Agent in connection with the foregoing, and (B) in the case of a payment to be made by the Borrower, the interest rate applicable to Base Rate Loans. If the Borrower and such Lender shall pay such interest to the Administrative Agent for the same or an overlapping period, the Administrative Agent shall promptly remit to the Borrower the amount of such interest paid by the Borrower for such period. If such Lender pays its share of the applicable Committed Borrowing to the Administrative Agent, then the amount so paid shall constitute such Lender's Committed Loan included in such Committed Borrowing. Any payment by the Borrower shall be without prejudice to any claim the Borrower may have against a Lender that shall have failed to make such payment to the Administrative Agent.
Section 2.02
Section 2.02
(ii) . Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders or the applicable L/C Issuer hereunder that the Borrower will not make such payment, the Administrative Agent may assume that the Borrower has made such payment on such date in accordance herewith and may, in reliance upon such assumption, distribute to the Lenders or such L/C Issuer, as the case may be, the amount due. In such event, if the Borrower has not in fact made such payment, then each of the Lenders or the applicable L/C Issuer, as the case may be, severally agrees to repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand the amount so distributed to such Lender or such L/C Issuer, in Same Day Funds with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is distributed to it to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at the Overnight Rate. Any such payment by the Lenders is without prejudice to any claim the Lenders may have against the Borrower for failure to pay such amount. If the Borrower in fact made such payment then the Administrative Agent shall remit such payment promptly to the Lenders.
Payments by Borrower; Presumptions by Administrative Agent
A notice of the Administrative Agent to any Lender or Borrower with respect to any amount owing under this clause (b) shall be conclusive, absent manifest error.
(c) . If any Lender makes available to the Administrative Agent funds for any Loan to be made by such Lender to the Borrower as provided in the foregoing provisions of this , and such funds are not made available to the Borrower by the Administrative Agent because the conditions to the applicable Credit Extension set forth in are not satisfied or waived in accordance with the terms hereof, the Administrative Agent shall promptly return such funds (in like funds as received from such Lender) to such Lender, without interest.
Failure to Satisfy Conditions Precedent
Article II
Article IV
(d) . The obligations of the Lenders hereunder to make Committed Loans, to fund participations in Letters of Credit and Swing Line Loans and to make payments pursuant to  are several and not joint. The failure of any Lender to make any Committed Loan, to fund any such participation or to make any payment under  on any date required hereunder shall not relieve any other Lender of its corresponding obligation to do so on such date, and no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to so make its Committed Loan, to purchase its participation or to make its payment under .
Obligations of Lenders Several
Section 10.04(c)
Section 10.04(c)
Section 10.04(c)
 
(e) . Nothing herein shall be deemed to obligate any Lender to obtain the funds for any Loan in any particular place or manner or to constitute a representation by any Lender that it has obtained or will obtain the funds for any Loan in any particular place or manner.
Funding Source
 
If any Lender shall, by exercising any right of setoff or counterclaim or otherwise, obtain payment in respect of any principal of or interest on any of the Committed Loans made by it, or the participations in L/C Obligations or in Swing Line Loans held by it resulting in such Lender's receiving payment of a proportion of the aggregate amount of such Committed Loans or participations and accrued interest thereon greater than its pro rata share thereof as provided herein, then the Lender receiving such greater proportion shall (a) notify the Administrative Agent of such fact, and (b) purchase (for cash at face value) participations in the Committed Loans and subparticipations in L/C Obligations and Swing Line Loans of the other Lenders, or make such other adjustments as shall be equitable, so that the benefit of all such payments shall be shared by the Lenders ratably in accordance with the aggregate amount of principal of and accrued interest on their respective Committed Loans and other amounts owing them; that:
provided
(i) if any such participations or subparticipations are purchased and all or any portion of the payment giving rise thereto is recovered, such participations or subparticipations shall be rescinded and the purchase price restored to the extent of such recovery, without interest; and
(ii) the provisions of this Section shall not be construed to apply to (A) any payment made by a Borrower pursuant to and in accordance with the express terms of this Agreement or (B) any payment obtained by a Lender as consideration for the assignment of or sale of a participation in any of its Committed Loans or subparticipations in L/C Obligations or Swing Line Loans to any assignee or participant, other than to the Borrower or any Subsidiary thereof (as to which the provisions of this Section shall apply).
The Borrower consents to the foregoing and agrees, to the extent it may effectively do so under applicable law, that any Lender acquiring a participation pursuant to the foregoing arrangements may exercise against the Borrower rights of setoff and counterclaim with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were a direct creditor of the Borrower in the amount of such participation.
 
(a) . The Borrower may, by notice to the Administrative Agent (who shall promptly notify the Lenders) not more than 75 days and not less than 30 days prior to any annual anniversary date following the Closing Date (the ""), request that each Lender extend such Lender's Maturity Date for an additional year from the Maturity Date then in effect (each such date, an ""); that the Borrower may request no more than two such extensions during the term of this Agreement.
Requests for Extension
Applicable Anniversary Date
Existing Maturity Date
provided
(b) . Each Lender, acting in its sole and individual discretion, shall, by notice to the Administrative Agent given not more than 30 days prior to the Applicable Anniversary Date and not less than the date (the "") that is 15 days prior to the Applicable Anniversary Date, advise the Administrative Agent whether or not such Lender agrees to such extension (and each Lender that determines not to so extend its Maturity Date (a "") shall notify the Administrative Agent of such fact promptly after such determination (but in any event no later
Lender Elections to Extend
Notice Date
Non-Extending Lender
 
than the Notice Date) and any Lender that does not so advise the Administrative Agent on or before the Notice Date shall be deemed to be a Non-Extending Lender. The election of any Lender to agree to such extension shall not obligate any other Lender to so agree.
(c) . The Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower of each Lender's determination under this Section no later than the date 15 days prior to the Applicable Anniversary Date (or, if such date is not a Business Day, on the next preceding Business Day).
Notification by Administrative Agent
(d) . The Borrower shall have the right to replace each Non-Extending Lender, at any time after such Lender becomes a Non-Extending Lender with, and add as "Lenders" under this Agreement in place thereof, one or more Eligible Assignees (each, an "") as provided in ; that each of such Additional Commitment Lenders shall enter into an Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Additional Commitment Lender shall, effective no later than the Existing Maturity Date, undertake a Commitment (and, if any such Additional Commitment Lender is already a Lender, its Commitment shall be in addition to such Lender's Commitment hereunder on such date).
Additional Commitment Lenders
Additional Commitment Lender
Section 10.13
provided
(e) . If (and only if) the total of the Commitments of the Lenders that have agreed so to extend their Maturity Date (each, an "") and the additional Commitments of the Additional Commitment Lenders shall be more than 50% of the aggregate amount of the Commitments in effect immediately prior to the Applicable Anniversary Date, then, effective as of the Applicable Anniversary Date, the Maturity Date of each Extending Lender and of each Additional Commitment Lender shall be extended to the date falling one year after the most recent Existing Maturity Date (except that, if such date is not a Business Day, such Maturity Date as so extended shall be the next preceding Business Day) and each Additional Commitment Lender shall thereupon become a "Lender" for all purposes of this Agreement.
Minimum Extension Requirement
Extending Lender
(f) . As a condition precedent to such extension, the Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent a certificate of the Borrower dated as of the Applicable Anniversary Date (in sufficient copies for each Extending Lender and each Additional Commitment Lender) signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower (i) certifying and attaching the resolutions adopted by the Borrower approving or consenting to such extension and (ii) in the case of the Borrower, certifying that, before and after giving effect to such extension, (A) the representations and warranties contained in and the other Loan Documents are true and correct on and as of the Applicable Anniversary Date, except in each case to the extent that such representations and warranties specifically refer to an earlier date, in which case they are true and correct as of such earlier date, and except that for purposes of this , the representations and warranties contained in clauses (a) and (b) of shall be deemed to refer to the most recent statements furnished pursuant to clauses (a) and (b), respectively, of , and (B) no Default exists. In addition, on the Existing Maturity Date applicable to any Non-Extending Lender, the Borrower shall prepay any Committed Loans outstanding on such date (and pay any additional amounts required pursuant to ) to the extent necessary to keep outstanding Committed Loans ratable with any revised Applicable Percentages of the respective Lenders effective as of such date.
Conditions to Effectiveness of Extensions
Article V
Section 2.14
Section 5.05
Section 6.01
Section 3.05
(g) . This Section shall supersede any provisions in or to the contrary.
Conflicting Provisions
Section 2.13
10.01
 
(a) . Provided there exists no Default, upon notice to the Administrative Agent (which shall promptly notify the Lenders), the Borrower may from time to time, request an
Request for Increase
 
increase in the Aggregate Commitments by an amount (for all such requests) not exceeding $2,000,000,000; that any such request for an increase shall be in a minimum amount of $100,000,000. At the time of sending such notice, the Borrower (in consultation with the Administrative Agent) shall specify the time period within which each Lender is requested to respond (which shall in no event be less than ten Business Days from the date of delivery of such notice to the Lenders).
provided
(b) . Each Lender shall notify the Administrative Agent within such time period whether or not it agrees to increase its Commitment and, if so, whether by an amount equal to, greater than, or less than its Applicable Percentage of such requested increase. Any Lender not responding within such time period shall be deemed to have declined to increase its Commitment.
Lender Elections to Increase
(c) . The Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and each Lender of the Lenders' responses to each request made hereunder. To achieve the full amount of a requested increase and subject to the approval of the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuers and the Swing Line Lender (which approvals shall not be unreasonably withheld), the Borrower may also invite additional Eligible Assignees to become Lenders pursuant to a joinder agreement in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and its counsel.
Notification by Administrative Agent; Additional Lenders
(d) . If the Aggregate Commitments are increased in accordance with this Section, the Borrower (in consultation with the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers) shall determine the effective date (the "") and the final allocation of such increase. The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Lenders of the final allocation of such increase and the Increase Effective Date.
Effective Date and Allocations
Increase Effective Date
(e) . As a condition precedent to such increase, and in addition to the other requirements set forth in this , the following conditions precedent shall be satisfied:
Conditions to Effectiveness of Increase
Section 2.15
(i) the Aggregate Commitments shall not exceed $5,000,000,000 without the consent of the Required Lenders;
(ii) no Default shall have occurred and be continuing on the Increase Effective Date;
(iii) the representations and warranties set forth in shall be true and correct on and as of the Increase Effective Date, except to the extent that such representations and warranties specifically refer to an earlier date, in which case they shall be true and correct as of such earlier date, and except that for purposes of this , the representations and warranties contained in clauses (a) and (b) of shall be deemed to refer to the most recent statements furnished pursuant to clauses (a) and (b), respectively, of ;
Article V
Section 2.15(e)
Section 5.05
Section 6.01
(iv) the Administrative Agent shall have received (A) additional Commitments in a corresponding amount of such requested increase from either existing Lenders and/or one or more other institutions that qualify as Eligible Assignees (it being understood and agreed that no existing Lender shall be required to provide an additional Commitment) and (B) documentation from each institution providing an additional Commitment evidencing its additional Commitment and its obligations under this Agreement in form and substance acceptable to the Administrative Agent;
(v) the Administrative Agent shall have received all documents (including resolutions of the board of directors of the Borrower) it may reasonably request relating to the corporate or other necessary authority for such increase and the validity of such increase in the Aggregate Commitments, and any other matters relevant thereto, all in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent; and
 
(vi) if any Loans are outstanding at the time of the increase in the Aggregate Commitments, the Borrower shall, if applicable, prepay one or more existing Committed Loans (such prepayment to be subject to ) in an amount necessary such that after giving effect to the increase in the Aggregate Commitments, each Lender will hold its pro rata share (based on its Applicable Percentage of the increased Aggregate Commitments) of outstanding Loans.
Section 3.05
(f) . This Section shall supersede any provisions in or to the contrary.
Conflicting Provisions
Section 2.13
10.01
 
(a) . Any and all payments by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower hereunder or under any other Loan Document shall be made free and clear of and without reduction or withholding for any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes; that if the Borrower shall be required by applicable law to deduct any Indemnified Taxes (including any Other Taxes) from such payments, then (i) the sum payable shall be increased as necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section) the Administrative Agent, Lender or L/C Issuer, as the case may be, receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) the Borrower shall make such deductions and (iii) the Borrower shall timely pay the full amount deducted to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
Payments Free of Taxes
provided
(b) . Without limiting the provisions of clause (a) above, the Borrower shall timely pay any Other Taxes to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
Payment of Other Taxes by the Borrower
(c) . The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent, each Lender and each L/C Issuer, within 10 days after demand therefor, for the full amount of any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes (including Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes imposed or asserted on or attributable to amounts payable under this Section) paid by the Administrative Agent, such Lender or such L/C Issuer, as the case may be, and any penalties, interest and reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority (other than any penalties and interest resulting from a failure by such Person to timely pay any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes following notice thereof from the applicable tax authority). A certificate as to the amount of such payment or liability delivered to a Borrower by a Lender or an L/C Issuer (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), or by the Administrative Agent on its own behalf or on behalf of a Lender or an L/C Issuer, shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
Indemnification by the Borrower
(d) . As soon as practicable after any payment of Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes by the Borrower to a Governmental Authority, the Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment, a copy of the return reporting such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
Evidence of Payments
 
(e) . Any Foreign Lender that is entitled to an exemption from or reduction of withholding tax under the law of the jurisdiction in which a Borrower is resident for tax purposes, or any treaty to which such jurisdiction is a party, with respect to payments hereunder or under any other Loan Document shall deliver to the Borrower (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), at the time or times prescribed by applicable law or reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, such properly completed and executed documentation prescribed by applicable law as will permit such payments to be made without withholding or at a reduced rate of withholding. In addition, any Lender, if requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, shall deliver such other documentation prescribed by applicable law or reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent as will enable the Borrower or the Administrative Agent to determine whether or not such Lender is subject to backup withholding or information reporting requirements or will enable the Borrower or the Administrative Agent to comply with reporting requirements.
Status of Lenders
Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, in the event that a Borrower is resident for tax purposes in the United States, any Foreign Lender shall deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent (in such number of copies as shall be requested by the recipient) on or prior to the date on which such Foreign Lender becomes a Lender under this Agreement (and from time to time thereafter upon the request of the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, but only if such Foreign Lender is legally entitled to do so), whichever of the following is applicable:
(i) duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN claiming eligibility for benefits of an income tax treaty to which the United States is a party,
(ii) duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8ECI,
(iii) in the case of a Foreign Lender claiming the benefits of the exemption for portfolio interest under Section 881(c) of the Code, (A) a certificate to the effect that such Foreign Lender is not (x) a "bank" within the meaning of Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, (y) a "10 percent shareholder" of the Borrower within the meaning of Section 881(c)(3)(B) of the Code, or (z) a "controlled foreign corporation" described in Section 881(c)(3)(C) of the Code and (B) duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN, or
(iv) any other form prescribed by applicable law as a basis for claiming exemption from or a reduction in United States Federal withholding tax duly completed together with such supplementary documentation as may be prescribed by applicable law to permit the Borrower to determine the withholding or deduction required to be made.
Without limiting the obligations of the Lenders set forth above regarding delivery of certain forms and documents to establish each Lender's status for U.S. withholding tax purposes, each Lender agrees promptly to deliver to the Administrative Agent or the Borrower, as the Administrative Agent or the Borrower shall reasonably request, on or prior to the Closing Date, and in a timely fashion thereafter, such other documents and forms required by any relevant taxing authorities under the Laws of any other jurisdiction, duly executed and completed by such Lender, as are required under such Laws to confirm such Lender's entitlement to any available exemption from, or reduction of, applicable withholding taxes in respect of all payments to be made to such Lender outside of the U.S. by the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise to establish such Lender's status for withholding tax purposes in such other jurisdiction. Each Lender shall promptly (i) notify the Administrative Agent of any change in circumstances which would modify or render invalid any such claimed exemption or reduction, and
 
(ii) take such steps as shall not be materially disadvantageous to it, in the reasonable judgment of such Lender, and as may be reasonably necessary (including the re-designation of its Lending Office) to avoid any requirement of applicable Laws of any such jurisdiction that the Borrower make any deduction or withholding for taxes from amounts payable to such Lender. Additionally, the Borrower shall promptly deliver to the Administrative Agent or any Lender, as the Administrative Agent or such Lender shall reasonably request, on or prior to the Closing Date, and in a timely fashion thereafter, such documents and forms required by any relevant taxing authorities under the Laws of any jurisdiction, duly executed and completed by the Borrower, as are required to be furnished by such Lender or the Administrative Agent under such Laws in connection with any payment by the Administrative Agent or any Lender of Taxes or Other Taxes, or otherwise in connection with the Loan Documents, with respect to such jurisdiction.
(f) . If the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any L/C Issuer determines, in its sole discretion, that it has received a refund (whether paid or applied against other taxes due) of any Taxes or Other Taxes as to which it has been indemnified by the Borrower or with respect to which the Borrower has paid additional amounts pursuant to this Section, it shall pay to the Borrower an amount equal to such refund (but only to the extent of indemnity payments made, or additional amounts paid, by the Borrower under this Section with respect to the Taxes or Other Taxes giving rise to such refund), net of all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses of the Administrative Agent, such Lender or such L/C Issuer, as the case may be, and without interest (other than any interest paid by the relevant Governmental Authority with respect to such refund); that the Borrower, upon the request of the Administrative Agent, such Lender or such L/C Issuer, agrees to repay the amount paid over to the Borrower (plus any penalties, interest or other charges imposed by the relevant Governmental Authority) to the Administrative Agent, such Lender or such L/C Issuer in the event the Administrative Agent, such Lender or such L/C Issuer is required to repay such refund to such Governmental Authority. This clause shall not be construed to require the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any L/C Issuer to make available its tax returns (or any other information relating to its taxes that it deems confidential) to the Borrower or any other Person.
Treatment of Certain Refunds
provided
 
If any Law has made it unlawful, or any Governmental Authority has asserted that it is unlawful, for any Lender or its applicable Lending Office to make, maintain or fund Eurocurrency Rate Loans (whether denominated in Dollars or an Alternative Currency), or to determine or charge interest rates based upon the Eurocurrency Rate, or any Governmental Authority has imposed material restrictions on the authority of such Lender to purchase or sell, or to take deposits of, Dollars or any Alternative Currency in the applicable interbank market, then, on notice thereof by such Lender to the Borrower through the Administrative Agent, any obligation of such Lender to make or continue Eurocurrency Rate Loans in the affected currency or currencies or, in the case of Eurocurrency Rate Loans in Dollars, to convert Base Rate Committed Loans to Eurocurrency Rate Loans, shall be suspended until such Lender notifies the Administrative Agent and the Borrower that the circumstances giving rise to such determination no longer exist. Upon receipt of such notice, the Borrower shall, upon demand from such Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), prepay or, if applicable and such Loans are denominated in Dollars, convert all such Eurocurrency Rate Loans of such Lender to Base Rate Loans, either on the last day of the Interest Period therefor, if such Lender may lawfully continue to maintain such Eurocurrency Rate Loans to such day, or immediately, if such Lender may not lawfully continue to maintain such Eurocurrency Rate Loans. Upon any such prepayment or conversion, the Borrower shall also pay accrued interest on the amount so prepaid or converted.
 
If the Required Lenders determine that for any reason in connection with any request for a Eurocurrency Rate Loan or a conversion to or continuation thereof that (a) deposits (whether in Dollars or an Alternative Currency) are not being offered to banks in the applicable offshore interbank market for such currency for the applicable amount and Interest Period of such Eurocurrency Rate Loan, (b) adequate and reasonable means do not exist for determining the Eurocurrency Rate for any requested Interest Period with respect to a proposed Eurocurrency Rate Loan (whether denominated in Dollars or an Alternative Currency), or (c) the Eurocurrency Rate for any requested Interest Period with respect to a proposed Eurocurrency Rate Loan does not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders of funding such Eurocurrency Rate Loan, the Administrative Agent will promptly so notify the Borrower and each Lender. Thereafter, the obligation of the Lenders to make or maintain Eurocurrency Rate Loans in the affected currency or currencies shall be suspended until the Administrative Agent (upon the instruction of the Required Lenders) revokes such notice. Upon receipt of such notice, the Borrower may revoke any pending request for a Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans in the affected currency or currencies or, failing that, will be deemed to have converted such request into a request for a Committed Borrowing of Base Rate Loans in the amount specified therein.
 
(a) . If any Change in Law shall:
Increased Costs Generally
(i) impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve, special deposit, compulsory loan, insurance charge or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended or participated in by, any Lender (except (A) any reserve requirement contemplated by and (B) the requirements of the Bank of England and the Financial Services Authority or the European Central Bank reflected in the Mandatory Cost, other than as set forth below) or the applicable L/C Issuer;
Section 3.04(e)
(ii) subject any Lender or any L/C Issuer to any tax of any kind whatsoever with respect to this Agreement, any Letter of Credit, any participation in a Letter of Credit or any Eurocurrency Rate Loan made by it, or change the basis of taxation of payments to such Lender or such L/C Issuer in respect thereof (except for Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes covered by and the imposition of, or any change in the rate of, any Excluded Tax payable by such Lender or such L/C Issuer);
Section 3.01
(iii) result in the failure of the Mandatory Cost, as calculated hereunder, to represent the cost to any Lender of complying with the requirements of the Bank of England and/or the Financial Services Authority or the European Central Bank in relation to its making, funding or maintaining Eurocurrency Rate Loans; or
(iv) impose on any Lender or any L/C Issuer or the London interbank market any other condition, cost or expense affecting this Agreement or Eurocurrency Rate Loans made by such Lender or any Letter of Credit or participation therein;
and the result of any of the foregoing shall be to increase the cost to such Lender of making or maintaining any Eurocurrency Rate Loan (or of maintaining its obligation to make any such Loan), or to increase the cost to such Lender or such L/C Issuer of participating in, issuing or maintaining any Letter of Credit (or of maintaining its obligation to participate in or to issue any Letter of Credit), or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by such Lender or such L/C Issuer hereunder (whether of principal, interest or any other amount) then, upon request of such Lender or such L/C Issuer, the
 
Borrower will pay to such Lender or such L/C Issuer, as the case may be, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or such L/C Issuer, as the case may be, for such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered.
(b) . If any Lender or any L/C Issuer determines that any Change in Law affecting such Lender or such L/C Issuer or any Lending Office of such Lender or such Lender's or such L/C Issuer's holding company, if any, regarding capital requirements has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lender's or such L/C Issuer's capital or on the capital of such Lender's or such L/C Issuer's holding company, if any, as a consequence of this Agreement, the Commitments of such Lender or the Loans made by, or participations in Letters of Credit held by, such Lender, or the Letters of Credit issued by such L/C Issuer, to a level below that which such Lender or such L/C Issuer or such Lender's or such L/C Issuer's holding company could have achieved but for such Change in Law (taking into consideration such Lender's or such L/C Issuer's policies and the policies of such Lender's or such L/C Issuer's holding company with respect to capital adequacy), then from time to time the Borrower will pay to such Lender or such L/C Issuer, as the case may be, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or such L/C Issuer or such Lender's or such L/C Issuer's holding company for any such reduction suffered.
Capital Requirements
(c) . A certificate of a Lender or an L/C Issuer setting forth the amount or amounts necessary to compensate such Lender or such L/C Issuer or its holding company, as the case may be, as specified in clause (a) or (b) of this Section and delivered to the Borrower shall be conclusive absent manifest error. The Borrower shall pay such Lender or such L/C Issuer, as the case may be, the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 15 Business Days after receipt thereof.
Certificates for Reimbursement
(d) . Failure or delay on the part of any Lender or any L/C Issuer to demand compensation pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender's or such L/C Issuer's right to demand such compensation; that the Borrower shall not be required to compensate a Lender or an L/C Issuer pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section for any increased costs incurred or reductions suffered more than six months prior to the date that such Lender or such L/C Issuer, as the case may be, notifies the Borrower of the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions and of such Lender's or such L/C Issuer's intention to claim compensation therefor (except that, if the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions is retroactive, then the six-month period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof).
Delay in Requests
provided
(e) . The Borrower shall pay to each Lender, (i) as long as such Lender shall be required to maintain reserves with respect to liabilities or assets consisting of or including Eurocurrency funds or deposits (currently known as "Eurocurrency liabilities"), additional interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Eurocurrency Rate Loan equal to the actual costs of such reserves allocated to such Loan by such Lender (as determined by such Lender in good faith, which determination shall be conclusive) and not reflected in the Mandatory Cost, and (ii) as long as such Lender shall be required to comply with any reserve ratio requirement or analogous requirement of any other central banking or financial regulatory authority imposed in respect of the maintenance of the Commitments or the funding of the Eurocurrency Rate Loans, such additional costs (expressed as a percentage per annum and rounded upwards, if necessary, to the nearest five decimal places) equal to the actual costs allocated to such Commitment or Loan by such Lender (as determined by such Lender in good faith, which determination shall be conclusive) and not reflected in the Mandatory Cost, which in each case shall be due and payable on each date on which interest is payable on such Loan; that the Borrower shall have received at least 10 days' prior notice (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) of such additional interest or costs from such Lender. If a Lender fails to give notice 10 days prior to the relevant Interest Payment Date, such additional interest or costs shall be due and payable 10 days from receipt of such notice.
Additional Reserve Requirements
provided
 
Upon demand of any Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) from time to time, the Borrower shall promptly compensate such Lender for and hold such Lender harmless from any loss, cost or expense incurred by it as a result of:
(a) any continuation, conversion, payment or prepayment of any Loan other than a Base Rate Loan on a day other than the last day of the Interest Period for such Loan (whether voluntary, mandatory, automatic, by reason of acceleration, or otherwise);
(b) any failure by the Borrower (for a reason other than the failure of such Lender to make a Loan) to prepay, borrow, continue or convert any Loan other than a Base Rate Loan on the date or in the amount notified by the Borrower;
(c) any failure by the Borrower to make payment of any Loan or drawing under any Letter of Credit (or interest due thereon) denominated in an Alternative Currency on its scheduled due date or any payment thereof in a different currency; or
(d) any assignment of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan on a day other than the last day of the Interest Period therefor as a result of a request by the Borrower pursuant to ;
Section 10.13
including any foreign exchange losses and any loss or expense arising from the liquidation or reemployment of funds obtained by it to maintain such Loan, from fees payable to terminate the deposits from which such funds were obtained or from the performance of any foreign exchange contract. The Borrower shall also pay any customary administrative fees charged by such Lender in connection with the foregoing.
For purposes of calculating amounts payable by the Borrower to the Lenders under this , each Lender shall be deemed to have funded each Eurocurrency Rate Loan made by it at the Eurocurrency Rate used in determining the Eurocurrency Rate for such Loan by a matching deposit or other borrowing in the offshore interbank market for such currency for a comparable amount and for a comparable period, whether or not such Eurocurrency Rate Loan was in fact so funded.
Section 3.05
 
(a) . If any Lender requests compensation under , or the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , or if any Lender gives a notice pursuant to , then such Lender shall use reasonable efforts to designate a different Lending Office for funding or booking its Loans hereunder or to assign its rights and obligations hereunder to another of its offices, branches or affiliates, if, in the judgment of such Lender, such designation or assignment (i) would eliminate or reduce amounts payable pursuant to or , as the case may be, in the future, or eliminate the need for the notice pursuant to , as applicable, and (ii) in each case, would not subject such Lender to any unreimbursed cost or expense and would not otherwise be disadvantageous to such Lender. The Borrower hereby agrees to pay all reasonable, documented out-of-pocket costs and expenses incurred by any Lender in connection with any such designation or assignment.
Designation of a Different Lending Office
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
Section 3.02
Section 3.01
3.04
Section 3.02
 
(b) . If (i) any Lender requests compensation under , (ii) any Lender delivers notice pursuant to , the effect of which would be to suspend such Lender's obligation to make or continue Eurocurrency Rate Loans (or convert Base Rate Committed Loans to Eurocurrency Rate Loans) in any currency, or (iii) if the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , the Borrower may replace such Lender in accordance with .
Replacement of Lenders
Section 3.04
Section 3.02
Section 3.01
Section 10.13
 
All of the Borrower's obligations under this shall survive termination of the Aggregate Commitments and repayment of all other Obligations hereunder.
Article III
 
This Agreement shall be effective upon satisfaction of the following conditions precedent:
(a) . Receipt by the Administrative Agent of executed counterparts of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, each properly executed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower and, in the case of this Agreement, by each Lender.
Loan Documents
(b) . Receipt by the Administrative Agent of favorable opinions of legal counsel to the Borrower, addressed to the Administrative Agent on behalf of each Lender, dated as of the Closing Date, and in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
Opinions of Counsel
(c) . There shall not have occurred from July 29, 2006 through and including the date of this Agreement any event or condition that has had or could be reasonably expected, either individually or in the aggregate, to have a Material Adverse Effect.
No Material Adverse Change
(d) Receipt by the Administrative Agent of the following, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent:
Organization Documents, Resolutions, Etc.
(i) copies of the Organization Documents of the Borrower certified to be true and complete as of a recent date prior to the date of this Agreement by the appropriate Governmental Authority of the state or other jurisdiction of its incorporation or organization, where applicable, and certified by a secretary or assistant secretary of the Borrower to be true and correct as of the Closing Date;
(ii) such certificates of resolutions or other action, incumbency certificates and/or other certificates of Responsible Officers of the Borrower as the Administrative Agent may require evidencing the identity, authority and capacity of each Responsible Officer thereof authorized to act as a Responsible Officer in connection with this Agreement and the other Loan Documents to which the Borrower is a party; and
(iii) such documents and certifications as the Administrative Agent may reasonably require to evidence that the Borrower is duly organized or formed, and is validly existing, in good standing and qualified to engage in business in its state of
 
organization or formation, the state of its principal place of business and each other jurisdiction where its ownership, lease or operation of properties or the conduct of its business requires such qualification, except to the extent that failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
(e) . Receipt by the Administrative Agent of a certificate signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower certifying that the conditions specified in , (but without giving effect to the parenthetical therein) and have been satisfied.
Officer's Closing Certificate
Section 4.01(c)
Sections 4.02(a)
Section 4.02(b)
(f) . Receipt by the Administrative Agent, the Arrangers and the Lenders of any fees required to be paid on or before the Closing Date.
Fees
(g) . The Borrower shall have paid all reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the Administrative Agent (directly to such counsel if requested by the Administrative Agent) to the extent invoiced prior to or on the Closing Date, plus such additional amounts of such fees, charges and disbursements as shall constitute its reasonable estimate of such fees, charges and disbursements incurred or to be incurred by it through the closing proceedings ( that such estimate shall not thereafter preclude a final settling of accounts between the Borrower and the Administrative Agent).
Attorney Costs
provided
Without limiting the generality of the provisions of the last paragraph of , for purposes of determining compliance with the conditions specified in this , each Lender that has signed this Agreement shall be deemed to have consented to, approved or accepted or to be satisfied with, each document or other matter required thereunder to be consented to or approved by or acceptable or satisfactory to a Lender unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from such Lender prior to the proposed Closing Date specifying its objection thereto.
Section 9.03
Section 4.01
 
The obligation of each Lender to honor any Request for Credit Extension (other than a Committed Loan Notice requesting only a conversion of Committed Loans to the other Type, or a continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans) is subject to the following conditions precedent:
(a) The representations and warranties of the Borrower contained in (other than and ) and in each other Loan Document or in any document furnished at any time under or in connection herewith or therewith, shall be true and correct on and as of the date of such Credit Extension, except (i) to the extent that such representations and warranties specifically refer to an earlier date, in which case they shall be true and correct as of such earlier date and (ii) that for purposes of this , the representations and warranties contained in clauses (a) and (b) of shall be deemed to refer to the most recent statements furnished pursuant to clauses (a) and (b), respectively, of .
Article V
Sections 5.05(c)
5.06
Section 4.02
Section 5.05
Section 6.01
(b) No Default shall exist, or would result from such proposed Credit Extension or the application of the proceeds thereof.
(c) The Administrative Agent and, if applicable, the applicable L/C Issuer or the Swing Line Lender shall have received a Request for Credit Extension in accordance with the requirements hereof.
(d) In the case of a Credit Extension to be denominated in an Alternative Currency, there shall not have occurred any change in national or international financial, political or economic conditions
 
or currency exchange rates or exchange controls which in the reasonable opinion of the Administrative Agent, the Required Lenders (in the case of any Loans to be denominated in an Alternative Currency) or the L/C Issuers (in the case of any Letter of Credit to be denominated in an Alternative Currency) would make it impracticable for such Credit Extension to be denominated in the relevant Alternative Currency.
Each Request for Credit Extension (other than a Committed Loan Notice requesting only a conversion of Committed Loans to the other Type or a continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans) submitted by the Borrower shall be deemed to be a representation and warranty that the conditions specified in  and  have been satisfied on and as of the date of the applicable Credit Extension.
Sections 4.02(a)
(b)
The Borrower represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders that:
 
The Borrower (a) is duly organized or formed, validly existing and, as applicable, in good standing under the Laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation or organization, (b) has all requisite power and authority and all requisite governmental licenses, authorizations, consents and approvals to (i) own or lease its assets and carry on its business and (ii) execute, deliver and perform its obligations under the Loan Documents to which it is a party, and (c) is duly qualified and is licensed and, as applicable, in good standing under the Laws of each jurisdiction where its ownership, lease or operation of properties or the conduct of its business requires such qualification or license; except in each case referred to in clause (b)(i) or (c), to the extent that failure to do so could not, in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
The execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of each Loan Document have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or other organizational action, and do not and will not (a) contravene the terms of any of the Borrower's Organization Documents; (b) conflict with or result in any breach or contravention of, or the creation of any Lien under, or require any payment to be made under (i) any material Contractual Obligation to which the Borrower is a party or affecting the Borrower or the properties of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or (ii) any material order, injunction, writ or decree of any Governmental Authority or any arbitral award to which such Person or its property is subject; or (c) violate any Law.
 
No approval, consent, exemption, authorization, or other action by, or notice to, or filing with, any Governmental Authority or any other Person is necessary or required in connection with the execution, delivery or performance by, or enforcement against, the Borrower of this Agreement or any other Loan Document other than any Form 8-K that may be required to be filed by the Borrower with the SEC.
 
This Agreement has been, and each other Loan Document, when delivered hereunder, will have been, duly executed and delivered by the Borrower. This Agreement constitutes, and each other Loan Document when so delivered will constitute, a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Borrower, enforceable against the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
 
(a) The Audited Financial Statements (i) were prepared in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the period covered thereby, except as otherwise expressly noted therein; (ii) fairly present the financial condition of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the date thereof and their results of operations for the period covered thereby in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the period covered thereby, except as otherwise expressly noted therein; and (iii) to the extent required by GAAP, show or reflect all material indebtedness and other material liabilities of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the date thereof, including liabilities for taxes, material commitments and Indebtedness.
(b) The unaudited consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries dated April 28, 2007, and the related consolidated statements of income or operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for the fiscal quarter ended on that date (i) were prepared in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the period covered thereby, except as otherwise expressly noted therein, and (ii) fairly present in all material respects the financial condition of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the date thereof and their results of operations for the period covered thereby, subject, in the case of clauses (i) and (ii), to the absence of footnotes and to normal year-end audit adjustments.
(c) Since the date of the Audited Financial Statements, there has been no event or circumstance, either individually or in the aggregate, that has had or could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
Except for such matters as are described in the Borrower's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 28, 2007, there are no actions, suits or proceedings pending (of which the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries has received notice) or, to the knowledge of the Borrower, expressly threatened, at law, in equity, in arbitration or before any Governmental Authority, by or against the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or against any of their properties that (a) purport to materially affect or pertain to this Agreement or any other Loan Document, or any of the transactions contemplated hereby, or (b) either individually or in the aggregate are reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
Neither the Borrower nor any Subsidiary thereof is in default under or with respect to any Contractual Obligation that could, either individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. No Default has occurred and is continuing or would result from the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
 
The Borrower and each of its Subsidiaries has good record and marketable title in fee simple to, or valid leasehold interests in, all real property necessary or used in the ordinary conduct of its business,
 
except for such defects in title as could not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. The property of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries is subject to no Liens, other than Liens permitted by .
Section 7.01
 
The businesses, operations and properties of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries are in compliance with existing Environmental Laws, except where non-compliance could not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
The properties of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries are insured with financially sound and reputable insurance companies not Affiliates of the Borrower, in such amounts, with such deductibles and covering such risks as are customarily carried by companies engaged in similar businesses and owning similar properties in localities where the Borrower or the applicable Subsidiary operates; provided that the Borrower and its Subsidiaries may self-insure in amounts that would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
The Borrower and its Subsidiaries have (a) filed all Federal, state and other material tax returns and reports required to be filed, and (b) paid all material Federal, material state and other material taxes, assessments, fees and other governmental charges levied or imposed upon them or their properties, income or assets otherwise due and payable, except those which are (i) being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted and for which adequate reserves have been provided in accordance with GAAP or (ii) would not have a Material Adverse Effect. There is no proposed tax assessment against the Borrower or any Subsidiary that would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. Neither the Borrower nor any Subsidiary thereof is party to any tax sharing agreement with any Person other than the Borrower or one or more Subsidiaries thereof.
 
Except as would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect:
(a) Each Plan is in compliance in all material respects with the applicable provisions of ERISA, the Code and other Federal or state Laws. Each Plan that is intended to qualify under Section 401(a) of the Code has received a favorable determination letter from the IRS or an application for such a letter is currently being processed by the IRS with respect thereto and, to the best knowledge of the Borrower, nothing has occurred which would prevent, or cause the loss of, such qualification. The Borrower and each ERISA Affiliate have made all required contributions to each Plan subject to Section 412 of the Code, and no application for a funding waiver or an extension of any amortization period pursuant to Section 412 of the Code has been made with respect to any Plan.
(b) There are no pending or, to the best knowledge of the Borrower, threatened claims, actions or lawsuits, or action by any Governmental Authority, with respect to any Plan. There has been no prohibited transaction or violation of the fiduciary responsibility rules with respect to any Plan.
(c) (i) No ERISA Event has occurred or is reasonably expected to occur; (ii) no Pension Plan has any Unfunded Pension Liability; (iii) neither the Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliate has incurred, or reasonably expects to incur, any liability under Title IV of ERISA with respect to any Pension Plan (other
 
than premiums due and not delinquent under Section 4007 of ERISA); (iv) neither the Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliate has incurred, or reasonably expects to incur, any liability (and no event has occurred which, with the giving of notice under Section 4219 of ERISA, would result in such liability) under Section 4201 or 4243 of ERISA with respect to a Multiemployer Plan; and (v) neither the Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliate has engaged in a transaction that could be subject to Section 4069 or 4212(c) of ERISA.
 
(a) The Borrower is not engaged and does not intend to engage, principally or as one of its principal activities, in the business of purchasing or carrying margin stock (within the meaning of Regulation U issued by the FRB), or extending credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stock. Following the application of the proceeds of each Borrowing or drawing under each Letter of Credit, not more than 25% of the value of the assets (either of the Borrower only or of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis) that are subject to the provisions of or or subject to any restriction contained in any agreement or instrument between the Borrower and any Lender or any Affiliate of any Lender relating to Indebtedness and within the scope of  will be margin stock.
Section 7.01
Section 7.04
Section 8.01(e)
(b) None of the Borrower, any Person Controlling the Borrower, or any Subsidiary is or is required to be registered as an "investment company" under the Investment Company Act of 1940.
 
No report, financial statement, certificate or other information furnished (whether in writing or orally) by or on behalf of the Borrower to the Administrative Agent or any Lender in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby and the negotiation of this Agreement or delivered hereunder or under any other Loan Document (in each case, as modified or supplemented by other information so furnished) contains any material misstatement of fact or omits to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; that, with respect to projected financial information, the Borrower represents only that such information was prepared in good faith based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable at the time.
provided
 
The Borrower and each Subsidiary thereof is in compliance in all material respects with the requirements of all Laws and all orders, writs, injunctions and decrees applicable to it or to its properties, except in such instances in which (a) such requirement of Law or order, writ, injunction or decree is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted or (b) the failure to comply therewith, either individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
The true and correct U.S. taxpayer identification number of the Borrower is set forth on .
Schedule 10.02
 
The Borrower and its Subsidiaries are Solvent on a consolidated basis.
 
So long as any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, any Loan or other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied, or any Letter of Credit shall remain outstanding, the Borrower shall, and shall (except in the case of the covenants set forth in , , and ) cause each Subsidiary to:
Sections 6.01
6.02
6.03
 
Deliver to the Administrative Agent (for distribution to each Lender), in form and detail satisfactory to the Administrative Agent:
(a) as soon as available, but in any event within 90 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Borrower, a consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at the end of such fiscal year, and the related consolidated statements of income or operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for such fiscal year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the previous fiscal year, all in reasonable detail and prepared in accordance with GAAP, audited and accompanied by a report and opinion of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP or another independent certified public accountant of nationally recognized standing reasonably acceptable to the Required Lenders, which report and opinion shall be prepared in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards and shall not be subject to any "going concern" or like qualification or exception or any qualification or exception as to the scope of such audit; and
(b) as soon as available, but in any event within 45 days after the end of each of the first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal year of the Borrower, a consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at the end of such fiscal quarter, and the related consolidated statements of income or operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for such fiscal quarter and for the portion of the Borrower's fiscal year then ended, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the corresponding fiscal quarter of the previous fiscal year and the corresponding portion of the previous fiscal year, all in reasonable detail, certified by the chief executive officer, chief financial officer, treasurer or controller of the Borrower as fairly presenting in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in accordance with GAAP, subject only to normal year-end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes.
As to any information contained in materials furnished pursuant to , the Borrower shall not be separately required to furnish such information under clause (a) or (b) above, but the foregoing shall not be in derogation of the obligation of the Borrower to furnish the information and materials described in clauses (a) and (b) above at the times specified therein.
Section 6.02(c)
 
Deliver to the Administrative Agent and each Lender, in form and detail reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent:
(a) concurrently with the delivery of the financial statements referred to in , a certificate of its independent certified public accountants certifying such financial statements and stating that in making the examination necessary therefor no knowledge was obtained of any Default under or, if any such Default shall exist, stating the nature and status of such event;
Section 6.01(a)
Section 7.08
 
(b) concurrently with the delivery of the financial statements referred to in  and , a duly completed Compliance Certificate signed by the chief executive officer, chief financial officer, treasurer or controller of the Borrower;
Sections 6.01(a)
(b)
(c) promptly after the same are available, copies of each annual report, proxy or financial statement or other report or communication sent to the stockholders of the Borrower, and copies of all annual, regular, periodic and special reports and registration statements which the Borrower may file or be required to file with the SEC under Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and not otherwise required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent pursuant hereto;
(d) promptly, such additional information regarding the business, financial or corporate affairs of the Borrower or any Subsidiary, or compliance with the terms of the Loan Documents, as the Administrative Agent or any Lender may from time to time reasonably request.
Documents required to be delivered pursuant to  or (b) or (to the extent any such documents are included in materials otherwise filed with the SEC) may be delivered electronically and if so delivered, shall be deemed to have been delivered on the date (i) on which the Borrower posts such documents, or provides a link thereto on the Borrower's website on the Internet at the website address listed on ; or (ii) on which such documents are posted on the Borrower's behalf on an Internet or intranet website, if any, to which each Lender and the Administrative Agent have access (whether a commercial, third-party website or whether sponsored by the Administrative Agent); that: (i) the Borrower shall deliver paper copies of such documents to the Administrative Agent or any Lender that requests the Borrower to deliver such paper copies until a written request to cease delivering paper copies is given by the Administrative Agent or such Lender and (ii) the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent (by telecopier or electronic mail) of the posting of any such documents and provide to the Administrative Agent by electronic mail electronic versions (, soft copies or internet links to soft copies) of such documents. Notwithstanding anything contained herein, in every instance the Borrower shall be required to provide paper copies of the Compliance Certificates required by  to the Administrative Agent. Except for such Compliance Certificates, the Administrative Agent shall have no obligation to request the delivery or to maintain copies of the documents referred to above, and in any event shall have no responsibility to monitor compliance by the Borrower with any such request for delivery, and each Lender shall be solely responsible for requesting delivery to it or maintaining its copies of such documents.
Section 6.01(a)
Section 6.02(c)
Schedule 10.02
provided
i.e.
Section 6.02(b)
The Borrower hereby acknowledges that (a) the Administrative Agent and/or the Arrangers will make available to the Lenders and the L/C Issuers materials and/or information provided by or on behalf of the Borrower hereunder (collectively, "") by posting the Borrower Materials on IntraLinks or another similar electronic system (the "") and (b) certain of the Lenders (each, a "") may have personnel who do not wish to receive material non-public information with respect to the Borrower or its Affiliates, or the respective securities of any of the foregoing, and who may be engaged in investment and other market-related activities with respect to such Persons' securities. The Borrower hereby agrees that (A) all Borrower Materials that are to be made available to Public Lenders shall be clearly and conspicuously marked "PUBLIC" which, at a minimum, shall mean that the word "PUBLIC" shall appear prominently on the first page thereof; (B) by marking Borrower Materials "PUBLIC," the Borrower shall be deemed to have authorized the Administrative Agent, the Arrangers, the L/C Issuers and the Lenders to treat such Borrower Materials as not containing any material non-public information with respect to the Borrower or its securities for purposes of United States Federal and state securities laws (, , that to the extent such Borrower Materials constitute Information, they shall be treated as set forth in ); (C) all Borrower Materials marked "PUBLIC" are permitted to be made available through a portion of the Platform designated "Public Investor" (and the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers agree that only Borrower Materials marked
Borrower Materials
Platform
Public Lender
provided
however
Section 10.07
 
"Public" shall be made available through the portion of the Platform designated "Public Investor"); and (D) the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers shall be entitled to treat any Borrower Materials that are not marked "PUBLIC" as being suitable only for posting on a portion of the Platform not designated "Public Investor." Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Borrower shall not be under any obligation to mark any Borrower Materials "PUBLIC."
 
Promptly (and in any event, within three Business Days) after a Responsible Officer of the Borrower obtains knowledge thereof, notify the Administrative Agent (who shall promptly notify the Lenders):
(a) of the occurrence of any Default;
(b) of any matter that has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, including, to the extent resulting in a Material Adverse Effect, (i) breach or non-performance of, or any default under, a Contractual Obligation of the Borrower or any Subsidiary; (ii) any dispute, litigation, investigation, proceeding or suspension between the Borrower or any Subsidiary and any Governmental Authority; or (iii) the commencement of, or any material development in, any litigation or proceeding affecting the Borrower or any Subsidiary, including pursuant to any applicable Environmental Laws;
(c) of the occurrence of any ERISA Event in excess of the Threshold Amount;
(d) of any material change in accounting policies or financial reporting practices by the Borrower or any Subsidiary; and
(e) of any announcement by Moody's or S&P of any change in a Debt Rating.
Each notice pursuant to this (other than ) shall be accompanied by a statement of a Responsible Officer of the Borrower setting forth details of the occurrence referred to therein and stating what action the Borrower has taken and proposes to take with respect thereto. Each notice pursuant to  shall describe with particularity any and all provisions of this Agreement and any other Loan Document that have been breached.
Section 6.03
Section 6.03(e)
Section 6.03(a)
 
Pay and discharge as the same shall become due and payable, (a) all material tax liabilities, assessments and governmental charges or levies upon it or its properties or assets, unless the same are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted and adequate reserves in accordance with GAAP, to the extent required, are being maintained by the Borrower or such Subsidiary; and (b) all lawful material claims which, if unpaid, would by law become a Lien upon its property (that are not Permitted Liens).
 
(a) Preserve, renew and maintain in full force and effect its legal existence and good standing under the Laws of the jurisdiction of its organization except in a transaction permitted by ; (b) take all reasonable action to maintain all rights, privileges, permits, licenses and franchises necessary or desirable in the normal conduct of its business, except to the extent that failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; and (c) preserve or renew all of its registered patents, trademarks, trade names and service marks, the non-preservation of which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Section 7.03
 
(a) Maintain, preserve and protect all of its material properties and equipment necessary in the operation of its business in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted; and (b) make all necessary repairs thereto and renewals and replacements thereof except, in each of clause (a) and (b) above, where the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
Maintain with financially sound and reputable insurance companies not Affiliates of the Borrower, insurance with respect to its properties and business against loss or damage of the kinds customarily insured against by Persons engaged in the same or similar business, of such types and in such amounts as are customarily carried under similar circumstances by such other Persons; provided that the Borrower and its Subsidiaries may self-insure in amounts that would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
Comply in all respects with the requirements of all Laws and all orders, writs, injunctions and decrees applicable to it or to its business or property, except in such instances in which (a) such requirement of Law or order, writ, injunction or decree is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted; or (b) the failure to comply therewith could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
(a) Maintain proper books of record and account, in which full, true and correct entries in conformity with GAAP consistently applied shall be made of all financial transactions and matters involving the assets and business of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries; and (b) maintain such books of record and account in material conformity with all applicable requirements of any Governmental Authority having regulatory jurisdiction over the Borrower or any Subsidiary, as the case may be.
 
Permit representatives and independent contractors of the Administrative Agent to visit and inspect any of its properties, to examine its corporate, financial and operating records, and make copies thereof or abstracts therefrom, and to discuss its affairs, finances and accounts with its directors, officers, and independent public accountants, at such reasonable times during normal business hours and as often as may be reasonably desired, upon reasonable advance notice to the Borrower; , , that unless an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, the Administrative Agent and Lenders shall not exercise such rights more than two times (in the aggregate) in any calendar year, and , , that when an Event of Default exists the Administrative Agent or any Lender (or any of their respective representatives or independent contractors) may do any of the foregoing at the expense of the Borrower at any time during normal business hours and without advance notice.
provided
however
provided
further
 
Use the proceeds of the Credit Extensions for (a) Permitted Acquisitions, (b) repurchases of Equity Interests of the Borrower (not in violation of Regulation U of the FRB) or (c) working capital, capital expenditures, and other general corporate purposes not in contravention of any Law or of any Loan Document.
So long as any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, any Loan or other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied, or any Letter of Credit shall remain outstanding, the Borrower shall not, nor shall it permit any Subsidiary to, directly or indirectly:
 
Create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Lien upon any of its property, assets or revenues, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, other than the following:
(a) Liens pursuant to any Loan Document;
(b) Liens for taxes not yet due or which are being contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted, if adequate reserves with respect thereto are maintained on the books of the applicable Person to the extent required by GAAP;
(c) carriers', warehousemen's, mechanics', materialmen's, repairmen's or other like Liens arising in the ordinary course of business which are not overdue for a period of more than 30 days or which are being contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted, if adequate reserves with respect thereto are maintained on the books of the applicable Person to the extent required by GAAP;
(d) pledges or deposits in the ordinary course of business in connection with workers' compensation, unemployment insurance and other social security legislation, other than any Lien imposed by ERISA securing obligations in excess of the Threshold Amount;
(e) deposits to secure the performance of bids, trade contracts and leases (other than Indebtedness), statutory obligations, surety and appeal bonds, performance bonds and other obligations of a like nature incurred in the ordinary course of business;
(f) easements, rights-of-way, restrictions and other similar encumbrances affecting real property which, in the aggregate, are not substantial in amount, and which do not in any case materially detract from the value of the property subject thereto or materially interfere with the ordinary conduct of the business of the applicable Person;
(g) Liens securing judgments for the payment of money not constituting an Event of Default under , or securing appeal or other surety bonds or similar instruments with respect to such judgments;
Section 8.01(h)
(h) Liens securing Indebtedness permitted under ; that (i) such Liens do not at any time encumber any property other than the property financed by such Indebtedness and (ii) the Indebtedness secured thereby does not exceed the cost or fair market value, whichever is lower, of the property being acquired on the date of acquisition and related expenses;
Section 7.02(c)
provided
 
(i) Liens securing Indebtedness to the extent such secured Indebtedness is permitted by ;
Section 7.02(e)
(j) Liens securing Indebtedness permitted by ; that such Liens (i) existed at the time of such Acquisition, (ii) were not incurred in contemplation of such Acquisition, and (iii) do not at any time encumber any property other than the property acquired in connection with such Acquisition;
Section 7.02(g)
provided
(k) Liens in connection with repurchase agreements entered into by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries with a bank or trust company (including any of the Lenders) or recognized securities dealer having capital and surplus in excess of $500,000,000 for direct obligations issued by or fully guaranteed by the United States in which such bank or trust company shall have a perfected first priority security interest (subject to no other Liens) and having, on the date of purchase thereof, a fair market value of at least 100% of the amount of the repurchase obligations;
(l) Liens arising from any lease receivables or accounts receivables financing accounted for under GAAP as a sale by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries to a Person other than the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, provided that (i) such financing shall be non-recourse to the Borrower and its Subsidiaries except to the extent customary for such transactions, and (ii) such Liens do not encumber any assets other than the receivables being financed, the property securing or otherwise relating to such receivables, and the proceeds thereof;
(m) precautionary filings in respect of operating leases; and
(n) leases, licenses, subleases or sublicenses granted to others in the ordinary course of business which do not (i) interfere in any material respect with the business of the Borrower or any Subsidiary or (ii) secure any Indebtedness.
 
Create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Indebtedness, except:
(a) Indebtedness under the Loan Documents;
(b) obligations (contingent or otherwise) of the Borrower or any Subsidiary existing or arising under any Swap Contract; that such obligations are (or were) entered into by such Person in the ordinary course of business for the purpose of directly mitigating risks associated with liabilities, commitments, investments, assets, or property held or reasonably anticipated by such Person, or changes in the value of securities issued by such Person, and not for purposes of speculation;
provided
(c) Indebtedness in respect of capital leases, Synthetic Lease Obligations and purchase money obligations for fixed or capital assets within the limitations set forth in ;
Section 7.01(h)
(d) unsecured Indebtedness of the Borrower;
(e) in an aggregate amount not to exceed 10% of Consolidated Tangible Net Worth, (i) secured Indebtedness of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries and (ii) unsecured Indebtedness of Subsidiaries of the Borrower;
 
(f) Indebtedness of (i) the Borrower or any Subsidiary to (ii) the Borrower or any Subsidiary;
(g) Indebtedness in connection with a Permitted Acquisition; that (i) such Indebtedness (A) existed at the time of such Acquisition, (B) was not incurred in contemplation of such Acquisition, (C) may not be extended, renewed or refunded except as otherwise permitted by this Agreement and (D) shall not exceed the purchase price of the property being acquired on the date of such Acquisition, and (ii) neither the Borrower nor any Subsidiary (other than a Person acquired as part of such Acquisition) is directly or indirectly liable for such Indebtedness, whether through any Guarantee or otherwise, other than liability with respect to which recourse is limited to the assets so acquired (or Investment in the Person so acquired); and
provided
(h) Guarantees of the Borrower or any Subsidiary in respect of Indebtedness otherwise permitted hereunder.
 
Merge, dissolve, liquidate, consolidate with or into another Person, except that, so long as no Default exists or would result therefrom:
(a) the Borrower may merge with another Person in connection with a Permitted Acquisition; that the Borrower shall be the continuing or surviving Person;
provided
(b) any Subsidiary may merge with or into any other Person; and
(c) any Subsidiary may liquidate or dissolve if such liquidation or dissolution does not cause or is not reasonably expected to cause a Material Adverse Effect.
 
Dispose of all or substantially all of the assets (by voluntary liquidation or otherwise) of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries.
 
Engage in any material line of business substantially different from those lines of business conducted by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on the date hereof or any business substantially related, complementary or incidental thereto.
 
Enter into any material transaction of any kind with any Affiliate of the Borrower, whether or not in the ordinary course of business, other than on fair and reasonable terms substantially as favorable to the Borrower or such Subsidiary as would be obtainable by the Borrower or such Subsidiary at the time in a comparable arm's length transaction with a Person other than an Affiliate, except for:
(a) the payment of fees, expenses and compensation to officers and directors of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries and customary indemnification agreements with officers and directors of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries entered into by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries;
 
(b) the issuance of equity securities to officers or directors of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries in accordance with equity incentive or compensation plans; and
(c) transactions between the Borrower and one or more of its Subsidiaries, or among one or more Subsidiaries of the Borrower; and
(d) employment and severance arrangements with officers and employees.
 
Use the proceeds of any Credit Extension, whether directly or indirectly, and whether immediately, incidentally or ultimately, to (a) purchase or carry margin stock (within the meaning of Regulation U of the FRB) or to extend credit to others for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stock or to refund indebtedness originally incurred for such purpose (other than repurchases of the outstanding equity securities of the Borrower not in violation of Regulation U of the FRB) or (b) make any Acquisition other than a Permitted Acquisition.
 
Permit the Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio as of the end of any fiscal quarter of the Borrower to be less than 3.0 to 1.0.
 
Any of the following shall constitute an Event of Default:
(a) . The Borrower fails to pay (i) when and as required to be paid herein, and in the currency required hereunder, any amount of principal of any Loan or any L/C Obligation, or (ii) within three days after the same becomes due, any interest on any Loan or on any L/C Obligation, or any fee due hereunder, or (iii) within five days after the same becomes due, any other amount payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document; or
Non-Payment
(b) .
Specific Covenants
(i) The Borrower fails to perform or observe any term, covenant or agreement contained in any of , , , or or ; or
Section 6.03
6.05(a)
6.10
6.11
Article VII
(ii) The Borrower fails to perform or observe any term, covenant or agreement contained in any of , , (other than ) and such failure continues for five Business Days; or
Section 6.01
6.02
6.05
6.05(a)
(c) . The Borrower fails to perform or observe any other covenant or agreement (not specified in clause (a) or (b) above) contained in any Loan Document on its part to be performed or observed and such failure continues for 30 days after the earlier of (i) a Responsible Officer of the Borrower having actual knowledge of such Default or (ii) the receipt by the Borrower of notice from the Administrative Agent of such Default; or
Other Defaults
 
(d) . Any representation, warranty, certification or statement of fact made or deemed made by or on behalf of the Borrower herein, in any other Loan Document, or in any document delivered in connection herewith or therewith shall be incorrect or misleading when made or deemed made; or
Representations and Warranties
(e) . (i) The Borrower or any Subsidiary (A) fails to make any payment when due (whether by scheduled maturity, required prepayment, acceleration, demand, or otherwise) in respect of any Indebtedness or Guarantee (other than Indebtedness hereunder and Indebtedness under Swap Contracts) having an aggregate principal amount (including undrawn committed or available amounts and including amounts owing to all creditors under any combined or syndicated credit arrangement) of more than the Threshold Amount, or (B) fails to observe or perform (after any applicable grace, cure or notice period) any other agreement or condition relating to any such Indebtedness or Guarantee or contained in any instrument or agreement evidencing, securing or relating thereto, or any other event occurs, the effect of which default or other event is to cause, or to permit the holder or holders of such Indebtedness or the beneficiary or beneficiaries of such Guarantee (or a trustee or agent on behalf of such holder or holders or beneficiary or beneficiaries) to cause, with the giving of notice if required, such Indebtedness to be demanded or to become due or to be repurchased, prepaid, defeased or redeemed (automatically or otherwise), or an offer to repurchase, prepay, defease or redeem such Indebtedness to be made, prior to its stated maturity, or such Guarantee to become payable or cash collateral in respect thereof to be demanded; or (ii) there occurs under any Swap Contract an Early Termination Date (as defined in such Swap Contract) resulting from (A) any event of default under such Swap Contract as to which the Borrower or any Subsidiary is the Defaulting Party (as defined in such Swap Contract) or (B) failure (after any applicable grace, cure or notice period) to pay any Swap Termination Value owed by the Borrower or any Subsidiary as a result of any Termination Event (as so defined) under such Swap Contract as to which the Borrower or any Subsidiary is an Affected Party (as so defined), which Swap Termination Value is greater than the Threshold Amount; or
Cross-Default
(f) . The Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries institutes or consents to the institution of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law, or makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors; or applies for or consents to the appointment of any receiver, trustee, custodian, conservator, liquidator, rehabilitator or similar officer for it or for all or any material part of its property; or any receiver, trustee, custodian, conservator, liquidator, rehabilitator or similar officer is appointed without the application or consent of such Person and the appointment continues undischarged or unstayed for 60 calendar days; or any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law relating to any such Person or to all or any material part of its property is instituted without the consent of such Person and continues undismissed or unstayed for 60 calendar days, or an order for relief is entered in any such proceeding; or
Insolvency Proceedings, Etc
(g) . (i) The Borrower or any Subsidiary becomes unable or admits in writing its inability or fails generally to pay its debts as they become due, or (ii) any writ or warrant of attachment or execution or similar process is issued or levied against all or any material part of the property of any such Person and is not released, vacated or fully bonded within 30 days after its issue or levy; or
Inability to Pay Debts; Attachment
(h) . There is entered against the Borrower or any Subsidiary (i) one or more final judgments or orders for the payment of money in an aggregate amount (as to all such judgments or orders) exceeding the Threshold Amount (to the extent not covered by independent third-party insurance as to which the insurer does not dispute coverage), or (ii) any one or more non-monetary final judgments that have, or could reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect and, in either case, such judgment remains unsatisfied or unstayed for a period of 30 days; or
Judgments
 
(i) . (i) An ERISA Event occurs with respect to a Pension Plan or Multiemployer Plan which has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in liability of the Borrower under Title IV of ERISA to the Pension Plan, Multiemployer Plan or the PBGC in an aggregate amount in excess of the Threshold Amount which is not extinguished or funded within 15 days of such ERISA Event, or (ii) the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate fails to pay when due, after the expiration of any applicable grace period, any installment payment with respect to its withdrawal liability under Section 4201 of ERISA under a Multiemployer Plan in an aggregate amount in excess of the Threshold Amount; or
ERISA
(j) . Any Loan Document, at any time after its execution and delivery and for any reason other than as expressly permitted hereunder or thereunder or satisfaction in full of all the Obligations, ceases to be in full force and effect; or the Borrower or any other Person contests in any manner the validity or enforceability of any Loan Document; or the Borrower denies that it has any or further liability or obligation under any Loan Document, or purports to revoke, terminate or rescind any Loan Document; or
Invalidity of Loan Documents
(k) . There occurs any Change of Control.
Change of Control
 
If any Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Administrative Agent shall, at the request of, or may, with the consent of, the Required Lenders, take any or all of the following actions:
(a) declare the commitment of each Lender to make Loans and any obligation of each L/C Issuer to make L/C Credit Extensions to be terminated, whereupon such commitments and obligation shall be terminated;
(b) declare the unpaid principal amount of all outstanding Loans, all interest accrued and unpaid thereon, and all other amounts owing or payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document to be immediately due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrower;
(c) require that the Borrower Cash Collateralize the L/C Obligations (in an amount equal to the then Outstanding Amount thereof); and
(d) exercise on behalf of itself, the Lenders and the L/C Issuers all rights and remedies available to it, the Lenders and the L/C Issuers under the Loan Documents;
, , that upon the occurrence of an actual or deemed entry of an order for relief with respect to the Borrower under the Debtor Relief Laws, the obligation of each Lender to make Loans and any obligation of the L/C Issuers to make L/C Credit Extensions shall automatically terminate, the unpaid principal amount of all outstanding Loans and all interest and other amounts as aforesaid shall automatically become due and payable, and the obligation of the Borrower to Cash Collateralize the L/C Obligations as aforesaid shall automatically become effective, in each case without further act of the Administrative Agent or any Lender.
provided
however
 
After the exercise of remedies provided for in (or after the Loans have automatically become immediately due and payable and the L/C Obligations have automatically been required to be Cash Collateralized as set forth in the proviso to ), any amounts received on account of the Obligations shall be applied by the Administrative Agent in the following order:
Section 8.02
Section 8.02
 
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting fees, indemnities, expenses and other amounts (including fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the Administrative Agent and amounts payable under ) payable to the Administrative Agent in its capacity as such;
First
Article III
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting fees, indemnities and other amounts (other than principal, interest and Letter of Credit Fees) payable to the Lenders and the applicable L/C Issuer (including fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the respective Lenders and such L/C Issuer and amounts payable under ), ratably among them in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause payable to them;
Second
Article III
Second
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting accrued and unpaid Letter of Credit Fees and interest on the Loans, L/C Borrowings and other Obligations, ratably among the Lenders and the applicable L/C Issuer in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause payable to them;
Third
Third
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting unpaid principal of the Loans and L/C Borrowings, ratably among the Lenders and the applicable L/C Issuer in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause held by them;
Fourth
Fourth
, to the Administrative Agent for the account of the applicable L/C Issuer, to Cash Collateralize that portion of L/C Obligations comprised of the aggregate undrawn amount of Letters of Credit; and
Fifth
the balance, if any, after all of the Obligations have been indefeasibly paid in full, to the Borrower or as otherwise required by Law.
Last,
Subject to , amounts used to Cash Collateralize the aggregate undrawn amount of Letters of Credit pursuant to clause above shall be applied to satisfy drawings under such Letters of Credit as they occur. If any amount remains on deposit as Cash Collateral after all Letters of Credit have either been fully drawn or expired, such remaining amount shall be applied to the other Obligations, if any, in the order set forth above.
Section 2.03(c)
Fifth
 
Each of the Lenders and the L/C Issuers hereby irrevocably appoints Bank of America to act on its behalf as the Administrative Agent hereunder and under the other Loan Documents and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms hereof or thereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. The provisions of this Article (other than with respect to appointments of successor administrative agents) are solely for the benefit of the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the L/C Issuers, and the Borrower shall not have rights as a third party beneficiary of any of such provisions (other than with respect to appointments of successor administrative agents).
Section 9.06
Section 9.06
 
The Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Administrative Agent and the term "Lender" or "Lenders" shall, unless otherwise expressly indicated or unless the context otherwise requires, include the Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder in its individual capacity. Such Person and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to, act as the financial advisor or in any other advisory capacity for and generally engage in any kind of business with the Borrower or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate thereof as if such Person were not the Administrative Agent hereunder and without any duty to account therefor to the Lenders.
 
The Administrative Agent shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Administrative Agent:
(a) shall not be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether a Default has occurred and is continuing;
(b) shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated hereby or by the other Loan Documents or the other documents executed or delivered in connection therewith that the Administrative Agent is required to exercise as directed in writing by the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be expressly provided for herein or in the other Loan Documents); that the Administrative Agent shall not be required to take any action that, in its opinion or the opinion of its counsel, may expose the Administrative Agent to liability or that is contrary to any Loan Document or applicable law; and
provided
(c) shall not, except as expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents, have any duty to disclose, and shall not be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to any of the Borrower or any of its Affiliates that is communicated to or obtained by the Person serving as the Administrative Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity.
The Administrative Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it (i) with the consent or at the request of the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary, or as the Administrative Agent shall believe in good faith shall be necessary, under the circumstances as provided in and ) or (ii) in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct. The Administrative Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default unless and until notice describing such Default is given to the Administrative Agent by the Borrower, a Lender or an L/C Issuer.
Sections 10.01
8.02
The Administrative Agent shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty or representation made in or in connection with this Agreement or any other Loan Document, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or thereunder or in connection herewith or therewith, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth herein or therein or the occurrence of any Default, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any other agreement, instrument or document or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in or elsewhere herein, other than to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent.
Article IV
 
The Administrative Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing (including any electronic message, Internet or intranet website posting or other distribution) believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed, sent or otherwise authenticated by the proper Person. The Administrative Agent also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to have been made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon. In determining compliance with any condition hereunder to the making of a Loan, or the issuance of a Letter of Credit, that by its terms must be fulfilled to the satisfaction of a Lender or an L/C Issuer, the Administrative Agent may presume that such condition is satisfactory to such Lender or such L/C Issuer unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice to the contrary from such Lender or such L/C Issuer prior to the making of such Loan or the issuance of such Letter of Credit. The Administrative Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for the Borrower), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.
 
The Administrative Agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers hereunder or under any other Loan Document or the other documents executed or delivered in connection therewith by or through any one or more sub-agents appointed by the Administrative Agent. The Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through their respective Related Parties. The exculpatory provisions of this Article shall apply to any such sub-agent and to the Related Parties of the Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent, and shall apply to their respective activities in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein as well as activities as Administrative Agent.
 
The Administrative Agent may at any time give notice of its resignation to the Lenders, the L/C Issuers and the Borrower. Upon receipt of any such notice of resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right, with the prior consent of the Borrower not to be unreasonable withheld or delayed (unless a Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, in which case in consultation with the Borrower), to appoint a successor, which shall be a bank with an office in the United States, or an Affiliate of any such bank with an office in the United States. If no such successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Administrative Agent gives notice of its resignation, then the retiring Administrative Agent may on behalf of the Lenders and the L/C Issuers, appoint a successor Administrative Agent meeting the qualifications set forth above; that if the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders that no qualifying Person has accepted such appointment, then such resignation shall nonetheless become effective in accordance with such notice and (1) the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder and under the other Loan Documents and (2) all payments, communications and determinations provided to be made by, to or through the Administrative Agent shall instead be made by or to each Lender and the applicable L/C Issuer directly, until such time as the Required Lenders appoint a successor Administrative Agent as provided for above in this Section. Upon the acceptance of a successor's appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring (or retired) Administrative Agent, and the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from all of its duties and obligations hereunder or under the other Loan Documents (if not already discharged therefrom
provided
 
as provided above in this Section). The fees payable by the Borrower to a successor Administrative Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and such successor. After the retiring Administrative Agent's resignation hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, the provisions of this Article and shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring Administrative Agent, its sub-agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while the retiring Administrative Agent was acting as Administrative Agent.
Section 10.04
Any resignation by Bank of America as Administrative Agent pursuant to this Section shall also constitute its resignation as L/C Issuer and Swing Line Lender. Upon the acceptance of a successor's appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder, (A) such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring L/C Issuer and Swing Line Lender, (B) the retiring L/C Issuer and Swing Line Lender shall be discharged from all of their respective duties and obligations hereunder or under the other Loan Documents, and (C) the successor L/C Issuer shall issue letters of credit in substitution for the Letters of Credit, if any, outstanding at the time of such succession or make other arrangements satisfactory to the retiring L/C Issuer to effectively assume the obligations of the retiring L/C Issuer with respect to such Letters of Credit.
 
Each Lender and each L/C Issuer acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Lender and each L/C Issuer also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder.
 
Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, none of the bookrunners, arrangers, syndication agents, documentation agents or co-agents shall have any powers, duties or responsibilities under this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents, except in its capacity, as applicable, as the Administrative Agent, a Lender or an L/C Issuer hereunder. Without limiting the foregoing, neither the bookrunners, arrangers, syndication agents, documentation agents or co-agents shall have or be deemed to have any fiduciary relationship with any other Lender. Each such Lender acknowledges that it has not relied, and will not rely, on any bookrunner, arranger, syndication agent, documentation or other co-agent in deciding to enter into this Agreement or in taking or not taking action hereunder.
 
In case of the pendency of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law or any other judicial proceeding relative to the Borrower, the Administrative Agent (irrespective of whether the principal of any Loan or L/C Obligation shall then be due and payable as herein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Administrative Agent shall have made any demand on the Borrower) shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise:
(a) to file and prove a claim for the whole amount of the principal and interest owing and unpaid in respect of the Loans, L/C Obligations and all other Obligations that are owing and unpaid and to file such other documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Lenders,
 
the L/C Issuers and the Administrative Agent (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Lenders, the L/C Issuers and the Administrative Agent and their respective agents and counsel and all other amounts due the Lenders, the L/C Issuers and the Administrative Agent under  and , and ) allowed in such judicial proceeding; and
Sections 2.03(i)
(j)
2.09
10.04
(b) to collect and receive any monies or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same;
and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Lender and each L/C Issuer to make such payments to the Administrative Agent and, in the event that the Administrative Agent shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Lenders and the L/C Issuers, to pay to the Administrative Agent any amount due for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Administrative Agent and its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Administrative Agent under and .
Sections 2.09
10.04
Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to authorize the Administrative Agent to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Lender or any L/C Issuer any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Obligations or the rights of any Lender or any L/C Issuer to authorize the Administrative Agent to vote in respect of the claim of any Lender or any L/C Issuer in any such proceeding.
 
No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or any other Loan Document, and no consent to any departure by the Borrower therefrom, shall be effective unless in writing signed by the Required Lenders and the Borrower, as the case may be, and acknowledged by the Administrative Agent, and each such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given; , , that no such amendment, waiver or consent shall:
provided
however
(a) extend or increase the Commitment of any Lender (or reinstate any Commitment terminated pursuant to ) without the written consent of such Lender;
Section 8.02
(b) postpone any date fixed by this Agreement or any other Loan Document for any payment (excluding mandatory prepayments) of principal, interest, fees or other amounts due to the Lenders (or any of them) without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby;
(c) reduce the principal of, or the rate of interest specified herein on, any Loan or L/C Borrowing, or (subject to clause (iv) of the final proviso to this ) any fees or other amounts payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby; , , that only the consent of the Required Lenders shall be necessary to amend the definition of "Default Rate" or to waive any obligation of the Borrower to pay interest or Letter of Credit Fees at the Default Rate;
Section 10.01
provided
however
(d) change or in a manner that would alter the pro rata sharing of payments required thereby without the written consent of each Lender;
Section 2.13
Section 8.03
 
(e) amend or the definition of "Alternative Currency" without the written consent of each Lender; or
Section 1.06
(f) change any provision of this Section or the definition of "Required Lenders" or any other provision hereof specifying the number or percentage of Lenders required to amend, waive or otherwise modify any rights hereunder or make any determination or grant any consent hereunder without the written consent of each Lender;
and; , that (i) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the L/C Issuer in addition to the Lenders required above, affect the rights or duties of the L/C Issuer under this Agreement or any Issuer Document relating to any Letter of Credit issued or to be issued by it; (ii) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Swing Line Lender in addition to the Lenders required above, affect the rights or duties of the Swing Line Lender under this Agreement; (iii) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Administrative Agent in addition to the Lenders required above, affect the rights or duties of the Administrative Agent under this Agreement or any other Loan Document; and (iv) the Fee Letter may be amended, or rights or privileges thereunder waived, in a writing executed only by the parties thereto. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, no Defaulting Lender shall have any right to approve or disapprove any amendment, waiver or consent hereunder, except that the Commitment of such Lender may not be increased or extended without the consent of such Lender.
provided
further
 
(a) . Except in the case of notices and other communications expressly permitted to be given by telephone (and except as provided in clause (b) below), all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by telecopier as follows, and all notices and other communications expressly permitted hereunder to be given by telephone shall be made to the applicable telephone number, as follows:
Notices Generally
(i) if to a Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or the Swing Line Lender, to the address, telecopier number, electronic mail address or telephone number specified for such Person on ; and
Schedule 10.02
(ii) if to any other Lender, to the address, telecopier number, electronic mail address or telephone number specified in its Administrative Questionnaire.
Notices sent by hand or overnight courier service, or mailed by certified or registered mail, shall be deemed to have been given when received; notices sent by telecopier shall be deemed to have been given when sent (except that, if not given during normal business hours for the recipient, shall be deemed to have been given at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient). Notices delivered through electronic communications to the extent provided in clause (B) below, shall be effective as provided in such clause (b).
(b) . Notices and other communications to the Lenders and the L/C Issuers hereunder may be delivered or furnished by electronic communication (including e-mail and Internet or intranet websites) pursuant to procedures approved by the Administrative Agent; that the foregoing shall not apply to notices to any Lender or any L/C Issuer pursuant to if such Lender or such L/C Issuer, as applicable, has notified the Administrative Agent that it is incapable of receiving notices under such Article by electronic communication. The Administrative Agent or the
Electronic Communications
provided
Article II
 
Borrower may, in its discretion, agree to accept notices and other communications to it hereunder by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by it; that approval of such procedures may be limited to particular notices or communications.
provided
Unless the Administrative Agent otherwise prescribes, (i) notices and other communications sent to an e-mail address shall be deemed received upon the sender's receipt of an acknowledgement from the intended recipient (such as by the "return receipt requested" function, as available, return e-mail or other written acknowledgement); that if such notice or other communication is not sent during the normal business hours of the recipient, such notice or communication shall be deemed to have been sent at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient, and (ii) notices or communications posted to an Internet or intranet website shall be deemed received upon the deemed receipt by the intended recipient at its e-mail address as described in the foregoing clause (i) of notification that such notice or communication is available and identifying the website address therefor.
provided
(c) . THE PLATFORM IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND "AS AVAILABLE." THE AGENT PARTIES (AS DEFINED BELOW) DO NOT WARRANT THE ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS OF THE BORROWER MATERIALS OR THE ADEQUACY OF THE PLATFORM, AND EXPRESSLY DISCLAIM LIABILITY FOR ERRORS IN OR OMISSIONS FROM THE BORROWER MATERIALS. NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS OR FREEDOM FROM VIRUSES OR OTHER CODE DEFECTS, IS MADE BY ANY AGENT PARTY IN CONNECTION WITH THE BORROWER MATERIALS OR THE PLATFORM. In no event shall the Administrative Agent or any of its Related Parties (collectively, the "") have any liability to the Borrower, any Lender, any L/C Issuer or any other Person for losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses of any kind (whether in tort, contract or otherwise) arising out of the Borrower's or the Administrative Agent's transmission of Borrower Materials through the Internet, except to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by a final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Agent Party; , , that in no event shall any Agent Party have any liability to the Borrower, any Lender, any L/C Issuer or any other Person for indirect, special, incidental, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages).
The Platform
Agent Parties
provided
however
(d) . The Borrower, the Administrative Agent, each L/C Issuer and the Swing Line Lender may change its address, telecopier or telephone number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto. Each other Lender may change its address, telecopier or telephone number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuers and the Swing Line Lender. In addition, each Lender agrees to notify the Administrative Agent from time to time to ensure that the Administrative Agent has on record (i) an effective address, contact name, telephone number, telecopier number and electronic mail address to which notices and other communications may be sent and (ii) accurate wire instructions for such Lender. Furthermore, each Public Lender agrees to cause at least one individual at or on behalf of such Public Lender to at all times have selected the "Private Side Information" or similar designation on the content declaration screen of the Platform in order to enable such Public Lender or its delegate, in accordance with such Public Lender's compliance procedures and applicable Law, including United States Federal and state securities Laws, to make reference to Borrower Materials that are not made available through the "Public Side Information" portion of the Platform and that may contain material non-public information with respect to the Borrower or its securities for purposes of United States Federal or state securities laws.
Change of Address, Etc
 
(e) . The Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuers and the Lenders shall be entitled to rely and act upon any notices (including telephonic Committed Loan Notices and Swing Line Loan Notices) purportedly given by or on behalf of the Borrower even if (i) such notices were not made in a manner specified herein, were incomplete or were not preceded or followed by any other form of notice specified herein, or (ii) the terms thereof, as understood by the recipient, varied from any confirmation thereof. The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent, each L/C Issuer, each Lender and the Related Parties of each of them from all losses, costs, expenses and liabilities resulting from the reliance by such Person on each notice purportedly given by or on behalf of the Borrower, provided that such indemnity shall not be available as to any Indemnitee to the extent that such losses, costs, expenses and liabilities are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee. All telephonic notices to and other telephonic communications with the Administrative Agent may be recorded by the Administrative Agent, and each of the parties hereto hereby consents to such recording.
Reliance by Administrative Agent, L/C Issuer and Lenders
 
No failure by any Lender or the Administrative Agent to exercise, and no delay by any such Person in exercising, any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, remedy, power or privilege. The rights, remedies, powers and privileges herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any rights, remedies, powers and privileges provided by law.
 
(a) . The Borrower shall pay (i) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent, the Arrangers and their respective Affiliates (including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel for the Administrative Agent), in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein, the preparation, negotiation, execution and delivery of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents or any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions hereof or thereof (whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby shall be consummated), (ii) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the L/C Issuers in connection with the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or any demand for payment thereunder and (iii) all out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any L/C Issuer (including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any L/C Issuer), in connection with the enforcement or protection of its rights (A) in connection with this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, including its rights under this Section, or (B) in connection with the Loans made or Letters of Credit issued hereunder, including all such out-of-pocket expenses incurred during any workout, restructuring or negotiations in respect of such Loans or Letters of Credit.
Costs and Expenses
(b) . The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent (and any sub-agent thereof), each Lender and each L/C Issuer, and each Related Party of any of the foregoing Persons (each such Person being called an "") against, and hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and related expenses (including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for any Indemnitee), incurred by any Indemnitee or asserted against any Indemnitee by any third party or by the Borrower arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of (i) the execution or delivery of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby or thereby, the performance by the parties hereto of their respective obligations hereunder or thereunder, the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby or
Indemnification by the Borrower
Indemnitee
 
thereby, or, in the case of the Administrative Agent (and any sub-agent thereof) and its Related Parties only, the administration of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, (ii) any Loan or Letter of Credit or the use or proposed use of the proceeds therefrom (including any refusal by the applicable L/C Issuer to honor a demand for payment under a Letter of Credit if the documents presented in connection with such demand do not strictly comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit), (iii) any actual or alleged presence or release of Hazardous Materials on or from any property owned or operated by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or any Environmental Liability related in any way to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or (iv) any actual or prospective claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether based on contract, tort or any other theory, whether brought by a third party or by the Borrower, and regardless of whether any Indemnitee is a party thereto; that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses (A) are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee, (B) result from a claim brought by the Borrower against an Indemnitee for breach in bad faith of such Indemnitee's obligations hereunder or under any other Loan Document, if the Borrower has obtained a final and nonappealable judgment in its favor on such claim as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction or (C) result from a claim by an Indemnitee against any other Indemnitee that does not involve an act or omission of the Borrower for which an Indemnitee would otherwise be entitled to indemnification under this .
provided
Section 10.04(b)
(c) . To the extent that the Borrower for any reason fails to indefeasibly pay any amount required under clause (a) or (b) of this Section to be paid by it to the Administrative Agent (or any sub-agent thereof), the applicable L/C Issuer or any Related Party of any of the foregoing (and without limiting its obligations to do so), each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent), such L/C Issuer or such Related Party, as the case may be, such Lender's Applicable Percentage (determined as of the time that the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity payment is sought) of such unpaid amount; that the unreimbursed expense or indemnified loss, claim, damage, liability or related expense, as the case may be, was incurred by or asserted against the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent) or such L/C Issuer in its capacity as such, or against any Related Party of any of the foregoing acting for the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent) or L/C Issuer in connection with such capacity. The obligations of the Lenders under this clause (c) are subject to the provisions of .
Reimbursement by Lenders
provided
Section 2.12(d)
(d) . To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Borrower shall not assert, and hereby waives, any claim against any Indemnitee, on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages) arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of, this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, any Loan or Letter of Credit or the use of the proceeds thereof. No Indemnitee referred to in clause (b) above shall be liable for any damages arising from the use by unintended recipients of any information or other materials distributed to such unintended recipients by such Indemnitee through telecommunications, electronic or other information transmission systems in connection with this Agreement or the other Loan Documents or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby other than for direct or actual damages resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee as determined by a final and nonappealable judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction.
Waiver of Consequential Damages, Etc
(e) . All amounts due under this Section shall be payable not later than ten Business Days after demand therefor.
Payments
(f) . The agreements in this Section shall survive the resignation of the Administrative Agent, any L/C Issuer and the Swing Line Lender, the replacement of any Lender, the termination of the Aggregate Commitments and the repayment, satisfaction or discharge of all the other Obligations.
Survival
 
To the extent that any payment by or on behalf of the Borrower is made to the Administrative Agent, any L/C Issuer or any Lender, or the Administrative Agent, any L/C Issuer or any Lender exercises its right of setoff, and such payment or the proceeds of such setoff or any part thereof is subsequently invalidated, declared to be fraudulent or preferential, set aside or required (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by the Administrative Agent, such L/C Issuer or such Lender in its discretion) to be repaid to a trustee, receiver or any other party, in connection with any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law or otherwise, then (a) to the extent of such recovery, the obligation or part thereof originally intended to be satisfied shall be revived and continued in full force and effect as if such payment had not been made or such setoff had not occurred, and (b) each Lender and each L/C Issuer severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent upon demand its applicable share (without duplication) of any amount so recovered from or repaid by the Administrative Agent, plus interest thereon from the date of such demand to the date such payment is made at a rate per annum equal to the applicable Overnight Rate from time to time in effect, in the applicable currency of such recovery or payment. The obligations of the Lenders and the L/C Issuers under clause (b) of the preceding sentence shall survive the payment in full of the Obligations and the termination of this Agreement.
 
(a) . The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, except that the Borrower may not assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent and each Lender and no Lender may assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder except (i) to an assignee in accordance with the provisions of clause (b) of this Section, (ii) by way of participation in accordance with the provisions of clause (d) of this Section, or (iii) by way of pledge or assignment of a security interest subject to the restrictions of clause (f) of this Section (and any other attempted assignment or transfer by any party hereto shall be null and void). Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon any Person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, Participants to the extent provided in clause (d) of this Section and, to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the Related Parties of each of the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuers and the Lenders) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement.
Successors and Assigns Generally
(b) . Any Lender may at any time assign to one or more assignees all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans (including for purposes of this clause (b), participations in L/C Obligations and in Swing Line Loans) at the time owing to it); that any such assignment shall be subject to the following conditions:
Assignments by Lenders
provided
(i) .
Minimum Amounts
(A) in the case of an assignment of the entire remaining amount of the assigning Lender's Commitment and the Loans at the time owing to it or in the case of an assignment to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund, no minimum amount need be assigned; and
 
(B) in any case not described in clause (b)(i)(A) of this Section, the aggregate amount of the Commitment (which for this purpose includes Loans outstanding thereunder) or, if the Commitment is not then in effect, the principal outstanding balance of the Loans of the assigning Lender subject to each such assignment, determined as of the date the Assignment and Assumption with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Administrative Agent or, if "Trade Date" is specified in the Assignment and Assumption, as of the Trade Date, shall not be less than $5,000,000 unless each of the Administrative Agent and, so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Borrower otherwise consents (each such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed); , , that concurrent assignments to members of an Assignee Group and concurrent assignments from members of an Assignee Group to a single Eligible Assignee (or to an Eligible Assignee and members of its Assignee Group) will be treated as a single assignment for purposes of determining whether such minimum amount has been met.
provided
however
(ii) . Each partial assignment shall be made as an assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement with respect to the Loans or the Commitment assigned, except that this clause (ii) shall not apply to the Swing Line Lender's rights and obligations in respect of Swing Line Loans;
Proportionate Amounts
(iii) . No consent shall be required for any assignment except to the extent required by clause (b)(i)(B) of this Section and, in addition:
Required Consents
(A) the consent of the Borrower (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required unless (1) an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing at the time of such assignment or (2) such assignment is to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund;
(B) the consent of the Administrative Agent (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required if such assignment is to a Person that is not a Lender, an Affiliate of such Lender or an Approved Fund with respect to such Lender;
(C) the consent of the L/C Issuers (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required for any assignment that increases the obligation of the assignee to participate in exposure under one or more Letters of Credit (whether or not then outstanding); and
(D) the consent of the Swing Line Lender (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required for any assignment.
(iv) . The parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent an Assignment and Assumption, together with a processing and recordation fee in the amount of $3,500; , , that the Administrative Agent may, in its sole discretion, elect to waive such processing and recordation fee in the case of any assignment. The assignee, if it is not a Lender, shall deliver to the Administrative Agent an Administrative Questionnaire.
Assignment and Assumption
provided
however
(v) . No such assignment shall be made to the Borrower or any of the Borrower's Affiliates or Subsidiaries.
No Assignment to Borrower
 
(vi) . No such assignment shall be made to a natural person.
No Assignment to Natural Persons
(vii) No such assignment shall be made to any Person that, through its Lending Officers, is not capable of lending one or more Alternative Currencies to the Borrower, or is not capable of lending one or more Alternative Currencies without the imposition of any additional Indemnified Taxes.
Subject to acceptance and recording thereof by the Administrative Agent pursuant to clause (C) of this Section, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Assumption, the assignee thereunder shall be a party to this Agreement and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement, and the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Assumption covering all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto) but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of , , , and with respect to facts and circumstances occurring prior to the effective date of such assignment. Upon request, the Borrower (at its expense) shall execute and deliver a Note to the assignee Lender. Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this clause shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with clause (d) of this Section.
Sections 3.01
3.04
3.05
10.04
(c) . The Administrative Agent, acting solely for this purpose as an agent of the Borrower, shall maintain at the Administrative Agent's Office a copy of each Assignment and Assumption delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Commitments of, and principal amounts of the Loans and L/C Obligations owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the ""). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive, and the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary. The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrower and any Lender, at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
Register
Register
(d) . Any Lender may at any time, without the consent of, or notice to, the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, sell participations to any Person (other than a natural person or the Borrower or any of the Borrower's Affiliates or Subsidiaries) (each, a "") in all or a portion of such Lender's rights and/or obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and/or the Loans (including such Lender's participations in L/C Obligations and/or Swing Line Loans) owing to it); that (i) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (ii) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations and (iii) the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the L/C Issuers shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement.
Participations
Participant
provided
Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement; that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, waiver or other modification described in the first proviso to that affects such Participant. Subject to clause (e) of this Section, the Borrower agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of , and to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to clause (B) of this Section. To the extent permitted by law, each Participant also shall be entitled to the benefits of as though it were a Lender; that such Participant agrees to be subject to as though it were a Lender.
provided
Section 10.01
Sections 3.01
3.04
3.05
Section 10.08
provided
Section 2.13
 
(e) . A Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under or than the applicable Lender would have been entitled to receive with respect to the participation sold to such Participant, unless the sale of the participation to such Participant is made with the Borrower's prior written consent. A Participant that would be a Foreign Lender if it were a Lender shall not be entitled to the benefits of unless the Borrower is notified of the participation sold to such Participant and such Participant agrees, for the benefit of the Borrower, to comply with  as though it were a Lender.
Limitations upon Participant Rights
Section 3.01
3.04
Section 3.01
Section 3.01(e)
(f) . Any Lender may, without the consent of the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement (including under its Note(s), if any) to secure obligations of such Lender, including any pledge or assignment to secure obligations to a Federal Reserve Bank; that no such pledge or assignment shall release such Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender as a party hereto.
Certain Pledges
provided
(g) . The words "execution," "signed," "signature," and words of like import in any Assignment and Assumption shall be deemed to include electronic signatures or the keeping of records in electronic form, each of which shall be of the same legal effect, validity or enforceability as a manually executed signature or the use of a paper-based recordkeeping system, as the case may be, to the extent and as provided for in any applicable law, including the Federal Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act, the New York State Electronic Signatures and Records Act, or any other similar state laws based on the Uniform Electronic Transactions Act.
Electronic Execution of Assignments
(h) . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, if at any time a Lender assigns all of its Commitment and Loans pursuant to clause (b) above, such Lender, as applicable, may, (i) upon 30 days' notice to the Borrower and the Lenders, resign as L/C Issuer and/or (ii) upon 30 days' notice to the Borrower, resign as Swing Line Lender. In the event of any such resignation as L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender, the Borrower shall be entitled to appoint from among the Lenders a successor L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender hereunder with the consent of such Lender; , , that no failure by the Borrower to appoint any such successor shall affect the resignation of such Lender as L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender, as the case may be. If such Lender resigns as L/C Issuer, it shall retain all the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the L/C Issuer hereunder with respect to all Letters of Credit outstanding as of the effective date of its resignation as L/C Issuer and all L/C Obligations with respect thereto (including the right to require the Lenders to make Base Rate Committed Loans or fund risk participations in Unreimbursed Amounts pursuant to ). If Bank of America resigns as Swing Line Lender, it shall retain all the rights of the Swing Line Lender provided for hereunder with respect to Swing Line Loans made by it and outstanding as of the effective date of such resignation, including the right to require the Lenders to make Base Rate Committed Loans or fund risk participations in outstanding Swing Line Loans pursuant to . Upon the appointment of a successor L/C Issuer and/or Swing Line Lender, (A) such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender, as the case may be, and (b) the successor L/C Issuer shall issue letters of credit in substitution for the Letters of Credit, if any, outstanding at the time of such succession or make other arrangements satisfactory to such Lender to effectively assume the obligations of such Lender with respect to such Letters of Credit.
Resignation as L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender after Assignment
provided
however
Section 2.03(c)
Section 2.04(c)
 
Each of the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the L/C Issuers agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (A) to its Affiliates and to its and its Affiliates' respective partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, advisors and representatives (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential), (b) to the extent requested by any regulatory authority purporting to have jurisdiction over it (including any self-regulatory authority, such as the National Association of Insurance Commissioners), (c) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, (d) to any other party hereto, (e) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or under any other Loan Document or any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or any other Loan Document or the enforcement of rights hereunder or thereunder, (f) subject to an agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section, to (i) any assignee of or Participant in, or any prospective assignee of or Participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement or any Eligible Assignee invited to be a Lender pursuant to , (ii) any actual or prospective counterparty (or its advisors) to any swap or derivative transaction with such Lender relating to a Borrower and its obligations or (iii) any insurer or insurance broker of, or direct or indirect provider of credit protection to any Lender or any Affiliate of any Lender, (g) with the consent of the Borrower or (h) to the extent such Information (A) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section or (B) becomes available to the Administrative Agent, any Lender, any L/C Issuer or any of their respective Affiliates on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than the Borrower. In the event the Administrative Agent, the Lenders or the L/C Issuer is required to disclose the Information pursuant to applicable law or regulation or by subpoena or similar legal process, such party shall give prompt written notice thereof to the Borrower unless legally prohibited from doing so.
Section 2.15(c)
For purposes of this Section, "" means all information received from the Borrower or any Subsidiary relating to the Borrower or any Subsidiary or any of their respective businesses, other than any such information that is available to the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any L/C Issuer on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by the Borrower or any Subsidiary; that, in the case of information received from the Borrower or any Subsidiary after the date hereof, such information is clearly identified at the time of delivery as confidential. Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information.
Information
provided
Each of the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the L/C Issuers acknowledges that (a) the Information may include material non-public information concerning the Borrower or a Subsidiary, as the case may be, (b) it has developed compliance procedures regarding the use of material non-public information and (c) it will handle such material non-public information in accordance with applicable Law, including United States Federal and state securities Laws.
 
If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, each Lender, each L/C Issuer and each of their respective Affiliates is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final, in whatever currency) at any time held and other obligations (in whatever currency) at any time owing by such Lender, such L/C Issuer or any such Affiliate to or for the credit or the account of the Borrower against any and all of the obligations of the Borrower now or hereafter existing under this Agreement or any other Loan Document to such Lender or such L/C Issuer,
 
irrespective of whether or not such Lender or such L/C Issuer shall have made any demand under this Agreement or any other Loan Document and although such obligations of the Borrower may be contingent or unmatured or are owed to a branch or office of such Lender or such L/C Issuer different from the branch or office holding such deposit or obligated on such indebtedness. The rights of each Lender, each L/C Issuer and their respective Affiliates under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of setoff) that such Lender, such L/C Issuer or their respective Affiliates may have. Each Lender and each L/C Issuer agrees to notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent promptly after any such setoff and application; that the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such setoff and application.
provided
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any Loan Document, the interest paid or agreed to be paid under the Loan Documents shall not exceed the maximum rate of non-usurious interest permitted by applicable Law (the ""). If the Administrative Agent or any Lender shall receive interest in an amount that exceeds the Maximum Rate, the excess interest shall be applied to the principal of the Loans or, if it exceeds such unpaid principal, refunded to the Borrower. In determining whether the interest contracted for, charged, or received by the Administrative Agent or a Lender exceeds the Maximum Rate, such Person may, to the extent permitted by applicable Law, (a) characterize any payment that is not principal as an expense, fee, or premium rather than interest, (b) exclude voluntary prepayments and the effects thereof, and (c) amortize, prorate, allocate, and spread in equal or unequal parts the total amount of interest throughout the contemplated term of the Obligations hereunder.
Maximum Rate
 
This Agreement may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto in different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract. This Agreement and the other Loan Documents constitute the entire contract among the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersede any and all previous agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter hereof. Except as provided in , this Agreement shall become effective when it shall have been executed by the Administrative Agent and when the Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts hereof that, when taken together, bear the signatures of each of the other parties hereto. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Agreement by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement.
Section 4.01
 
All representations and warranties made hereunder and in any other Loan Document or other document delivered pursuant hereto or thereto or in connection herewith or therewith shall survive the execution and delivery hereof and thereof. Such representations and warranties have been or will be relied upon by the Administrative Agent and each Lender, regardless of any investigation made by the Administrative Agent or any Lender or on their behalf and notwithstanding that the Administrative Agent or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of any Default at the time of any Credit Extension, and shall continue in full force and effect as long as any Loan or any other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied or any Letter of Credit shall remain outstanding.
 
If any provision of this Agreement or the other Loan Documents is held to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable, (a) the legality, validity and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Agreement
 
and the other Loan Documents shall not be affected or impaired thereby and (b) the parties shall endeavor in good faith negotiations to replace the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions the economic effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions. The invalidity of a provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.
 
If (i) any Lender requests compensation under , (ii) the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , (iii) any Lender is a Non-Extending Lender, or (iv) any Lender is a Defaulting Lender, then the Borrower may, at its sole expense, upon notice to such Lender and the Administrative Agent, require such Lender to (and such Lender shall) assign and delegate, without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in, and consents required by, ), all of its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement and the related Loan Documents to an assignee that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment); that:
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
Section 10.06
provided
(a) the Borrower shall have paid to the Administrative Agent the assignment fee specified in ;
Section 10.06(b)
(b) such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Loans and L/C Advances, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder and under the other Loan Documents (including any amounts under ) from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or the Borrower (in the case of all other amounts);
Section 3.05
(c) in the case of any such assignment resulting from a claim for compensation under or payments required to be made pursuant to , such assignment will result in a reduction in such compensation or payments thereafter; and
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
(d) such assignment does not conflict with applicable Laws.
A Lender shall not be required to make any such assignment or delegation if, prior thereto, as a result of a waiver by such Lender or otherwise, the circumstances entitling the Borrower to require such assignment and delegation cease to apply.
 
(a) . THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
GOVERNING LAW
(b) . THE BORROWER IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY SUBMITS, FOR ITSELF AND ITS PROPERTY, TO THE NONEXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THE COURTS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SITTING IN NEW YORK COUNTY AND OF THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT OF THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK, AND ANY APPELLATE COURT FROM ANY THEREOF, IN ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT, OR FOR RECOGNITION OR ENFORCEMENT OF ANY JUDGMENT, AND EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY AGREES THAT ALL CLAIMS IN RESPECT OF ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING MAY BE HEARD AND
SUBMISSION TO JURISDICTION
 
DETERMINED IN SUCH NEW YORK STATE COURT OR, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, IN SUCH FEDERAL COURT. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO AGREES THAT A FINAL JUDGMENT IN ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING SHALL BE CONCLUSIVE AND MAY BE ENFORCED IN OTHER JURISDICTIONS BY SUIT ON THE JUDGMENT OR IN ANY OTHER MANNER PROVIDED BY LAW. NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT OR IN ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT SHALL AFFECT ANY RIGHT THAT THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT, ANY LENDER OR ANY L/C ISSUER MAY OTHERWISE HAVE TO BRING ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT AGAINST THE BORROWER OR ITS PROPERTIES IN THE COURTS OF ANY JURISDICTION.
(c) . THE BORROWER IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY OBJECTION THAT IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE TO THE LAYING OF VENUE OF ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT IN ANY COURT REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH (B) OF THIS SECTION. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, THE DEFENSE OF AN INCONVENIENT FORUM TO THE MAINTENANCE OF SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING IN ANY SUCH COURT.
WAIVER OF VENUE
(d) . EACH PARTY HERETO IRREVOCABLY CONSENTS TO SERVICE OF PROCESS IN THE MANNER PROVIDED FOR NOTICES IN . NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT WILL AFFECT THE RIGHT OF ANY PARTY HERETO TO SERVE PROCESS IN ANY OTHER MANNER PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.
SERVICE OF PROCESS
SECTION 10.02
 
EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY OR THEREBY (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER THEORY). EACH PARTY HERETO (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PERSON HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PERSON WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION.
 
In connection with all aspects of each transaction contemplated hereby (including in connection with any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or of any other Loan Document), the Borrower acknowledges and agrees, and acknowledges its Affiliates' understanding, that: (i) (A) the arranging and other services regarding this Agreement provided by the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the Arrangers, are arm's-length commercial transactions between the Borrower and its Affiliates, on the one hand, and the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the Arrangers, on the other hand, (B) the Borrower has consulted its own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it has deemed appropriate, and (C) the Borrower is capable of evaluating, and understands and accepts, the terms, risks
 
and conditions of the transactions contemplated hereby and by the other Loan Documents; (ii) (A) the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the Arrangers each is and has been acting solely as a principal and, except as expressly agreed in writing by the relevant parties, has not been, is not, and will not be acting as an advisor, agent or fiduciary for the Borrower or any of its Affiliates, or any other Person and (B) neither the Administrative Agent, the Lenders nor the Arrangers has any obligation to the Borrower or any of its Affiliates with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby except those obligations expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents; and (iii) the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the Arrangers and their respective Affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Borrower and its Affiliates, and neither the Administrative Agent, the Lenders nor the Arrangers has any obligation to disclose any of such interests to the Borrower or its Affiliates. To the fullest extent permitted by law, the Borrower hereby waives and releases any claims that it may have against the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the Arrangers with respect to any breach or alleged breach of agency or fiduciary duty in connection with any aspect of any transaction contemplated hereby.
 
Each Lender that is subject to the Act (as hereinafter defined) and the Administrative Agent (for itself and not on behalf of any Lender) hereby notifies the Borrower that pursuant to the requirements of the USA PATRIOT Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the ""), it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Borrower, which information includes the name and address of the Borrower and other information that will allow such Lender or the Administrative Agent, as applicable, to identify the Borrower in accordance with the Act.
Act
 
If, for the purposes of obtaining judgment in any court, it is necessary to convert a sum due hereunder or any other Loan Document in one currency into another currency, the rate of exchange used shall be that at which in accordance with normal banking procedures the Administrative Agent could purchase the first currency with such other currency on the Business Day preceding that on which final judgment is given. The obligation of the Borrower in respect of any such sum due from it to the Administrative Agent or any Lender hereunder or under the other Loan Documents shall, notwithstanding any judgment in a currency (the "") other than that in which such sum is denominated in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Agreement (the ""), be discharged only to the extent that on the Business Day following receipt by the Administrative Agent or such Lender, as the case may be, of any sum adjudged to be so due in the Judgment Currency, the Administrative Agent or such Lender, as the case may be, may in accordance with normal banking procedures purchase the Agreement Currency with the Judgment Currency. If the amount of the Agreement Currency so purchased is less than the sum originally due to the Administrative Agent or any Lender from the Borrower in the Agreement Currency, the Borrower agrees, as a separate obligation and notwithstanding any such judgment, to indemnify the Administrative Agent or such Lender, as the case may be, against such loss. If the amount of the Agreement Currency so purchased is greater than the sum originally due to the Administrative Agent or any Lender in such currency, the Administrative Agent or such Lender, as the case may be, agrees to return the amount of any excess to the Borrower (or to any other Person who may be entitled thereto under applicable law).
Judgment Currency
Agreement Currency
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed as of the date first above written.
 
 
SCHEDULE 1.01
1. The Mandatory Cost (to the extent applicable) is an addition to the interest rate to compensate Lenders for the cost of compliance with:
(a) the requirements of the Bank of England and/or the Financial Services Authority (or, in either case, any other authority which replaces all or any of its functions); or
(b) the requirements of the European Central Bank.
2. On the first day of each Interest Period (or as soon as possible thereafter) the Administrative Agent shall calculate, as a percentage rate, a rate (the "") for each Lender, in accordance with the paragraphs set out below. The Mandatory Cost will be calculated by the Administrative Agent as a weighted average of the Lenders' Additional Cost Rates (weighted in proportion to the percentage participation of each Lender in the relevant Loan) and will be expressed as a percentage rate per annum. The Administrative Agent will, at the request of the Borrower or any Lender, deliver to the Borrower or such Lender as the case may be, a statement setting forth the calculation of any Mandatory Cost.
Additional Cost Rate
3. The Additional Cost Rate for any Lender lending from a Lending Office in a Participating Member State will be the percentage notified by that Lender to the Administrative Agent. This percentage will be certified by such Lender in its notice to the Administrative Agent to be its reasonable determination of the cost (expressed as a percentage of such Lender's participation in all Loans made from such Lending Office) of complying with the minimum reserve requirements of the European Central Bank in respect of Loans made from that Lending Office.
4. The Additional Cost Rate for any Lender lending from a Lending Office in the United Kingdom will be calculated by the Administrative Agent as follows:
(a) in relation to any Loan in Sterling:
 
Where:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each Lender shall promptly notify the Administrative Agent in writing of any change to the information provided by it pursuant to this paragraph.
 
 
 
 
13. The Administrative Agent may from time to time, after consultation with the Borrower and the Lenders, determine and notify to all parties any amendments which are required to be made to this Schedule in order to comply with any change in law, regulation or any requirements from time to time imposed by the Bank of England, the Financial Services Authority or the European Central Bank (or, in any case, any other authority which replaces all or any of its functions) and any such determination shall, in the absence of manifest error, be conclusive and binding on all parties hereto.
SCHEDULE 2.01
 
EXHIBIT 2.02
Date: , 2007
                    
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Reference is made to that certain Credit Agreement, dated as of August 17, 2007 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the ""; the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among Cisco Systems, Inc. (the ""), the Lenders from time to time party thereto and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender and L/C Issuer.
Credit Agreement
Borrower
The undersigned hereby requests (select one):
  A Borrowing of Committed Loans    
  A conversion or continuation of Loans
 
 
 
[Type of Loan requested or to which existing
Loans are to be continued or converted]
 
 
The Committed Borrowing, if any, requested herein complies with the requirements of  of the Credit Agreement.
Section 2.01
 
EXHIBIT 2.04
Date: , 2007
                    
 
Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Reference is made to that certain Credit Agreement, dated as of August 17, 2007 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the ""; the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among Cisco Systems, Inc. (the ""), the Lenders from time to time party thereto and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender and L/C Issuer.
Credit Agreement
Borrower
The undersigned hereby requests a Swing Line Loan:
 
 
The Swing Line Borrowing requested herein complies with the requirements of  of the Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04(a)
 
EXHIBIT 2.11
Date: , 20
                    
    
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned (the "") hereby promises to pay to or its registered assigns (the ""), in accordance with the provisions of the Credit Agreement (as hereinafter defined), the principal amount of each Loan from time to time made by the Lender to the Borrower under that certain Credit Agreement, dated as of August 17, 2007 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the ""; the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among the Borrower, the Lenders from time to time party thereto, and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender and L/C Issuer.
Borrower
                                        
Lender
Credit Agreement
The Borrower promises to pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Loan from the date of such Loan until such principal amount is paid in full, at such interest rates and at such times as provided in the Credit Agreement. Except as otherwise provided in of the Credit Agreement with respect to Swing Line Loans, all payments of principal and interest shall be made to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lender in the currency in which such Committed Loan was denominated and in Same Day Funds at the Administrative Agent's Office for such currency. If any amount is not paid in full when due hereunder, such unpaid amount shall bear interest, to be paid upon demand, from the due date thereof until the date of actual payment (and before as well as after judgment) computed at the per annum rate set forth in the Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04(f)
This Note is one of the Notes referred to in the Credit Agreement, is entitled to the benefits thereof and may be prepaid in whole or in part subject to the terms and conditions provided therein. Upon the occurrence and continuation of one or more of the Events of Default specified in the Credit Agreement, all amounts then remaining unpaid on this Note shall become, or may be declared to be, immediately due and payable all as provided in the Credit Agreement. Loans made by the Lender shall be evidenced by one or more loan accounts or records maintained by the Lender in the ordinary course of business. The Lender may also attach schedules to this Note and endorse thereon the date, amount and maturity of its Loans and payments with respect thereto.
The Borrower, for itself, its successors and assigns, hereby waives diligence, presentment, protest and demand and notice of protest, demand, dishonor and non-payment of this Note.
THIS NOTE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
 
EXHIBIT 6.02
Financial Statement Date: , 20
                    
    
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Reference is made to that certain Credit Agreement, dated as of August 17, 2007 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the ""; the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among Cisco Systems, Inc. (the ""), the Lenders from time to time party thereto and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender and L/C Issuer.
Credit Agreement
Borrower
The undersigned Responsible Officer hereby certifies as of the date hereof that he/she is the of the Borrower, and that, as such, he/she is authorized to execute and deliver this Compliance Certificate to the Administrative Agent on the behalf of the Borrower, and that:
                                                             
[Use following paragraph 1 for fiscal
year-end
financial statements]
1. Attached hereto as are the year-end audited financial statements required by  of the Credit Agreement for the fiscal year of the Borrower ended as of the above date, together with the report and opinion of an independent certified public accountant required by such section.
Schedule 1
Section 6.01(a)
[Use following paragraph 1 for fiscal
quarter-end
financial statements]
1. Attached hereto as are the unaudited financial statements required by  of the Agreement for the fiscal quarter of the Borrower ended as of the above date. Such financial statements fairly present the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in accordance with GAAP as at such date and for such period, subject only to normal year-end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes.
Schedule 1
Section 6.01(b)
2. The undersigned has reviewed and is familiar with the terms of the Credit Agreement and has made, or has caused to be made under his/her supervision, a detailed review of the transactions and condition (financial or otherwise) of the Borrower and the Lenders, as applicable, during the accounting period covered by the attached financial statements.
3. A review of the activities of the Borrower during such fiscal period has been made under the supervision of the undersigned with a view to determining whether during such fiscal period the Borrower performed and observed all its Obligations under the Loan Documents, and to the best knowledge of the undersigned during such fiscal period, the Borrower performed and observed each covenant and condition of the Loan Documents applicable to it, and no Default has occurred and is continuing.
4. The representations and warranties of the Borrower contained in of the Credit Agreement, and any representations and warranties of the Borrower that are contained in any document furnished at any time under or in connection with the Loan Documents, are true and correct in all material respects on and as of the date hereof, except to the extent that such representations and warranties specifically refer to an earlier date, in which case they are true and correct in all material respects as of
Article V
such earlier date, and except that for purposes of this Compliance Certificate, the representations and warranties contained in subsections (a) and (b) of of the Credit Agreement shall be deemed to refer to the most recent statements furnished pursuant to clauses (a) and (b), respectively, of of the Credit Agreement, including the statements in connection with which this Compliance Certificate is delivered.
Section 5.05
Section 6.01
5. Attached hereto as are calculations demonstrating compliance with the financial covenant set forth in of the Credit Agreement.
Schedule 2
Section 7.08
the undersigned has executed this Compliance Certificate as of , .
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
                            
                    
 
Schedule 1 to
Compliance Certificate
Schedule 2 to
Compliance Certificate
 
 
EXHIBIT 10.06
This Assignment and Assumption (this "") is dated as of the Effective Date set forth below and is entered into by and between the Assignor (identified in item 1 below) and the Assignee (identified in item 2 below). Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Credit Agreement identified below (the ""), receipt of a copy of which is hereby acknowledged by the Assignee. The Standard Terms and Conditions set forth in Annex 1 attached hereto are hereby agreed to and incorporated herein by reference and made a part of this Assignment and Assumption as if set forth herein in full.
Assignment and Assumption
Credit Agreement
For an agreed consideration, the Assignor hereby irrevocably sells and assigns to the Assignee, and the Assignee hereby irrevocably purchases and assumes from the Assignor, subject to and in accordance with the Standard Terms and Conditions and the Credit Agreement, as of the Effective Date inserted by the Administrative Agent as contemplated below (i) all of the Assignor's rights and obligations in its capacity as a Lender under the Credit Agreement and any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto to the extent related to the amount and percentage interest identified below of all of such outstanding rights and obligations of the Assignor under the respective facilities identified below (including, without limitation, the Letters of Credit and the Swing Line Loans included in such facilities) and (ii) to the extent permitted to be assigned under applicable law, all claims, suits, causes of action and any other right of the Assignor (in its capacity as a Lender) against any Person, whether known or unknown, arising under or in connection with the Credit Agreement, any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto or the loan transactions governed thereby or in any way based on or related to any of the foregoing, including, but not limited to, contract claims, tort claims, malpractice claims, statutory claims and all other claims at law or in equity related to the rights and obligations sold and assigned pursuant to clause (i) above (the rights and obligations sold and assigned by the Assignor to the Assignee pursuant to clauses (i) and (ii) above being referred to herein collectively as the ""). Each such sale and assignment is without recourse to the Assignor and, except as expressly provided in this Assignment and Assumption, without representation or warranty by the Assignor.
Assigned Interest
 
 
 
Effective Date: , 20 [TO BE INSERTED BY ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT AND WHICH SHALL BE THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF RECORDATION OF TRANSFER IN THE REGISTER THEREFOR.]
                    
    
The terms set forth in this Assignment and Assumption are hereby agreed to:
 
1. .
Representations and Warranties
1.1. . the Assignor (a) represents and warrants that (i) it is the legal and beneficial owner of the Assigned Interest, (ii) the Assigned Interest is free and clear of any lien, encumbrance or other adverse claim and (iii) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby; and (b) assumes no responsibility with respect to (i) any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with the Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document, (ii) the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of the Loan Documents or any collateral thereunder, (iii) the financial condition of the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person obligated in respect of any Loan Document or (iv) the performance or observance by the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person of any of their respective obligations under any Loan Document.
Assignor
1.2. . the Assignee (a) represents and warrants that (i) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and to become a Lender under the Credit Agreement, (ii) it meets all the requirements to be an assignee under of the Credit Agreement (subject to such consents, if any, as may be required under of the Credit Agreement), (iii) from and after the Effective Date, it shall be bound by the provisions of the Credit Agreement as a Lender thereunder and, to the extent of the Assigned Interest, shall have the obligations of a Lender thereunder, (iv) it is sophisticated with respect to decisions to acquire assets of the type represented by the Assigned Interest and either it, or the Person exercising discretion in making its decision to acquire the Assigned Interest, is experienced in acquiring assets of such type, (v) it has received a copy of the Credit Agreement, and has received or has been accorded the opportunity to receive copies of the most recent financial statements referred to in thereof or delivered pursuant to thereof, as applicable, and such other documents and information as it deems appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Assignment and Assumption and to purchase the Assigned Interest, (vi) it has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent, the Assignor or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Assignment and Assumption and to purchase the Assigned Interest, and (vii) if it is a Foreign Lender, attached hereto is any documentation required to be delivered by it pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement, duly completed and executed by the Assignee; and (b) agrees that (i) it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent, the Assignor or any other Lender, and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under the Loan Documents, and (ii) it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations which by the terms of the Loan Documents are required to be performed by it as a Lender.
Assignee
Section 10.06(b)
Section 10.06(b)
Section 5.05
Section 6.02
2. . From and after the Effective Date, the Administrative Agent shall make all payments in respect of the Assigned Interest (including payments of principal, interest, fees and other amounts) to the Assignor for amounts which have accrued to but excluding the Effective Date and to the Assignee for amounts which have accrued from and after the Effective Date.
Payments
3. . This Assignment and Assumption shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. This Assignment and Assumption may be executed in any number of counterparts, which together shall constitute one instrument. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Assignment and Assumption by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Assignment and Assumption. This Assignment and Assumption shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the law of the State of New York.
General Provisions


