FILE:CSCO/CSCO-8K-20090204161831.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 4, 2009, Cisco Systems, Inc. (the "Registrant") reported its results of operations for its fiscal second quarter ended January 24, 2009. A copy of the press release issued by the Registrant concerning the foregoing results is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
The information contained herein and in the accompanying exhibit shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Registrant, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing, unless expressly incorporated by specific reference to such filing. The information in this report, including the exhibit hereto, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
The attached press release includes non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per share data, non-GAAP shares used in net income per share calculation and non-GAAP inventory turns.
These non-GAAP measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies. In addition, these non-GAAP measures are not based on any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles.The Registrant believes that non-GAAP measures have limitations in that they do not reflect all of the amounts associated with the Registrant's results of operations as determined in accordance with GAAP and that these measures should only be used to evaluate the Registrant's results of operations in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures.
The Registrant believes that the presentation of non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per share data and non-GAAP shares used in net income per share calculation, when shown in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures, provides useful information to investors and management regarding financial and business trends relating to its financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the Registrant believes that the presentation of non-GAAP inventory turns provides useful information to investors and management regarding financial and business trends relating to inventory management based on the operating activities of the period presented.
For its internal budgeting process, the Registrant's management uses financial statements that do not include employee share-based compensation expense, impact to cost of sales from purchase accounting adjustments to inventory, payroll tax on stock option exercises, compensation expense related to acquisitions and investments, in-process research and development, amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, significant gains and losses on publicly traded equity securities, the income tax effects of the foregoing, tax effects of post-acquisition integration of intangible assets from significant acquisitions, and significant effects of retroactive tax legislation. The Registrant's management also uses the foregoing non-GAAP measures, in addition to the corresponding GAAP measures, in reviewing the financial results of the Registrant.
As described above, the Registrant excludes the following items from one or more of its non-GAAP measures when applicable:
.These expenses consist primarily of expenses for employee stock options, employee stock purchase rights, employee restricted stock and employee restricted stock units under SFAS123(R). The Registrant excludes employee share-based compensation expenses from its non-GAAP measures primarily because they are non-cash expenses that the Registrant does not believe are reflective of ongoing operating results. Further, as the Registrant applies SFAS 123(R), it believes that it is useful to investors to understand the impact of the application of SFAS 123(R) to its results of operations.
Employee share-based compensation expense
. This represents the amount of increase in inventory valuation resulting from the fair value adjustments required under purchase accounting for business combinations. These amounts arise from the Registrant's prior acquisitions and have no direct correlation to the operation of the Registrant's business.
Impact to cost of sales from purchase accounting adjustments to inventory
. This amount is dependent on the Registrant's stock price and the timing and exercise by employees of their stock options, over which management has virtually no control, and as such do not correlate to the Registrant's operation of the business.
Payroll tax on stock option exercises
. This amount arises from the Registrant's acquisitions and has no direct correlation to the operation of the Registrant's business.
Compensation expense related to acquisitions and investments
. The Registrant incurs in-process research and development expenses when technological feasibility for acquired technology has not been established and no future alternative use for such technology exists. These amounts arise from the Registrant's prior acquisitions and have no direct correlation to the operation of the Registrant's business.
In-process research and development
.The Registrant incurs amortization of intangible assets in connection with acquisitions. The Registrant excludes these items because these expenses are not reflective of ongoing operating results in the period incurred. These amounts arise from the Registrant's prior acquisitions and have no direct correlation to the operation of the Registrant's business.
Amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets
. The Registrant does not actively trade public equity securities nor does it plan on these securities positions for funding of ongoing operations. The Registrant excludes significant gains and losses on publicly traded equity securities because this item is unrelated to the Registrant's ongoing business and operating results.
Significant gains and losses on publicly traded equity securities
. This amount is used to present each of the amounts described above on an after-tax basis consistent with the presentation of non-GAAP net income.
Income tax effects of the foregoing
The Registrant incurs tax effects as a result of the post-acquisition integration of intangible assets into its intercompany R&D cost sharing arrangement. The Registrant excludes these tax effects for significant acquisitions because such effects have no direct correlation to the operation of the Registrant's business.
Tax effects of post-acquisition integration of intangible assets from significant acquisitions.
The Registrant is subject to changes in tax legislation which have retroactive effects. The Registrant excludes such significant effects of retroactive tax legislation because this item is unrelated to the Registrant's current ongoing business and operating results.
Significant effects of retroactive tax legislation.
The Registrant will incur employee share-based compensation expense, payroll tax on stock option exercises, amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets and compensation expense related to acquisitions and investments in future periods. Impact to cost of sales from purchase accounting adjustments to inventory, in-process research and development expenses, significant gains and losses on publicly traded equity securities, and tax effects of post-acquisition integration of intangible assets from significant acquisitions are each a function of underlying transactions, and the Registrant expects to engage in transactions of this nature in future periods. The Registrant may be subject to significant effects of retroactive tax legislation to the extent that any such legislation becomes effective in future periods.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
PRESS RELEASE
 
 
 
 
 
 
SAN JOSE, Calif.  February 4, 2009  Cisco, the worldwide leader in networking that transforms how people connect, communicate and collaborate, today reported its second quarter results for the period ended January 24, 2009. Cisco reported second quarter net sales of $9.1 billion, net income on a generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) basis of $1.5 billion or $0.26 per share, and non-GAAP net income of $1.9 billion or $0.32 per share.
"Cisco showcased solid financial strength during a period of significant economic challenge," said John Chambers, chairman and chief executive officer, Cisco. "We remain comfortable with our long-term vision and strategy as we move into new market adjacencies and prioritize our existing opportunities. We intend to accelerate the alignment of our resources to prioritize future growth opportunities, gradually decrease our operating expenses, while building even stronger customer relationships to position Cisco for ongoing, long-term market leadership."
 
 
Net sales for both the first six months of fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008 were $19.4 billion. Net income for the first six months of fiscal 2009, on a GAAP basis, was $3.7 billion or $0.63 per share, compared with $4.3 billion or $0.68 per share for the first six months of fiscal 2008. Non-GAAP net income for the first six months of fiscal 2009 was $4.4 billion or $0.74 per share, compared with $4.9 billion or $0.78 per share for the first six months of fiscal 2008.
A reconciliation between net income on a GAAP basis and non-GAAP net income is provided in the table on page 6.
Cisco will discuss second quarter results and business outlook on a conference call and webcast at 1:30 p.m. Pacific Time today. Call information and related charts are available at .
http://www.cisco.com/go/investors
Other Financial Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
"Despite a clearly challenging macro-economic environment, Cisco generated $3.2 billion in cash flows from operations in our second quarter, resulting in total cash and investments of $29.5 billion," said Frank Calderoni, chief financial officer, Cisco. "I believe our business model and financial position provide us with two key capabilities: speed and flexibility. We believe we have been able to minimize risk to our business, while still positioning Cisco to take advantage of new opportunities."
Select Global Business Highlights
 
 
Acquisitions and Investments
 
 
Cisco Innovation
 
 
 
 
 
 
Select Customer Announcements
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Editor's Note:
 
 
 
 
 
 
About Cisco
Cisco (NASDAQ: CSCO) is the worldwide leader in networking that transforms how people connect, communicate and collaborate. Information about Cisco can be found at . For ongoing news, visit .
http://www.cisco.com
http://newsroom.cisco.com
This release may be deemed to contain forward-looking statements, which are subject to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements regarding future events (such as our long-term vision and strategy, the acceleration of our resource alignment, our intent to gradually decrease operating expenses, our movement into market adjacencies and prioritization of our existing opportunities, and the positioning of our business to take advantage of new opportunities and for ongoing, long-term market leadership) and the future financial performance of Cisco that involve risks and uncertainties. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are only predictions and may differ materially from actual future events or results due to a variety of factors, including: business and economic conditions and growth trends in the networking industry, our customer markets and various geographic regions; global economic conditions and uncertainties in the geopolitical environment; overall information technology spending; the growth and evolution of the Internet and levels of capital spending on Internet-based systems; variations in customer demand for products and services, including sales to the service provider market and other customer markets; the return on our investments in certain market adjacencies and geographical locations during the current economic downturn; the timing of orders and manufacturing and customer lead times; changes in customer order patterns or customer mix; insufficient, excess or obsolete inventory; variability of component costs; variations in sales channels, product costs or mix of products sold; our ability to successfully acquire businesses and technologies and to successfully integrate and operate these acquired businesses and technologies; increased competition in our product and service markets; dependence on the introduction and market acceptance of new product offerings and standards; rapid technological and market change; manufacturing and sourcing risks; product defects and returns; litigation involving patents, intellectual property, antitrust, shareholder and other matters, and governmental investigations; natural catastrophic events; our ability to achieve the benefits anticipated from our investments in sales and engineering activities; our ability to recruit and retain key personnel; our ability to manage financial risk, and to manage expenses during the current economic downturn; risks related to the global nature of our operations, including our operations in emerging markets; currency fluctuations and other international factors; potential volatility in operating results; and other factors listed in Cisco's most recent reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q. The financial information contained in this release should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in Cisco's most recent reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q, as each may be amended from time to time. Cisco's results of operations for the three and six months ended January 24, 2009 are not necessarily indicative of Cisco's operating results for any future periods. Any projections in this release are based on limited information currently available to Cisco, which is subject to change. Although any such projections and the factors influencing them will likely change, Cisco will not necessarily update the information, since Cisco will only provide guidance at certain points during the year. Such information speaks only as of the date of this release.
This release includes non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per share data, shares used in non-GAAP net income per share calculation, and non-GAAP inventory turns.
These non-GAAP measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative for measures prepared in accordance with, generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies. In addition, these non-GAAP measures are not based on any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles. Cisco believes that non-GAAP measures have limitations in that they do not reflect all of the amounts associated with Cisco's results of operations as determined in accordance with GAAP and that these measures should only be used to evaluate Cisco's results of operations in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures.
Cisco believes that the presentation of non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per share data and shares used in non-GAAP net income per share calculation, when shown in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures, provides useful information to investors and management regarding financial and business trends relating to its financial condition and results of operations. In addition, Cisco believes that the presentation of non-GAAP inventory turns provides useful information to investors and management regarding financial and business trends relating to inventory management based on the operating activities of the period presented.
For its internal budgeting process, Cisco's management uses financial statements that do not include employee share-based compensation expense, impact to cost of sales from purchase accounting adjustments to inventory, payroll tax on stock option exercises, compensation expense related to acquisitions and investments, in-process research and development, amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, significant gains and losses on publicly traded equity securities, the income tax effects of the foregoing, tax effects of post-acquisition integration of intangible assets from significant acquisitions, and significant effects of retroactive tax legislation. Cisco's management also uses the foregoing non-GAAP measures, in addition to the corresponding GAAP measures, in reviewing the financial results of Cisco.
For additional information on the items excluded by Cisco from one or more of its non-GAAP financial measures, refer to the Form 8-K regarding this release furnished today to the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Copyright 2009 Cisco Systems, Inc. All rights reserved. Cisco, the Cisco logo, Cisco Systems, Aironet, Catalyst, Cisco Eos, Cisco TelePresence, Cisco WebEx, Linksys, WebEx and WebEx Connect are registered trademarks or trademarks of Cisco Systems, Inc. and/or its affiliates in the United States and certain other countries. All other trademarks mentioned in this document are the property of their respective owners. The use of the word partner does not imply a partnership relationship between Cisco and any other company. This document is Cisco Public Information.
 
 
Certain reclassifications have been made to prior period amounts to conform to the current period's presentation.
 
 
 
Additional reconciliations between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures are provided in the tables that follow on page 10.
 
 
 
 
Certain reclassifications have been made to prior period amounts to conform to the current period's presentation.
 
 
Note:
 
 
 
 
 


