FILE:CSCO/CSCO-8K-20110209161604.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 9, 2011, Cisco Systems, Inc. (the "Registrant") reported its results of operations for its fiscal second quarter 2011 ended January 29, 2011. A copy of the press release issued by the Registrant concerning the foregoing results is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
The information contained herein and in the accompanying exhibits shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Registrant, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing, unless expressly incorporated by specific reference to such filing. The information in this report, including the exhibits hereto, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
The attached exhibits include non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per share data and non-GAAP inventory turns.
These non-GAAP measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies. In addition, these non-GAAP measures are not based on any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles. The Registrant believes that non-GAAP measures have limitations in that they do not reflect all of the amounts associated with the Registrant's results of operations as determined in accordance with GAAP and that these measures should only be used to evaluate the Registrant's results of operations in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures.
The Registrant believes that the presentation of non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per share data when shown in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures, provides useful information to investors and management regarding financial and business trends relating to its financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the Registrant believes that the presentation of non-GAAP inventory turns provides useful information to investors and management regarding financial and business trends relating to inventory management based on the operating activities of the periods presented.
For its internal budgeting process, the Registrant's management uses financial statements that do not include, when applicable, share-based compensation expense, amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, other acquisition-related costs, significant asset impairments and restructurings, the income tax effects of the foregoing, significant effects of retroactive tax legislation, and significant transfer pricing adjustments related to share-based compensation. The Registrant's management also uses the foregoing non-GAAP measures, in addition to the corresponding GAAP measures, in reviewing the financial results of the Registrant. In prior periods, the Registrant has excluded other items that it no longer excludes for purposes of its non-GAAP financial measures. From time to time in the future, there may be other items that the Registrant may exclude for purposes of its internal budgeting process and in reviewing the financial results of the Registrant.
As described above, the Registrant excludes the following items from one or more of its non-GAAP measures when applicable:
These expenses consist primarily of expenses for employee stock options, employee stock purchase rights, employee restricted stock and employee restricted stock units, including such expenses associated with acquisitions. The Registrant excludes share-based compensation expense from its non-GAAP measures primarily because they are non-cash expenses that the Registrant does not believe are reflective of ongoing operating results. Further, the Registrant believes that it is useful to investors to understand the impact of share-based compensation to its results of operations.
Share-based compensation expense.
. The Registrant incurs amortization of intangible assets (which may include impairment charges from the write-downs of purchased intangible assets) in connection with acquisitions. The Registrant excludes these items because these expenses are not reflective of ongoing operating results in the period incurred. These amounts arise from the Registrant's prior acquisitions and have no direct correlation to the operation of the Registrant's business.
Amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets
. In connection with its business combinations, the Registrant incurs compensation expense, changes to the fair value of contingent consideration, as well as professional fees and other direct expenses such as restructuring activities related to the acquired company. In addition, from time to time the Registrant enters into foreign currency transactions related to pending acquisitions, and may incur gains or losses on such transactions. The Registrant excludes such compensation expense, changes to the fair value of contingent consideration, fees, other direct expenses, and gains and losses, as they are primarily related to acquisitions and have no direct correlation to the operation of the Registrant's business.
Other acquisition-related costs
. The Registrant from time to time incurs significant asset impairments, restructuring charges, and gains or losses on asset disposals. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, the Registrant excluded impairments and other charges for excess facilities. The Registrant excludes these items, when significant, because it does not believe they are reflective of ongoing business and operating results.
Significant asset impairments and restructurings
. This amount is used to present each of the amounts described above on an after-tax basis consistent with the presentation of non-GAAP net income.
Income tax effects of the foregoing
The Registrant is subject to changes in tax legislation which have retroactive effects. The Registrant excludes such significant effects of retroactive tax legislation because this item is unrelated to the Registrant's current ongoing business and operating results.
Significant effects of retroactive tax legislation.
. In the third quarter of fiscal 2010 and the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit issued decisions that affected the tax treatment of share-based compensation expense for the purpose of determining intangible development costs under a company's research and development cost sharing arrangement. While the Registrant was not a party to the case, as a result of the tax accounting change caused by each ruling, the Registrant recorded a tax benefit or charge in its financial statements during the applicable period. The Registrant excluded these items because they were unrelated to its current ongoing business and operating results.
Significant transfer pricing adjustments related to share-based compensation
From time to time in the future, there may be other items, such as significant gains or losses from contingencies, that the Registrant may exclude if it believes that doing so is consistent with the goal of providing useful information to investors and management.
The Registrant will incur share-based compensation expense, amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, and other acquisition-related costs, in future periods. The Registrant may be subject to significant effects of retroactive tax legislation to the extent that any such legislation becomes effective retroactively in future periods. Significant asset impairments and restructurings could occur in future periods. The Registrant could experience significant transfer pricing adjustments related to share-based compensation to the extent that any court rulings or other guidance impacts this area in future periods.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
SAN JOSE, Calif.  February 9, 2011  Cisco, the worldwide leader in networking that transforms how people connect, communicate and collaborate, today reported its second quarter results for the period ended January 29, 2011. Cisco reported second quarter net sales of $10.4 billion, net income on a generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) basis of $1.5 billion or $0.27 per share, and non-GAAP net income of $2.1 billion or $0.37 per share.
"The quarter played out as we expected. Our strategy of tightly integrating our multiple products through an architectural approach is working, and we are delivering innovation in each major product family," said John Chambers, chairman and CEO, Cisco. "As a company, we are going through a period of transition as we move aggressively in the market with our architectural strategy. We have managed these market transitions many times, positioning Cisco and our customers for success. Simply put, we are owning our evolution and the next generation of industry leadership."
 
Net sales for the first six months of fiscal 2011 were $21.2 billion, compared with $18.8 billion for the first six months of fiscal 2010. Net income for the first six months of fiscal 2011, on a GAAP basis, was $3.5 billion or $0.61 per share, compared with $3.6 billion or $0.62 per share for the first six months of fiscal 2010. Non-GAAP net income for the first six months of fiscal 2011 was $4.5 billion or $0.80 per share, compared with $4.5 billion or $0.76 per share for the first six months of fiscal 2010.
A reconciliation between net income on a GAAP basis and non-GAAP net income is provided in the table on page 6.
Cisco will discuss second quarter results and business outlook on a conference call and webcast at 1:30 p.m. Pacific Time today. Call information and related charts are available at http://investor.cisco.com.
 
Other Financial Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
"With total cash generation of $2.6 billion for the quarter, and revenues of $10.4 billion, our financial strength and cash position is clearly a major competitive advantage for us," said Frank Calderoni, executive vice president and chief financial officer, Cisco. "We are focused on strong execution and moving the business forward to deliver results for our customers, our shareholders, and our employees."
Select Global Business Highlights
 
 
 
Cisco Innovation
 
 
 
 
 
 
Select Customer Announcements
 
 
 
 
 
 
Editor's Note:
 
 
 
About Cisco
Cisco (NASDAQ: CSCO), is the worldwide leader in networking that transforms how people connect, communicate and collaborate. Information about Cisco can be found at . For ongoing news, please go to .
http://www.cisco.com
http://newsroom.cisco.com
 
This release may be deemed to contain forward-looking statements, which are subject to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements regarding future events (such as statements regarding strategy, product innovation, operational execution and delivery of results) and the future financial performance of Cisco that involve risks and uncertainties. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are only predictions and may differ materially from actual future events or results due to a variety of factors, including: business and economic conditions and growth trends in the networking industry, our customer markets and various geographic regions; global economic conditions and uncertainties in the geopolitical environment; overall information technology spending; the growth and evolution of the Internet and levels of capital spending on Internet-based systems; variations in customer demand for products and services, including sales to the service provider market and other customer markets; the return on our investments in certain market adjacencies and geographical locations; the timing of orders and manufacturing and customer lead times; changes in customer order patterns or customer mix; insufficient, excess or obsolete inventory; variability of component costs; variations in sales channels, product costs or mix of products sold; our ability to successfully acquire businesses and technologies and to successfully integrate and operate these acquired businesses and technologies; increased competition in our product and service markets, including the data center; dependence on the introduction and market acceptance of new product offerings and standards; rapid technological and market change; manufacturing and sourcing risks; product defects and returns; litigation involving patents, intellectual property, antitrust, shareholder and other matters, and governmental investigations; natural catastrophic events; a pandemic or epidemic; our ability to achieve the benefits anticipated from our investments in sales and engineering activities; our ability to recruit and retain key personnel; our ability to manage financial risk, and to manage expenses during economic downturns; risks related to the global nature of our operations, including our operations in emerging markets; currency fluctuations and other international factors; changes in provision for income taxes, including changes in tax laws and regulations or adverse outcomes resulting from examinations of our income tax returns; potential volatility in operating results; and other factors listed in Cisco's most recent reports on Form 10-K and 10-Q, filed on September 21, 2010 and November 23, 2010, respectively. The financial information contained in this release should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in Cisco's most recent reports on Form 10-K and 10-Q, as each may be amended from time to time. Cisco's results of operations for the three and six months ended January 29, 2011 are not necessarily indicative of Cisco's operating results for any future periods. Any projections in this release are based on limited information currently available to Cisco, which is subject to change. Although any such projections and the factors influencing them will likely change, Cisco will not necessarily update the information, since Cisco will only provide guidance at certain points during the year. Such information speaks only as of the date of this release.
This release includes non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per share data and non-GAAP inventory turns.
These non-GAAP measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies. In addition, these non-GAAP measures are not based on any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles. Cisco believes that non-GAAP measures have limitations in that they do not reflect all of the amounts associated with Cisco's results of operations as determined in accordance with GAAP and that these measures should only be used to evaluate Cisco's results of operations in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures.
Cisco believes that the presentation of non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per share data when shown in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures, provides useful information to investors and management regarding financial and business trends relating to its financial condition and results of operations. In addition, Cisco believes that the presentation of non-GAAP inventory turns provides useful information to investors and management regarding financial and business trends relating to inventory management based on the operating activities of the period presented.
For its internal budgeting process, Cisco's management uses financial statements that do not include, when applicable, share-based compensation expense, amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, other acquisition-related costs, significant asset impairments and restructurings, the income tax effects of the foregoing, significant effects of retroactive tax legislation, and significant transfer pricing adjustments related to share-based compensation. Cisco's management also uses the foregoing non-GAAP measures, in addition to the corresponding GAAP measures, in reviewing the financial results of Cisco. In prior periods, Cisco has excluded other items that it no longer excludes for purposes of its non-GAAP financial measures. From time to time in the future, there may be other items that Cisco may exclude for purposes of its internal budgeting process and in reviewing its financial results.
For additional information on the items excluded by Cisco from one or more of its non-GAAP financial measures, refer to the Form 8-K regarding this release furnished today to the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Copyright 2011 Cisco Systems, Inc. and or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Cisco, the Cisco logo, Cisco Systems, Catalyst, Cisco Cius, Cisco StadiumVision, Cisco TelePresence, and Cisco Videoscape are registered trademarks or trademarks of Cisco and/or its affiliates in the United States and other countries. Third party trademarks mentioned in this document are the property of their respective owners. The use of the word partner does not imply a partnership relationship between Cisco and any other company. This document is Cisco Public Information.
 
 
Certain reclassifications have been made to prior period amounts to conform to the current period's presentation.
 
 
 
Additional reconciliations between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures are provided in the tables that follow on page 10.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note:
 
 
The following table summarizes share-based compensation expense (in millions):
 
Certain reclassifications have been made to prior period amounts to conform to the current period's presentation.
The income tax benefit for share-based compensation expense was $119 million and $228 million for the three and six months ended January 29, 2011, respectively, and $100 million and $185 million for the three and six months ended January 23, 2010, respectively.
 
 


