FILE:CMA/CMA-8K-20061019070156.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
ITEMS 2.02 and 7.01 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION AND REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
Comerica Incorporated ("Comerica") today released its earnings for the quarter ended September 30, 2006. A copy of the press release and the presentation slides which will be discussed in Comerica's webcast earnings call are attached hereto as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
     
(c) Exhibits
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
October 19, 2006
Table of Contents
EXHIBIT INDEX

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
 Comerica Incorporated (NYSE: CMA) today reported third quarter 2006 earnings of $200 million, or $1.23 per diluted share, compared to $200 million, or $1.22 per diluted share, for the second quarter 2006 and $238 million, or $1.41 per diluted share, for the third quarter 2005. The third quarter 2005 earnings included a $30 million negative provision for loan losses and the positive net pre-tax effect of a $14 million warrant accounting adjustment. During the third quarter 2006, Comerica announced it had reached a definitive agreement to sell its stake in Munder Capital Management (Munder). The transaction is expected to close by year-end, with an initial after-tax gain in the range of $100 million to $110 million. Effective third quarter 2006, Comerica is accounting for Munder as a discontinued operation, and all periods presented have been restated to reflect this change.
DETROIT/October 19, 2006
"Our third quarter results underscore many positive core operating trends, and reflect our emphasis on growth and balance," said Ralph W. Babb Jr., chairman and chief executive officer. "Loan growth in our fastest-growing markets continued at a double-digit pace and credit quality in all markets remained excellent. Net charge-offs were at an historically low level, while nonperforming assets increased slightly from the second quarter but remained at a low level."
Third Quarter and Nine-Month 2006 Highlights
Third Quarter 2006 Compared to Second Quarter 2006
 
COMERICA REPORTS THIRD QUARTER 2006 EARNINGS  2
First Nine Months of 2006 Compared to First Nine Months of 2005
Net Interest Income and Net Interest Margin in Line with Full-Year Outlook
 
COMERICA REPORTS THIRD QUARTER 2006 EARNINGS  3
Noninterest Income Reflects Stable Trends in Fee Income
Noninterest income was $196 million for the third quarter 2006, compared to $205 million for the second quarter 2006 and $215 million for the third quarter 2005. The $9 million decrease in noninterest income in the third quarter 2006, compared to the second quarter 2006, reflected a $9 million decline in warrant income and a $7 million incremental loss recognized on the sale of the Mexican bank charter in the third quarter 2006, included in "net loss on sales of businesses" on the consolidated statements of income. This decrease was partially offset by higher income from venture capital investments of $5 million, and higher fee income from several sources such as service charges on deposit accounts, letter of credit fees and commercial lending fees. Certain categories of noninterest income are highlighted in the table below.
Noninterest Expenses Remain Well Controlled
Noninterest expenses were $400 million for the third quarter 2006, compared to $391 million for the second quarter 2006 and $411 million for the third quarter 2005. The increase in noninterest expenses from the second quarter 2006 reflected increased salaries and employee benefits expense of $9 million and interest on tax liabilities of $8 million primarily reflecting a $6 million tax-related refund in the second quarter, partially offset by a decrease in the provision for credit losses on lending-related commitments of $6 million.
Certain categories of noninterest expenses are highlighted in the table below. Customer services expense varies from period-to-period due to changes in the level of noninterest-bearing deposits in the Financial Services Division, the earnings credit allowance provided on these deposits and a competitive environment.
 
COMERICA REPORTS THIRD QUARTER 2006 EARNINGS  4
Munder Sale Expected to Close by Year-End
On August 4, 2006, Comerica announced it had reached a definitive agreement to sell its stake in Munder to an investor group. Completion of the closing, which is currently anticipated for late 2006, is subject to certain regulatory and third party approvals and the satisfaction of other customary conditions.
Comerica expects it will recognize an initial after-tax gain from the sale of Munder in the range of $100 million to $110 million upon closing. Effective with the third quarter 2006, Comerica is accounting for Munder as a discontinued operation, which means the after-tax earnings of Munder are reported as a single item at the bottom of the income statements. All periods presented have been restated to reflect this change.
Credit Quality Remained Excellent with Charge-offs at Historically Low Level
"Credit quality continues to be excellent, particularly in the West and Texas," said Babb. "Net credit-related charge-offs remained very low, at 6 basis points of average total loans. We are fully aware of the issues facing the automotive and real estate segments, and we believe we have reflected that awareness in our loss reserves."
During the third quarter 2006, $39 million of loans greater than $2 million were transferred to nonaccrual status, a decrease of $12 million from the second quarter 2006. The total provision for credit losses exceeded net credit-related charge-offs, reflecting trends in the automotive and real estate segments. While nonperforming assets increased by five basis points of total loans compared to the second quarter 2006, they remained at the low level of 42 basis points of total loans.
 
 
COMERICA REPORTS THIRD QUARTER 2006 EARNINGS  5
Balance Sheet and Capital Management
Total assets and common shareholders' equity were $58.5 billion and $5.2 billion, respectively, at September 30, 2006, compared to $57.1 billion and $5.2 billion, respectively, at June 30, 2006. There were approximately 159 million shares outstanding at September 30, 2006, compared to 162 million shares outstanding at June 30, 2006. Open market share repurchases for the current and prior quarter are shown in the following table:
In anticipation of a potential announcement of a Munder sale, Comerica did not repurchase shares in the second quarter 2006.
Comerica's third quarter 2006 estimated tier 1 common, tier 1 and total risk-based capital ratios were 7.49 percent, 8.05 percent and 11.26 percent, respectively.
Full Year 2006 Outlook Compared to Full Year 2005 For Continuing Operations
Business Segments
Comerica's continuing operations are strategically aligned into three major business segments: the Business Bank, the Retail Bank, and Wealth & Institutional Management. The Finance Division also is included as a segment. The financial results below are based on the internal business unit structure of the Corporation and methodologies in effect at September 30, 2006 and are presented on a fully taxable equivalent (FTE) basis. The accompanying narrative addresses third quarter 2006 results compared to second quarter 2006.
The following table presents net income (loss) by business segment.
 
 
COMERICA REPORTS THIRD QUARTER 2006 EARNINGS  6
Business Bank
Retail Bank
 
COMERICA REPORTS THIRD QUARTER 2006 EARNINGS  7
Wealth and Institutional Management
Geographic Market Segments
Comerica also provides market segment results for four primary geographic markets: Midwest & Other Markets, Western, Texas and Florida. The financial results below are based on methodologies in effect at September 30, 2006 and are presented on a FTE basis. The accompanying narrative addresses third quarter 2006 results compared to second quarter 2006.
The following table presents net income (loss) by market segment.
 
 
COMERICA REPORTS THIRD QUARTER 2006 EARNINGS  8
Midwest and Other Markets
Western Market
 
COMERICA REPORTS THIRD QUARTER 2006 EARNINGS  9
Texas Market
Florida Market
Conference Call and Webcast
Comerica will host a conference call to review third quarter 2006 financial results at 8 a.m. ET Thursday, October 19, 2006. Interested parties may access the conference call by calling (706) 679-5261 (event ID No. 6946724). The call and supplemental financial information can also be accessed on the Internet at www.comerica.com. A replay will be available approximately two hours following the conference call for a period of one year. The conference call replay can be accessed by calling (800) 642-1687 or (706) 645-9291 (event ID No. 6946724). A replay of the Webcast can also be accessed via Comerica's "Investor Relations" page at www.comerica.com.
 
COMERICA REPORTS THIRD QUARTER 2006 EARNINGS  10
Comerica Incorporated is a financial services company headquartered in Detroit, strategically aligned into three major business segments: the Business Bank, the Retail Bank, and Wealth & Institutional Management. Comerica focuses on relationships and helping businesses and people to be successful. Comerica Bank locations can be found in Michigan, California, Texas, Florida and Arizona, with select businesses operating in several other states, and Canada and Mexico.
Forward-looking Statements
Any statements in this news release that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "anticipates," "believes," "feels," "expects," "estimates," "seeks," "strives," "plans," "intends," "outlook," "forecast," "position," "target," "mission," "assume," "achievable," "potential," "strategy," "goal," "aspiration," "outcome," "continue," "remain," "maintain," "trend," "objective" and variations of such words and similar expressions, or future or conditional verbs such as "will," "would," "should," "could," "might," "can," "may" or similar expressions, as they relate to Comerica or its management, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are predicated on the beliefs and assumptions of Comerica's management based on information known to Comerica's management as of the date of this news release and do not purport to speak as of any other date. Forward-looking statements may include descriptions of plans and objectives of Comerica's management for future or past operations, products or services, and forecasts of Comerica's revenue, earnings or other measures of economic performance, including statements of profitability, business segments and subsidiaries, estimates of credit trends and global stability. Such statements reflect the view of Comerica's management as of this date with respect to future events and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Should one or more of these risks materialize or should underlying beliefs or assumptions prove incorrect, Comerica's actual results could differ materially from those discussed. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences are changes in the pace of an economic recovery and related changes in employment levels, the effects of war and other armed conflicts or acts of terrorism, the effects of natural disasters including, but not limited to, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes and floods, the disruption of private or public utilities, the implementation of Comerica's strategies and business models, management's ability to maintain and expand customer relationships, management's ability to retain key officers and employees, changes in the accounting treatment of any particular item, the impact of regulatory examinations, declines or other changes in the businesses or industries in which Comerica has a concentration of loans, including, but not limited to, automotive production, the anticipated performance of any new banking centers, the entry of new competitors in Comerica's markets, changes in the level of fee income, changes in applicable laws and regulations, including those concerning taxes, banking, securities and insurance, changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies, including the interest rate policies of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, fluctuations in inflation or interest rates, changes in general economic conditions and related credit and market conditions and adverse conditions in the stock market. Comerica cautions that the foregoing list of factors is not exclusive. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. Comerica does not undertake to update forward-looking statements to reflect facts, circumstances, assumptions or events that occur after the date the forward-looking statements are made. For any forward-looking statements made in this news release or in any documents, Comerica claims the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
CONSOLIDATED QUARTERLY STATEMENTS OF INCOME
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
N/M  Not meaningful
 
ANALYSIS OF THE ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
ANALYSIS OF THE ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES ON LENDING-RELATED COMMITMENTS
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
NONPERFORMING ASSETS
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
ANALYSIS OF NET INTEREST INCOME (FTE)
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
ANALYSIS OF NET INTEREST INCOME (FTE)
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
CONSOLIDATED STATISTICAL DATA
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
PARENT COMPANY ONLY BALANCE SHEETS
Comerica Incorporated
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
BUSINESS SEGMENT FINANCIAL RESULTS
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
 
MARKET SEGMENT FINANCIAL RESULTS
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
 
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
(Restated to reflect Munder Capital Management, Inc. as a discontinued operation)

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


