FILE:CMA/CMA-8K-20060829113458.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
J. Philip DiNapoli tendered his resignation from the Board of Directors of Comerica Incorporated ("Comerica"), effective August 26, 2006. On August 28, 2006, Comerica issued a press release regarding Mr. DiNapoli's resignation. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
EXHIBITS
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: August 29, 2006
Table of Contents
EXHIBIT INDEX

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
          
NEWS RELEASE
J. Philip DiNapoli, president, J.P. DiNapoli Companies, Inc., announced his resignation from the Comerica Incorporated Board of Directors, effective August 26, 2006.
DETROIT/August 28, 2006 
"J. Philip DiNapoli has been a director of Comerica since 1991. We appreciate Phil's service to the company. Under his tenure, the company experienced growth and expanded into the Western Market. We wish him only the best," said Ralph W. Babb Jr., chairman and chief executive officer, Comerica Incorporated.
Comerica Incorporated is a financial services company headquartered in Detroit, strategically aligned into three major business segments: the Business Bank, the Retail Bank, and Wealth & Institutional Management. Comerica focuses on relationships and helping businesses and people to be successful. Comerica Bank locations can be found in Michigan, California, Texas, Florida and Arizona, with select businesses operating in several other states, and Canada and Mexico. Comerica reported total assets of $57.1 billion at June 30, 2006. To receive e-mail alerts of breaking Comerica news, go to .
http://www.comerica.com/newsalerts


