FILE:CMA/CMA-8K-20070718070149.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
ITEMS 2.02 and 7.01 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION AND REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
Comerica Incorporated ("Comerica") today released its earnings for the quarter ended June 30, 2007. A copy of the press release and the presentation slides which will be discussed in Comerica's webcast earnings call are attached hereto as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
     
(c) Exhibits
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
July 18, 2007
Table of Contents
EXHIBIT INDEX

 
Exhibit 99.1
 Comerica Incorporated (NYSE: CMA) today reported second quarter 2007 income from continuing operations of $196 million, or $1.25 per diluted share, compared to $189 million, or $1.19 per diluted share, for the first quarter 2007 and $195 million, or $1.19 per diluted share, for the second quarter 2006.
DETROIT/July 18, 2007
 
Income from continuing operations for the first six months of 2007 was $385 million, or $2.44 per diluted share, compared to $402 million, or $2.45 per diluted share, for the first six months of 2006. The provision for loan losses was $59 million for the first six months of 2007, compared to zero for the same time period in 2006. Return on average common shareholders' equity from continuing operations was 15.12 percent for the first six months of 2007 and 15.73 percent for the same period in 2006.
The following table illustrates certain items impacting diluted earnings per share from continuing operations:
 
COMERICA REPORTS SECOND QUARTER 2007 EARNINGS  2
"Our second quarter financial results reflect the continued execution of our strategy," said Ralph W. Babb Jr., chairman and chief executive officer. "We had good loan growth, particularly in our high growth markets, and the second quarter net interest margin of 3.76 percent was in line with our full-year 2007 expectations. Expenses in the second quarter remained well controlled, even as we continued to ramp-up our banking center expansion program and relocate our corporate headquarters to Texas."
Second Quarter and Year-to-date 2007 Highlights
Second Quarter 2007 Compared to First Quarter 2007
Year-to-date June 2007 Compared to Year-to-date June 2006
 
COMERICA REPORTS SECOND QUARTER 2007 EARNINGS  3
Net Interest Income Boosted by Loan Growth
Noninterest Income Reflects Positive Trends
Noninterest income was $225 million for the second quarter 2007, compared to $203 million for both the first quarter 2007 and the second quarter 2006. The $22 million increase in noninterest income in the second quarter 2007, compared to the first quarter 2007, reflected positive trends in several categories (including service charges on deposit accounts, card fees, commercial lending fees and foreign exchange income), and increases in net income (loss) from principal investing and warrants ($10 million) and deferred compensation asset returns ($5 million). Certain categories of noninterest income are highlighted in the table below.
 
 
COMERICA REPORTS SECOND QUARTER 2007 EARNINGS  4
Noninterest Expenses Remain Well Controlled
Noninterest expenses were $411 million for the second quarter 2007, compared to $407 million for the first quarter 2007 and $389 million for the second quarter 2006. The $4 million increase in noninterest expenses in the second quarter 2007, compared to the first quarter 2007, reflected increases in incentive compensation and pension expense, partially offset by decreases in share-based compensation expense, litigation and operational losses, and customer services expense. The increase in incentives reflected an increase in costs related to deferred compensation plans of $5 million and increased incentives primarily tied to peer-comparison performance of $8 million. The decrease in share-based compensation expense reflected the annual award of restricted stock to retirement-eligible employees granted in the first quarter, which must be expensed in the period granted. Litigation and operational losses reflected a litigation-related insurance settlement of $8 million in the second quarter 2007. Customer services expense varies from period to period as a result of changes in the level of noninterest-bearing deposits in the Corporation's Financial Services Division, the earnings credit allowance provided on these deposits and a competitive environment. In addition, noninterest expenses included approximately $2 million of costs related to the previously announced relocation of Comerica's headquarters to Dallas, Texas, reflected in salaries and other noninterest expenses.
Certain categories of noninterest expenses and the provision for income taxes are highlighted in the table below.
 
 
COMERICA REPORTS SECOND QUARTER 2007 EARNINGS  5
Credit Quality Remained Solid
"We continue to proactively manage our credit risk," said Babb. "Our strong credit culture, and the enhanced risk management tools and processes we have put in place, contributed to our solid credit quality in the second quarter. Net credit-related charge-offs remained relatively low, despite the continued weakness in the Michigan economy. Credit quality in the Western and Texas markets remained strong."
 
Balance Sheet and Capital Management
Total assets and common shareholders' equity were $58.6 billion and $5.0 billion, respectively, at June 30, 2007, compared to $57.5 billion and $5.1 billion, respectively, at March 31, 2007. There were approximately 153 million shares outstanding at June 30, 2007, compared to 156 million shares outstanding at March 31, 2007. Open market share repurchases for the current and prior quarter are shown in the following table:
Comerica's second quarter 2007 estimated Tier 1 common, Tier 1 and total risk-based capital ratios were 7.19 percent, 7.87 percent and 11.71 percent, respectively.
 
COMERICA REPORTS SECOND QUARTER 2007 EARNINGS  6
Full-Year 2007 Outlook
Comerica's outlook for full-year 2007, compared to full-year 2006, is as follows:
 
COMERICA REPORTS SECOND QUARTER 2007 EARNINGS  7
Business Segments
Comerica's continuing operations are strategically aligned into three major business segments: the Business Bank, the Retail Bank, and Wealth & Institutional Management. The Finance Division also is included as a segment. The financial results below are based on the internal business unit structure of the Corporation and methodologies in effect at June 30, 2007 and are presented on a fully taxable equivalent (FTE) basis. The accompanying narrative addresses second quarter 2007 results compared to first quarter 2007.
The following table presents net income (loss) by business segment.
 
Business Bank
 
COMERICA REPORTS SECOND QUARTER 2007 EARNINGS  8
Retail Bank
Wealth and Institutional Management
 
COMERICA REPORTS SECOND QUARTER 2007 EARNINGS  9
Geographic Market Segments
Comerica also provides market segment results for four primary geographic markets: Midwest, Western, Texas and Florida. In addition to the four primary geographic markets, Other Markets and International are also reported as market segments. The financial results below are based on methodologies in effect at June 30, 2007 and are presented on a fully taxable equivalent (FTE) basis. The accompanying narrative addresses second quarter 2007 results compared to first quarter 2007.
The following table presents net income (loss) by market segment.
Midwest
 
COMERICA REPORTS SECOND QUARTER 2007 EARNINGS  10
Western Market
Texas Market
 
COMERICA REPORTS SECOND QUARTER 2007 EARNINGS  11
Florida Market
Conference Call and Webcast
Comerica will host a conference call to review second quarter 2007 financial results at 8 a.m. ET Wednesday, July 18, 2007. Interested parties may access the conference call by calling (706) 679-5261 (event ID No. 4363667). The call and supplemental financial information can also be accessed on the Internet at www.comerica.com. A replay will be available approximately two hours following the conference call until August 1, 2007. The conference call replay can be accessed by calling (800) 642-1687 or (706) 645-9291 (event ID No. 4363667). A replay of the Webcast can also be accessed via Comerica's "Investor Relations" page at www.comerica.com.
Comerica Incorporated is a financial services company strategically aligned into three major business segments: the Business Bank, the Retail Bank, and Wealth & Institutional Management. Comerica focuses on relationships and helping businesses and people to be successful. Comerica Bank locations can be found in Michigan, California, Texas, Florida and Arizona, with select businesses operating in several other states, Canada and Mexico
 
COMERICA REPORTS SECOND QUARTER 2007 EARNINGS  12
Forward-looking Statements
Any statements in this news release that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "anticipates," "believes," "feels," "expects," "estimates," "seeks," "strives," "plans," "intends," "outlook," "forecast," "position," "target," "mission," "assume," "achievable," "potential," "strategy," "goal," "aspiration," "outcome," "continue," "remain," "maintain," "trend," "objective" and variations of such words and similar expressions, or future or conditional verbs such as "will," "would," "should," "could," "might," "can," "may" or similar expressions, as they relate to Comerica or its management, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are predicated on the beliefs and assumptions of Comerica's management based on information known to Comerica's management as of the date of this news release and do not purport to speak as of any other date. Forward-looking statements may include descriptions of plans and objectives of Comerica's management for future or past operations, products or services, and forecasts of Comerica's revenue, earnings or other measures of economic performance, including statements of profitability, business segments and subsidiaries, estimates of credit trends and global stability. Such statements reflect the view of Comerica's management as of this date with respect to future events and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Should one or more of these risks materialize or should underlying beliefs or assumptions prove incorrect, Comerica's actual results could differ materially from those discussed. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences are changes in the pace of an economic recovery and related changes in employment levels, changes related to the headquarters move or to its underlying assumptions, the effects of war and other armed conflicts or acts of terrorism, the effects of natural disasters including, but not limited to, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes and floods, the disruption of private or public utilities, the implementation of Comerica's strategies and business models, management's ability to maintain and expand customer relationships, management's ability to retain key officers and employees, changes in the accounting treatment of any particular item, the impact of regulatory examinations, declines or other changes in the businesses or industries in which Comerica has a concentration of loans, including, but not limited to, automotive production, the anticipated performance of any new banking centers, the entry of new competitors in Comerica's markets, changes in the level of fee income, changes in applicable laws and regulations, including those concerning taxes, banking, securities and insurance, changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies, including the interest rate policies of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, fluctuations in inflation or interest rates, changes in general economic conditions and related credit and market conditions and adverse conditions in the stock market. Comerica cautions that the foregoing list of factors is not exclusive. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. Comerica does not undertake to update forward-looking statements to reflect facts, circumstances, assumptions or events that occur after the date the forward-looking statements are made. For any forward-looking statements made in this news release or in any documents, Comerica claims the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
CONSOLIDATED QUARTERLY STATEMENTS OF INCOME
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
N/M  Not meaningful
 
ANALYSIS OF THE ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
ANALYSIS OF THE ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES ON LENDING - RELATED COMMITMENTS
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
NONPERFORMING ASSETS
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
ANALYSIS OF NET INTEREST INCOME (FTE)
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
ANALYSIS OF NET INTEREST INCOME (FTE)
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
CONSOLIDATED STATISTICAL DATA
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
 
PARENT COMPANY ONLY BALANCE SHEETS
Comerica Incorporated
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
BUSINESS SEGMENT FINANCIAL RESULTS
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
MARKET SEGMENT FINANCIAL RESULTS
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries

 
EXHIBIT 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


