FILE:CMA/CMA-8K-20070122070035.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
ITEM 8.01 OTHER EVENTS
Comerica Incorporated ("Comerica") previously disclosed its Form of Standard Comerica Incorporated Restricted Stock Award Agreement for non-cliff vesting under the Comerica Incorporated 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended and/or restated from time to time, as Exhibit 10.3 to its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2006. The Form of Standard Comerica Incorporated Restricted Stock Award Agreement for cliff vesting that Comerica also plans to use under the Comerica Incorporated 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended and/or restated from time to time, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
     
(c) Exhibits
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
January 22, 2007
Table of Contents
EXHIBIT INDEX

 
Exhibit 99.1
THIS AGREEMENT (the "Agreement") between Comerica Incorporated (the "Company") and [Name] (the "Award Recipient") is effective as of [Date] (the "Effective Date"). Any undefined terms appearing herein as defined terms shall have the same meaning as they do in the Comerica Incorporated 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended and/or restated from time to time (the "Plan"). The Company will provide a copy of the Plan to the Award Recipient upon request.
1. . Pursuant to the provisions of the Plan, the Company hereby awards the Award Recipient, subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan (incorporated herein by reference), and subject further to the terms and conditions in this Agreement, [# awarded] Shares of $5.00 par value common stock of the Company (the "Stock Award").
Award of Stock
2. . Until it is vested, the Stock Award is subject to forfeiture. Subject to the terms of the Plan and this Agreement, including without limitation, paragraph 5 and fulfillment of the employment requirements in paragraph 4 below, the Stock Award will vest and become free of restrictions on ___. As soon as administratively feasible after the vesting of the Stock Award and the satisfaction of any applicable taxes pursuant to paragraph 12 of this Agreement, the Company will deliver to the Award Recipient (or to the designated Beneficiary of the Award Recipient if the Award Recipient is not then living) evidence of his or her ownership (by book entry or certificate), of the Shares subject to the vested Stock Award for which any applicable taxes have been paid.
Vesting of Stock Award
3. . The Committee has the right to cancel for no consideration all or any portion of the Stock Award in accordance with Section 4 of the Plan if the Committee determines in good faith that the Award Recipient has done any of the following: (i) committed a felony; (ii) committed fraud; (iii) embezzled; (iv) disclosed confidential information or trade secrets; (v) was terminated for Cause; (vi) engaged in any activity in competition with the business of the Company or any Subsidiary or Affiliate of the Company; or (vii) engaged in conduct that adversely affected the Company. The Delegate shall have the power and authority to suspend the vesting of or the right to receive the Shares in respect of all or any portion of the Stock Award if the Delegate makes in good faith the determination described in the preceding sentence. Any such suspension of a Stock Award shall remain in effect until the suspension shall be presented to and acted on by the Committee at its next meeting. This paragraph 3 shall have no application for the two-year period following a Change of Control of the Company.
Cancellation of Stock Award
4. . Except as provided in this Agreement, in order to vest in and not forfeit the Stock Award, the Award Recipient must remain employed by the Company or one of its Affiliates until the Stock Award has vested. If there is a Termination of Employment for any reason (other than due to death or Disability) before the Stock Award has vested, the Award Recipient will forfeit the Stock Award as of the date of the Termination of Employment unless the Committee determines otherwise. If there is a Termination of Employment due to the death or Disability of the Award Recipient prior to this Stock Award vesting, the Stock Award will vest as of the date of the Award Recipient's Termination of Employment due to death or Disability.
Employment Requirements
5. . This Stock Award will vest and become free of restrictions on the date a Change of Control of the Company occurs.
Effect of a Change of Control
6. . Neither this Stock Award, nor any of the rights pertaining thereto or under this Agreement, shall be transferable other than by will or the laws of intestacy until the Stock Award has vested; , that the Award Recipient may, in the manner established by the Committee, designate a Beneficiary to receive any property distributable with respect to the Stock Award upon the death of the Award Recipient. Prior to vesting, this Stock Award and any rights pertaining thereto or under this Agreement may not be pledged, alienated, attached or otherwise encumbered. Any purported pledge, alienation, attachment or encumbrance of the Stock Award or rights pertaining thereto that is contrary to the provisions of this Agreement or the Plan shall be void and unenforceable against the Company or any Affiliate.
Nontransferability
provided, however
7. . Beginning upon the Effective Date, the Award Recipient shall have the right to vote the Shares underlying the unvested Stock Award and to receive any cash dividends or cash distributions that may be paid with respect thereto. Subject to Section 11(D) of the Plan, in the event of a stock dividend, stock distribution, stock split, division of shares or other corporate structure change which results in the issuance of additional Shares with respect to any Share of the Stock Award prior to such Stock Award having vested, such additional Shares will be subject to the same restrictions and vesting requirements as are applicable to such unvested Share of the Stock Award.
Voting and Dividends
8. Nothing in the Plan or this Agreement shall confer on the Award Recipient any right to continue in the employment of the Company or its Affiliates for any given period or on any specified terms nor in any way affect the Company's or its Affiliates' right to terminate the Award Recipient's employment without prior notice at any time for any reason or for no reason.
No Right to Continued Employment.
 
9. . The Stock Award and the obligation of the Company to deliver the Shares subject to the Stock Award are subject to compliance with all applicable laws, rules and regulations, to receipt of any approvals by any government or regulatory agency as may be required, and to any determinations the Company may make regarding the application of all such laws, rules and regulations.
Compliance with Laws and Regulations
10. . The Award Recipient agrees to be bound by all terms and provisions of the Plan and related administrative rules and procedures, including terms and provisions and administrative rules and procedures adopted and/or modified after the granting of the Stock Award. In the event any provisions of this Agreement are inconsistent with those of the Plan, the provisions of the Plan shall control.
Binding Nature of Plan
11. . Any notice to the Company under this Agreement shall be in writing to the following address or facsimile number: Human Resources  Executive Compensation, Comerica Incorporated, 411 West Lafayette, MC 3122, Detroit, MI 48226; Facsimile Number: 313-964-3153. The Company will address any notice to the Award Recipient to his or her current address according to the Company's personnel files. All written notices provided in accordance with this paragraph shall be deemed to be given when (a) delivered to the appropriate address(es) by hand or by a nationally recognized overnight courier service (costs prepaid); (b) sent by facsimile to the appropriate facsimile number, with confirmation by telephone of transmission receipt; or (c) received by the addressee, if sent by U.S. mail to the appropriate address or by Company inter-office mail to the appropriate mail code. Either party may designate in writing some other address or facsimile number for notice under this Agreement.
Notices
12. . No later than the date as of which an amount first becomes includible in the gross income of the Award Recipient for Federal income tax purposes with respect to any Shares subject to this Stock Award, the Award Recipient shall pay to the Company, or make arrangements satisfactory to the Company regarding the payment of, all Federal, state and local income and employment taxes that are required by applicable laws and regulations to be withheld with respect to such amount. The Award Recipient authorizes the Company to withhold from his or her compensation to satisfy any income and employment tax withholding obligations in connection with the Stock Award. The Award Recipient agrees that the Company may delay removal of the restrictive legend until proper payment of such taxes has been made by the Award Recipient. Unless determined otherwise by the Committee, the Award Recipient may satisfy such obligations under this paragraph 12 by any method authorized under Section 9 of the Plan.
Withholding
13. Participation in the Plan is voluntary. The value of the Stock Award is an extraordinary item of compensation outside the scope of the Award Recipient's employment contract, if any. As such, the Stock Award is not part of normal or expected compensation for purposes of calculating any severance, resignation, redundancy, end of service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits or similar payments.
Voluntary Participation.
14. . The various provisions of this Agreement are severable in their entirety. Any judicial or legal determination of invalidity or unenforceability of any one provision shall have no effect on the continuing force and effect of the remaining provisions.
Force and Effect
15. . This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the successors of the respective parties.
Successors
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement has been executed by an appropriate officer of Comerica Incorporated and by the Award Recipient, both as of the day and year first above written.
COMERICA INCORPORATED
By:  Name: Title:
                                                              


