FILE:CMA/CMA-8K-20070417070201.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
ITEMS 2.02 and 7.01 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION AND REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
Comerica Incorporated ("Comerica") today released its earnings for the quarter ended March 31, 2007. A copy of the press release and the presentation slides which will be discussed in Comerica's webcast earnings call are attached hereto as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
     
(c) Exhibits
          99.1 Press Release dated April 17, 2007
          99.2 Earnings Presentation Slides
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
April 17, 2007
Table of Contents
EXHIBIT INDEX

 
Exhibit 99.1
 Comerica Incorporated (NYSE: CMA) today reported first quarter 2007 income from continuing operations of $189 million, or $1.19 per diluted share, compared to $185 million, or $1.16 per diluted share, for the fourth quarter 2006 and $207 million, or $1.26 per diluted share, for the first quarter 2006. Fourth quarter 2006 income from continuing operations included income of $47 million ($31 million after-tax, or $0.19 per diluted share) from the settlement of a Financial Services Division (FSD)-related lawsuit and the net after-tax impact of a charge to tax and related interest reserves of $31 million, or $(0.19) per diluted share, discussed under "Tax-related items" below. First quarter 2006 income from continuing operations included a negative provision for loan losses of $27 million.
DETROIT/April 17, 2007
In the fourth quarter 2006, Comerica sold its stake in Munder Capital Management (Munder) for an after-tax gain of $108 million ($0.68 per diluted shares). Comerica reports Munder as a discontinued operation in all periods presented.
The following table illustrates certain items impacting diluted earnings per share from continuing operations:
 
COMERICA REPORTS FIRST QUARTER 2007 EARNINGS  2
"The financial results highlight our positive financial performance in the first quarter," said Ralph W. Babb Jr., chairman and chief executive officer. "Our net interest margin rose seven basis points from the fourth quarter of 2006. Credit quality was solid across all markets and expenses were well controlled."
First Quarter 2007 Compared to Fourth Quarter 2006
Net Interest Income Stable and Net Interest Margin Rises
 
COMERICA REPORTS FIRST QUARTER 2007 EARNINGS  3
Steady Noninterest Income, Excluding Identified Items
Noninterest income was $203 million for the first quarter 2007, compared to $262 million for the fourth quarter 2006 and $195 million for the first quarter 2006. The $59 million decrease in noninterest income in the first quarter 2007, compared to the fourth quarter 2006, was primarily the result of income of $47 million from the settlement of a Financial Services Division-related lawsuit received in the fourth quarter 2006, a $7 million decrease in income from principal investing and warrants and a $6 million decrease in investment banking fees, partially offset by positive trends in several categories (including fiduciary income, brokerage fees and card fees). Certain categories of noninterest income are highlighted in the table below.
Noninterest Expenses Well Controlled
Noninterest expenses were $407 million for the first quarter 2007, compared to $457 million for the fourth quarter 2006 and $429 million for the first quarter 2006. The $50 million decrease in noninterest expenses in the first quarter 2007, compared to the fourth quarter 2006, reflected decreased salaries expense of $25 million. The decrease in salaries expense was due primarily to decreased incentives tied to performance, including the fourth quarter 2006 gain on the sale of Munder, contract labor costs associated with technology-related projects, and severance, partially offset by an increase in share-based compensation expense. The increase in share-based compensation expense reflected the annual award of restricted stock to retirement-eligible employees, granted in the first quarter each year, which must be expensed in the period granted. Also reflected in the decrease in noninterest expenses was a decrease in interest on tax liabilities of $15 million (see "Tax-related items" below), and a fourth quarter 2006 contribution of $10 million to the Comerica Charitable Foundation.
Certain categories of noninterest expenses are highlighted in the table below.
n/a  not applicable
 
COMERICA REPORTS FIRST QUARTER 2007 EARNINGS  4
Tax-related Items
On January 1, 2007, Comerica adopted the provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes  an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109," (FIN 48). FIN 48 permits Comerica to prospectively change its accounting policy as to where interest on tax liabilities is classified on the consolidated statements of income. Effective January 1, 2007, Comerica changed its accounting policy and began to classify interest on tax liabilities in the "provision for income taxes" on the consolidated statements of income. Prior to January 1, 2007, interest on tax liabilities was classified in "other noninterest expenses." In the first quarter 2007, the Securities and Exchange Commission requested that the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants clarify that an election to change classification under the Interpretation could only be prospective. Therefore, for all prior periods presented, interest on tax liabilities remained classified in "other noninterest expenses" on the consolidated statements of income. The provision for income taxes included interest on tax liabilities of $1 million for the first quarter 2007. Noninterest expenses in 2006 included $38 million of interest on tax liabilities, including $15 million in the fourth quarter 2006 and $26 million in the first quarter 2006.
Fourth quarter 2006 reflected a charge to Comerica's combined tax and related interest reserves for disallowed loan benefits related to a series of loans to foreign borrowers of $31 million after-tax based on settlements discussed with the Internal Revenue Service. Of the total, $22 million was included in the provision for income taxes and $14 million ($9 million after-tax) was for tax-related interest included in other noninterest expenses.
Income from Discontinued Operations
In December 2006, Comerica completed the sale of its stake in Munder to an investor group and recognized an initial after-tax gain from the sale of $108 million, reflected in "income from discontinued operations, net of tax" on the consolidated statements of income. Comerica reports Munder as a discontinued operation in all periods presented; therefore, the after-tax earnings of Munder, including the gain from its sale, are reported as a single item at the bottom of the income statement. The following table summarizes significant items affecting income from discontinued operations, net of tax:
 
COMERICA REPORTS FIRST QUARTER 2007 EARNINGS  5
Credit Quality Remained Solid
"Net charge-offs were lower and nonperforming assets were unchanged," said Babb. "We continued to manage our credit risk effectively, particularly the automotive and commercial real estate portfolios. Our people, and the enhanced risk management tools they use, have helped us to maintain solid credit quality in all markets."
Balance Sheet and Capital Management
Total assets and common shareholders' equity were $57.5 billion and $5.1 billion, respectively, at March 31, 2007, compared to $58.0 billion and $5.2 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2006. There were approximately 156 million shares outstanding at March 31, 2007, compared to 158 million shares outstanding at December 31, 2006. Open market share repurchases for the current and prior quarter are shown in the following table:
 
COMERICA REPORTS FIRST QUARTER 2007 EARNINGS  6
In the first quarter 2007, Comerica generated approximately $145 million of capital from the issuance of trust preferred securities, net of redemptions, and used $100 million of the proceeds to repurchase approximately 1.7 million additional shares.
Comerica's first quarter 2007 estimated tier 1 common, tier 1 and total risk-based capital ratios were 7.47 percent, 8.17 percent and 12.21 percent, respectively.
New Accounting Pronouncements
Comerica adopted FSP 13-2 (Accounting for a Projected Change in the Timing of Cash Flows Related to Income Taxes Generated by a Leveraged Lease Transaction) and FIN 48 (Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes) as of January 1, 2007. The effect of adoption was a reduction to retained earnings of $46 million and a lowering of 2007 income earned on lease financing loans for FSP 13-2 and an increase to retained earnings of $3 million for FIN 48. The effects of FSP 13-2 will reverse over periods ranging from four to 20 years.
Full Year 2007 Outlook
Comerica's outlook for full-year 2007, compared to full-year 2006, is as follows:
 
COMERICA REPORTS FIRST QUARTER 2007 EARNINGS  7
Business Segments
Comerica's continuing operations are strategically aligned into three major business segments: the Business Bank, the Retail Bank, and Wealth & Institutional Management. The Finance Division also is included as a segment. The financial results below are based on the internal business unit structure of the Corporation and methodologies in effect at March 31, 2007 and are presented on a fully taxable equivalent (FTE) basis. The accompanying narrative addresses first quarter 2007 results compared to fourth quarter 2006.
The following table presents net income (loss) by business segment.
 
Business Bank
 
COMERICA REPORTS FIRST QUARTER 2007 EARNINGS  8
Retail Bank
Wealth and Institutional Management
 
COMERICA REPORTS FIRST QUARTER 2007 EARNINGS  9
Geographic Market Segments
Comerica also provides market segment results for four primary geographic markets: Midwest, Western, Texas and Florida. In addition to the four primary geographic markets, Other Markets and International are also reported as market segments. The financial results below are based on methodologies in effect at March 31, 2007 and are presented on a fully taxable equivalent (FTE) basis. The accompanying narrative addresses first quarter 2007 results compared to fourth quarter 2006.
The following table presents net income (loss) by market segment.
 
Midwest
 
COMERICA REPORTS FIRST QUARTER 2007 EARNINGS  10
Western Market
Texas Market
 
COMERICA REPORTS FIRST QUARTER 2007 EARNINGS  11
Florida Market
Conference Call and Webcast
Comerica will host a conference call to review first quarter 2007 financial results at 8 a.m. ET Tuesday, April 17, 2007. Interested parties may access the conference call by calling (706) 679-5261 (event ID No. 3046574). The call and supplemental financial information can also be accessed on the Internet at www.comerica.com. A replay will be available approximately two hours following the conference call until May 1, 2007. The conference call replay can be accessed by calling (800) 642-1687 or (706) 645-9291 (event ID No. 3046574). A replay of the Webcast can also be accessed via Comerica's "Investor Relations" page at www.comerica.com.
Comerica Incorporated is a financial services company strategically aligned into three major business segments: the Business Bank, the Retail Bank, and Wealth & Institutional Management. Comerica focuses on relationships and helping businesses and people to be successful. Comerica Bank locations can be found in Michigan, California, Texas, Florida and Arizona, with select businesses operating in several other states, Canada and Mexico
 
COMERICA REPORTS FIRST QUARTER 2007 EARNINGS  12
Forward-looking Statements
Any statements in this news release that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "anticipates," "believes," "feels," "expects," "estimates," "seeks," "strives," "plans," "intends," "outlook," "forecast," "position," "target," "mission," "assume," "achievable," "potential," "strategy," "goal," "aspiration," "outcome," "continue," "remain," "maintain," "trend," "objective" and variations of such words and similar expressions, or future or conditional verbs such as "will," "would," "should," "could," "might," "can," "may" or similar expressions, as they relate to Comerica or its management, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are predicated on the beliefs and assumptions of Comerica's management based on information known to Comerica's management as of the date of this news release and do not purport to speak as of any other date. Forward-looking statements may include descriptions of plans and objectives of Comerica's management for future or past operations, products or services, and forecasts of Comerica's revenue, earnings or other measures of economic performance, including statements of profitability, business segments and subsidiaries, estimates of credit trends and global stability. Such statements reflect the view of Comerica's management as of this date with respect to future events and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Should one or more of these risks materialize or should underlying beliefs or assumptions prove incorrect, Comerica's actual results could differ materially from those discussed. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences are changes in the pace of an economic recovery and related changes in employment levels, the effects of war and other armed conflicts or acts of terrorism, the effects of natural disasters including, but not limited to, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes and floods, the disruption of private or public utilities, the implementation of Comerica's strategies and business models, management's ability to maintain and expand customer relationships, management's ability to retain key officers and employees, changes in the accounting treatment of any particular item, the impact of regulatory examinations, declines or other changes in the businesses or industries in which Comerica has a concentration of loans, including, but not limited to, automotive production, the anticipated performance of any new banking centers, the entry of new competitors in Comerica's markets, changes in the level of fee income, changes in applicable laws and regulations, including those concerning taxes, banking, securities and insurance, changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies, including the interest rate policies of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, fluctuations in inflation or interest rates, changes in general economic conditions and related credit and market conditions and adverse conditions in the stock market. Comerica cautions that the foregoing list of factors is not exclusive. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. Comerica does not undertake to update forward-looking statements to reflect facts, circumstances, assumptions or events that occur after the date the forward-looking statements are made. For any forward-looking statements made in this news release or in any documents, Comerica claims the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
CONSOLIDATED QUARTERLY STATEMENTS OF INCOME
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
ANALYSIS OF THE ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
ANALYSIS OF THE ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES ON LENDING-RELATED COMMITMENTS
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
 
NONPERFORMING ASSETS
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
 
 
ANALYSIS OF NET INTEREST INCOME (FTE)
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
CONSOLIDATED STATISTICAL DATA
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
 
PARENT COMPANY ONLY BALANCE SHEETS
Comerica Incorporated
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
BUSINESS SEGMENT FINANCIAL RESULTS
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
 
MARKET SEGMENT FINANCIAL RESULTS
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


