FILE:CMA/CMA-8K-20080924175842.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
ITEM 5.02
DEPARTURE OF DIRECTORS OR CERTAIN OFFICERS; ELECTION OF DIRECTORS; APPOINTMENT OF CERTAIN OFFICERS; COMPENSATORY ARRANGEMENTS OF CERTAIN OFFICERS.
            
 
The Board of Directors of Comerica Incorporated ("Comerica") appointed Jacqueline P. Kane and Ximena G. Humrichouse (professionally known as Nina Vaca) to serve on its Board of Directors, effective September 23, 2008.  Effective with Ms. Kane's appointment, she became a member of Comerica's Governance, Compensation and Nominating Committee.  Effective with Ms. Vaca's appointment, she became a member of Comerica's Enterprise Risk Committee.  On September 24, 2008, Comerica issued a press release regarding these appointments. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
ITEM 9.01
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
            
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Press Release dated September 24, 2008
99.1
           
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Jacqueline P. Kane and Nina G. Vaca (professional name of Ximena G. Humrichouse) have been appointed to the Comerica Incorporated Board of Directors, effective September 23, 2008. Kane is senior vice president of Human Resources and Corporate Affairs at The Clorox Company (NYSE: CLX), an Oakland, California-based manufacturer and marketer of consumer products. Vaca is chief executive officer of Pinnacle Technical Resources, Inc., a Dallas, Texas-based information technology services provider.  Kane will serve as a member of the Board's Governance, Compensation and Nominating Committee and Vaca will serve as a member of the Board's Enterprise Risk Committee.  The announcement was made by Ralph W. Babb Jr., chairman and chief executive officer.
DALLAS/September 24, 2008 
 
"We welcome Jackie and Nina to Comerica," said Babb.  "They have an impressive track record of success at their respective companies, which are based in two of our growth markets.  We look forward to their input and expertise as we continue to focus on executing our strategy."
 
Kane, 56, was named to her current position in 2005, having joined The Clorox Company in 2004. Prior to that, she served in leadership positions with The Hewlett-Packard Company (2000 to 2004), and as senior vice president, human resources at both Bank of America (1998-2000) and a predecessor, Continental Illinois Bank (1978-1988).
 
Kane has served on charitable and industry boards, including service as president of the largest human resources organization in Chicago.  She now serves as a member of the Oakland Museum Board. She is a graduate of DePaul University.  She also completed the executive program at the University of Michigan.  Kane has been named one of the "Most Influential Women" in San Francisco Bay Area business for both 2007 and 2008 by the San Francisco Business Times as well as one of the 25 "Most Powerful Women in HR" by Human Resource Executive magazine.
 
 
JACQUELINE P. KANE, NINA G. VACA APPOINTED TO THE COMERICA INCORPORATED BOARD OF DIRECTORS - 2
 
Vaca, 37, is the founder and CEO of Pinnacle Technical Resources, Inc.  a staffing, vendor management, and IT solutions firm that serves Fortune 500 clients. Under Vaca's stewardship Pinnacle has become one of the fastest-growing and largest staffing firms in the U.S.  In a 2008 ranking by Staffing Industry Magazine, Pinnacle was the only staffing company to be both among the 100 largest and five fastest-growing companies in the U.S.  Vaca's business success brought about a large number of distinctions, such as "National Director's Pioneer Award of the Year" from the United States Department of Commerce (2008), "100 Most Influential Hispanics in America" from Latino Leaders Magazine (2007), "Top 25 Women Business Builders" from Fast Company Magazine (2005), and "Ernst & Young Entrepreneur of the Year - Southwest Region" (2005).
 
Vaca serves as Region III chair and member of the board of the U.S. Hispanic Chamber of Commerce and is the former chair of the Greater Dallas Hispanic Chamber of Commerce.  She represented the U.S. in several transatlantic leadership forums as a German Marshall Memorial Fellow and as a member of the British-American Project.  Vaca completed Harvard Business School's Corporate Governance Executive Program and Northwestern University's Kellogg School of Management Advanced Management Education Program.  She is a graduate of Texas State University and holds an honorary Doctorate of Laws from Northwood University.
 
Comerica Incorporated is a financial services company headquartered in Dallas, Texas, and strategically aligned by three business segments: The Business Bank, The Retail Bank, and Wealth & Institutional Management. Comerica focuses on relationships, and helping people and businesses be successful. In addition to Texas, Comerica Bank locations can be found in Arizona, California, Florida and Michigan, with select businesses operating in several other states, as well as in Canada, China and Mexico. Comerica reported total assets of $66 billion at June 30, 2008. To receive e-mail alerts of breaking Comerica news, go to http://www.comerica.com/newsalerts.
 


