FILE:CMA/CMA-8K-20080417070331.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Comerica Incorporated ("Comerica") today released its earnings for the quarter ended March 31, 2008. A copy of the press release and the presentation slides which will be discussed in Comerica's webcast earnings call are attached hereto as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively.
The information in this report (including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto) is being is being "furnished" and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is not subject to the liabilities of that section and is not deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
(c) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
April 17, 2008
 
EXHIBIT INDEX

 
Exhibit 99.1
             
NEWS RELEASE
 
 Comerica Incorporated (NYSE: CMA) today reported first quarter 2008 income from continuing operations of $110 million, or $0.73 per diluted share, compared to $117 million, or $0.77 per diluted share, for the fourth quarter 2007 and $189 million, or $1.19 per diluted share, for the first quarter 2007. First quarter 2008 included a $159 million provision for loan losses, compared to $108 million for the fourth quarter 2007 and $23 million for the first quarter 2007.
DALLAS/April 17, 2008
 
"Despite the challenged economic environment, we remained focused on executing our strategy in the first quarter, as evidenced by good loan and deposit growth, particularly in our high-growth markets," said Ralph W. Babb Jr., chairman and chief executive officer. "While the continued deterioration of the California residential real estate market and its effects on our residential real estate development portfolio affected our overall performance, the remainder of our loan portfolio continued to exhibit stable credit metrics.
"As expected, the net interest margin of 3.22 percent declined 21 basis points from the fourth quarter, largely due to planned securities purchases, expected loan growth in excess of core deposit growth, and the reduced contribution of noninterest-bearing funds in a lower rate environment.
"Our expenses were well controlled in the first quarter with reduced headcount, even as we continued our banking center expansion program."
 
COMERICA REPORTS FIRST QUARTER 2008 EARNINGS  2
First Quarter 2008 Compared to Fourth Quarter 2007
 
COMERICA REPORTS FIRST QUARTER 2008 EARNINGS  3
Net Interest Income and Net Interest Margin
Noninterest Income
Noninterest income was $237 million for the first quarter 2008, compared to $230 million for the fourth quarter 2007 and $203 million for the first quarter 2007. Noninterest income in the first quarter 2008, compared to the fourth quarter 2007, included the $21 million gain on the sale of Visa shares (included in "net securities gains") and increased service charges on deposit accounts ($1 million) and investment banking fees ($4 million), partially offset by decreases in seasonally lower commercial lending fees ($6 million), net income (loss) from principal investing and warrants ($10 million) and deferred compensation asset returns ($7 million, offset by a decrease in deferred compensation plan costs in noninterest expenses).
 
COMERICA REPORTS FIRST QUARTER 2008 EARNINGS  4
Noninterest Expenses
Noninterest expenses were $403 million for the first quarter 2008, compared to $450 million for the fourth quarter 2007 and $407 million for the first quarter 2007. The $47 million decrease in noninterest expenses in the first quarter 2008, compared to the fourth quarter 2007, reflected a $16 million decrease in salaries expense and the reversal of the $13 million Visa loss sharing arrangement expense that was recorded in the fourth quarter 2007 (included in "litigation and operational losses"). The decrease in salaries expense was primarily due to additional cost deferrals from a refinement in application of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 91  Accounting for Loan Origination Fees and Costs (FAS 91) ($11 million), a decrease in deferred compensation plan costs ($7 million) and reduced headcount, partially offset by an increase of $8 million in share-based compensation, reflecting that portion of the annual award of restricted stock which must be expensed in the period granted. Certain categories of noninterest expenses are highlighted in the table below.
Tax-related Items
The provision for income taxes reflected a benefit of $5 million resulting from an after-tax adjustment to deferred tax assets in the first quarter 2008. Fourth quarter 2007 interest on tax liabilities (classified in the "provision for income taxes") reflected a $9 million reduction ($6 million after-tax) of interest resulting from a settlement with the Internal Revenue Service on asset depreciation.
 
COMERICA REPORTS FIRST QUARTER 2008 EARNINGS  5
Credit Quality
"California residential real estate developers, in particular, continued to struggle," said Babb. "The excess inventory, declining prices and extended time to sell have had a debilitating effect on the California housing market. We are aggressively addressing this situation as the market has continued to deteriorate."
 
 
COMERICA REPORTS FIRST QUARTER 2008 EARNINGS  6
Balance Sheet and Capital Management
Total assets and common shareholders' equity were $67.0 billion and $5.3 billion, respectively, at March 31, 2008, compared to $62.3 billion and $5.1 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2007. There were approximately 151 million shares outstanding at March 31, 2008, compared to 150 million shares outstanding at December 31, 2007. No shares were repurchased in the open market in the first quarter 2008.
Comerica's first quarter 2008 estimated Tier 1 common, Tier 1 and total risk-based capital ratios were 6.71 percent, 7.35 percent and 11.00 percent, respectively.
Full Year 2008 Outlook Compared to Full Year 2007 from Continuing Operations
 
COMERICA REPORTS FIRST QUARTER 2008 EARNINGS  7
Business Segments
Comerica's continuing operations are strategically aligned into three major business segments: the Business Bank, the Retail Bank, and Wealth & Institutional Management. The Finance Division also is included as a segment. The financial results below are based on the internal business unit structure of Comerica and methodologies in effect at March 31, 2008 and are presented on a fully taxable equivalent (FTE) basis. The accompanying narrative addresses first quarter 2008 results compared to fourth quarter 2007.
The following table presents net income (loss) by business segment.
 
COMERICA REPORTS FIRST QUARTER 2008 EARNINGS  8
 
COMERICA REPORTS FIRST QUARTER 2008 EARNINGS  9
Geographic Market Segments
Comerica also provides market segment results for four primary geographic markets: Midwest, Western, Texas and Florida. In addition to the four primary geographic markets, Other Markets and International are also reported as market segments. The financial results below are based on methodologies in effect at March 31, 2008 and are presented on a fully taxable equivalent (FTE) basis. The accompanying narrative addresses first quarter 2008 results compared to fourth quarter 2007.
The following table presents net income (loss) by market segment.
 
COMERICA REPORTS FIRST QUARTER 2008 EARNINGS  10
 
COMERICA REPORTS FIRST QUARTER 2008 EARNINGS  11
Florida Market
Conference Call and Webcast
Comerica will host a conference call to review first quarter 2008 financial results at 7 a.m. CDT on Thursday, April 17, 2008. Interested parties may access the conference call by calling (800) 309-2262 or (706) 679- 5261 (event ID No. 39966204). The call and supplemental financial information can also be accessed on the Internet at www.comerica.com. A replay will be available approximately two hours following the conference call until May 1, 2008. The conference call replay can be accessed by calling (800) 642-1687 or (706) 645-9291 (event ID No. 39966204). A replay of the Webcast can also be accessed on the Internet via Comerica's "Investor Relations" page at www.comerica.com.
Comerica Incorporated is a financial services company headquartered in Dallas, Texas, and strategically aligned by three major business segments: the Business Bank, the Retail Bank, and Wealth & Institutional Management. Comerica focuses on relationships and helping people and businesses be successful. In addition to Texas, Comerica Bank locations can be found in Arizona, California, Florida and Michigan, with select businesses operating in several other states, as well as in Canada, China and Mexico.
 
COMERICA REPORTS FIRST QUARTER 2008 EARNINGS  12
Forward-looking Statements
Any statements in this news release that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "anticipates," "believes," "feels," "expects," "estimates," "seeks," "strives," "plans," "intends," "outlook," "forecast," "position," "target," "mission," "assume," "achievable," "potential," "strategy," "goal," "aspiration," "outcome," "continue," "remain," "maintain," "trend," "objective" and variations of such words and similar expressions, or future or conditional verbs such as "will," "would," "should," "could," "might," "can," "may" or similar expressions, as they relate to Comerica or its management, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are predicated on the beliefs and assumptions of Comerica's management based on information known to Comerica's management as of the date of this news release and do not purport to speak as of any other date. Forward-looking statements may include descriptions of plans and objectives of Comerica's management for future or past operations, products or services, and forecasts of Comerica's revenue, earnings or other measures of economic performance, including statements of profitability, business segments and subsidiaries, estimates of credit trends and global stability. Such statements reflect the view of Comerica's management as of this date with respect to future events and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Should one or more of these risks materialize or should underlying beliefs or assumptions prove incorrect, Comerica's actual results could differ materially from those discussed. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences are changes in the pace of an economic recovery and related changes in employment levels, changes related to the headquarters relocation or to its underlying assumptions, the effects of war and other armed conflicts or acts of terrorism, the effects of natural disasters including, but not limited to, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes and floods, the disruption of private or public utilities, the implementation of Comerica's strategies and business models, management's ability to maintain and expand customer relationships, changes in customer borrowing, repayment, investment and deposit practices, management's ability to retain key officers and employees, changes in the accounting treatment of any particular item, the impact of regulatory examinations, declines or other changes in the businesses or industries in which Comerica has a concentration of loans, including, but not limited to, the automotive production industry and the real estate business lines, the anticipated performance of any new banking centers, the entry of new competitors in Comerica's markets, changes in the level of fee income, changes in applicable laws and regulations, including those concerning taxes, banking, securities and insurance, changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies, including the interest rate policies of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, fluctuations in inflation or interest rates, changes in general economic, political or industry conditions and related credit and market conditions, and adverse conditions in the stock market. Comerica cautions that the foregoing list of factors is not exclusive. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. Comerica does not undertake to update forward-looking statements to reflect facts, circumstances, assumptions or events that occur after the date the forward-looking statements are made. For any forward-looking statements made in this news release or in any documents, Comerica claims the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
CONSOLIDATED QUARTERLY STATEMENTS OF INCOME
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
 
ANALYSIS OF THE ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
ANALYSIS OF THE ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES ON LENDING-RELATED COMMITMENTS
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
 
NONPERFORMING ASSETS
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
 
ANALYSIS OF NET INTEREST INCOME (FTE)
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
CONSOLIDATED STATISTICAL DATA
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
 
PARENT COMPANY ONLY BALANCE SHEETS
Comerica Incorporated
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
BUSINESS SEGMENT FINANCIAL RESULTS
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
MARKET SEGMENT FINANCIAL RESULTS
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


