FILE:CMA/CMA-8K-20081017070144.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
ITEMS 2.02 and 7.01 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION AND REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
Comerica Incorporated ("Comerica") today released its earnings for the quarter ended September 30, 2008. A copy of the press release and the presentation slides which will be discussed in Comerica's webcast earnings call are attached hereto as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively.
The information in this report (including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto) is being is being "furnished" and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is not subject to the liabilities of that section and is not deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
     
(d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
October 17, 2008
Table of Contents
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
 Comerica Incorporated (NYSE: CMA) today reported third quarter 2008 income from continuing operations of $27 million, or $0.18 per diluted share, compared to $56 million, or $0.37 per diluted share, for the second quarter 2008 and $180 million, or $1.17 per diluted share, for the third quarter 2007. Third quarter 2008 included a $174 million provision for credit losses, compared to $177 million for the second quarter 2008 and $45 million for the third quarter 2007. During the third quarter 2008, Comerica recognized a pre-tax charge of $96 million ($61 million after-tax, or $0.40 per diluted share), recorded in "litigation and operational losses," related to a previously announced offer to repurchase (at par) auction-rate securities (ARS) from customers. In addition, third quarter 2008 net income reflected a $27 million pre-tax gain ($17 million after-tax, or $0.11 per diluted share) related to the sale of shares in Visa, Inc. (Visa) and net after-tax charges of $7 million ($0.04 per diluted share) which included settlements with the Internal Revenue Service on disallowed foreign tax credits related to a series of loans to foreign borrowers and both the net interest income impact and tax-related interest on certain structured leasing transactions, as well as other adjustments to tax reserves.
DALLAS/October 17, 2008
 
The following table illustrates the after-tax impact of certain items on income from continuing operations.
 
COMERICA REPORTS THIRD QUARTER 2008 EARNINGS  2
"In an economic environment that is as challenging and volatile as any we have ever seen, Comerica's core operating earnings remained stable compared to the prior two quarters," said Ralph W. Babb Jr., chairman and chief executive officer. "As expected, net credit-related charge-offs and the provision for loan losses were unchanged.
"In this uncertain environment, we are taking actions to improve our capital ratios and enhance our balance sheet strength, including a previously announced intention to reduce our dividend and the execution of a loan optimization program, which is working and producing the desired results. Maintaining a solid capital position is prudent and provides us the flexibility to navigate these swift economic currents and continue to invest in our growth markets."
Third Quarter 2008 Compared to Second Quarter 2008
 
COMERICA REPORTS THIRD QUARTER 2008 EARNINGS  3
Net Interest Income and Net Interest Margin
 
Noninterest Income
Noninterest income was $240 million for the third quarter 2008, compared to $242 million for the second quarter 2008 and $230 million for the third quarter 2007. Net securities gains in noninterest income included a $27 million gain on the sale of Comerica's remaining ownership of Visa shares in the third quarter 2008 and a $14 million gain on the sale of MasterCard shares in the second quarter 2008. In addition, deferred compensation asset returns decreased $10 million in the third quarter 2008, when compared to the second quarter 2008 (which is offset by a decrease in deferred compensation plan costs in noninterest expenses). Certain categories of noninterest income are highlighted in the table below.
 
 
COMERICA REPORTS THIRD QUARTER 2008 EARNINGS  4
Noninterest Expenses
Noninterest expenses were $514 million for the third quarter 2008, compared to $423 million for both the second quarter 2008 and third quarter 2007. The $91 million increase in noninterest expenses in the third quarter 2008, compared to the second quarter 2008, reflected the $96 million charge related to the offer to repurchase ARS (included in "litigation and operational losses"), partially offset by a decrease in deferred compensation plan costs ($10 million). The ARS repurchases from customers will be completed in the fourth quarter 2008. Certain categories of noninterest expenses are highlighted in the table below.
 
Tax-related Items
The third quarter 2008 provision for income taxes reflected net after-tax charges of $1 million which included the acceptance of a global settlement offered by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) on certain structured leasing transactions, settlement with the IRS on disallowed foreign tax credits related to a series of loans to foreign borrowers and other adjustments to tax reserves. The second quarter 2008 provision for income taxes reflected an after-tax charge of $13 million related to the structured leasing transactions. The reassessment of the size and timing of tax deductions related to the leasing transactions also resulted in the $8 million ($6 million after-tax) and $30 million ($19 million after-tax) respective charges to lease income in the third and second quarters of 2008 previously discussed.
 
COMERICA REPORTS THIRD QUARTER 2008 EARNINGS  5
Credit Quality
"Net charge-offs related to Western market residential real estate development were lower than the two previous quarters, reflecting our aggressive management of this portfolio," said Babb. "As expected, we are seeing softness in small business and middle market, which is consistent with our outlook."
 
 
COMERICA REPORTS THIRD QUARTER 2008 EARNINGS  6
Balance Sheet and Capital Management
Total assets and common shareholders' equity were $65.2 billion and $5.1 billion, respectively, at September 30, 2008, compared to $66.0 billion and $5.1 billion, respectively, at June 30, 2008. There were approximately 150 million shares outstanding at September 30, 2008. No shares were repurchased in the open market in the first nine months of 2008.
Comerica's third quarter 2008 estimated Tier 1 common, Tier 1 and total risk-based capital ratios were 6.69 percent, 7.35 percent and 11.22 percent, respectively. The $96 million ($61 million, after-tax) ARS charge and related commitment to repurchase reduced the estimated Tier 1 common, Tier 1 and total capital ratios by 21 basis points, 22 basis points and 29 basis points, respectively.
Full-Year 2008 Outlook Compared to Full-Year 2007 from Continuing Operations
 
COMERICA REPORTS THIRD QUARTER 2008 EARNINGS  7
Business Segments
Comerica's continuing operations are strategically aligned into three major business segments: the Business Bank, the Retail Bank, and Wealth & Institutional Management. The Finance Division also is included as a segment. The financial results below are based on the internal business unit structure of the Corporation and methodologies in effect at September 30, 2008 and are presented on a fully taxable equivalent (FTE) basis. The accompanying narrative addresses third quarter 2008 results compared to second quarter 2008.
The following table presents net income (loss) by business segment.
 
Business Bank
 
COMERICA REPORTS THIRD QUARTER 2008 EARNINGS  8
Retail Bank
Wealth and Institutional Management
 
COMERICA REPORTS THIRD QUARTER 2008 EARNINGS  9
Geographic Market Segments
Comerica also provides market segment results for four primary geographic markets: Midwest, Western, Texas and Florida. In addition to the four primary geographic markets, Other Markets and International are also reported as market segments. The financial results below are based on methodologies in effect at September 30, 2008 and are presented on a fully taxable equivalent (FTE) basis. The accompanying narrative addresses third quarter 2008 results compared to second quarter 2008.
The following table presents net income (loss) by market segment.
 
Midwest
 
COMERICA REPORTS THIRD QUARTER 2008 EARNINGS  10
Western Market
Texas Market
 
COMERICA REPORTS THIRD QUARTER 2008 EARNINGS  11
Florida Market
Conference Call and Webcast
Comerica will host a conference call to review third quarter 2008 financial results at 7 a.m. CDT Friday, October 17, 2008. Interested parties may access the conference call by calling (800) 309-2262 or (706) 679-5261 (event ID No. 65151410). The call and supplemental financial information can also be accessed on the Internet at www.comerica.com. A replay will be available approximately two hours following the conference call through October 31, 2008. The conference call replay can be accessed by calling (800) 642-1687 or (706) 645-9291 (event ID No. 65151410). A replay of the Webcast can also be accessed via Comerica's "Investor Relations" page at www.comerica.com.
Comerica Incorporated is a financial services company headquartered in Dallas, Texas, and strategically aligned by three major business segments: the Business Bank, the Retail Bank, and Wealth & Institutional Management. Comerica focuses on relationships and helping people and businesses be successful. In addition to Texas, Comerica Bank locations can be found in Arizona, California, Florida and Michigan, with select businesses operating in several other states, as well as in Canada, China and Mexico.
 
COMERICA REPORTS THIRD QUARTER 2008 EARNINGS  12
Forward-looking Statements
Any statements in this news release that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "anticipates," "believes," "feels," "expects," "estimates," "seeks," "strives," "plans," "intends," "outlook," "forecast," "position," "target," "mission," "assume," "achievable," "potential," "strategy," "goal," "aspiration," "outcome," "continue," "remain," "maintain," "trend," "objective" and variations of such words and similar expressions, or future or conditional verbs such as "will," "would," "should," "could," "might," "can," "may" or similar expressions, as they relate to Comerica or its management, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are predicated on the beliefs and assumptions of Comerica's management based on information known to Comerica's management as of the date of this news release and do not purport to speak as of any other date. Forward-looking statements may include descriptions of plans and objectives of Comerica's management for future or past operations, products or services, and forecasts of Comerica's revenue, earnings or other measures of economic performance, including statements of profitability, business segments and subsidiaries, estimates of credit trends and global stability. Such statements reflect the view of Comerica's management as of this date with respect to future events and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Should one or more of these risks materialize or should underlying beliefs or assumptions prove incorrect, Comerica's actual results could differ materially from those discussed. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences are further economic downturns, changes in the pace of an economic recovery and related changes in employment levels, changes in real estate values, fuel prices, energy costs or other events that could affect customer income levels or general economic conditions, changes related to the headquarters relocation or to its underlying assumptions, the effects of war and other armed conflicts or acts of terrorism, the effects of natural disasters including, but not limited to, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, fires, droughts and floods, the disruption of private or public utilities, the implementation of Comerica's strategies and business models, management's ability to maintain and expand customer relationships, changes in customer borrowing, repayment, investment and deposit practices, management's ability to retain key officers and employees, changes in the accounting treatment of any particular item, the impact of regulatory examinations, declines or other changes in the businesses or industries in which Comerica has a concentration of loans, including, but not limited to, the automotive production industry and the real estate business lines, the anticipated performance of any new banking centers, the entry of new competitors in Comerica's markets, changes in the level of fee income, changes in applicable laws and regulations, including those concerning taxes, banking, securities and insurance, changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies, including the interest rate policies of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, fluctuations in inflation or interest rates, changes in general economic, political or industry conditions and related credit and market conditions, the interdependence of financial service companies and adverse conditions in the stock market. Comerica cautions that the foregoing list of factors is not exclusive. For discussion of these and other factors that may cause actual results to differ from expectations, please refer to our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. Comerica does not undertake to update forward-looking statements to reflect facts, circumstances, assumptions or events that occur after the date the forward-looking statements are made. For any forward-looking statements made in this news release or in any documents, Comerica claims the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
CONSOLIDATED QUARTERLY STATEMENTS OF INCOME
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
N/M  Not meaningful
 
ANALYSIS OF THE ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
ANALYSIS OF THE ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES ON LENDING-RELATED COMMITMENTS
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
NONPERFORMING ASSETS
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
 
ANALYSIS OF NET INTEREST INCOME (FTE)
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
CONSOLIDATED STATISTICAL DATA
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
 
PARENT COMPANY ONLY BALANCE SHEETS
Comerica Incorporated
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
BUSINESS SEGMENT FINANCIAL RESULTS
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
MARKET SEGMENT FINANCIAL RESULTS
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


