FILE:CMA/CMA-8K-20080117070246.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Comerica Incorporated ("Comerica") today released its earnings for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2007. A copy of the press release and the presentation slides which will be discussed in Comerica's webcast earnings call are attached hereto as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively.
The information in this report (including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto) is being is being "furnished" and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is not subject to the liabilities of that section and is not deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1993, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
     
(c) Exhibits
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
January 17, 2008
Table of Contents
EXHIBIT INDEX

 
 Comerica Incorporated (NYSE: CMA) today reported fourth quarter 2007 income from continuing operations of $117 million, or $0.77 per diluted share, compared to $180 million, or $1.17 per diluted share, for the third quarter 2007 and $185 million, or $1.16 per diluted share, for the fourth quarter 2006. Fourth quarter 2007 included a $108 million provision for loan losses, compared to $45 million for the third quarter 2007 and $22 million for the fourth quarter 2006. Fourth quarter 2007 also included $13 million of noninterest expense related to Comerica's membership in Visa, Inc. (Visa) and fourth quarter 2006 included $47 million of noninterest income from a lawsuit settlement.
DALLAS/January 17, 2008
 
Income from continuing operations for 2007 was $682 million, or $4.40 per diluted share, compared to $782 million, or $4.81 per diluted share, for 2006. The provision for loan losses was $212 million for 2007, compared to $37 million for 2006. Return on average common shareholders' equity from continuing operations was 13.41 percent for 2007 and 15.11 percent for 2006.
"2007 was a challenging year for the banking industry, including Comerica," said Ralph W. Babb Jr., chairman and chief executive officer. "While we continued to execute our strategy, reflected by strong loan growth, particularly in our high growth markets, challenges in the residential real estate development portfolio affected our performance. Our fourth quarter earnings were largely impacted by an increase in the provision for loan losses and a decline in the net interest margin, driven in part by a decision to increase the securities portfolio and a competitive funding environment. Our fourth quarter expenses were impacted by a $13 million charge related to Visa and $2 million of moving costs related to our previously announced headquarters relocation.
"We opened 30 new banking centers in 2007, 28 of them in our high-growth markets of Texas, California and Arizona. We also relocated our corporate headquarters from Detroit to Dallas, positioning our company in a more central location with greater accessibility to all of our markets. Our capital position remains solid and provides us with a cushion to weather continued challenges in the economic environment and the flexibility to continue to invest in our growth markets."
 
COMERICA REPORTS FOURTH QUARTER AND 2007 EARNINGS  2
Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2007 Highlights
Fourth Quarter 2007 Compared to Third Quarter 2007
Full Year 2007 Compared to Full Year 2006
 
COMERICA REPORTS FOURTH QUARTER AND 2007 EARNINGS  3
Net Interest Income and Net Interest Margin
Noninterest Income
Noninterest income was $230 million for the fourth quarter 2007, compared to $230 million for the third quarter 2007 and $262 million for the fourth quarter 2006. Noninterest income in the fourth quarter 2007, compared to the third quarter 2007, included positive trends in fiduciary income, service charges on deposit accounts, commercial lending fees and an increase in deferred compensation asset returns, offset by a decrease in net income from principal investing and warrants. Fourth quarter 2006 noninterest income included $47 million from the settlement of a Financial Services Division-related lawsuit. Certain categories of noninterest income are highlighted in the table below.
 
 
COMERICA REPORTS FOURTH QUARTER AND 2007 EARNINGS  4
Noninterest Expenses
Noninterest expenses were $450 million for the fourth quarter 2007, compared to $423 million for the third quarter 2007 and $457 million for the fourth quarter 2006. The $27 million increase in noninterest expenses in the fourth quarter 2007, compared to the third quarter 2007, reflected $13 million to record an estimated liability related to membership in Visa (discussed below), a $9 million increase in salaries expense and a $3 million increase in the provision for credit losses on lending-related commitments, partially offset by a $4 million decrease in customer services expense. The increase in salaries expense was primarily due to increases in severance and deferred compensation plan costs (offset by an increase in deferred compensation asset returns in noninterest income). Customer services expense varies from period to period as a result of changes in the level of noninterest-bearing deposits in the Corporation's Financial Services Division, the earnings credit allowance provided on these deposits and a competitive environment. In addition, noninterest expenses included approximately $2 million of costs related to the previously announced relocation of Comerica's headquarters to Dallas, Texas, in both the fourth quarter and third quarters of 2007, reflected in salaries and other noninterest expenses.
Members of the Visa card association participate in a loss sharing arrangement to allocate financial responsibilities arising from any potential adverse resolution of certain antitrust lawsuits challenging the practices of the association. Comerica recorded a $13 million expense in the fourth quarter 2007 (in "litigation and operational losses") related to this loss sharing arrangement. Comerica believes that its share of the proceeds from the expected initial public offering of Visa, anticipated in the first quarter 2008, will exceed its share of recorded losses.
Certain categories of noninterest expenses are highlighted in the table below.
 
n/a  not applicable
 
COMERICA REPORTS FOURTH QUARTER AND 2007 EARNINGS  5
Tax-related Items
Interest on tax liabilities was classified in the "provision for income taxes" in 2007 and in "other noninterest expenses" in 2006. Fourth quarter 2007 interest on tax liabilities reflected a $9 million reduction ($6 million after-tax) of interest resulting from a settlement with the Internal Revenue Service on asset depreciation.
Fourth quarter 2006 reflected a charge of $31 million after-tax to Comerica's combined tax and related interest reserves for disallowed loan benefits related to a series of loans to foreign borrowers based on settlements discussed with the Internal Revenue Service. Of the total, $22 million was included in the provision for income taxes and $14 million ($9 million after-tax) was for tax-related interest included in other noninterest expenses.
Credit Quality
"We increased the provision for loan losses by $63 million from the third quarter, due to the continued residential real estate development challenges in Michigan and California," said Babb.
 
 
COMERICA REPORTS FOURTH QUARTER AND 2007 EARNINGS  6
Balance Sheet and Capital Management
Total assets and common shareholders' equity were $62.3 billion and $5.1 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2007, compared to $60.0 billion and $5.1 billion, respectively, at September 30, 2007. There were approximately 150 million shares outstanding at December 31, 2007, compared to 151 million shares outstanding at September 30, 2007. Open market share repurchases for the current and prior quarter and full year 2007 are shown in the following table:
Comerica's fourth quarter 2007 estimated Tier 1 common, Tier 1 and total risk-based capital ratios were 6.80 percent, 7.46 percent and 11.11 percent, respectively.
Full Year 2008 Outlook Compared to Full Year 2007 from Continuing Operations
 
COMERICA REPORTS FOURTH QUARTER AND 2007 EARNINGS  7
Business Segments
Comerica's continuing operations are strategically aligned into three major business segments: the Business Bank, the Retail Bank, and Wealth & Institutional Management. The Finance Division also is included as a segment. The financial results below are based on the internal business unit structure of the Corporation and methodologies in effect at December 31, 2007 and are presented on a fully taxable equivalent (FTE) basis. The accompanying narrative addresses fourth quarter 2007 results compared to third quarter 2007.
The following table presents net income (loss) by business segment.
Business Bank
 
COMERICA REPORTS FOURTH QUARTER AND 2007 EARNINGS  8
Retail Bank
Wealth and Institutional Management
 
COMERICA REPORTS FOURTH QUARTER AND 2007 EARNINGS  9
Geographic Market Segments
Comerica also provides market segment results for four primary geographic markets: Midwest, Western, Texas and Florida. In addition to the four primary geographic markets, Other Markets and International are also reported as market segments. In the fourth quarter 2007, Comerica revised the definition of Other Markets to include businesses with a national perspective, which were previously included primarily in the Midwest market. The financial results below are based on methodologies in effect at December 31, 2007 and are presented on a fully taxable equivalent (FTE) basis. The accompanying narrative addresses fourth quarter 2007 results compared to third quarter 2007.
The following table presents net income (loss) by market segment.
Midwest
 
COMERICA REPORTS FOURTH QUARTER AND 2007 EARNINGS  10
Western Market
Texas Market
 
COMERICA REPORTS FOURTH QUARTER AND 2007 EARNINGS  11
Florida Market
Conference Call and Webcast
Comerica will host a conference call to review fourth quarter 2007 financial results at 7 a.m. CT Thursday, January 17, 2008. Interested parties may access the conference call by calling (800) 309-2262 or (706) 679-5261 (event ID No. 28504995). The call and supplemental financial information can also be accessed on the Internet at www.comerica.com. A replay will be available approximately two hours following the conference call until January 31, 2008. The conference call replay can be accessed by calling (800) 642-1687 or (706) 645-9291 (event ID No. 28504995). A replay of the Webcast can also be accessed via Comerica's "Investor Relations" page at www.comerica.com.
Comerica Incorporated is a financial services company headquartered in Dallas, Texas, and strategically aligned into three major business segments: the Business Bank, the Retail Bank, and Wealth & Institutional Management. Comerica focuses on relationships and helping people and businesses be successful. Comerica Bank locations can be found in Michigan, California, Texas, Arizona and Florida, with select businesses operating in several other states, and Canada and Mexico
 
COMERICA REPORTS FOURTH QUARTER AND 2007 EARNINGS  12
Forward-looking Statements
Any statements in this news release that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "anticipates," "believes," "feels," "expects," "estimates," "seeks," "strives," "plans," "intends," "outlook," "forecast," "position," "target," "mission," "assume," "achievable," "potential," "strategy," "goal," "aspiration," "outcome," "continue," "remain," "maintain," "trend," "objective" and variations of such words and similar expressions, or future or conditional verbs such as "will," "would," "should," "could," "might," "can," "may" or similar expressions, as they relate to Comerica or its management, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are predicated on the beliefs and assumptions of Comerica's management based on information known to Comerica's management as of the date of this news release and do not purport to speak as of any other date. Forward-looking statements may include descriptions of plans and objectives of Comerica's management for future or past operations, products or services, and forecasts of Comerica's revenue, earnings or other measures of economic performance, including statements of profitability, business segments and subsidiaries, estimates of credit trends and global stability. Such statements reflect the view of Comerica's management as of this date with respect to future events and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Should one or more of these risks materialize or should underlying beliefs or assumptions prove incorrect, Comerica's actual results could differ materially from those discussed. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences are changes in the pace of an economic recovery and related changes in employment levels, changes related to the headquarters relocation or to its underlying assumptions, the effects of war and other armed conflicts or acts of terrorism, the effects of natural disasters including, but not limited to, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes and floods, the disruption of private or public utilities, the implementation of Comerica's strategies and business models, management's ability to maintain and expand customer relationships, changes in customer borrowing, repayment, investment and deposit practices, management's ability to retain key officers and employees, changes in the accounting treatment of any particular item, the impact of regulatory examinations, declines or other changes in the businesses or industries in which Comerica has a concentration of loans, including, but not limited to, the automotive production industry and the real estate business lines, the anticipated performance of any new banking centers, the entry of new competitors in Comerica's markets, changes in the level of fee income, changes in applicable laws and regulations, including those concerning taxes, banking, securities and insurance, changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies, including the interest rate policies of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, fluctuations in inflation or interest rates, changes in general economic, political or industry conditions and related credit and market conditions, and adverse conditions in the stock market. Comerica cautions that the foregoing list of factors is not exclusive. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. Comerica does not undertake to update forward-looking statements to reflect facts, circumstances, assumptions or events that occur after the date the forward-looking statements are made. For any forward-looking statements made in this news release or in any documents, Comerica claims the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
CONSOLIDATED QUARTERLY STATEMENTS OF INCOME
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
 
ANALYSIS OF THE ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
ANALYSIS OF THE ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES ON LENDING-RELATED COMMITMENTS
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
 
NONPERFORMING ASSETS
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
 
 
 
ANALYSIS OF NET INTEREST INCOME (FTE)
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
ANALYSIS OF NET INTEREST INCOME (FTE)
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
CONSOLIDATED STATISTICAL DATA
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
 
PARENT COMPANY ONLY BALANCE SHEETS
Comerica Incorporated
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
BUSINESS SEGMENT FINANCIAL RESULTS
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
 
                        
MARKET SEGMENT FINANCIAL RESULTS
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
 
BUSINESS SEGMENT FINANCIAL RESULTS
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
MARKET SEGMENT FINANCIAL RESULTS
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


