FILE:CMA/CMA-8K-20080717070223.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Comerica Incorporated ("Comerica") today released its earnings for the quarter ended June 30, 2008. A copy of the press release and the presentation slides which will be discussed in Comerica's webcast earnings call are attached hereto as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively.
The information in this report (including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto) is being is being "furnished" and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is not subject to the liabilities of that section and is not deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
     
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
July 17, 2008
 
EXHIBIT INDEX

\
Exhibit 99.1
 Comerica Incorporated (NYSE: CMA) today reported second quarter 2008 income from continuing operations of $56 million, or $0.37 per diluted share, compared to $110 million, or $0.73 per diluted share, for the first quarter 2008 and $196 million, or $1.25 per diluted share, for the second quarter 2007.
DALLAS/July 17, 2008
Second quarter 2008 included a $177 million provision for credit losses, compared to $163 million for the first quarter 2008 and $34 million for the second quarter 2007. Also during the second quarter of 2008, Comerica recorded combined pre-tax charges of $50 million ($32 million after-tax, or $0.21 per share) related to an updated assessment of the timing of tax deductions on certain structured lease transactions. The charges were recorded in net interest income ($0.13 per share) and the provision for income taxes ($0.08 per share).
First quarter 2008 included pre-tax income of $34 million ($22 million after-tax, or $0.14 per share) related to ownership in Visa.
 
"In an environment that continued to be challenging and volatile, our core operating earnings were stable," said Ralph W. Babb Jr., chairman and chief executive officer. "As expected, our net loan charge-offs were similar to the first quarter, as credit issues remained focused on our California residential real estate development portfolio. Excluding the effect of the tax-related charge to income on structured lease transactions, our net interest margin was consistent with our full-year outlook. Expenses remained well controlled with reduced personnel.
 
COMERICA REPORTS SECOND QUARTER 2008 EARNINGS  2
"Our capital ratios were stable and within our targeted ranges. We are optimizing our capital usage, with particular focus on rationalizing our loan portfolio with the appropriate credit standards, loan pricing and return hurdles."
Second Quarter 2008 Compared to First Quarter 2008
 
COMERICA REPORTS SECOND QUARTER 2008 EARNINGS  3
Net Interest Income and Net Interest Margin
 
Noninterest Income
Noninterest income was $242 million for the second quarter 2008, compared to $237 million for the first quarter 2008 and $225 million for the second quarter 2007. Noninterest income in the second quarter 2008, compared to the first quarter 2008, reflected positive trends in commercial lending fees ($4 million), letter of credit fees ($3 million), foreign exchange income ($2 million) and card fees ($2 million), and higher deferred compensation asset returns ($9 million). Additionally, second quarter 2008 included a $14 million gain on sale of MasterCard shares and first quarter 2008 included a $21 million gain on sale of Visa shares (both included in "net securities gains").
 
COMERICA REPORTS SECOND QUARTER 2008 EARNINGS  4
Noninterest Expenses
Noninterest expenses were $423 million for the second quarter 2008, compared to $403 million for the first quarter 2008 and $411 million for the second quarter 2007. The $20 million increase in noninterest expenses in the second quarter 2008, compared to the first quarter 2008, reflected the first quarter 2008 reversal of the $13 million Visa loss sharing expense (included in "litigation and operational losses") and increases in outside processing fees ($5 million), the provision for credit losses on lending-related commitments ($3 million) and salaries expense ($2 million), partially offset by a decrease in customer services expense ($3 million). The increase in salaries expense included an increase in deferred compensation plan costs ($9 million), offset by a decrease of $9 million in share-based compensation, reflecting the annual award of restricted stock granted in the first quarter which for retirement eligible employees must be expensed in the period granted. The increase in deferred compensation plan costs was offset by an increase in deferred compensation plan asset returns in noninterest income. Certain categories of noninterest expenses are highlighted in the table below.
Tax-related Items
During the second quarter 2008, several tax-related court decisions involving other financial institutions were announced on certain structured lease transactions. In light of these recent decisions, Comerica reassessed its position and recorded an after-tax charge of $13 million to increase previously established reserves for interest on tax liabilities in the second quarter 2008, included in the "provision for income taxes." This reassessment of the size and timing of tax deductions also resulted in the lease income charge noted in Net Interest Income above.
The provision for income taxes in the first quarter 2008 reflected a benefit of $5 million resulting from an after-tax adjustment to deferred tax assets.
 
COMERICA REPORTS SECOND QUARTER 2008 EARNINGS  5
Credit Quality
"We have been proactive in managing problem loans, which remain largely focused in our California residential real estate development portfolio," said Babb. "Virtually all of the problem loans in our California residential real estate development portfolio were independently appraised within the last six months with the appropriate charge-offs taken and additional reserves established. The balance of our loan portfolio continued to experience solid credit metrics."
 
 
COMERICA REPORTS SECOND QUARTER 2008 EARNINGS  6
Balance Sheet and Capital Management
Total assets and common shareholders' equity were $66.0 billion and $5.1 billion, respectively, at June 30, 2008, compared to $67.0 billion and $5.3 billion, respectively, at March 31, 2008. There were approximately 150 million shares outstanding at June 30, 2008. No shares were repurchased in the open market in the first six months of 2008.
Comerica's second quarter 2008 estimated Tier 1 common, Tier 1 and total risk-based capital ratios were 6.72 percent, 7.36 percent and 11.11 percent, respectively.
Full-Year 2008 Outlook Compared to Full-Year 2007 from Continuing Operations
 
COMERICA REPORTS SECOND QUARTER 2008 EARNINGS  7
Business Segments
Comerica's continuing operations are strategically aligned into three major business segments: the Business Bank, the Retail Bank, and Wealth & Institutional Management. The Finance Division also is included as a segment. The financial results below are based on the internal business unit structure of the Corporation and methodologies in effect at June 30, 2008 and are presented on a fully taxable equivalent (FTE) basis. The accompanying narrative addresses second quarter 2008 results compared to first quarter 2008.
The following table presents net income (loss) by business segment.
Business Bank
 
COMERICA REPORTS SECOND QUARTER 2008 EARNINGS  8
Retail Bank
Wealth and Institutional Management
 
COMERICA REPORTS SECOND QUARTER 2008 EARNINGS  9
Geographic Market Segments
Comerica also provides market segment results for four primary geographic markets: Midwest, Western, Texas and Florida. In addition to the four primary geographic markets, Other Markets and International are also reported as market segments. The financial results below are based on methodologies in effect at June 30, 2008 and are presented on a fully taxable equivalent (FTE) basis. The accompanying narrative addresses second quarter 2008 results compared to first quarter 2008.
The following table presents net income (loss) by market segment.
Midwest
 
COMERICA REPORTS SECOND QUARTER 2008 EARNINGS  10
Western Market
Texas Market
 
COMERICA REPORTS SECOND QUARTER 2008 EARNINGS  11
Florida Market
Conference Call and Webcast
Comerica will host a conference call to review second quarter 2008 financial results at 7 a.m. CDT Thursday, July 17, 2008. Interested parties may access the conference call by calling (800) 309-2262 or (706) 679-5261 (event ID No. 51656449). The call and supplemental financial information can also be accessed on the Internet at www.comerica.com. A replay will be available approximately two hours following the conference call through July 31, 2008. The conference call replay can be accessed by calling (800) 642-1687 or (706) 645-9291 (event ID No. 51656449). A replay of the Webcast can also be accessed via Comerica's "Investor Relations" page at www.comerica.com.
Comerica Incorporated is a financial services company headquartered in Dallas, Texas, and strategically aligned by three major business segments: the Business Bank, the Retail Bank, and Wealth & Institutional Management. Comerica focuses on relationships and helping people and businesses be successful. In addition to Texas, Comerica Bank locations can be found in Arizona, California, Florida and Michigan, with select businesses operating in several other states, as well as in Canada, China and Mexico.
 
COMERICA REPORTS SECOND QUARTER 2008 EARNINGS  12
Forward-looking Statements
Any statements in this news release that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "anticipates," "believes," "feels," "expects," "estimates," "seeks," "strives," "plans," "intends," "outlook," "forecast," "position," "target," "mission," "assume," "achievable," "potential," "strategy," "goal," "aspiration," "outcome," "continue," "remain," "maintain," "trend," "objective" and variations of such words and similar expressions, or future or conditional verbs such as "will," "would," "should," "could," "might," "can," "may" or similar expressions, as they relate to Comerica or its management, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are predicated on the beliefs and assumptions of Comerica's management based on information known to Comerica's management as of the date of this news release and do not purport to speak as of any other date. Forward-looking statements may include descriptions of plans and objectives of Comerica's management for future or past operations, products or services, and forecasts of Comerica's revenue, earnings or other measures of economic performance, including statements of profitability, business segments and subsidiaries, estimates of credit trends and global stability. Such statements reflect the view of Comerica's management as of this date with respect to future events and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Should one or more of these risks materialize or should underlying beliefs or assumptions prove incorrect, Comerica's actual results could differ materially from those discussed. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences are changes in the pace of an economic recovery and related changes in employment levels, changes in real estate values, fuel prices, energy costs or other events that could affect customer income levels or general economic conditions, changes related to the headquarters relocation or to its underlying assumptions, the effects of war and other armed conflicts or acts of terrorism, the effects of natural disasters including, but not limited to, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, fires, droughts and floods, the disruption of private or public utilities, the implementation of Comerica's strategies and business models, management's ability to maintain and expand customer relationships, changes in customer borrowing, repayment, investment and deposit practices, management's ability to retain key officers and employees, changes in the accounting treatment of any particular item, the impact of regulatory examinations, declines or other changes in the businesses or industries in which Comerica has a concentration of loans, including, but not limited to, the automotive production industry and the real estate business lines, the anticipated performance of any new banking centers, the entry of new competitors in Comerica's markets, changes in the level of fee income, changes in applicable laws and regulations, including those concerning taxes, banking, securities and insurance, changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies, including the interest rate policies of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, fluctuations in inflation or interest rates, changes in general economic, political or industry conditions and related credit and market conditions, and adverse conditions in the stock market. Comerica cautions that the foregoing list of factors is not exclusive. For discussion of these and other factors that may cause actual results to differ from expectations, please refer to our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. Comerica does not undertake to update forward-looking statements to reflect facts, circumstances, assumptions or events that occur after the date the forward-looking statements are made. For any forward-looking statements made in this news release or in any documents, Comerica claims the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
CONSOLIDATED QUARTERLY STATEMENTS OF INCOME
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
N/M  Not meaningful
 
ANALYSIS OF THE ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
ANALYSIS OF THE ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES ON LENDING-RELATED COMMITMENTS
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
NONPERFORMING ASSETS
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
ANALYSIS OF NET INTEREST INCOME (FTE)
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
ANALYSIS OF NET INTEREST INCOME (FTE)
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
CONSOLIDATED STATISTICAL DATA
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
 
PARENT COMPANY ONLY BALANCE SHEETS
Comerica Incorporated
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
BUSINESS SEGMENT FINANCIAL RESULTS
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
MARKET SEGMENT FINANCIAL RESULTS
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


