FILE:CMA/CMA-8K-20080926081532.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
ITEM 5.02
DEPARTURE OF DIRECTORS OR CERTAIN OFFICERS; ELECTION OF DIRECTORS; APPOINTMENT OF CERTAIN OFFICERS; COMPENSATORY ARRANGEMENTS OF CERTAIN OFFICERS.
           
 
Dennis J. Mooradian, Executive Vice President, Wealth and Institutional Management, has announced he plans to retire in the first quarter of 2009.
 
ITEM
7.01
REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE.
                                  
 
On September 26, 2008, the registrant issued a press release announcing that Curtis C. Farmer will be its new Executive Vice President, Wealth and Institutional Management.  Mr. Farmer plans to join Comerica on or about October 20, 2008 and will succeed Dennis J. Mooradian, who is expected to retire in the first quarter of 2009.  A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
ITEM 9.01
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
                                  
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Press Release dated September 26, 2008
99.1
                      
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Comerica Incorporated (NYSE: CMA) today announced that Curtis C. Farmer will be its new Executive Vice President of Wealth and Institutional Management. Farmer will become a member of Comerica's Management Policy Committee and report to Ralph W. Babb Jr., chairman and chief executive officer.
DALLAS/September 26, 2008 
 
Farmer will lead the business segment which serves the needs of affluent clients and institutions and includes Private Banking, Comerica Asset Management, Comerica Securities, Comerica Insurance, Private Fiduciary Services, Institutional Trust and Retirement Services, Wilson Kemp and World Asset Management.
 
Farmer will succeed Dennis J. Mooradian, who is expected to retire in the first quarter of 2009. Mooradian joined Comerica in November 2003 from Wells Fargo of San Francisco, Calif. Mooradian was instrumental in building a highly effective Wealth and Institutional Management team at Comerica, and drove growth in the company's private banking, trust and investment businesses.  He led the expansion of the product and service offering; improved technology, facilities and training; and recruited many talented professionals.
 
Farmer will be joining Comerica on Oct. 20, 2008, from Wachovia Corporation of Charlotte, N.C., where he most recently spent three years as Executive Vice President and Wealth Management Director of the Wealth Management segment. In this role, he led the organization's Southeast Region, which includes the Carolinas, Virginia, Georgia and Texas.
 
During his 23 years with Wachovia, he held a variety of positions of increasing scope and responsibility, including Senior Vice President and Managing Executive/National Sales Manager for Wachovia Trust Company and Wealth Management in Charlotte; Senior Vice President and Wealth Management Director in Philadelphia, Pa.; and Senior Vice President and Managing Executive of Marketing and Strategic Planning in Charlotte.
 
Farmer earned a bachelor's degree from Wake Forest University, where he also earned his Masters in Business Administration.
 
Comerica Incorporated is a financial services company headquartered in Dallas, Texas, and strategically aligned by three business segments: The Business Bank, The Retail Bank, and Wealth & Institutional Management. Comerica focuses on relationships, and helping people and businesses be successful. In addition to Texas, Comerica Bank locations can be found in Arizona, California, Florida and Michigan, with select businesses operating in several other states, as well as in Canada, China and Mexico. Comerica reported total assets of $66 billion at June 30, 2008. To receive e-mail alerts of breaking Comerica news, go to http://www.comerica.com/newsalerts.
 
 


