FILE:CMA/CMA-8K-20090225084612.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In September 2008, Comerica Incorporated ("Comerica") announced that Dennis J. Mooradian, Executive Vice President, Wealth and Institutional Management, planned to retire in the first quarter of 2009. Mr. Mooradian has now further announced that his retirement date will be February 28, 2009. On February 25, 2009, Comerica issued a press release regarding this upcoming retirement, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
In connection with Mr. Mooradian's retirement, Comerica and Mr. Mooradian entered into a restrictive covenants and general release agreement (the "Agreement") dated February 20, 2009. The Agreement specifies that Mr. Mooradian's employment will terminate February 28, 2009. Under the terms of the Agreement, Mr. Mooradian provides a general release of claims in favor of Comerica and its affiliates and agrees to be bound by certain restrictive covenants (including non-disparagement, cooperation, confidentiality and two year non-competition and non-solicitation covenants).
In consideration of these covenants and the release, the Governance, Compensation and Nominating Committee of the Board of Directors approved the accelerated vesting of Mr. Mooradian's restricted Comerica stock as of his separation date and determined that his separation will qualify as a "retirement" so that his unvested stock options outstanding as of the separation date, other than those granted in the calendar year of his separation date, will continue to vest pursuant to the regular vesting schedule applicable to such options, and any outstanding vested options will not expire until the end of their respective regular term.
This summary of the Agreement is qualified in its entirety by the terms of the Agreement, a copy of which is being filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1.
 
The information concerning the departure of Mr. Mooradian set forth under "Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement" is incorporated by reference into this Item 5.02.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: February 25, 2009
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 10.1
THIS RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS AND GENERAL RELEASE AGREEMENT (the "Agreement") is entered into on February 20, 2009 between Dennis J. Mooradian (hereafter "Executive") and Comerica Incorporated, a Delaware corporation, for the benefit of Comerica Incorporated, Comerica Bank, all of their past, present and future subsidiaries, affiliates, predecessors, and successors, and all of their subsidiaries and affiliates, (hereafter all individually and collectively referred to as "Comerica"). This Agreement sets forth the complete understanding and agreement between Comerica and Executive relating to Executive's employment and cessation of employment with Comerica. This Agreement shall be effective as of the Effective Date (as defined in Paragraph 18 below), and in the event the Effective Date does not occur, this Agreement shall be void ab initio.
Accordingly, Executive and Comerica hereby agree as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(i) Executive's restricted shares of Comerica Incorporated common stock that are not vested as of the Separation Date shall fully vest as of the Separation Date; and
(ii) Executive's Separation Date shall qualify as a Retirement (as defined in the Comerica Incorporated 2006 Amended and Restated Long-Term Incentive Plan and its predecessor plan(s), each as amended and/or restated from time to time (the "LTIP")) so that his stock options outstanding as of the Separation Date, other than those granted in the calendar year of such Separation Date, shall continue to vest pursuant to the vesting schedule applicable to such options, and any vested options outstanding as of the Separation Date shall continue in full force and effect for the remainder of the term of the option.
The opportunities afforded Executive in both paragraphs (f)(i) and (f)(ii) above are subject to the other terms and conditions of the LTIP and the grant agreements evidencing the applicable grants of such restricted stock and stock options, including Executive's obligation to satisfy all tax withholding obligations.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
During the two-year period following the execution of the Agreement, Executive may request an exception to this provision. The request must be made in writing, describe the scope and nature of the engagement, and directed to Comerica's Chief Legal Officer. Any exception will be at Comerica's sole discretion.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the event the parties cannot agree on the selection of a single arbitrator, the following process to select an arbitration panel will be followed: 1) when a party reasonably believes that there will be no agreement on the selection of a single, neutral arbitrator, that party may notify the other at the address provided in Paragraph 17 of this Agreement of the fact an impasse has been reached, 2) within five (5) days of receipt of such notice, each party must provide the other with the name of its respective panel member, and 3) within ten (10) days of their selection, the parties' panel members must agree on the third, neutral member of the arbitration panel.
The arbitrator, or arbitration panel ("panel") if one is utilized, shall have the power to enter any award that could be entered by a judge of a trial court of the State of Texas, and only such power, and shall follow the law. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the arbitrator or panel may award reasonable attorney fees and costs to the prevailing party. In the event the arbitrator or panel does not follow the law, the arbitrator or panel will have exceeded the scope of his or her authority and the parties may, at their option, file a motion to vacate the award in court. Except as otherwise provided herein, the parties agree to abide by and perform any award rendered by the arbitrator. The arbitrator or panel shall issue the award in writing and therein state the essential findings and conclusions on which the award is based. Judgment on the award may be entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof. In no event shall the demand for arbitration be
 
made after the date when institution of legal or equitable proceedings based on such claim, dispute or other matter in question would be barred by the applicable statute of limitations. This agreement to arbitrate shall be specifically enforceable under the prevailing arbitration law, and shall be in accordance with the procedures established for arbitration in the Texas Rules of Civil Procedure. Unless otherwise prohibited by law, each party shall bear its own costs, including, but not limited to, any costs associated with the appointment of its panel member in the event an arbitration panel is constituted, in any such arbitration and shall share equally any fees or other expenses charged by the neutral arbitrator for services rendered.
The parties understand that by agreeing to arbitrate their disputes, they are giving up their right to have their disputes heard in a court of law and, if applicable, by a jury.
 
 
 
 
 
 
To Comerica:
Jon W. Bilstrom,
EVP, Governance, Regulatory Relations and Legal Affairs, and Corporate
Secretary
1717 Main Street, MC 6504
Dallas, Texas 75201
To Executive:
Dennis J. Mooradian
At the address on record with Comerica as of the Termination Date
 
 
DELIVERED TO EXECUTIVE FOR HIS CONSIDERATION THIS 6
th
DAY OF FEBRUARY 2009.
 
I, DENNIS J. MOORADIAN, HAVING READ THE FOREGOING SEPARATION AND RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS AGREEMENT, UNDERSTANDING ITS CONTENT AND HAVING HAD AN OPPORTUNITY TO CONSULT WITH COUNSEL OF MY CHOICE, DO HEREBY KNOWINGLY AND VOLUNTARILY SIGN THIS AGREEMENT, THEREBY AGREEING TO THE TERMS THEREOF AND WAIVING AND RELEASING MY CLAIMS, ON 2-20-09.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 Dennis J. Mooradian, executive vice president of Comerica's Wealth and Institutional Management, will retire effective Feb. 28, 2009. Curtis C. Farmer, who joined Comerica in October 2008, is succeeding Mooradian.
DALLAS/Feb. 25, 2009
Mooradian was instrumental in building a highly effective Wealth and Institutional Management team at Comerica, which drove growth in the company's private banking, trust and investment businesses. He led the expansion of the product and service offering; improved technology, facilities and training; and recruited many talented professionals.
Mooradian joined Comerica in November 2003 from Wells Fargo of San Francisco, Calif., where he served as chairman and co-chief executive officer of Wells Fargo Investments, LLC and head of its Financial Consultant Advisory Group.
Mooradian earned his bachelor of arts in Economics from Wayne State University, his master of business administration from Michigan State University and his juris doctorate from the Detroit College of Law at Michigan State University.
Comerica Incorporated is a financial services company headquartered in Dallas, Texas, and strategically aligned by three business segments: The Business Bank, The Retail Bank, and Wealth & Institutional Management. Comerica focuses on relationships, and helping people and businesses be successful. In addition to Texas, Comerica Bank locations can be found in Arizona, California, Florida and Michigan, with select businesses operating in several other states, as well as in Canada, China and Mexico. Comerica reported total assets of $67.5 billion at December 31, 2008. To receive e-mail alerts of breaking Comerica news, go to http://.
www.comerica.com/newsalerts
 


