FILE:CMA/CMA-8K-20090220084616.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Anthony F. Earley, Jr. has tendered his resignation from the Board of Directors of Comerica Incorporated ("Comerica"), effective February 28, 2009. On February 20, 2009, Comerica issued a press release regarding Mr. Earley's resignation. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: February 20, 2009
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99.1
Comerica Incorporated has announced the resignation of DTE Energy Company Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Anthony F. Earley, Jr. from the Comerica Incorporated Board of Directors, effective February 28, 2009.
DALLAS/February 20, 2009 
Earley became a director of Comerica Incorporated in 2000 following two years of service as a director of Comerica Bank.
"We appreciate the important contributions Tony has made to our company, and will miss his insights and counsel," said Ralph W. Babb Jr., chairman and chief executive officer, Comerica Incorporated.
Following Earley's resignation, there will be 12 independent directors on Comerica's board of directors.
Comerica Incorporated is a financial services company headquartered in Dallas, Texas, and strategically aligned by three business segments: The Business Bank, The Retail Bank, and Wealth & Institutional Management. Comerica focuses on relationships, and helping people and businesses be successful. In addition to Texas, Comerica Bank locations can be found in Arizona, California, Florida and Michigan, with select businesses operating in several other states, as well as in Canada, China and Mexico. Comerica reported total assets of $67.5 billion at December 31, 2008. To receive e-mail alerts of breaking Comerica news, go to http://www.comerica.com/newsalerts.
 


