FILE:CMA/CMA-8K-20090122070112.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Comerica Incorporated ("Comerica") today released its earnings for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2008.  A copy of the press release and the presentation slides which will be discussed in Comerica's webcast earnings call are attached hereto as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively.
 
The information in this report (including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto) is being is being "furnished" and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is not subject to the liabilities of that section and is not deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
January 22, 2009
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
COMERICA REPORTS FOURTH QUARTER AND 2008 EARNINGS
 
 Comerica Incorporated (NYSE: CMA) today reported fourth quarter 2008 net income applicable to common stock of $3 million, or $0.02 per diluted share, compared to $28 million, or $0.19 per diluted share, for the third quarter 2008 and $119 million, or $0.79 per diluted share, for the fourth quarter 2007.  Fourth quarter and full-year 2008 net income applicable to common stock were each net of $17 million of accumulated preferred stock dividends related to perpetual preferred shares issued to the U. S. Treasury as part of the Capital Purchase Program (the Purchase Program).  Fourth quarter 2008 included a $192 million provision for loan losses, compared to $165 million for the third quarter 2008 and $108 million for the fourth quarter 2007.  Fourth quarter 2008 also reflected $29 million ($18 million after-tax, or $0.12 per diluted share) of severance-related expenses.
DALLAS/January 22, 2009
 
 
 
Net income applicable to common stock for full-year 2008 was $196 million, or $1.29 per diluted share, compared to $686 million, or $4.43 per diluted share, for full-year 2007.  The most significant items contributing to the decrease in net income applicable to common stock were an increase in the provision for credit losses of $493 million, a decrease in net interest income of $188 million, the net $84 million loss impact in 2008 related to auction-rate securities (ARS) and $34 million of 2008 severance-related expenses.  These were partially offset by a $60 million increase in securities gains.
The following table illustrates the after-tax impact of certain items on net income applicable to common stock.
 
 
COMERICA REPORTS FOURTH QUARTER AND 2008 EARNINGS
 
 
* Includes net loss on offer to repurchase ARS and gains on sales of ARS. Excludes impact of ARS on net interest margin.
 
"Mounting job losses and an economy headed deeper into recession have dampened business and consumer confidence," said Ralph W. Babb Jr., chairman and chief executive officer. "We have stayed close to our customers during this incredibly tumultuous phase of the economic cycle, a testament to the skill and experience of our people and our strong focus on relationships.
 
"Our capital position is strong. Our Tier 1 capital ratio is estimated to be 10.67 percent at December 31, 2008. In addition, the quality of our capital is solid, as evidenced by a Tier 1 common capital ratio of 7.08 percent and a tangible common equity ratio of 7.21 percent. Within this uncertain economic environment, we are working diligently to leverage our strong capital, which was enhanced by our participation in the U.S. Treasury Department's Capital Purchase Program. 
 
"With the appropriate pricing and credit standards in place, we are focusing our lending efforts on new and existing relationship customers for whom we serve as trusted advisors. This includes small businesses, middle market companies and wealth management clients in Texas and California. The additional capital also enables us to support the battered housing market through our purchase of mortgage-backed government agency securities.
 
"We are focused on controlling expenses, as evidenced by several initiatives to streamline operations and leverage technology. We have reduced our workforce by about 5 percent since the end of 2007 and expect to reduce it another 5 percent, largely to be completed by the end of the first quarter.  In addition, we are freezing salaries in 2009 for the top 20 percent of our workforce. We also plan to slow our banking center expansion program, and will continue to reduce our capital expenditures and discretionary expenses in this challenged environment."
 
Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2008 Overview
 
Fourth Quarter 2008 Compared to Third Quarter 2008
 
                 
On an annualized basis, average loans, excluding Financial Services Division (FSD) loans, declined one percent, with declines of seven percent in the Western market and two percent in the Midwest market partially offset by growth of 15 percent in the Texas market. The declines reflected reduced demand from customers in rapidly deteriorating economic environments.  Average loans, excluding Financial Services Division loans, increased three percent when compared to the fourth quarter 2007.
                 
On an annualized basis, excluding Financial Services Division deposits, average noninterest-bearing deposits increased seven percent.
                 
The net interest margin of 2.82 percent decreased from 3.11 percent in the third quarter 2008, and reflected the negative impact of three Federal Reserve rate cuts totaling 175 basis points in a challenging deposit pricing environment, partially offset by improved loan pricing.
 
COMERICA REPORTS FOURTH QUARTER AND 2008 EARNINGS
 
Fourth Quarter 2008 Compared to Third Quarter 2008 (continued)
 
                 
Net credit-related charge-offs were $133 million, or 104 basis points as a percent of average total loans, for the fourth quarter 2008, compared to $116 million, or 90 basis points as a percent of average total loans, for the third quarter 2008.  The provision for loan losses was $192 million for the fourth quarter 2008, compared to $165 million for the third quarter 2008, and the period-end allowance to total loans ratio increased to 1.52 percent from 1.38 percent at September 30, 2008.
                 
Noninterest expenses decreased $103 million from the third quarter, primarily due to the third quarter $96 million charge related to the repurchase of ARS and an $11 million decrease in the provision for credit losses on lending-related commitments. This decrease was partially offset by severance-related expenses of $29 million in the fourth quarter 2008 related to the elimination of about five percent of the workforce.
                 
The estimated Tier 1 common and Tier 1 capital ratios were 7.08 percent and 10.67 percent, respectively.
 
Full Year 2008 Compared to Full Year 2007
 
                 
Average loan growth, excluding Financial Services Division loans, was six percent, with growth of 14 percent in the Texas market, six percent in the Western market and three percent in the Midwest market.
                 
Excluding Financial Services Division deposits, average noninterest-bearing deposits increased six percent.
                 
The net interest margin was 3.02 percent for 2008, compared to 3.66 percent for 2007.  The 2008 average Federal Funds rate declined more than 300 basis points from the average rate for 2007.
                 
Net credit-related charge-offs were 91 basis points as a percent of average total loans for 2008, compared to 31 basis points for 2007, largely due to deterioration in the residential real estate development sector as housing prices continued to fall.
                 
Excluding the $88 million net charge related to the repurchase of ARS in 2008, noninterest expenses decreased $28 million, or two percent, from 2007.
 
Net Interest Income and Net Interest Margin
 
 
*Core deposits exclude other time deposits and foreign office time deposits.
 
                 
The $35 million decrease in net interest income in the fourth quarter 2008, when compared to third quarter 2008, reflected the negative impact of three Federal Reserve rate cuts totaling 175 basis points in a challenging deposit pricing environment, partially offset by improved loan spreads.
December 31, 2008 core deposits, excluding the Financial Services Division, decreased $224 million compared to September 30, 2008, due to a decrease in money market investment accounts, partially offset by an increase in customer certificates of deposit.
                 
 
COMERICA REPORTS FOURTH QUARTER AND 2008 EARNINGS
 
Total average Financial Services Division deposits decreased $295 million from the third quarter 2008. This division serves title and escrow companies that facilitate residential mortgage transactions and benefits from customer deposits related to mortgage escrow balances. Deposits declined due to the impact of reduced home prices, as well as lower home mortgage financing and refinancing activity.
                 
 
Noninterest Income
 
Noninterest income was $174 million for the fourth quarter 2008, compared to $240 million for the third quarter 2008 and $230 million for the fourth quarter 2007. Net securities gains in the fourth quarter 2008 included $4 million from the sale of ARS and net securities gains in the third quarter 2008 included $27 million from the sale of Comerica's remaining ownership of Visa shares. Decreases in deferred compensation asset returns of $12 million and net income (loss) from principal investing and warrants of $6 million also contributed to the decline in noninterest income.  Certain categories of noninterest income are highlighted in the table below.
 
 
* Compensation deferred by Comerica officers is invested in stocks and bonds to reflect the investment selections of the officers. Income (loss) earned on these assets is reported in noninterest income and the offsetting increase (decrease) in the liability is reported in salaries expense.
 
Noninterest Expenses
 
Noninterest expenses were $411 million for the fourth quarter 2008, compared to $514 million for the third quarter 2008 and $450 million for the fourth quarter 2007. The $103 million decrease in noninterest expenses in the fourth quarter 2008, compared to the third quarter 2008, reflected a fourth quarter reversal of $8 million of the third quarter $96 million charge related to the repurchase of ARS (included in "litigation and operational losses"), an $11 million decrease in the provision for credit losses on lending-related commitments and a $5 million decrease in salaries expense, partially offset by a $7 million increase in employee benefits, mostly due to severance-related expenses.  The fourth quarter 2008 ARS reversal resulted from fewer than expected eligible securities submitted for repurchase by customers. The decrease in salaries expense was primarily due to decreases in incentives and deferred compensation plan costs (offset by a decrease in deferred compensation asset returns in noninterest income), partially offset by an increase in severance related to the elimination of approximately 570 positions, most to occur early in first quarter 2009. Severance-related expenses were $29 million in the fourth quarter 2008.  Certain categories of noninterest expenses are highlighted in the following table.
 
COMERICA REPORTS FOURTH QUARTER AND 2008 EARNINGS
 
 
*  Fourth quarter 2008 litigation and operational losses were net of a reversal of $8 million of the $96 million charge related to the repurchase of auction-rate securities from customers recorded in the third quarter 2008.
 
Credit Quality
 
"Our credit costs remained stable, even as the economy deteriorated rapidly in the fourth quarter," said Babb. "We continue to monitor the performance of our customers very closely with credit quality reviews, risk rating migration analysis and stress testing.  In addition, we are aggressively managing our problem loans by moving them to our workout area at the first sign of stress.  We are working hard to stay ahead of the issues. Our strong focus on credit is evidenced by the continued reduction of exposure to California residential real estate development as well as the automotive industry, given the challenges that these sectors continue to face."
 
                 
The allowance to total loans ratio increased to 1.52 percent at December 31, 2008, from 1.38 percent at September 30, 2008 and 1.10 percent at December 31, 2007.
                 
The provision for loan losses and loan quality reflected increasing challenges in the Midwest and the weakened economies in other markets.
                 
Net credit-related charge-offs in the Commercial Real Estate business line in the fourth quarter 2008 were $59 million, of which $37 million were from residential real estate developers in the Western market. Comparable numbers for the third quarter 2008 were $57 million in total, of which $39 million were from residential real estate developers in the Western market.
                 
Net loan charge-offs excluding the Commercial Real Estate business line were $74 million in the fourth quarter 2008, or 66 basis points of average non-Commercial Real Estate loans, compared to $59 million, or 52 basis points, in the third quarter 2008.
                 
Nonperforming assets increased to 1.94 percent of total loans and foreclosed property at December 31, 2008. During the fourth quarter, $258 million of loan relationships greater than $2 million were transferred to nonaccrual status, a decrease of $22 million from the third quarter 2008.  Of the transfers of loan relationships greater than $2 million to nonaccrual in the fourth quarter 2008, $163 million were in the Commercial Real Estate business line, an increase of $18 million from the third quarter 2008.
 
COMERICA REPORTS FOURTH QUARTER AND 2008 EARNINGS
 
 
*Included in "Accrued expenses and other liabilities" on the consolidated balance sheets.
 
Balance Sheet and Capital Management
 
Total assets and common shareholders' equity were $67.5 billion and $5.0 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2008, compared to $65.2 billion and $5.1 billion, respectively, at September 30, 2008. To preserve and enhance balance sheet strength in this uncertain economic environment, Comerica lowered the quarterly cash dividend rate by 50 percent in the fourth quarter 2008, to $0.33 per common share.  The preferred stock issued under the Purchase Program in the fourth quarter 2008 qualifies as Tier 1 capital and pays a cumulative dividend rate of five percent per annum on the face value of $2.25 billion.  The cash dividend combined with the accretion of a related discount results in an effective preferred dividend rate of 6.3 percent.  The related discount resulted from a difference between the fair value and the face value of the preferred stock at issuance. There were approximately 150 million common shares outstanding at December 31, 2008.  No shares were repurchased in the open market in 2008.
 
Comerica's fourth quarter 2008 estimated Tier 1 common, Tier 1 and total risk-based capital ratios were 7.08 percent, 10.67 percent and 14.73 percent, respectively.
 
Full-Year 2009 Outlook Compared to Full-Year 2008
 
Management provides the following general comments with the observation that it is increasingly difficult to forecast in the current uncertain economic environment.
 
Management expects to focus on new and expanding relationships, particularly in Small Business, Middle Market and Wealth Management in Texas and California with the appropriate pricing and credit standards.
                 
Management expects average full-year net interest margin pressure will continue.  Management anticipates no change in the Federal Funds rate.  Management also expects continued improvement in loan spreads, challenging deposit pricing and demand deposits that provide less value in an historically low interest rate environment.
                 
Management expects full-year net credit-related charge-offs to remain consistent with full-year 2008. The provision for credit losses is expected to exceed net charge-offs.
                 
Management expects a mid-single digit decrease in noninterest expenses, due to control of discretionary expenses and workforce.
                 
 
COMERICA REPORTS
FOURTH QUARTER AND 2008
EARNINGS
 
Business Segments
 
Comerica's continuing operations are strategically aligned into three major business segments: the Business Bank, the Retail Bank, and Wealth & Institutional Management.  The Finance Division also is included as a segment. The financial results below are based on the internal business unit structure of the Corporation and methodologies in effect at December 31, 2008 and are presented on a fully taxable equivalent (FTE) basis. The accompanying narrative addresses fourth quarter 2008 results compared to third quarter 2008.
 
The following table presents net income (loss) by business segment.
 
 
*  Third quarter 2008 included a $96 million charge ($61 million, after-tax) related to an offer to repurchase auction-rate securities from customers.
 
** Includes discontinued operations and items not directly associated with the three major business segments or the Finance Division.
 
Business Bank
 
 
Average loans, excluding the Financial Services Division, decreased $184 million, led by declines in Middle Market and Commercial Real Estate, partially offset by an increase in Global Corporate. Financial Services Division loans decreased $78 million.
                 
Average deposits, excluding the Financial Services Division, decreased $799 million, primarily due to Middle Market, Technology and Life Sciences and Commercial Real Estate, partially offset by a reassignment of deposits from the Other category to the Business Bank. Financial Services Division deposits decreased $295 million.
                 
The net interest margin of 3.23 percent increased six basis points, mostly due to an $8 million non-cash charge to lease income in the third quarter 2008 (eight basis points) and an increase in loan spreads, partially offset by a decrease in deposit spreads.
                 
The provision for loan losses increased $4 million, primarily in Commercial Real Estate and Global Corporate, partially offset by a decrease in Middle Market.
                 
 
COMERICA REPORTS
EARNINGS
FOURTH QUARTER AND 2008
 
Noninterest income decreased $13 million, primarily due to declines in income from low income housing investments, income from principal investing and warrants and investment banking fees.
                 
Noninterest expenses decreased $3 million, due to decreases in the provision for credit losses on lending-related commitments and incentives, partially offset by increases in severance and related expenses, other real estate expenses, legal fees and the allocation of severance and related expenses of support units.
                 
 
Retail Bank
 
 
Average loans increased $18 million, or one percent on an annualized basis.
                 
Average deposits increased $469 million, primarily due to an increase in customer certificates of deposit, partially offset by a decrease in money market investment accounts.
                 
The net interest margin of 3.00 percent declined 40 basis points, primarily due to an increase in lower-spread customer certificates of deposit.
                 
The provision for loan losses increased $10 million, mostly due to Small Business and home equity lending.
                 
Noninterest income decreased $31 million, primarily due to the third quarter 2008 gain of $27 million on the sale of Visa shares and a decrease in service charges on deposit accounts.
                 
Noninterest expenses increased $19 million, primarily due to increases in severance and related expenses, occupancy expense and the allocation of severance and related expenses of support units.
                 
Fifteen new banking centers were opened in the fourth quarter 2008 (28 new banking centers were opened in the full-year 2008).
                 
 
Wealth and Institutional Management
 
 
COMERICA REPORTS
FOURTH QUARTER AND 2008
EARNINGS
Average loans increased $100 million, or nine percent on an annualized basis.
                 
Average deposits decreased $96 million, primarily due to declines in money market investment account balances and customer certificates of deposit, partially offset by an increase in noninterest-bearing transaction accounts.
                 
The net interest margin of 3.13 percent declined four basis points, primarily due to a decline in deposit spreads.
                 
The provision for loan losses increased $6 million due to an increase in Private Banking.
                 
Noninterest expenses decreased $100 million, mostly due to the $96 million charge related to the offer to repurchase auction-rate securities (ARS) recorded in the third quarter 2008 and an $8 million reversal of the ARS charge recorded in the fourth quarter 2008, partially offset by an increase in severance and related expenses and the allocation of severance and related expenses of support units.
                 
 
Geographic Market Segments
 
Comerica also provides market segment results for four primary geographic markets: Midwest, Western, Texas and Florida.  In addition to the four primary geographic markets, Other Markets and International are also reported as market segments.  The financial results below are based on methodologies in effect at December 31, 2008 and are presented on a fully taxable equivalent (FTE) basis. The accompanying narrative addresses fourth quarter 2008 results compared to third quarter 2008.
The following table presents net income (loss) by market segment.
 
 
*   Third quarter 2008 included a $96 million charge ($61 million, after-tax) related to an offer to repurchase auction-rate securities from customers.
 
** Includes discontinued operations and items not directly associated with the geographic markets.
 
Midwest
 
COMERICA REPORTS FOURTH QUARTER AND 2008 EARNINGS
 
Average loans decreased $104 million, led by a decline in Middle Market, partially offset by growth in Global Corporate.
                 
Average deposits increased $346 million, primarily due to increases in Retail deposits and a reassignment of deposits from the Other category to the Business Bank, partially offset by a decrease in Global Corporate.
                 
The net interest margin of 4.20 percent increased 12 basis points due to an $8 million non-cash charge to lease income in the third quarter 2008 (17 basis points) and an increase in loan spreads, partially offset by a decrease in deposit spreads.
                 
The provision for loan losses increased $7 million, due to Commercial Real Estate and home equity lending, partially offset by a decrease in Middle Market.
                 
Noninterest income decreased $33 million, primarily due to a $22 million third quarter 2008 gain on the sale of Visa shares and a decrease in income from principal investing and warrants.
                 
Noninterest expenses increased $14 million, due to increases in severance and related expenses and the allocation of severance and related expenses of support units.
                 
 
Western Market
 
 
Average loans, excluding Financial Services Division, decreased $271 million, due to declines in Middle Market and Commercial Real Estate. Financial Services Division loans decreased $78 million.
                 
Average deposits, excluding the Financial Services Division, decreased $681 million, primarily due to decreases in Middle Market and Technology and Life Sciences.  Financial Services Division deposits decreased $286 million.
                 
The net interest margin of 3.87 percent decreased 22 basis points, due to declines in deposit spreads and deposit balances, partially offset by increasing loan spreads.
                 
The provision for loan losses decreased $12 million, primarily due an improvement in Middle Market, partially offset by Residential Real Estate.
                 
Noninterest income decreased $4 million, primarily due to a decrease in income from principal investing and warrants.
                 
Noninterest expenses increased $1 million. Increases in severance and related expenses and the allocation of severance and related expenses of support units were partially offset by decreases in incentives.
                 
Eight new banking centers were opened in the fourth quarter 2008 (18 new banking centers were opened for the full-year 2008).
                 
 
COMERICA REPORTS FOURTH QUARTER AND 2008 EARNINGS
 
Texas Market
 
 
                 
Average loans increased $283 million, or 15 percent on an annualized basis, primarily due to increases in Energy Lending, Commercial Real Estate and Global Corporate.
                 
Average deposits increased $114 million, primarily due to increases in Global Corporate and Retail deposits, partially offset by a decline in Technology and Life Sciences.
                 
The net interest margin of 3.56 percent decreased 19 basis points, primarily due a decline in deposit spreads related to a shift from money market investment accounts to lower-spread customer certificates of deposit, partially offset by increasing loan spreads.
                 
Noninterest income decreased $6 million, primarily due to a $4 million gain on the sale of Visa shares in the third quarter 2008.
                 
Noninterest expenses increased $3 million, primarily from severance and related expenses and the allocation of severance and related expenses of support units.
                 
Seven new banking center were opened in the fourth quarter 2008 (nine new banking centers were opened in full-year 2008).
 
Florida Market
 
 
                 
Average loans increased $42 million, or nine percent on an annualized basis, primarily due to growth in Private Banking, National Dealer Services and Global Corporate.
                 
Average deposits decreased $40 million due to declines in Commercial Real Estate and Global Corporate.
                 
The net interest margin of 2.25 percent decreased 28 basis points, primarily due to a decline in loan spreads in part from a higher level of nonaccrual loans.
                 
The provision for loan losses increased $7 million.  The largest contributor to the increase was Private Banking.
 
COMERICA REPORTS FOURTH QUARTER AND 2008 EARNINGS
 
Conference Call and Webcast
 
Comerica will host a conference call to review fourth quarter 2008 and full-year financial results at 7 a.m. CT Thursday, January 22, 2009. Interested parties may access the conference call by calling (800) 309-2262 or (706) 679-5261 (event ID No. 76772081). The call and supplemental financial information can also be accessed on the Internet at www.comerica.com.  A replay will be available approximately two hours following the conference call through January 31, 2009. The conference call replay can be accessed by calling (800) 642-1687 or (706) 645-9291 (event ID No. 76772081). A replay of the Webcast can also be accessed via Comerica's "Investor Relations" page at www.comerica.com.
 
Comerica Incorporated is a financial services company headquartered in Dallas, Texas, and strategically aligned by three major business segments: the Business Bank, the Retail Bank, and Wealth & Institutional Management. Comerica focuses on relationships and helping people and businesses be successful. In addition to Texas, Comerica Bank locations can be found in Arizona, California, Florida and Michigan, with select businesses operating in several other states, as well as in Canada, China and Mexico.
 
Forward-looking Statements
 
are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are predicated on the beliefs and assumptions of Comerica's management based on information known to Comerica's management as of the date of this news release and do not purport to speak as of any other date. Forward-looking statements may include descriptions of plans and objectives of Comerica's management for future or past operations, products or services, and forecasts of Comerica's revenue, earnings or other measures of economic performance, including statements of profitability, business segments and subsidiaries, estimates of credit trends and global stability. Such statements reflect the view of Comerica's management as of this date with respect to future events and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Should one or more of these risks materialize or should underlying beliefs or assumptions prove incorrect, Comerica's actual results could differ materially from those discussed.  Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences are further economic downturns, changes in the pace of an economic recovery and related changes in employment levels, changes in real estate values, fuel prices, energy costs or other events that could affect customer income levels or general economic conditions, changes related to the headquarters relocation or to its underlying assumptions, the effects of recently enacted legislation, such as the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, and actions taken by the U.S. Department of Treasury and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the effects of war and other armed conflicts or acts of terrorism, the effects of natural disasters including, but not limited to, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, fires, droughts  and floods, the disruption of private or public utilities, the implementation of Comerica's strategies and business models, management's ability to maintain and expand customer relationships, changes in customer borrowing, repayment, investment and deposit practices, management's ability to retain key officers and employees, changes in the accounting treatment of any particular item, the impact of regulatory examinations, declines or other changes in the businesses or industries in which Comerica has a concentration of loans, including, but not limited to, the automotive production industry and the real estate business lines, the anticipated performance of any new banking centers, the entry of new competitors in Comerica's markets, changes in the level of fee income, changes in applicable laws and regulations, including those concerning taxes, banking, securities and insurance, changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies, including the interest rate policies of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, fluctuations in inflation or interest rates, changes in general economic, political or industry conditions and related credit and market conditions, the
Any statements in this news release that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as
"anticipates," "believes," "feels," "expects," "estimates," "seeks," "strives," "plans," "intends," "outlook," "forecast," "position," "target," "mission," "assume," "achievable," "potential," "strategy," "goal," "aspiration," "outcome," "continue," "remain," "maintain," "trend," "objective" and variations of such words and similar expressions, or future or conditional verbs such as "will," "would," "should," "could," "might," "can," "may" or similar expressions, as they relate to Comerica or its management,
COMERICA REPORTS FOURTH QUARTER AND 2008 EARNINGS
 
interdependence of financial service companies and adverse conditions in the stock market. Comerica cautions that the foregoing list of factors is not exclusive. For discussion of these and other factors that may cause actual results to differ from expectations, please refer to our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. Comerica does not undertake to update forward-looking statements to reflect facts, circumstances, assumptions or events that occur after the date the forward-looking statements are made. For any forward-looking statements made in this news release or in any documents, Comerica claims the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
 
 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
 
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
 
CONSOLIDATED QUARTERLY STATEMENTS OF INCOME
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
 
N/M - Not meaningful
 
ANALYSIS OF THE ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
 
ANALYSIS OF THE ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES ON LENDING-RELATED COMMITMENTS
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
 
(1) Charge-offs result from the sale of unfunded lending-related commitments.
NONPERFORMING ASSETS
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
 
 
ANALYSIS OF NET INTEREST INCOME (FTE)
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
 
N/M - Not meaningful
 
 
ANALYSIS OF NET INTEREST INCOME (FTE)
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
 
N/M - Not meaningful
 
 
CONSOLIDATED STATISTICAL DATA
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
 
* December 31, 2008 ratios are estimated
PARENT COMPANY ONLY BALANCE SHEETS
Comerica Incorporated
 
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
 
BUSINESS SEGMENT FINANCIAL RESULTS
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
 
(1) Return on average assets is calculated based on the greater of average assets or average liabilities and attributed equity.
(2) Net interest margin is calculated based on the greater of average earning assets or average deposits and purchased funds.
FTE - Fully Taxable Equivalent
N/M  Not Meaningful
 
MARKET SEGMENT FINANCIAL RESULTS
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
 
(1) Return on average assets is calculated based on the greater of average assets or average liabilities and attributed equity.
(2) Net interest margin is calculated based on the greater of average earning assets or average deposits and purchased funds.
FTE - Fully Taxable Equivalent
N/M  Not Meaningful

Exhibit 99.2
 


