FILE:CMA/CMA-8K-20090721070350.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
FORM 8-K
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
ITEMS 2.02 and 7.01
           
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
 
Comerica Incorporated ("Comerica") today released its earnings for the quarter ended June 30, 2009.  A copy of the press release and the presentation slides which will be discussed in Comerica's webcast earnings call are attached hereto as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively.
 
The information in this report (including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto) is being is being "furnished" and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is not subject to the liabilities of that section and is not deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
ITEM 9.01
            
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
(d) Exhibits
 
99.1
        
Press Release dated July 21, 2009
 
99.2
        
Earnings Presentation Slides
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
COMERICA REPORTS SECOND QUARTER 2009
 
NET INCOME OF $18 MILLION
 
DALLAS/July 21, 2009
 Comerica Incorporated (NYSE: CMA) today reported second quarter 2009 net income of $18 million, compared to $9 million for the first quarter 2009 and $56 million for the second quarter 2008.  After preferred dividends of $34 million in the second quarter 2009 and $33 million in the first quarter 2009, the net loss applicable to common stock was $16 million, or $0.10 per diluted share, for the second quarter 2009, compared to a net loss applicable to common stock of $24 million, or $0.16 per diluted share, for the first quarter 2009 and net income applicable to common stock of $56 million, or $0.37 per diluted share, for the second quarter 2008.  Second quarter 2009 included a $312 million provision for loan losses, compared to $203 million for the first quarter 2009 and $170 million for the second quarter 2008.
 
 
(a)
      
June 30, 2009 ratio is estimated.
(b)
      
See Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures.
 
"The second quarter results reflect the difficult economic environment, particularly the residential real estate development challenges," said Ralph W. Babb Jr., chairman and chief executive officer. "We are managing through this environment by quickly identifying problem loans, building our loan loss reserve credit-by-credit, and strengthening our already solid capital position.
 
"While there are some signs the economy may be bottoming, businesses and individuals are still feeling the effects of this prolonged recession. They remain cautious in an environment in which unemployment rates have continued to rise.
 
 
COMERICA REPORTS SECOND QUARTER 2009 RESULTS
 
"Like the industry as a whole, we continue to see weak loan demand across our geographic markets. This mirrors the sharp slowdown in commercial and industrial loan growth that was evident in all 10 post-World War II recessions.
 
"We were pleased to see continued strong growth in average core deposits in the second quarter and, as expected, expansion of the net interest margin.  We remain focused on our customers and vigilant in controlling our expenses.
 
"Our capital ratios increased from already strong levels, as evidenced by a tangible common equity ratio of 7.55 percent."
 
Second Quarter 2009 Compared to First Quarter 2009
 
                 
Average earning assets decreased $2.2 billion, reflecting a $1.9 billion decrease in average loans and a $340 million decrease in investment securities, which resulted from the sale of mortgage-backed government agency securities and the redemption of auction-rate securities.
                 
Average loans declined in all markets and nearly all business lines. The declines reflected reduced demand from customers in a contracting economic environment.
                 
Average core deposits, excluding the Financial Services Division, increased $1.1 billion in the second quarter 2009, reflecting a $1.0 billion increase in noninterest-bearing deposits.
                 
The net interest margin of 2.73 percent increased 20 basis points, from 2.53 percent in the first quarter 2009, primarily reflecting increasing loan spreads and maturities of higher-cost time deposits.
                 
Net credit-related charge-offs were $248 million, or 2.08 percent of average total loans, for the second quarter 2009, compared to $157 million, or 1.26 percent of average total loans, for the first quarter 2009, with the increases concentrated primarily in Leasing and Middle Market Banking in the Midwest and residential real estate development in Florida and Other markets.  Net credit-related charge-offs in the Texas and Western markets were stable. The provision for loan losses was $312 million for the second quarter 2009, compared to $203 million for the first quarter 2009, and the period-end allowance to total loans ratio increased to 1.89 percent from 1.68 percent at March 31, 2009.
                 
Noninterest income increased $75 million, primarily the result of a $100 million increase in net securities gains (substantially from sales of mortgage-backed government agency securities) and a $13 million increase in deferred compensation asset returns (offset by an increase in deferred compensation plan costs in noninterest expenses), partially offset by a decline resulting from a $16 million second quarter 2009 loss on the termination of leveraged leases compared to a $24 million first quarter 2009 gain on the termination of leveraged leases.
                 
Noninterest expenses increased $32 million from the first quarter, primarily due to a $30 million increase in FDIC insurance expense, reflecting an industry-wide FDIC special assessment charge in the second quarter 2009, and a $13 million increase in deferred compensation plan costs, partially offset by decreases in discretionary expenses and workforce. Excluding the FDIC special assessment charge, annualized noninterest expenses remain nearly 10 percent below noninterest expenses for the full-year 2008.
                 
The provision for income taxes decreased $58 million from the first quarter, primarily
due to a change in the method of determining interim period (quarterly) federal taxes.  The second quarter 2009 provision for income taxes also was reduced by approximately $8 million in net adjustments including settlements related to federal and state tax audits.
                 
The estimated Tier 1 common ratio was 7.65 percent and the estimated Tier 1 capital ratio was 11.57 percent at June 30, 2009, increases of 33 basis points and 51 basis points, respectively, from March 31, 2009.
 
COMERICA REPORTS SECOND QUARTER 2009 RESULTS
 
Net Interest Income and Net Interest Margin
 
 
(a)
      
Core deposits exclude other time deposits and foreign office time deposits.
 
                 
The $18 million increase in net interest income in the second quarter 2009, when compared to first quarter 2009, resulted primarily from an increase in the net interest margin and the impact of one more day ($4 million), partially offset by a decline in earning assets (primarily loans).
                 
Second quarter 2009 average core deposits, excluding the Financial Services Division, increased $1.1 billion compared to first quarter 2009, reflecting a $1.0 billion increase in noninterest-bearing deposits. The increase in noninterest-bearing deposits occurred across all business segments and from both commercial and consumer customers.
                 
The net interest margin of 2.73 percent increased 20 basis points, compared to first quarter 2009, primarily reflecting increasing loan spreads and maturities of higher-cost time deposits. The net interest margin was reduced by approximately eight basis points in each of the first two quarters of 2009 from excess liquidity, which was represented by $1.8 billion of average balances deposited with the Federal Reserve Bank. Excess liquidity resulted from strong deposit growth and security sales at a time when loan demand remained weak.
                 
Total average Financial Services Division noninterest-bearing deposits increased $145 million from the first quarter 2009. This division serves title and escrow companies that facilitate residential mortgage transactions and benefits from customer deposits related to mortgage escrow balances. Noninterest-bearing deposits increased primarily due to increased mortgage activity.
 
Noninterest Income
 
Noninterest income was $298 million for the second quarter 2009, compared to $223 million for the first quarter 2009 and $242 million for the second quarter 2008. Noninterest income in the second quarter 2009 included $113 million of net securities gains, primarily from gains from sales of mortgage-backed government agency securities ($109 million) and from redemptions of auction-rate securities ($3 million), compared to net securities gains of $13 million in the first quarter 2009.  Securities were sold based on Comerica's expectation that mortgage rates will rise over time (i.e., securities prices will decline) and, with interest rates near zero, there is no longer a need to hold a large portfolio of fixed rate securities to mitigate the impact of potential future rate declines on net interest income. Noninterest income in the second quarter 2009 also reflected a $6 million gain on the sale of Comerica's proprietary defined contribution plan recordkeeping business.  Deferred compensation asset returns were $8 million in the second quarter 2009, an increase of $13 million when compared to the first quarter 2009 (offset by an increase in deferred compensation plan costs in noninterest expenses). The second quarter 2009 included a $16 million loss on the termination of leveraged leases compared to a $24 million first quarter 2009 gain on the termination of leveraged leases (both the loss and the gain are included in "other noninterest income"). Selected categories of noninterest income are highlighted in the following table.
 
COMERICA REPORTS SECOND QUARTER 2009 RESULTS
 
 
(a)
      
Compensation deferred by Comerica officers is invested in stocks and bonds to reflect the investment selections of the officers. Income (loss) earned on these assets is reported in noninterest income and the offsetting increase (decrease) in the liability is reported in salaries expense.
 
Noninterest Expenses
 
Noninterest expenses were $429 million for the second quarter 2009, compared to $397 million for the first quarter 2009 and $423 million for the second quarter 2008. The $32 million increase in noninterest expenses in the second quarter 2009, compared to the first quarter 2009, reflected a $30 million increase in FDIC insurance expense, resulting from an industry-wide FDIC special assessment charge in the second quarter 2009, and a $13 million increase in deferred compensation plan costs.  Regular salaries decreased $5 million, impacted by reductions in full-time equivalent staff of approximately 200 and 490 in the second quarter 2009 and first quarter 2009, respectively.  Certain categories of noninterest expenses are highlighted in the table below.
 
 
Tax-related items
 
The provision for income taxes in the second quarter 2009 decreased $58 million, when compared to the first quarter 2009, primarily due to a change in the method used to determine interim period (quarterly) federal taxes.  Beginning in the second quarter 2009, Comerica calculated income taxes discretely based on actual year-to-date 2009 pre-tax results.  In the first quarter 2009 and prior periods, Comerica calculated taxes by applying an estimated annual effective tax rate to year-to-date pre-tax results.  The change in method resulted in an approximately $20 million decrease in the income tax provision in the second quarter 2009.  If the same methodology had been applied in the first quarter, the income tax provision recorded in the first quarter 2009 would have been approximately $20 million lower. The decrease in the provision for income taxes in the second quarter 2009 also reflected approximately $8 million of net adjustments including settlements related to federal and state tax audits.
 
COMERICA REPORTS SECOND QUARTER 2009 RESULTS
 
Credit Quality
 
"The key credit issue for us remains in our Commercial Real Estate line of business, predominantly residential real estate development," said Babb.  "We have seen signs of stabilization in the residential real estate portfolio in California.  Texas has held up relatively well, and we have been working through issues related to falling home prices in Michigan for several years. Florida had performed well for us, but the prolonged recession has recently taken a toll on our residential real estate development portfolio in that state, as well as in other markets.
 
"We are managing these problem loans effectively.  We are conducting in-depth reviews, obtaining current independent appraisals, taking the appropriate charge-offs and providing incremental reserves to reflect the challenges of this difficult economic environment.
 
"With regard to the automotive industry, we have anticipated and planned for the restructuring now underway, and no longer have any direct exposure to Chrysler or General Motors.  Our top-tier, mega-franchise auto dealer strategy continues to work well for us.  We have maintained excellent credit quality within our auto dealer portfolio, with no nonaccruals or charge-offs in the second quarter.  We have no material exposure to dealers which are closing.
 
"Within our automotive supplier portfolio, which we have continued to reduce, many of our customers who supply General Motors or Chrysler have been named essential suppliers by those automakers, and are expected to continue to operate.  Excluding a $21 million charge-off related to a General Motors leveraged lease, net auto-related charge-offs in the second quarter remained at a low level."
 
                 
The allowance to total loans ratio increased to 1.89 percent at June 30, 2009, from 1.68 percent at March 31, 2009 and 1.28 percent at June 30, 2008.
                 
The provision for loan losses increased in the Midwest, Texas, Florida and Other markets. The provision in the Western market, which was relatively unchanged, benefited from a decline in Commercial Real Estate.
                 
Net credit-related charge-offs in the Commercial Real Estate business line in the second quarter 2009 were $108 million, of which $34 million were from residential real estate developers in the Western market. Comparable numbers for the first quarter 2009 were $74 million in total, of which $47 million were from residential real estate developers in the Western market. Commercial Real Estate net credit-related charge-offs were stable in the Midwest and Texas markets, and increased in Florida and Other markets.
                 
Net credit-related charge-offs excluding the Commercial Real Estate business line were $140 million in the second quarter 2009, or 1.35 percent of average non-Commercial Real Estate loans, compared to $83 million, or 76 basis points, in the first quarter 2009.  The $57 million increase in non-Commercial Real Estate net credit-related charge-offs, when compared to the first quarter 2009, was primarily due to increases in Specialty Businesses ($21 million), reflecting a $21 million charge-off related to a General Motors leveraged lease, Middle Market ($21 million), and Global Corporate ($13 million). Small Business and Private Banking were stable.
                 
Nonperforming assets increased to 2.64 percent of total loans and foreclosed property at June 30, 2009. During the second quarter 2009, $419 million of loan relationships greater than $2 million were transferred to nonaccrual status, an increase of $178 million from the first quarter 2009.  Of the transfers of loan relationships greater than $2 million to nonaccrual in the second quarter 2009, $204 million were in the Commercial Real Estate business line, $79 million were in Middle Market and $78 million were in Global Corporate.
                 
Nonaccrual loans were charged down 39 percent as of June 30, 2009, compared to 36 percent as of March 31, 2009 and 28 percent one year ago.
 
 
COMERICA REPORTS SECOND QUARTER 2009 RESULTS
 
 
(a)
      
Included in "Accrued expenses and other liabilities" on the consolidated balance sheets.
 
Balance Sheet and Capital Management
 
Total assets and common shareholders' equity were $63.6 billion and $5.0 billion, respectively, at June 30, 2009, compared to $67.4 billion and $5.0 billion, respectively, at March 31, 2009. There were approximately 151 million common shares outstanding at June 30, 2009.
 
Comerica's tangible common equity ratio was 7.55 percent at June 30, 2009. The second quarter 2009 estimated Tier 1 common, Tier 1 and total risk-based capital ratios were 7.65 percent, 11.57 percent and 15.96 percent, respectively.
 
2009 Outlook
 
                 
Management continues to focus on developing new and expanding existing customer relationships.  Management expects subdued loan demand in light of a domestic economy that is expected to continue contracting in the near term.
                 
Management expects the net interest margin to benefit from improved loan pricing and maturities of higher-cost wholesale funding.  Excess liquidity is expected to offset those benefits for the near-term, with the third quarter 2009 net interest margin expected to be relatively unchanged from the second quarter. Excess liquidity is expected to diminish during the fourth quarter from maturities of wholesale funding, resulting in net interest margin expansion. The target federal funds and short-term LIBOR rates are expected to remain flat for the remainder of 2009.
                 
Based on no significant further deterioration of the economic environment, management expects net credit-related charge-offs in the third quarter 2009 to be similar to second quarter 2009 and to improve modestly in the fourth quarter 2009. The provision for credit losses is expected to continue to exceed net charge-offs.
                 
Management expects additional securities gains from the sale of mortgage-backed government agency securities.
                 
Management expects a mid- to high-single digit decrease in full-year 2009 noninterest expenses, compared to full-year 2008, due to control of discretionary expenses and workforce.
 
COMERICA REPORTS SECOND QUARTER 2009 RESULTS
 
Business Segments
 
Comerica's continuing operations are strategically aligned into three major business segments: the Business Bank, the Retail Bank, and Wealth & Institutional Management.  The Finance Division also is included as a segment. The financial results below are based on the internal business unit structure of the Corporation and methodologies in effect at June 30, 2009 and are presented on a fully taxable equivalent (FTE) basis. The accompanying narrative addresses second quarter 2009 results compared to first quarter 2009.
 
The following table presents net income (loss) by business segment.
 
 
N/M - - Not Meaningful.
(a)
      
Includes discontinued operations and items not directly associated with the three major business segments or the Finance Division.
 
Business Bank
 
 
                 
Average loans decreased $1.8 billion, resulting from declines across all markets and nearly all businesses.
                 
Average deposits, excluding the Financial Services Division, increased $807 million, increasing in most businesses, but primarily in Global Corporate.
                 
The net interest margin of 3.58 percent increased 30 basis points, primarily due to an increase in loan and deposit spreads and an increase in noninterest-bearing deposits.
                 
The provision for loan losses increased $75 million, reflecting increases in Leasing, Commercial Real Estate, Global Corporate and Middle Market.
                 
Noninterest income decreased $43 million.  The second quarter 2009 included a $16 million loss on the termination of leveraged leases compared to a $24 million first quarter 2009 gain on the termination of leveraged leases.
                 
Noninterest expenses were unchanged as increases in FDIC insurance expense, due to the special assessment charge, and other real estate expenses were offset by declines in salaries and benefit expenses and the provision for credit losses on lending-related commitments.
 
COMERICA REPORTS SECOND QUARTER 2009 RESULTS
 
Retail Bank
 
 
                 
Average loans decreased $169 million, across all businesses.
                 
Average deposits increased $275 million.  With the exception of certificates of deposit, all deposit categories increased in the second quarter 2009 compared to the first quarter 2009.
                 
The provision for loan losses increased $19 million, primarily due to increased provisions in Personal Banking for home equity and residential mortgage loans, and Small Business.
                 
Noninterest expenses increased $6 million, primarily due to the FDIC special assessment charge, partially offset by a decrease in salaries and benefit expenses.
 
Wealth and Institutional Management
 
 
                 
Average loans increased $26 million.
                 
Average deposits increased $170 million, primarily due to an increase in NOW and noninterest-bearing accounts.
                 
The net interest margin of 3.29 percent increased 18 basis points, primarily due to an increase in loan and deposit spreads and the benefit provided by an increase in NOW and noninterest-bearing accounts.
                 
The provision for loan losses increased $3 million.
                 
Noninterest income increased $3 million, due to a $6 million second quarter 2009 gain on the sale of Comerica's proprietary defined contribution plan recordkeeping business.
                 
Noninterest expenses increased $2 million, primarily due to the FDIC special assessment charge.
 
COMERICA REPORTS SECOND QUARTER 2009 RESULTS
 
Geographic Market Segments
 
Comerica also provides market segment results for four primary geographic markets: Midwest, Western, Texas and Florida.  In addition to the four primary geographic markets, Other Markets and International are also reported as market segments.  The financial results below are based on methodologies in effect at June 30, 2009 and are presented on a fully taxable equivalent (FTE) basis. The accompanying narrative addresses second quarter 2009 results compared to first quarter 2009.
 
The following table presents net income (loss) by market segment.
 
 
N/M - - Not Meaningful.
(a)
      
Includes discontinued operations and items not directly associated with the geographic markets.
 
Midwest
 
 
                 
Average loans decreased $840 million, resulting from declines in Middle Market, National Dealer Services, Leasing and Commercial Real Estate.
                 
Average deposits increased $467 million, due to increases in Global Corporate and Personal Banking.
                 
The net interest margin of 4.56 percent increased 26 basis points, primarily due to an increase in loan and deposit spreads and the benefit provided by an increase in noninterest-bearing deposits.
                 
The provision for loan losses increased $36 million, primarily due to increases in Leasing, Personal Banking, Small Business and Middle Market.
                 
Noninterest income decreased $35 million.  The second quarter 2009 included a $16 million loss on the termination of leveraged leases compared to a $24 million first quarter 2009 gain on the termination of leveraged leases.
                 
Noninterest expenses decreased $8 million as an increase in FDIC insurance expense, due to the special assessment charge, was more than offset by a decrease in the provision for credit losses on lending-related commitments and nominal decreases in numerous discretionary expense categories.
 
COMERICA REPORTS SECOND QUARTER 2009 RESULTS
 
Western Market
 
 
                 
Average loans decreased $569 million, due to declines in National Dealer Services, Technology and Life Sciences andCommercial Real Estate.
                 
Average deposits, excluding the Financial Services Division, increased $145 million, primarily due to an increase in Private Banking.
                 
The net interest margin of 4.20 percent increased 29 basis points, primarily due to an increase in loan and deposit spreads and the benefit provided by an increase in noninterest-bearing deposits.
                 
The provision for loan losses increased $2 million.
                 
Noninterest income decreased $4 million, reflecting nominal decreases in numerous categories.
                 
Noninterest expenses increased $9 million, primarily due to the FDIC special assessment charge and increases in other real estate and customer services expenses, partially offset by a decrease in salaries and benefit expenses.
 
Texas Market
 
 
                 
Average loans decreased $300 million, primarily due to decreases in Middle Market and National Dealer Services.
                 
Average deposits increased $298 million, primarily due to increases in Global Corporate, Middle Market and Personal Banking.
                 
The net interest margin of 3.88 percent increased 26 basis points, primarily due to an increase in loan spreads and the benefit provided by an increase in noninterest-bearing deposits.
                 
The provision for loan losses increased $19 million, due to increases in Middle Market, Energy Lending and Small Business.
                 
Noninterest expenses increased $2 million as an increase in FDIC insurance expense, due to the special assessment charge, was partially offset by a decline in salaries and benefit expenses.
 
COMERICA REPORTS SECOND QUARTER 2009 RESULTS
 
Florida Market
 
 
                 
Average loans decreased $58 million, due to a decrease in National Dealer Services.
                 
Average deposits increased $78 million, due to increases in the Financial Services Division and Private Banking.
                 
The net interest margin of 2.44 percent increased 13 basis points, primarily due to the benefit provided  by an increase in noninterest-bearing deposits.
                 
The provision for loan losses increased $5 million, primarily due to an increase in Commercial Real Estate, partially offset by a decrease in Private Banking.
 
Conference Call and Webcast
 
Comerica will host a conference call to review second quarter 2009 financial results at 7 a.m. CT Tuesday, July 21, 2009. Interested parties may access the conference call by calling (800) 309-2262 or (706) 679-5261 (event ID No. 14969532). The call and supplemental financial information can also be accessed on the Internet at www.comerica.com.  A replay will be available approximately two hours following the conference call through July 31, 2009. The conference call replay can be accessed by calling (800) 642-1687 or (706) 645-9291 (event ID No. 14969532). A replay of the Webcast can also be accessed via Comerica's "Investor Relations" page at www.comerica.com.
 
Comerica Incorporated is a financial services company headquartered in Dallas, Texas, and strategically aligned by three major business segments: the Business Bank, the Retail Bank, and Wealth & Institutional Management. Comerica focuses on relationships and helping people and businesses be successful. In addition to Texas, Comerica Bank locations can be found in Arizona, California, Florida and Michigan, with select businesses operating in several other states, as well as in Canada, China and Mexico.
 
This press release contains both financial measures based on accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP) and non-GAAP based financial measures, which are used where management believes it to be helpful in understanding Comerica's results of operations or financial position.  Where non-GAAP financial measures are used, the comparable GAAP financial measure, as well as the reconcilement to the comparable GAAP financial measure, can be found in this press release.  These disclosures should not be viewed as a substitute for operating results determined in accordance with GAAP, nor are they necessarily comparable to non-GAAP performance measures that may be presented by other companies.
 
COMERICA REPORTS SECOND QUARTER 2009 RESULTS
 
Forward-looking Statements
 
are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are predicated on the beliefs and assumptions of Comerica's management based on information known to Comerica's management as of the date of this news release and do not purport to speak as of any other date. Forward-looking statements may include descriptions of plans and objectives of Comerica's management for future or past operations, products or services, and forecasts of Comerica's revenue, earnings or other measures of economic performance, including statements of profitability, business segments and subsidiaries, estimates of credit trends and global stability. Such statements reflect the view of Comerica's management as of this date with respect to future events and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Should one or more of these risks materialize or should underlying beliefs or assumptions prove incorrect, Comerica's actual results could differ materially from those discussed.  Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences are further economic downturns, changes in the pace of an economic recovery and related changes in employment levels, changes in real estate values, fuel prices, energy costs or other events that could affect customer income levels or general economic conditions, changes related to the headquarters relocation or to its underlying assumptions, the effects of recently enacted legislation, such as the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, and actions taken by the U.S. Department of Treasury, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Texas Department of Banking  and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the effects of war and other armed conflicts or acts of terrorism, the effects of natural disasters including, but not limited to, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, fires, droughts  and floods, the disruption of private or public utilities, the implementation of Comerica's strategies and business models, management's ability to maintain and expand customer relationships, changes in customer borrowing, repayment, investment and deposit practices, management's ability to retain key officers and employees, changes in the accounting treatment of any particular item, the impact of regulatory examinations, declines or other changes in the businesses or industries in which Comerica has a concentration of loans, including, but not limited to, the automotive production industry and the real estate business lines, the anticipated performance of any new banking centers, the entry of new competitors in Comerica's markets, changes in the level of fee income, changes in applicable laws and regulations, including those concerning taxes, banking, securities and insurance, changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies, including the interest rate policies of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, fluctuations in inflation or interest rates, changes in general economic, political or industry conditions and related credit and market conditions, the interdependence of financial service companies and adverse conditions in the stock market. Comerica cautions that the foregoing list of factors is not exclusive. For discussion of factors that may cause actual results to differ from expectations, please refer to our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. Comerica does not undertake to update forward-looking statements to reflect facts, circumstances, assumptions or events that occur after the date the forward-looking statements are made. For any forward-looking statements made in this news release or in any documents, Comerica claims the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Any statements in this news release that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as
"anticipates," "believes," "feels," "expects," "estimates," "seeks," "strives," "plans," "intends," "outlook," "forecast," "position," "target," "mission," "assume," "achievable," "potential," "strategy," "goal," "aspiration," "outcome," "continue," "remain," "maintain," "trend," "objective" and variations of such words and similar expressions, or future or conditional verbs such as "will," "would," "should," "could," "might," "can," "may" or similar expressions, as they relate to Comerica or its management,
 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS (unaudited)
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
(a)
         
See Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures.
(b)
        
June 30, 2009 ratios are estimated.
(c)
         
Second quarter 2008 net interest income declined $30 million due to a tax-related non-cash lease income charge.  Excluding this charge, the net interest margin would have been 3.10% and 3.17% for the three- and six-month periods ended June 30, 2008.
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
 
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (unaudited)
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
 
CONSOLIDATED QUARTERLY STATEMENTS OF INCOME (unaudited)
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
N/M - Not meaningful
 
ANALYSIS OF THE ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES (unaudited)
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
ANALYSIS OF THE ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES ON LENDING-RELATED COMMITMENTS (unaudited)
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
 
(a)   Charge-offs result from the sale of unfunded lending-related commitments.
 
NONPERFORMING ASSETS (unaudited)
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
ANALYSIS OF NET INTEREST INCOME (FTE) (unaudited)
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
(c)
         
2008 net interest income declined $30 million and the net interest margin declined 10 basis points due to a tax-related non-cash lease income charge. Excluding this charge, the net interest margin would have been 3.17%.
 
ANALYSIS OF NET INTEREST INCOME (FTE) (unaudited)
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
 
CONSOLIDATED STATISTICAL DATA (unaudited)
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
 
(a)
         
See Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
(b)
        
June 30, 2009 ratios are estimated
 
PARENT COMPANY ONLY BALANCE SHEETS (unaudited)
Comerica Incorporated
 
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY (unaudited)
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
BUSINESS SEGMENT FINANCIAL RESULTS (unaudited)
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
(a)
         
Return on average assets is calculated based on the greater of average assets or average liabilities and attributed equity.
(b)
        
Net interest margin is calculated based on the greater of average earning assets or average deposits and purchased funds.
FTE  Fully Taxable Equivalent
N/M  Not Meaningful
 
MARKET SEGMENT FINANCIAL RESULTS (unaudited)
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
(a)   Return on average assets is calculated based on the greater of average assets or average liabilities and attributed equity.
(b)   Net interest margin is calculated based on the greater of average earning assets or average deposits and purchased funds.
FTE  Fully Taxable Equivalent
N/M  Not Meaningful
 
RECONCILIATION OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES (unaudited)
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
(a)
         
Tier 1 capital and risk-weighted assets as defined by regulation.
(b)
        
June 30, 2009 Tier 1 capital and risk-weighted assets are estimated.

Exhibit 99.2
 


