FILE:CMA/CMA-8K-20100128172921.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
On January 26, 2010, the Governance, Compensation and Nominating Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of Comerica Incorporated (the "Corporation") took the actions described below with respect to compensation for some of the Corporation's named executive officers. These actions are designed to comply with the Interim Final Rule on TARP Standards for Compensation and Corporate Governance issued in June 2009 by the U.S. Department of the Treasury (the "TARP Standards").
 
As permitted by the TARP Standards, the Committee decided to provide phantom stock units as an additional portion of the base salary of certain of its named executive officers, beginning with the biweekly pay period commencing on February 5, 2010 and ending on the first to occur of (i) the pay date occurring on January 7, 2011 and (ii) the date the Committee otherwise determines.  The salary phantom stock units will be awarded at the following annual rates for 2010: $1,700,000 for Ralph W. Babb, Jr., Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, $438,188 for Elizabeth S. Acton, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and $509,580 for Mary Constance Beck, Executive Vice President, Retail Bank.   No salary phantom stock units are being provided to Joseph J. Buttigieg, III because, as described below, he will be leaving his Vice Chair position and taking on a different role at the Corporation, nor will they be provided to Dennis J. Mooradian because he retired effective February 28, 2009.  The salary phantom stock units will be granted concurrently with regular payments of cash base salary.  The recipients will not have any rights as a shareholder of the Corporation (including the right to vote or to receive dividends or dividend equivalent amounts) by virtue of any such award of phantom stock units.
 
The number of phantom stock units will be determined each biweekly pay period by dividing the amount of base salary payable in phantom stock units for that pay period, net of applicable payroll tax withholdings and deductions, by the reported closing price on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") for a share of the Corporation's common stock on the pay date for such biweekly pay period (or, if not a NYSE trading day, on the first NYSE trading day immediately preceding the pay date for such pay period).
 
The phantom stock units will be fully vested when awarded and will not be subject to the risk of forfeiture or any requirement of future service.  They will have a settlement date that is February 5, 2011 or, if earlier, the date of the executive's death.  The phantom stock units will be settled in cash.  The amount payable will be
equal to the number of phantom stock units being settled multiplied by the reported closing price on the NYSE for a share of Corporation common stock on the settlement date (or, if not a NYSE trading day, on the NYSE trading day immediately preceding such settlement date), net of applicable tax withholdings to the extent not previously satisfied.
The form of Agreement Regarding Portion of Salary Payable in Phantom Stock Units is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1.
 
On January 26, 2010, Joseph J. Buttigieg, III tendered his resignation from the Board of Directors of the Corporation and from his positions as Vice Chairman of the Corporation and Vice Chairman, Business Bank of Comerica Bank.  The resignations will be effective February 1, 2010.
 
 
Effective February 1, 2010, Mr. Buttigieg will take on a new role at the Corporation as Senior Executive  Special Projects.  Dale E. Greene will succeed Mr. Buttigieg as head of the Business Bank and has been appointed Executive Vice President  Business Bank, effective February 1, 2010.  John M. Killian will succeed Mr. Greene as Chief Credit Officer and has been appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Credit Officer, effective February 1, 2010.  On January 27, 2010, the Corporation issued a press release regarding these new roles and responsibilities.  A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
AGREEMENT dated as of the      day of                         , 2010 (this "Agreement") by and between Comerica Incorporated (the "Corporation") and                                                                           (the "Executive").
 
WHEREAS, the Governance, Compensation and Nominating Committee (the "Committee") of the board of directors of the Corporation (the "Board") has determined that beginning with the biweekly pay period commencing on February 5, 2010 and ending on the first to occur of (i) the pay date occurring on January 7, 2011 and (ii) the date the Committee otherwise determines (such date, the "Final Payroll Date"), the Executive's base salary will be payable partly in cash and partly in phantom stock units, with each such phantom stock unit representing the right to receive an amount of cash based on the value of one share of the Corporation's common stock (the "Phantom Stock Units").
 
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY AGREED AS FOLLOWS:
 
1. Beginning with the biweekly pay period commencing on February 5, 2010 until the Final Payroll Date, in addition to the Executive's regular biweekly cash base salary, the Executive will be paid a biweekly base salary of $             (the "Phantom Stock Unit Salary") in the form of Corporation Phantom Stock Units. Once awarded, the Phantom Stock Units will be fully vested and not subject to the risk of forfeiture or any requirement of future service.
 
2. The number of Phantom Stock Units to be awarded to the Executive as part of the Executive's biweekly base salary will be calculated as follows:
 
First, subtract from the Phantom Stock Unit Salary the amount of then required payroll tax withholdings and other deductions, as applicable, to generate the net salary payable in Phantom Stock Units. Then, divide the net salary amount payable in Phantom Stock Units by the reported closing price on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") for a share of the Corporation's common stock on the pay date for such biweekly pay period (or, if not a NYSE trading day, on the NYSE trading day immediately preceding such pay date).
 
Each such biweekly Phantom Stock Unit Salary payment will be an "
Other Stock-Based
Award" under Section 6(F) of the Corporation's 2006 Amended and Restated Long-Term Incentive Plan or its successor plan (the "Plan"), with a grant date for such award being the pay date for such biweekly salary payment and will be subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the Plan. The Executive will have no rights as a shareholder of the Corporation (including the right to vote or to receive dividends or dividend equivalent amounts) by virtue of the award of Phantom Stock Units.
 
3. Each such biweekly Phantom Stock Unit award will be settled at the time set forth below by the payment to the Executive of cash in an amount equal to the number of Phantom Stock Units being settled multiplied by the reported closing price on the NYSE for a share of Corporation common stock on the settlement date (or, if not a NYSE trading day, on the NYSE trading day immediately preceding such settlement date).
 
Payment will be made to the Executive with respect to the settlement of Phantom Stock Units as soon as practicable, but in no event later than 30 days, following the settlement date, which shall be the earliest to occur of the following:
 
(i)
    
February 5, 2011; and
 
(ii)
   
the date of the Executive's death.
 
To the extent not previously satisfied, the Corporation will, at the time the income or any other applicable tax withholding obligation arises in connection with the Phantom Stock Units, retain an amount sufficient to satisfy the minimum amount of taxes then required to be withheld by the Corporation from the payment in settlement of the Phantom Stock Units or from other compensation then payable to the Executive or as otherwise determined by the Corporation.
4. Phantom Stock Units may not be sold, assigned, transferred, exchanged, pledged, hypothecated or otherwise encumbered. If the Executive is deceased at the time the Phantom Stock Units are settled, the Corporation will make such payment to the executor or administrator of the Executive's estate or to the Executive's other legal representative as determined in good faith by the Corporation.
 
5. In the event of (i) a stock dividend, stock split, reverse stock split, share combination, or recapitalization or similar event affecting the capital structure of the Corporation, or (ii) a merger, consolidation, acquisition of property or shares, separation, spinoff, reorganization, stock rights offering, liquidation, disaffiliation, or similar event affecting the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries, the Committee or the Board shall, in accordance with the Plan, make such substitutions or adjustments as it deems appropriate and equitable, if any, to the Phantom Stock Units then outstanding that were awarded pursuant to this Agreement. All determinations hereunder shall be made by the Committee or its delegate in its sole discretion and shall be final, binding and conclusive for all purposes on all parties, including without limitation the Executive.
 
6. The Executive and the Corporation acknowledge that, except as may otherwise be provided under any other written agreement between the Executive and the Corporation, the employment of the Executive by the Corporation is "at will" and may be terminated by either the Executive or the Corporation at any time.
 
7. It is the intention of the parties that this Agreement and the awards made pursuant to this Agreement comply with the provisions of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code to the extent, if any, that such provisions are applicable to this Agreement, or that they satisfy an exception to Section 409A, and this Agreement will be administered by the Corporation in a manner consistent with this intent.
 
If any payments or benefits hereunder may be deemed to constitute deferred compensation subject to the provisions of Section 409A, the Executive agrees that the Corporation may, without the consent of the Executive, modify this Agreement and the awards made pursuant to this Agreement to the extent and in the manner the Corporation deems necessary or advisable or take such other action or actions, including an amendment or action with retroactive effect, that the Corporation deems appropriate in order either to attempt to preclude any such payments or benefits from being deemed "deferred compensation" within the meaning of Section 409A or to attempt to provide such payments or benefits in a manner that complies with the provisions of Section 409A.
 
8. This Agreement is subject to the provisions of the Plan.  Interpretations of the Plan and this Agreement by the Committee are binding on the Executive and the Corporation.
 
9. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement, the Corporation will not be required to comply with any term or condition of this Agreement if and to the extent prohibited by law, including but not limited to federal banking and securities regulations, or as otherwise directed by one or more regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries.  The Phantom Stock Units provided under this Agreement are intended to comply with Section 111 of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, as amended, including by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, and the Interim Final Rule issued by the U.S. Department of the Treasury and other guidance thereunder (collectively, the "EESA Guidance") and the applicable requirements of the agreement between the Corporation and the U.S. Department of the Treasury dated November 14, 2008 (the "CPP Agreement"), as the same are in effect from time to time.  The Executive may receive the Phantom Stock Units under this Agreement only to the extent that such compensation is consistent with the EESA Guidance and the CPP Agreement.In the event that the provision of the Phantom Stock Unit Salary or grant, settlement or accrual of the Phantom Stock Units in respect thereof, or any term of the Phantom Stock Units is restricted or prohibited or otherwise conflicts with any applicable statute (including, without limitation, the EESA Guidance), in each case, as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion, then the Committee may unilaterally modify the terms of this Agreement in such manner as the Committee determines in its sole discretion to be necessary to avoid such restriction or prohibition or eliminate such conflict, all without the further consent of the Executive, such consent being given through the Executive's execution of this Agreement.
 
10. This Agreement will be effective upon execution and delivery of the Agreement by both the Corporation and the Executive.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
DALLAS/January 27, 2010
 Comerica Incorporated (NYSE: CMA) today announced new roles and responsibilities for Joseph J. Buttigieg III, Dale E. Greene and John M. Killian, effective February 1, 2010.  The announcement was made by Ralph W. Babb Jr., chairman and chief executive officer.
 
Buttigieg, Vice Chairman of Comerica Incorporated and Comerica Bank, has elected to take a new role at Comerica, that of Senior Executive-Special Projects, reporting to Babb.  In this new position, Buttigieg will support Comerica's business development and customer initiatives, as well as other projects.  Buttigieg has also chosen to retire from the Board of Directors of Comerica Incorporated and Comerica Bank, as well as the company's Management Policy Committee.  It is expected that he will serve in the role of Senior Executive-Special Projects throughout 2010, beyond his previously scheduled June 30, 2010, retirement date at age 65.
 
Buttigieg, 64, joined Manufacturers National Bank  a Comerica 1992 merger partner  in 1971. He held a number of positions of increasing responsibility before being named Vice Chairman in 1999.
 
Greene will succeed Buttigieg as head of the Business Bank, assuming the title of Executive Vice President-Business Bank, reporting to Babb.  He will remain on Comerica's Management Policy Committee. Greene has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Credit Officer since December 2002.  He joined Comerica in 1978.
 
Killian will assume the role of Executive Vice President and Chief Credit Officer, reporting to Babb.  He will join Comerica's Management Policy Committee.  Killian, 57, has served as Executive Vice President of Credit Policy since October 2002.  He joined Comerica in 1974.
 
Comerica Incorporated is a financial services company headquartered in Dallas, Texas, and strategically aligned by three business segments: The Business Bank, The Retail Bank, and Wealth & Institutional Management. Comerica focuses on relationships, and helping people and businesses be successful. In addition to Texas, Comerica Bank locations can be found in Arizona, California, Florida and Michigan, with select businesses operating in several other states, as well as in Canada and Mexico. Comerica reported total assets of $59.3 billion at December 31, 2009. To receive e-mail alerts of breaking Comerica news, go to http://www.comerica.com/newsalerts.
 
 


