FILE:CMA/CMA-8K-20100503160335.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
 Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
 Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
ITEM 5.02
            
DEPARTURE OF DIRECTORS OR CERTAIN OFFICERS; ELECTION OF DIRECTORS; APPOINTMENT OF CERTAIN OFFICERS; COMPENSATORY ARRANGEMENTS OF CERTAIN OFFICERS.
 
Director Retirements
Lillian Bauder and Kenneth L. Way retired from the Board of Directors of Comerica Incorporated ("Comerica"), effective April 27, 2010.  The retirements were in accordance with Comerica's Corporate Governance Guidelines, which provide that a Comerica director will retire from the Board of Directors at the next annual shareholders' meeting immediately following the director's 70
th
 birthday.
 
Amendments to the Comerica Incorporated 2006 Amended and Restated Long-Term Incentive Plan
The Governance, Compensation and Nominating Committee and the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Comerica previously approved the Comerica Incorporated 2006 Amended and Restated Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "LTIP"), including further amendments (the "Amendments"), subject to shareholder approval. The Amendments increase the number of shares available for grants under the LTIP by 2.5 million shares and allow those additional 2.5 million shares to be used for any type of award available under the LTIP by raising the cap on shares that may be used for grants other than options and stock appreciation rights from 2.2 million to 4.7 million. At Comerica's Annual Meeting of Shareholders held on April 27, 2010 (the "Annual Meeting"), the LTIP, as amended and restated to include the Amendments (the "Amended LTIP"), was approved in its entirety by the shareholders.  By approving the Amended LTIP, the shareholders approved, among other things, the performance measures, eligibility requirements and the limits on various awards contained therein for purposes of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code.
 
A description of the terms and conditions of the Amended LTIP, including eligible participants, the shares subject to the Amended LTIP and the types of awards that may be granted thereunder, is on pages 70-78 of our definitive proxy statement for the 2010 Annual Meeting, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 19, 2010, which description is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The foregoing description of the Amended LTIP and the Amendments is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the Amended LTIP, which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 5.07 SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.
 
Comerica held its 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders on April 27, 2010.  Matters voted upon by shareholders at that meeting were:
 
(i)
         
the election of three Class II Directors;
(ii)
        
the ratification of the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as independent auditors for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2010;
(iii)
       
a nonbinding, advisory proposal approving executive compensation;
(iv)
      
the Comerica Incorporated 2006 Amended and Restated Long-Term Incentive Plan, as further amended;
(v)
       
amendments to the Certificate of Incorporation to eliminate the classified structure of the Board of Directors;
(vi)
      
a shareholder proposal requesting that the Board of Directors take steps to eliminate shareholder supermajority voting provisions;
(vii)
     
a shareholder proposal requesting that the Board of Directors adopt a policy to consider seeking recoupment of executive compensation awards; and
(viii)
    
a shareholder proposal requesting that a committee of the Board of Directors adopt a pay for superior performance principle.
 
The final number of votes cast for, against or withheld, as well as the number of abstentions and broker non-votes, with respect to each matter is set forth below.
 
Proposal 1
 
The nominees for Class II Directors listed below each received a majority of the votes cast that were present in person or represented by proxy at the Annual Meeting and entitled to vote on the proposal, and such individuals were each elected to serve as a Class II Director with a three-year term expiring in 2013.  The results were as follows:
 
 
The names of the other directors not up for election at the Annual Meeting whose terms of office continued after the Annual Meeting were as follows:
 
Proposal 2
 
The proposal to ratify the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as independent auditors for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2010 was approved.  The results were as follows:
 
 
Proposal 3
 
The proposal to approve a
nonbinding, advisory proposal approving executive compensation was approved.  The results were as follows:
 
 
Proposal 4
 
The proposal to approve the Comerica Incorporated 2006 Amended and Restated Long-Term Incentive Plan, as further amended, was approved.  The results were as follows:
 
 
Proposal 5
 
The proposal to amend the Certificate of Incorporation to eliminate the classified structure of the Board of Directors was approved.  The results were as follows:
 
 
Proposal 6
 
The shareholder proposal
requesting that the Board of Directors take steps to eliminate shareholder supermajority voting provisions was approved.  The results were as follows:
 
 
Proposal 7
 
The shareholder proposal requesting that the Board of Directors adopt a policy to consider seeking recoupment of executive compensation awards was approved.  The results were as follows:
 
 
Proposal 8
 
The shareholder proposal requesting that a committee of the Board of Directors adopt a pay for superior performance principle was defeated.  The results were as follows:
 
 
ITEM 9.01
            
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
AND EXHIBITS.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
10.1
        
Comerica Incorporated 2006 Amended and Restated Long-Term Incentive Plan
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
COMERICA INCORPORATED 2006 AMENDED AND RESTATED LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN
 
SECTION 1
PURPOSE
 
The purpose of Comerica's 2006 Amended and Restated Long-Term Incentive Plan is to align the interests of employees of the Corporation selected to receive awards with those of stockholders by rewarding long term decision-making and actions for the betterment of the Corporation.  Accordingly, Eligible Individuals may receive Awards of Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units, Performance Awards and Other Stock-Based Awards.  Equity-based compensation assists in the attraction and retention of qualified employees, and provides them with additional incentive to devote their best efforts to pursue and sustain the Corporation's superior long-term performance.  This enhances the value of the Corporation for the benefit of its stockholders.
 
SECTION 2
DEFINITIONS
 
A.
           
"" means (i) any
Affiliate
corporation, partnership, joint venture or other entity
that is controlled by the Corporation, whether directly or indirectly, and (ii) any
corporation, partnership, joint venture or other entity
in which the Corporation has a significant equity interest, as determined by the Committee;
provided, however, that with respect to an Award of an Incentive Stock Option and an Award that is subject to Code Section 409A, the term "Affiliate" shall refer solely to a Subsidiary.
 
B.
           
"" means all agreements, methods, programs, and other arrangements sponsored by the Corporation that would be aggregated with this Plan under Section 1
Aggregated Plan
.409A-1(c) of the Regulations.
 
C.
           
"" means an Option, a Stock Appreciation Right, a Share of Restricted Stock, a Restricted Stock Unit, a Performance Award, including a Qualified Performance-Based Award, or an Other Stock-Based Award pursuant to the Plan.  Each Award shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement.
Award
 
D.
           
"" means a written agreement, in a form approved by the Committee, which sets forth the terms and conditions of an Award, including, but not limited to, the Performance Period and/or Restriction Period, as appropriate.  Agreements shall be subject to the express terms and conditions set forth herein, and to such other terms and conditions not inconsistent with the Plan as the Committee shall deem appropriate.
Award Agreement
 
E.
            
"" means an Eligible Individual who has been granted an Award under the Plan and has entered into an Award Agreement evidencing the grant
Award Recipient
of such Award or otherwise accepted the terms of an Award Agreement, including by electronic acceptance or acknowledgement.
 
F.
            
"" means any person(s) designated by an Award Recipient on a beneficiary designation form submitted to the Plan Administrator, or, if no form has been submitted, any person(s) entitled to receive any amounts owing to such Award Recipient under this Plan upon his or her death by reason of having been named in the Award Recipient's will or trust agreement or having qualified as a taker of the Award Recipient's property under the laws of intestacy.  If an Award Recipient authorizes any person, in writing, to exercise such individual's Options or Stock Appreciation Rights following the Award Recipient's death, the term "Beneficiary" shall include any person in whose favor such Options or Stock Appreciation Rights are exercised by the person authorized to exercise the Options or Stock Appreciation Rights.
Beneficiary
 
G.
           
"" means the Board of Directors of the Corporation.
Board
 
H.
           
"" means (1) conviction of the Award Recipient for committing a felony under Federal law or the law of the state in which such action occurred, (2) dishonesty in the course of fulfilling the Award Recipient's employment duties, (3) willful and deliberate failure on the part of the Award Recipient to perform his or her employment duties in any material respect, or (4) before a Change of Control, such other events as shall be determined by the Committee.  Before a Change of Control, the Committee shall, unless otherwise provided in an Individual Agreement with the Award Recipient, have the sole discretion to determine whether "Cause" exists, and its determination shall be final.
Cause
 
I.
             
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Exhibit A to this Plan.
Change of Control
 
J.
            
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
 
K.
           
"" means the Governance,
Committee
Compensation and Nominating Committee of the Board or such other committee of the Board as the Board may from time to time designate, which, with respect to the establishment of Performance Measures, shall be composed solely of not less than two outside directors (as described under Regulations Section 1.162-27(e)(3)), and shall be appointed by and serve at the pleasure of the Board.
 
L.
            
"" means Comerica Incorporated, a Delaware corporation, and its successors and assigns.
Corporation
 
M.
          
""
Date of Grant
means the effective date of an Award granted by the Committee to an Award Recipient.
 
N.
           
"" or "" means "" (or any derivation of such term) within the meaning of the Long-Term Disability Plan of Comerica Incorporated,
Disabled
Disability
Totally Disabled
or if there is no such plan, "Disability" as determined by the Committee
.  However, with respect to the rules relating to Incentive Stock Options, the term "Disabled" shall mean disabled as that term is utilized in Sections 422 and 22(e)(3) of the Code, or any successor Code provisions relating to ISOs.  Furthermore, with respect to Awards subject to Section 409A of the Code, "Disabled" shall not have either
of the prior meanings, but shall mean an Award Recipient's inability
to engage in any substantial gainful activity due to a medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than twelve (12) months.
 
O.
           
"" means a Subsidiary's or Affiliate's ceasing to be a Subsidiary or Affiliate for any reason (including, without limitation, as a result of a public offering, or a spinoff or sale by the Corporation, of the stock of the Subsidiary or Affiliate) or a sale of a division of the Corporation and its Affiliates.
Disaffiliation
 
P.
            
"" means any
Eligible Individual
officers and employees of the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates, and prospective officers and employees who have accepted offers of employment from the Corporation or its Subsidiaries or Affiliates.
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, an Eligible Individual for purposes of receipt of the grant of an ISO shall be limited to those individuals who are eligible to receive ISOs under rules set forth in the Code and applicable Regulations.
 
Q.
           
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
 
R.
           
"" means the closing price of a Share on the New York Stock Exchange as reported on the Composite Tape as published in the ; if, however, there is no trading of Shares on the date in question, then the closing price of the Shares as so reported, on the last preceding trading day shall instead be used to determine Fair Market Value.  If Fair Market Value for any date in question cannot be determined as provided above, Fair Market Value shall be determined by the Committee in its good faith discretion based on a reasonable valuation method in accordance with the Regulations and applicable guidance promulgated under Code Section 409A.
Fair Market Value
Wall Street Journal
 
S.
            
"" or "" means an Option granted pursuant to the Plan that
Incentive Stock Option
ISO Award
is designated in the applicable Award Agreement as an "incentive stock option" within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code, and that in fact so qualifies.
 
T.
           
"" or "" means an Option granted  pursuant to the Plan that is not intended to be, or does not qualify as, an Incentive Stock Option.
Nonqualified Stock Option
NQSO Award
 
U.
           
"" means a Nonqualified Stock Option or an Incentive Stock Option granted pursuant to Section 6(A) of the Plan.
Option
 
V.
           
"" means any right granted under Section 6(F) of the Plan.
Other Stock-Based Award
 
W.
          
"" means any Award, including a Qualified Performance-Based Award, granted pursuant to Section 6(E) of the Plan.
Performance Award
 
 
X.
           
""
Performance Measures
means the performance goals established by the Committee and relating to a Performance Period in connection with the grant of an Award.  In the case of any Qualified Performance-Based Award, such goals shall be (i) based on the attainment of specified levels of one or more of the following measures
(a) earnings per share, (b) return measures (including, but not limited to, return on assets, equity or sales), (c) net income (before or after taxes), (d) cash flow (including, but not limited to, operating cash flow and free cash flow), (e) cash flow return on investments, which equals net cash flows divided by owner's equity, (f) earnings before or after taxes, interest, depreciation and/or amortization, (g) internal rate of return or increase in net present value, (h) gross revenues, (i) gross margins or (j) stock price (including, but not limited to, growth measures and total stockholder return) and (ii) 
set by the Committee within the time period prescribed by Section 162(m) of the Code
.  Performance Measures may be absolute in their terms or measured against or in relationship to other companies comparably, similarly or otherwise situated and may be based on or adjusted for any other objective goals, events, or occurrences established by the Committee for a Performance Period.  Such Performance Measures may be particular to a line of business, Subsidiary or other unit or may be based on the performance of the Corporation generally.  Such Performance Measures may cover the Performance Period(s) as specified by the Committee.  Performance Measures may
be adjusted by the Committee in its sole discretion to eliminate the unbudgeted effects of charges for restructurings, charges for discontinued operations, charges for extraordinary items and other unusual or non-recurring items of loss or expense, merger related charges, cumulative effect of accounting changes, the unbudgeted financial impact of any acquisition or divestiture made during the applicable Performance Period, and any direct or indirect change in the Federal corporate tax rate affecting the Performance Period, each as defined by generally accepted accounting principles and identified in the audited financial statements, notes to the audited financial statements, management's discussion and analysis or other Corporation filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission
 
Y.
           
"" means the period designated by the Committee during which the Performance Measures applicable to an Award shall be measured.  The Performance Period shall be established at or before the time of the grant of the Award, and the length of any Performance Period shall be within the discretion of the Committee.
Performance Period
 
Z.
           
"" means the Comerica Incorporated 2006 Amended and Restated Long-Term Incentive Plan, as may be amended from time to time.
Plan
 
AA.
       
"" means an Award intended to qualify for the Section 162(m) Exemption, as provided in Section 7.
Qualified Performance-Based Award
 
BB.
         
"" means the Treasury Regulations promulgated under the Code.
Regulations
CC.
         
"" means the period designated by the Committee during which Shares of a Restricted Stock Award remain forfeitable or a Restricted Stock Unit Award is subject to vesting requirements.
Restriction Period
 
DD.
        
"" or "" means an award of Shares pursuant to Section 6(C) of the Plan subject to
Restricted Stock
Restricted Stock Award
the terms, conditions and
such restrictions as may be determined by the Committee
and set forth in the applicable Award Agreement
.  Shares of Restricted Stock shall constitute issued and outstanding Shares for all corporate purposes.
 
EE.
         
"" or
Restricted Stock Units
""
Restricted Stock Unit Award
means an Award granted pursuant to Section 6(D) of the Plan denominated in Shares subject to the terms, conditions and restrictions determined by the Committee and set forth in the applicable Award Agreement.
 
FF.
         
"" means, unless otherwise provided in an Award Agreement or determined by the Committee,
Retirement
an Award Recipient's Termination of Employment (or with respect to Awards subject to Code Section 409A, an Award Recipient's Separation from Service) at or after age 65or after attainment of both age 55 and ten (10) years of service with the Corporation and Affiliates
.
 
GG.
         
"" means the exemption from the limitation on deductibility imposed by Section 162(m) of the Code that is set forth in Section 162(m)(4)(C) of the Code.
Section 162(m) Exemption
 
HH.
        
"" means, with respect to any Award that is subject to Code Section 409A, the date on which the Corporation and the Award Recipient reasonably anticipate a permanent reduction in the level of bona fide services performed by the Award Recipient for the Corporation or any Affiliate to 20% or less of the average level of bona fide services performed by the Award Recipient for the Corporation or any Affiliate (whether as an employee or an independent contractor) in the immediately preceding thirty-six (36) months (or the full period of service to the Corporation and any Affiliate if the Award Recipient has been providing services to the Corporation and its Affiliates for less than thirty-six (36) months).  The determination of whether a Separation from Service has occurred shall be made by the Plan Administrator in accordance with the provisions of Code Section 409A and the Regulations promulgated thereunder.
Separation from Service
 
II.
           
"" means a share of common stock, $5.00 par value, of the Corporation or such other securities or property as may become subject to Awards pursuant to an adjustment made under Section 3(D) of the Plan.
Share
 
JJ.
           
"" means a key employee of the Corporation as defined in Code Section 416(i) without regard to paragraph (5) thereof.  The determination of whether an Award Recipient is a Specified Employee shall be made by the Committee as of the specified employee identification date adopted by the
Specified Employee
Corporation in accordance with the provisions of Code Section 409A and the Regulations promulgated thereunder.
 
KK.
        
"" or "" means a right granted under Section 6(B) of the Plan.
Stock Appreciation Right
SAR Award
 
LL.
         
"" means any entity (other than the Corporation) in an unbroken chain of entities beginning with the Corporation, provided each entity (other than the last entity) in the unbroken chain owns, at the time of the determination, ownership interests possessing fifty percent (50%) or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of ownership interests in one of the other entities in such chain; provided, however, with respect to any Award that is an Incentive Stock Option, the term "Subsidiary" shall refer solely to an entity that is taxed under Federal tax law as a corporation.
Subsidiary
 
MM.
      
"" shall mean the earliest date the obligation to withhold tax with respect to an Award arises.
Tax Withholding Date
 
NN.
        
"" means the maximum period during which an Option or Stock Appreciation Right may remain outstanding (subject to earlier termination upon Termination of Employment or otherwise) as specified in the applicable Award Agreement or, to the extent not specified in the Award Agreement, as provided in the Plan.
Term
 
OO.
        
"" means the termination of the applicable Award Recipient's employment with the Corporation and any of its Affiliates.  An Award Recipient employed by an Affiliate or a division of the Corporation or any of its Affiliates shall be deemed to incur a Termination of Employment if, as a result of a Disaffiliation, such Affiliate or division ceases to be an Affiliate or division, as the case may be, and the Award Recipient does not immediately thereafter become an employee of the Corporation or an Affiliate.  Neither a temporary absence from employment because of illness, vacation or leave of absence nor a transfer among the Corporation and its Affiliates shall be considered a Termination of Employment.
Termination of Employment
 
SECTION 3
STOCK SUBJECT TO THE PLAN
 
A.
           
Plan Maximums
.The maximum number of Shares that may be delivered pursuant to Awards under the Plan shall be the sum of (i) thirteen-and-one-half million (13,500,000), (ii) any Shares available for future awards under the Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated 1997 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "") as of the Effective Date, and (iii) any Shares that are represented by awards granted under the Prior Plan which are forfeited, expire or are cancelled without delivery of Shares or which result in the forfeiture of Shares back to the Corporation.  No additional Shares will be granted pursuant to the terms of the Prior Plan as of the Effective Date of the Plan.  The maximum number of Shares that may be delivered pursuant to Options intended to be Incentive Stock Options shall be one million (1,000,000) Shares.No more than 4.7 million (4,700,000) Shares may be issued during the term of the Plan
 
Prior Plan
 
 
pursuant to Awards other than Options and Stock Appreciation Rights.
  Shares subject to an Award under the Plan may be authorized and unissued Shares or treasury Shares.
 
B.
           
Individual Limits
.  No Award Recipient may be granted Awards with respect to more than 350,000 Shares in any calendar year, and the maximum number of Shares underlying Awards of Options and Stock Appreciation Rights that may be granted to an Award Recipient in any calendar year is 350,000.
 
C.
           
Rules for Calculating Shares Delivered
.  Any Shares covered by an Award that has been granted shall be counted as used under the Plan as of the Date of Grant.  To the extent that any Award is forfeited, or any Option or Stock Appreciation Right terminates, expires or lapses without being exercised, the Shares subject to such Awards not delivered as a result thereof shall again be available for Awards under the Plan.  The following Shares, however, may not again be made available for issuance in respect of Awards under this Plan: (i) Shares not issued or delivered as a result of the net settlement of an outstanding Stock Appreciation Right; (ii) Shares used to pay the exercise price or withholding taxes related to an outstanding Award; or (iii) Shares repurchased by the Corporation on the open market with the proceeds of an Option exercise price to settle an Option.
 
D.
           
Adjustment Provision
.  In the event of (i) a stock dividend, stock split, reverse stock split, share combination, or recapitalization or similar event affecting the capital structure of the Corporation (each, a ""), or (ii) a merger, consolidation, acquisition of property or shares, separation, spinoff, reorganization, stock rights offering, liquidation, Disaffiliation, or similar event affecting the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries (each, a ""), the Committee or the Board shall make such substitutions or adjustments as it deems appropriate and equitable, if any, to (A) the aggregate number and kind of Shares or other securities reserved for issuance and delivery under the Plan, (B) the various maximum limitations set forth in Sections 3(A) and 3(B) upon certain types of Awards and upon the grants to individuals of certain types of Awards, (C) the number and kind of Shares or other securities subject to outstanding Awards, and (D) the exercise price of outstanding Options and Stock Appreciation Rights, provided that the aggregate exercise price or aggregate grant price of the Options or Stock Appreciation Rights is not less than the aggregate exercise price or aggregate grant price before the Corporate Transaction.  In the case of Corporate Transactions, such adjustments may include, without limitation, (1) the cancellation of outstanding Awards in exchange for payments of cash, property or a combination thereof having an aggregate value equal to the value of such Awards, as determined by the Committee or the Board in its sole discretion (it being understood that in the case of a Corporate Transaction with respect to which stockholders of Common Stock receive consideration other than publicly traded equity securities of the ultimate surviving entity, any such determination by the Committee that the value of an Option or Stock Appreciation Right shall for this purpose be deemed to equal the excess, if any, of the value of the consideration being paid for each Share pursuant to such Corporate Transaction over the exercise price of such Option or Stock Appreciation Right shall conclusively be deemed valid); (2) the substitution of other property (including, without
Share Change
Corporate Transaction
 
limitation, cash or other securities of the Corporation and securities of entities other than the Corporation) for the Shares subject to outstanding Awards; and (3) in connection with any Disaffiliation, arranging for the assumption of Awards, or replacement of Awards with new awards based on other property or other securities (including, without limitation, other securities of the Corporation and securities of entities other than the Corporation), by the affected Subsidiary, Affiliate, or division or by the entity that controls such Subsidiary, Affiliate, or division following such Disaffiliation (as well as any corresponding adjustments to Awards that remain based upon Corporation securities).  Any such adjustments shall be made in a manner that (i) with respect to Awards that are not considered to be deferred compensation within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code immediately prior to such adjustment, would not cause such Awards to become deferred compensation subject to Section 409A of the Code and (ii) with respect to Awards that are considered deferred compensation within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code, would not cause such Awards to be non-compliant with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code.
 
SECTION 4
ADMINISTRATION
 
A.
           
Committee
.  The Plan shall be administered by the Committee.  In addition to any implied powers and duties that may be needed to carry out the provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall have all the powers vested in it by the terms of the Plan, including exclusive authority to:  select Eligible Individuals; to make Awards; to determine the type, size, terms and timing of Awards (which need not be uniform); to accelerate the vesting of Awards, including upon the occurrence of a Change of Control of the Corporation or an Award Recipient's Termination of Employment; to prescribe the form of the Award Agreement;
to modify, amend or adjust the terms and conditions of any Award, subject to Sections 7 and 10; to adopt, alter and repeal such administrative rules, guidelines and practices governing the Plan as it shall from time to time deem advisable; to interpret the terms and provisions of the Plan and any Award issued under the Plan (and any Award Agreement relating thereto);
make any other determinations it believes necessary or advisable in connection with the administration of the Plan; correct any defect, supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan or in any Award Agreement;
establish any "blackout" period that the Committee in its sole discretion deems necessary or advisable; and to otherwise administer the Plan.
 
B.
           
Procedures
.  Determinations of the Committee shall be made by a majority vote of its members at a meeting at which a quorum is present or pursuant to a unanimous written consent of its members.  A majority of the members of the Committee shall constitute a quorum.  Subject to Section 7(D), any authority granted to the Committee may also be exercised by the full Board.  To the extent that any permitted action taken by the Board conflicts with action taken by the Committee, the Board action shall control.  The Committee may authorize any one or more of its members, or any officer of the Corporation, to execute and deliver documents on behalf of the Committee.
 
Except to the extent prohibited by applicable law or the applicable rules of a stock exchange, the Committee may (i) allocate all or any portion of its responsibilities and powers to any one or more of its members and/or (ii) delegate all or any part of its responsibilities and powers to any person or persons selected by it, that, the Committee may not delegate its responsibilities and powers if such delegation would cause an Award made to an individual subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act not to qualify for an exemption from Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act or cause an Award intended to be a Qualified Performance-Based Award not to qualify for, or to cease to qualify for, the Section 162(m) Exemption.  Any such allocation or delegation may be revoked by the Committee at any time.
provided
 
All decisions made by the Committee (or any person or persons to whom the Committee has allocated or delegated all or any portion of its responsibilities and powers in accordance with this Plan) shall be final and binding on all persons, including the Corporation, its Affiliates, Subsidiaries, stockholders, Eligible Individuals, Award Recipients, Beneficiaries and other interested parties.
 
C.
           
Discretion of the Committee
.  Subject to Section 1(G), any determination made by the Committee or by an appropriately delegated officer pursuant to delegated authority under the provisions of the Plan with respect to any Award shall be made in the sole discretion of the Committee or such delegate at the time of the grant of the Award or, unless in contravention of any express term of the Plan, at any time thereafter.  All decisions made by the Committee or any appropriately delegated officer pursuant to the provisions of the Plan shall be final and binding on all persons, including the Corporation, Award Recipients and Eligible Individuals.
 
D.
           
Cancellation or Suspension of Awards
.  T
he Committee may cancel all or any portion of any Award, whether or not vested or deferred, as set forth below.  Upon cancellation, the Award Recipient shall forfeit the Award and any benefits attributable to such canceled Award or portion thereof.  The Committee may cancel an Award if, in its sole discretion, the Committee determines in good faith that the Award Recipient has done any of the following:  (i) committed a felony; (ii) committed fraud; (iii) embezzled; (iv) disclosed confidential information or trade secrets; (v) was terminated for Cause; (vi) engaged in any activity in competition with the business of the Corporation or any Subsidiary or Affiliate of the Corporation; or (vii) engaged in conduct that adversely affected the Corporation.  The Executive Vice President  Director of Human Resources, or such other person designated from time to time by the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation (the ""), shall have the power and authority to suspend all or any portion of any Award if the Delegate makes in good faith the determination described in the preceding sentence.  Any such suspension of an Award shall remain in effect until the suspension shall be presented to and acted on by the Committee at its next meeting.  This Section 4(D) shall have no application for a two year period following a Change of Control of the Corporation.
Delegate
 
SECTION 5
ELIGIBILITY
 
Awards may only be made to Eligible Individuals.
 
SECTION 6
AWARDS
 
A.
           
Options
.  The Committee may grant Options to Eligible Individuals in accordance with the provisions of this subsection subject to such additional terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan, as the Committee shall determine to be appropriate.
 
1.
            
Exercise Price
.  The exercise price per Share of an Option shall be determined by the Committee; , that such exercise price shall not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of a Share on the Date of Grant of such Option, and such exercise price may not be decreased during the Term of the Option except pursuant to an adjustment in accordance with Section 3(D).
provided, however
 
2.
            
Option Term
.  The Term of each Option shall be fixed by the Committee and the maximum Term of each Option shall be ten (10) years.
 
3.
            
Time and Manner of Exercise
.  The Committee shall determine the time or times at which an Option may be exercised, and the manner in which (including, without limitation, cash, Shares, other securities, other Awards or other property, or any combination thereof, having a Fair Market Value on the exercise date equal to the relevant exercise price) payment of the exercise price with respect thereto may be made, or deemed to have been made.  The Committee may authorize the use of any form of "cashless" exercise of an Option that is legally permissible.
 
4.
            
Employment Status
.  Except as provided in paragraphs (a) through (d) below or as may otherwise be provided by the Committee (either at the time of grant of an Option or thereafter), an
Award Recipient's Options and Stock Appreciation Rights shall be immediately forfeited upon his or her Termination of Employment.
 
a.
            
Retirement
.  An Award Recipient's Retirement shall not affect any Option outstanding as of the Termination of Employment due to Retirement other than those granted in the calendar year of Retirement.  All Options outstanding as of the Termination of Employment due to Retirement other than those granted in the calendar year of such Termination of Employment shall continue to vest pursuant to the vesting schedule applicable to such Options, and any vested Options outstanding as of the Termination of Employment due to Retirement (including any ISO held by an Award Recipient who is not Disabled) shall continue in full force and effect for the remainder of the Term of the Option.  All Options granted in the calendar year of Termination of Employment due to
 
Retirement that have not otherwise vested as of such termination shall terminate upon the date of Retirement.
 
b.
            
Disability
.  Upon the cessation of the Award Recipient's employment due to Disability, any Option held by such individual
that was exercisable immediately before the Termination of Employment due to Disability
shall continue to be exercisable until the earlier of (i) the third anniversary of the Award Recipient's Termination of Employment (or, in the case of any ISO held by an Award Recipient who is Disabled, the first anniversary of the Award Recipient's Termination of Employment) and (ii) the expiration of the Term of the Option.
 
c.
            
Death
.  Upon the Award Recipient's death (whether during his or her employment with the Corporation or an Affiliate or during any otherwise applicable post-termination exercise period, which in the case of an ISO, shall not exceed three (3) months), any Option held by such individual
that was exercisable immediately before the Termination of Employment
shall continue to be exercisable by the Beneficiary(ies) of the decedent, until the earlier of (i) the first anniversary of the date of the Award Recipient's death and (ii) the expiration of the Term of the Option.
 
d.
            
Other Terminations of Employment
.  Upon the Award Recipient's Termination of Employment for any reason other than Retirement, Disability, death
or for Cause
, any Option held by such individual
that was exercisable immediately before the Termination of Employment
shall continue to be exercisable until the earlier of (i) the expiration of the three-month period following the Award Recipient's Termination of Employment and (ii) the expiration of the Term of the Option.
 
e.
            
Extension or Reduction of Exercise Period
.  In any of the foregoing circumstances, subject to Section 8, the Committee may extend or shorten the exercise period, but may not extend any such period beyond the Term of the Option as originally established (or, insofar as this paragraph relates to Stock Appreciation Rights, the Term of the SAR Award as originally established).  Further, with respect to ISOs, as a condition of any such extension, the holder shall be required to deliver to the Corporation a release which provides that such individual will hold the Corporation and/or Affiliates harmless with respect to any adverse tax consequences the individual may suffer by reason of any such extension.
 
B.
           
Stock Appreciation Right Awards
.  The Committee may grant Stock Appreciation Rights to Eligible Individuals in accordance with the provisions of this subsection subject to such additional terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan, as the Committee shall determine to be appropriate.  The Term of each SAR Award shall be fixed by the Committee and the maximum Term of each SAR Award shall be ten (10) years.  A Stock Appreciation Right granted under the Plan
 
shall confer on the Award Recipient a right to receive upon exercise thereof the excess (if any) of (i) the Fair Market Value of one Share on the date of exercise over (ii) the grant price of the Stock Appreciation Right Award as specified by the Committee, which price shall not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of one Share on the Date of Grant of the Stock Appreciation Right.  Subject to the terms of the Plan, the Committee shall determine the grant price, Term, manner of exercise, dates of exercise, methods of settlement (cash, Shares or a combination thereof) and any other terms and conditions of any SAR Award.  The Committee may impose such conditions or restrictions on the exercise of any SAR Award as it may deem appropriate.  Except as otherwise provided by the Committee or in an Award Agreement, any SAR Award must be exercised during the period of the Award Recipient's employment with the Corporation or Affiliate, that the provisions of Section 6(A)(4)(a)-(e) hereof shall apply for purposes of determining the exercise period in the event of the Award Recipient's Retirement, Disability, death or other Termination of Employment.
provided
 
C.
           
Restricted Stock Awards
.  The Committee may make Restricted Stock Awards to Eligible Individuals in accordance with the provisions of this subsection subject to such additional terms and conditions not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan as the Committee shall determine to be appropriate.
 
1.
            
Nature of Restrictions
.  Restricted Stock Awards shall be subject to such restrictions, including Performance Measures, as the Committee may impose (including, without limitation, any limitation on the right to vote a Share of Restricted Stock or the right to receive any dividend or other right or property with respect thereto), which restrictions may lapse separately or in combination at such time or times, in such installments or otherwise as the Committee may deem appropriate.  Subject to the Committee's authority under Section 6(C)(3) below, the minimum Restriction Period with respect to a Restricted Stock Award that is subject to restrictions that are Performance Measures shall be one (1) year, and the minimum Restriction Period with respect to a Restricted Stock Award that is subject to restrictions that are not Performance Measures shall be three (3) years
.  The Committee may, as of the Date of Grant, designate an Award of Restricted Stock that is subject to Performance Measures as a Qualified Performance-Based Award.
 
2.
            
Stock Certificates
.  Restricted Stock Awards granted under the Plan shall be evidenced by the issuance of a stock certificate(s), which shall be held by the Corporation.  Such certificate(s) shall be registered in the name of the Award Recipient and shall bear an appropriate legend which refers to the restrictions applicable to such Restricted Stock Award.  Alternatively, shares of Restricted Stock under the Plan may be recorded in book entry form.
 
3.
            
Forfeiture; Delivery of Shares
.  Except as may be otherwise provided in an Award Agreement, upon an Award Recipient's Termination of Employment (as determined under criteria established by the Committee) during the applicable Restriction Period, all Shares of Restricted Stock shall be immediately forfeited and revert to the Corporation; , that the
provided, however
 
Committee may waive, in whole or in part, any or all remaining restrictions applicable to the Restricted Stock Award.  Shares comprising any Restricted Stock Award held by the Corporation that are no longer subject to restrictions shall be delivered to the Award Recipient (or his or her Beneficiary) promptly after the applicable restrictions lapse or are waived.
 
D.
           
Restricted Stock Unit Awards
.  The Committee may grant Awards of Restricted Stock Units to Eligible Individuals, subject to Section 8 hereof and such other terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan, as the Committee shall determine to be appropriate.  A Restricted Stock Unit shall represent an unfunded, unsecured right to receive one Share or cash equal to the Fair Market Value of a Share.
 
1.
            
Nature of Restrictions
.  Restricted Stock Unit Awards shall be subject to such restrictions, including Performance Measures, as the Committee may impose, which restrictions may lapse separately or in combination at such time or times, in such installments or otherwise as the Committee may deem appropriate.  Subject to the Committee's authority under Section 6(D)(3) below, the minimum Restriction Period with respect to a Restricted Stock Unit Award that is subject to restrictions that are Performance Measures shall be one (1) year, and the minimum Restriction Period with respect to a Restricted Stock Unit Award that is subject to restrictions that are not Performance Measures shall be three (3) years
.  The Committee may, as of the Date of Grant, designate an Award of Restricted Stock as a Qualified Performance-Based Award.
 
2.
            
Rights as a Stockholder
.  An Eligible Individual to whom Restricted Stock Units are granted shall not have any rights of a stockholder of the Corporation with respect to the Share represented by the Restricted Stock Unit Award.  If so determined by the Committee, in its sole and absolute discretion, Restricted Stock Units may include a dividend equivalent right, pursuant to which the Award Recipient will either receive cash amounts (either paid currently or on a contingent basis) equivalent to the dividends and other distributions payable with respect to the number of Shares represented by the Restricted Stock Units, or additional Restricted Stock Units with a Fair Market Value equal to such dividends and other distributions, as specified in the Award Agreement.  Dividend equivalent rights that the Committee determines are subject to Section 409A of the Code shall be paid or settled in accordance with Section 8 hereof.
 
3.
            
Forfeiture/
Settlement
.  Except as may be otherwise provided in an Award Agreement, upon an Award Recipient's Termination of Employment (as determined under criteria established by the Committee) during the applicable Restriction Period, all Restricted Stock Units shall be immediately forfeited; , that the Committee may waive, in whole or in part, any or all remaining vesting requirements or restrictions applicable to the Restricted Stock Unit Award.  Subject to Section 11(D) hereof, a
provided, however
n Award of Restricted Stock Units shall be settled in Shares as and when the Restricted Stock Units vest or at a later time permitted under Section 8 hereof and specified by the Committee in the Award Agreement.
 
E.
            
Performance Awards
.  The Committee may grant Performance Awards (designated as Qualified Performance-Based Awards or not) to Eligible Individuals in accordance with the provisions of this Section 6(E), subject to Section 8 hereof and such additional terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan, as the Committee shall determine to be appropriate.  A Performance Award granted under the Plan (i) may be denominated or payable in cash, Shares (including, without limitation, Restricted Shares), other securities, other Awards, or other property, and (ii) shall confer on the Award Recipient the right to receive a dollar amount or number of Shares upon the attainment of Performance Measures during any Performance Period, as established by the Committee.  Subject to the terms of the Plan and any applicable Award Agreement, the Performance Measures to be achieved during any Performance Period, the length of any Performance Period and the amount of any payment or number of Shares in respect of a Performance Award shall be determined by the Committee.
 
F.
            
Other Stock-Based Awards
.  The Committee may grant Other Stock-Based Awards to Eligible Individuals in accordance with the provisions of this Section 6(F), subject to Section 8 hereof and such other additional terms and conditions, including Performance Measures, not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan, as the Committee shall determine.  Other Stock-Based Awards may be denominated or payable in, valued in whole or in part by reference to, or otherwise based on or related to, Shares (including, without limitation, securities convertible into Shares), as are deemed by the Committee to be consistent with the purpose of the Plan.
 
G.
           
General
.  Except as otherwise specified in the Plan or an applicable Award Agreement, the following provisions shall apply to Awards granted under the Plan:
 
1.
            
Consideration for Awards
.  Other than the payment of the exercise price or grant price in connection with the exercise of an Option or Stock Appreciation Right, Awards shall be made without monetary consideration or for such minimal monetary consideration as may be required by applicable law. 
In no event may any Option or Stock Appreciation Right granted under this Plan be amended, other than pursuant to Section 3(D), to decrease the exercise or grant price thereof, be cancelled in conjunction with the grant of any new Option or Stock Appreciation Right with a lower exercise or grant price, or otherwise be subject to any action that would be treated, for accounting purposes, as a "repricing" of such Option or Stock Appreciation Right, unless such amendment, cancellation, or action is approved by the Corporation's stockholders.
 
2.
            
Forms of Payment under Awards
.  Subject to the terms of the Plan and of any applicable Award Agreement, payments or transfers of Shares to be made by the Corporation or an Affiliate upon the grant, exercise or satisfaction of an Award may be made in such form or forms as the Committee shall determine (including, without limitation, cash, Shares, other securities, other Awards or other property or any combination thereof), and may be made in a single payment or transfer, or in installments, and may be made upon vesting or such
 
later date permitted under Section 8 hereof and specified in the applicable Award Agreement, and, in each case, in accordance with rules and procedures established by the Committee.  Such rules and procedures may include, without limitation, provisions for the payment or crediting of reasonable interest on installment or deferred payments.
 
3.
            
Limits on Transfer of Awards
.  No Award and no right under any such Award shall be transferable by an Award Recipient otherwise than by will or by the laws of intestacy; , that, an Award Recipient may, in the manner established by the Committee, designate a Beneficiary to exercise the rights of the Award Recipient and to receive any property distributable with respect to any Award upon the death of the Award Recipient.  Each Award or right under any Award shall be exercisable during the Award Recipient's lifetime only by the Award Recipient or, if permissible under applicable law, by the Award Recipient's guardian or legal representative.  No Award or right under any such Award may be pledged, alienated, attached or otherwise encumbered, and any purported pledge, alienation, attachment or encumbrance thereof shall be void and unenforceable against the Corporation or any Affiliate.
provided, however
 
4.
            
Term of Awards
.  Subject to any specific provisions of the Plan, the term of each Award shall be for such period as may be determined by the Committee.
 
5.
            
Securities Law Restrictions
.  All certificates for Shares or other securities delivered under the Plan pursuant to any Award or the exercise thereof shall be subject to such restrictions as the Committee may deem advisable under the Plan, or the rules, regulations and other requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the New York Stock Exchange, any other exchange on which Shares may be eligible to be traded or any applicable federal or state securities laws, and the Committee may cause a legend or legends to be placed on any such certificates to make appropriate reference to such restrictions.
 
6.
            
Deferring Awards
.  Under no circumstances may an Award Recipient elect to defer, until a time or times later than the exercise of an Option or a Stock Appreciation Right or the settlement or distribution of Shares or cash in respect of other Awards, receipt of all or a portion of the Shares or cash subject to such Award, or dividends and dividend equivalents payable thereon.
 
SECTION 7
QUALIFIED PERFORMANCE-BASED AWARDS
 
A.
           
Section 162(m) Exemption
. 
The provisions of this Plan are intended to ensure that all Options and Stock Appreciation Rights granted hereunder to any Award Recipient who is or may be a "covered employee" (within the meaning of Section 162(m)(3) of the Code) or otherwise subject to Section 162(m) in the tax year in which such Option or Stock Appreciation Right is expected to be deductible to the Corporation qualify for the Section 162(m) Exemption, and all such Awards shall therefore be
 
considered Qualified Performance-Based Awards and this Plan shall be interpreted and operated consistent with that intention (including, without limitation, to require that all such Awards be granted by a committee composed solely of members who satisfy the requirements for being "outside directors" for purposes of the Section 162(m) Exemption ("")).  When granting any Award other than an Option or Stock Appreciation Right, the Committee may designate such Award as a Qualified Performance-Based Award, based upon a determination that (i) the recipient is or may be a "covered employee" (within the meaning of Section 162(m)(3) of the Code) or otherwise subject to Section 162(m) with respect to such Award, and (ii) the Committee wishes such Award to qualify for the Section 162(m) Exemption, and the terms of any such Award (and of the grant thereof) shall be consistent with such designation (including, without limitation, that all such Awards be granted by a committee composed solely of Outside Directors).
Outside Directors
 
B.
           
Limitation on Amendment
.  Each Qualified Performance-Based Award (other than an Option or Stock Appreciation Right) shall be earned, vested and payable (as applicable) only upon the achievement of one or more Performance Measures, together with the satisfaction of any other conditions, such as continued employment, as the Committee may determine to be appropriate, and no Qualified Performance-Based Award may be amended, nor may the Committee exercise any discretionary authority it may otherwise have under this Plan with respect to a Qualified Performance-Based Award, in any manner that would cause the Qualified Performance-Based Award to cease to qualify for the Section 162(m) Exemption; , that (i) the Committee may provide, either in connection with the grant of the applicable Award or by amendment thereafter, that achievement of such Performance Measure will be waived upon the death or Disability of the Award Recipient (or under any other circumstance with respect to which the existence of such possible waiver will not cause the Award to fail to qualify for the Section 162(m) Exemption), and (ii) any rights to vesting or accelerated payment on a Change of Control shall apply notwithstanding this Section 7(B).
provided, however
 
C.
           
Maximum Cash Award
.  For purposes of the Section 162(m) Exemption, the maximum amount of compensation payable with respect to an Award granted under the Plan to any Award Recipient who is a "covered employee" (as defined in Section 162(m) of the Code) that is denominated as a dollar amount will not exceed $5,000,000 for any calendar year.
 
D.
           
Limitation on Action by the Full Board
.  The full Board shall not be permitted to exercise authority granted to the Committee to the extent that the grant or exercise of such authority would cause an Award designated as a Qualified Performance-Based Award not to qualify for, or to cease to qualify for, the Section 162(m) Exemption.
SECTION 8
SECTION 409A OF THE CODE
 
It is the intention of the Corporation that no Award shall be "deferred compensation" subject to Section 409A of the Code, unless and to the extent that the Committee specifically determines otherwise, and the Plan and the terms and conditions of all Awards shall be interpreted accordingly.  If the Committee determines that an Award is subject to Section 409A of the Code, then the Award shall be paid or settled only upon the Award Recipient's death, Disability, or Separation from Service, or upon a Change of Control, or upon such date(s) or pursuant to a schedule designated by the Committee, as specified in the applicable Award Agreement, subject to the following provisions:
 
1.
            
Delay for Specified Employees
.  Notwithstanding any provision of this Plan or the terms of an Award Agreement to the contrary, an Award that is granted to a Specified Employee and that is to be paid or settled upon such Specified Employee's Separation from Service shall not be paid or settled prior to the earlier of (i) the first business date following six months after the date of such Specified Employee's Separation from Service or (ii) the Specified Employee's death.
 
2.
            
Distribution in the Event of Income Inclusion Under Code Section 409A
.
  If an Award fails to meet the requirements of Section 409A of the Code, the Award Recipient may receive payment in connection with the Award before the Award would otherwise be paid, provided, however, that the amount paid to the Award Recipient shall not exceed the lesser of: (i) the amount payable under such Award, or (ii) the amount to be reported pursuant to Section 409A of the Code on the applicable Form W-2 (or Form 1099) as taxable income to the Award Recipient.
 
3.
            
Distribution Necessary to Satisfy Applicable Tax Withholding
.  If the Corporation is required to withhold amounts to pay the Award Recipient's portion of the Federal Insurance Contributions Act (FICA) tax imposed under Code Sections 3101, 3121(a) or 3121(v)(2) with respect to an amount that is or will be paid to the Award Recipient under the Award before the amount otherwise would be paid, the Committee may withhold an amount equal to the lesser of: (i) the amount payable under such Award, or (ii) the aggregate of the FICA taxes imposed and the income tax withholding related to such amount.
 
4.
            
Delay in Payments Subject to Code Section 162(m)
.  In the event the Corporation reasonably anticipates that the payment of benefits under an Award would result in the loss of the Corporation's Federal income tax deduction with respect to such payment due to the application of Code Section 162(m), the Committee may delay the payment of all such benefits under the Award until (i) the first taxable year in which the Corporation reasonably anticipates, or should reasonably anticipate, that if the payment were made during such year, the deduction of such payment would not be barred by application of Code Section 
 
162(m) or (ii) during the period beginning with the date of the Award Recipient's Separation from Service (or, for Specified Employees, the date which is six (6) months after the date of the Award Recipient's Separation from Service) and ending on the later of (A) the last day of the taxable year of the Corporation which includes such date or (B) the 15th day of the third month following the date of the Award Recipient's Separation from Service (or, for Specified Employees, the date which is six (6) months after the date of the Award Recipient's Separation from Service).
 
5.
            
Delay for Payments in Violation of Federal Securities Laws or Other Applicable Law
.  In the event the Corporation reasonably anticipates that the payment of benefits under an Award would violate Federal securities laws or other applicable law, the Committee may delay the payment until the earliest date at which the Corporation reasonably anticipates that making of such payment would not cause such violation.
 
6.
            
Delay for Insolvency or Compelling Business Reasons
.  In the event the Corporation determines that the making of any payment of benefits on the date specified under an Award would jeopardize the ability of the Corporation to continue as a going concern, the Committee may delay the payment of benefits until the first calendar year in which the Corporation notifies the Committee that the payment of benefits would not have such effect.
 
7.
            
Administrative Delay in Payment
.  In the case of administrative necessity, the payment of benefits under an Award may be delayed up to the later of the last day of the calendar year in which payment would otherwise be made or the 15th day of the third calendar month following the date on which payment would otherwise be made.  Further, if, as a result of events beyond the control of the Award Recipient (or following the Award Recipient's death, the Award Recipient's Beneficiary), it is not administratively practicable to calculate the amount of benefits due to the Award Recipient as of the date on which payment would otherwise be made, the payment may be delayed until the first calendar year in which calculation of the amount is administratively practicable.
 
8.
            
No Award Recipient Election
.  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, if the period during which payment of benefits under an Award will be made occurs, or will occur, in two calendar years, the Award Recipient shall not be permitted to elect the calendar year in which the payment shall be made.
 
SECTION 9
WITHHOLDING OF TAXES
 
The Corporation will, if required by applicable law, withhold the minimum statutory amount of Federal, state and/or local withholding taxes no later than the date as of which an amount first becomes includible in the gross income of an Award Recipient for Federal, state, local or foreign income or employment or other tax.  Unless otherwise provided in the applicable Award Agreement, each Award Recipient may
 
satisfy any such tax withholding obligation by any of the following means, or by a combination of such means:  (i) a cash payment; (ii) by delivery to the Corporation of already-owned Shares which have been held by the individual for at least six (6) months having a Fair Market Value, as of the Tax Withholding Date, sufficient to satisfy the amount of the withholding tax obligation arising from an exercise or vesting of an Award; (iii) by authorizing the Corporation to withhold from the Shares otherwise issuable to the individual pursuant to the exercise or vesting of an Award, a number of shares having a Fair Market Value, as of the Tax Withholding Date, which will satisfy the amount of the withholding tax obligation; or (iv) by a combination of such methods of payment.  If the amount requested is not paid, the Corporation may refuse to satisfy the Award.  The obligations of the Corporation under the Plan shall be conditional on such payment or arrangements, and the Corporation and its Affiliates shall, to the extent permitted by law, have the right to deduct any such taxes from any payment otherwise due to such Award Recipient.  The Committee may establish such procedures as it deems appropriate, including making irrevocable elections, for the settlement of withholding obligations with Shares.
 
SECTION 10
AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION
 
A.
           
Amendments to and Termination of the Plan
.  The Committee or the Board may amend, alter, or discontinue the Plan at any time by written resolution, but no amendment, alteration or discontinuation shall be made which would materially impair the rights of the Award Recipients with respect to a previously granted Award without such Award Recipient's consent, except such an amendment made to comply with applicable law, including without limitation Section 409A of the Code, stock exchange rules or accounting rules.  In addition, no such amendment shall be made without the approval of the Corporation's stockholders to the extent such approval is required by applicable law (including Section 422 of the Code) or the listing standards of the applicable stock exchange.
 
B.
           
Amendments to Awards
.  Subject to Section 6(G)(1), the Committee may unilaterally amend the terms of any Award theretofore granted, but no such amendment shall cause a Qualified Performance-Based Award to cease to qualify for the Section 162(m) Exemption or, without the Award Recipient's consent, materially impair the rights of any Award Recipient with respect to an Award, except such an amendment made to cause the Plan or Award to comply with applicable law, stock exchange rules or accounting rules.  Furthermore, no amendment may be made to a NQSO Award or a SAR Award which would cause the exercise price or the grant price (as applicable) to be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of one Share as of the Date of Grant except as provided in Section 3(D).
 
C.
           
Payment of Benefits Upon Termination of Plan
.  Upon termination of the Plan, the Corporation may settle any outstanding Award that is not subject to Code Section 409A as soon as is practicable following such termination and may settle any outstanding Award that is subject to Code Section 409A in accordance with one of the following:
 
1.
            
the termination and liquidation of the Plan within twelve (12)  months of a complete dissolution of the Corporation taxed under Section 331 of the Code or with the approval of a bankruptcy court pursuant to 11 U.S.C.  503(b)(1)(A); provided that the amounts deferred under this Plan are included in the Participants' gross incomes in the latest of the following years (or, if earlier, the taxable year in which the amount is actually or constructively received): (i) the calendar year in which the Plan is terminated; (ii) the first calendar year in which the amount is no longer subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture; or (iii) the first calendar year in which the payment is administratively practicable.
 
2.
            
the termination and liquidation of the Plan pursuant to irrevocable action taken by the Committee or the Corporation within the thirty (30) days preceding or the twelve (12) months following a Change of Control; provided that all Aggregated Plans are terminated and liquidated with respect to each Participant that experienced the Change of Control, so that under the terms of the termination and liquidation, all such Participants are required to receive all amounts of deferred compensation under this Plan and any other Aggregated Plans within twelve (12) months of the date the Committee or the Corporation irrevocably takes all necessary action to terminate and liquidate this Plan and the Committee or the Corporation, as the case may be, takes all necessary action to terminate and liquidate such other Aggregated Plans;
 
3.
            
the termination and liquidation of the Plan, provided that: (i) the termination and liquidation does not occur proximate to a downturn in the Corporation's financial health; (2) the Committee or the Corporation, as the case may be, terminates and liquidates all Aggregated Plans; (3) no payments in liquidation of this Plan are made within twelve (12) months of the date the Committee or the Corporation irrevocably takes all necessary action to terminate and liquidate this Plan, other than payments that would be payable under the terms of this Plan if the action to terminate and liquidate this Plan had not occurred; (4) all payments are made within twenty four (24) months of the date on which the Committee or the Corporation irrevocably takes all action necessary to terminate and liquidate this Plan; and (5) the Corporation does not adopt a new Aggregated Plan at any time within three (3) years following the date on which the Committee or the Corporation irrevocably takes all action necessary to terminate and liquidate the Plan.
 
SECTION 11
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
 
A.
           
Conditions for Issuance
.  The Committee may require each person purchasing or receiving Shares pursuant to an Award to represent to and agree with the Corporation in writing that such person is acquiring the Shares without a view to the distribution thereof.  The certificates for such Shares may include any legend which the Committee deems appropriate to reflect any restrictions on transfer.  Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan or Award Agreements made pursuant thereto, with
 
respect to any Award other than an Award that is subject to Code Section 409A, the Corporation shall not be required to issue or deliver any certificate or certificates for Shares under the Plan prior to fulfillment of all of the following conditions:  (i) listing or approval for listing upon notice of issuance, of such Shares on the applicable stock exchange; (ii) any registration or other qualification of such Shares of the Corporation under any state or Federal law or regulation, or the maintaining in effect of any such registration or other qualification which the Committee shall, in its absolute discretion upon the advice of counsel, deem necessary or advisable; and (iii) obtaining any other consent, approval, or permit from any state or Federal governmental agency which the Committee shall, in its absolute discretion after receiving the advice of counsel, determine to be necessary or advisable, and, with respect to any Award that is subject to Code Section 409A, the Corporation shall not be required to issue or deliver any certificate or certificates for Shares under the Plan if the Corporation reasonably anticipates that such issuance or delivery would violate applicable Federal securities laws or other applicable law, provided the Corporation issues or delivers the Shares at the earliest date on which the Corporation reasonably anticipates that such issuance or delivery would not cause such violation.
 
B.
           
Additional Compensation Arrangements
.  Nothing contained in the Plan shall prevent the Corporation or any Subsidiary or Affiliate from adopting other or additional compensation arrangements for its employees. 
Participation in the Plan shall not affect an individual's eligibility to participate in any other benefit or incentive plan of the Corporation.
 
C.
           
No Contract of Employment or Rights to Awards
.  The Plan shall not constitute a contract of employment, and adoption of the Plan shall not confer upon any employee any right to continued employment, nor shall it interfere in any way with the right of the Corporation or any Subsidiary or Affiliate to terminate the employment of any employee at any time.
No employee or other person shall have any claim or right to receive an Award under the Plan.  Receipt of an Award shall not confer upon the Award Recipient any rights of a stockholder with respect to any Shares subject to such Award except as specifically provided in the Agreement relating to the Award.
 
D.
           
Limitation on Dividend Reinvestment and Dividend Equivalents
.  Reinvestment of dividends in additional Restricted Stock at the time of any dividend payment, and the reinvestment of dividend equivalent rights in additional Restricted Stock Units payable in Shares shall only be permissible if sufficient Shares are available under Section 3 for such reinvestment or payment (taking into account then outstanding Awards).  In the event that sufficient Shares are not available, such reinvestment of dividends and dividend equivalent rights shall be made in the form of a grant of Restricted Stock Units equal in number to the Shares that would have been obtained by such reinvestment and the terms of which Restricted Stock Units shall provide for settlement in cash.
 
E.
            
Subsidiary Employees
.  In the case of a grant of an Award to any employee of a Subsidiary of the Corporation, the Corporation may, if the Committee so directs, issue or transfer the Shares, if any, covered by the Award to the Subsidiary, for
 
such lawful consideration as the Committee may specify, upon the condition or understanding that the Subsidiary will transfer the Shares to the employee in accordance with the terms of the Award specified by the Committee pursuant to the provisions of the Plan.  All Shares underlying Awards that are forfeited or canceled shall revert to the Corporation.
 
F.
            
Governing Law and Interpretation
.The Plan and all Awards made and actions taken thereunder shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware, without reference to principles of conflict of laws, except to the extent preempted by Federal law.  To the extent that any Award is subject to Code Section 409A, the terms of the Award Agreement and this Plan shall be construed and interpreted in accordance with Code Section 409A and the Regulations and interpretative guidance promulgated thereunder.  The captions of this Plan are not part of the provisions hereof and shall have no force or effect.
 
 
G.
           
Foreign Employees and Foreign Law Considerations
.  The Committee may grant Awards to Eligible Individuals who are foreign nationals, who are located outside the United Statesor who are not compensated from a payroll maintained in the United States, or who are otherwise subject to (or could cause the Corporation to be subject to) legal or regulatory provisions of countries or jurisdictions outside the United States, on such terms and conditions different from those specified in the Plan as may, in the judgment of the Committee, be necessary or desirable to foster and promote achievement of the purposes of the Plan, and, in furtherance of such purposes, the Committee may make such modifications, amendments, procedures, or subplans as may be necessary or advisable to comply with such legal or regulatory provisions.
 
H.
           
Expenses
.  The expenses of the Plan shall be borne by the Corporation.
 
I.
             
Acceptance of Terms
.  By accepting an Award under the Plan or payment pursuant to any Award, each Award Recipient, legal representative and Beneficiary shall be conclusively deemed to have indicated his or her acceptance and ratification of, and consent to, any action taken under the Plan by the Committee or the Corporation.  A breach by any Award Recipient, his or her Beneficiary(ies), or legal representative, of any restrictions, terms or conditions contained in the Plan, any Award Agreement, or otherwise established by the Committee with respect to any Award will, unless waived in whole or in part by the Committee, cause a forfeiture of such Award.
 
SECTION 12
EFFECTIVE AND TERMINATION
 
The Comerica Incorporated 2006 Amended and Restated Long-Term Incentive Plan was originally adopted by the Board on March 28, 2006, was effective on May 16, 2006, the date of stockholder approval, and was subsequently amended and restated effective November 14, 2006 and again amended and restated effective December 31, 2008.  This Comerica Incorporated 2006 Amended and Restated Long-Term Incentive Plan was adopted by the Board and approved by the Governance, Compensation and Nominating Committee on February 16, 2010, as an amendment and restatement of the
 
prior version of the Plan, and will be effective on the date that it is approved by at least a majority of the shares of the Corporation present and entitled to vote, at a meeting of the Corporation's stockholders at which there is a quorum (the "").  The Plan will terminate on the tenth (10
Effective Date
th
) anniversary of the Effective Date, unless earlier terminated in accordance with Section 10.  Awards outstanding as of the date of termination of the Plan shall not be affected or impaired by the termination of the Plan.
 
Prior Plan Versions:
 
Compensation Committee/Governance, Compensation and Nominating Committee Approved: 
February 22, 2006 (Original Plan); Prior Amendments and Restatements were Approved November 14, 2006; and November 18, 2008 (effective December 31, 2008).
 
Board Approved: 
March 28, 2006 (Original Plan); Prior Amendments and Restatements were Approved November 14, 2006; and November 18, 2008 (effective December 31, 2008).
 
Stockholders Approved: 
May 16, 2006 (Original Plan).
 
This 2010 Amendment and Restatement
:
 
Governance, Compensation and Nominating Committee Approved
: February 16, 2010.
 
Board Approved
:  February 16, 2010.
 
Stockholders Approved: 
April 27, 2010
EXHIBIT A
 
CHANGE OF CONTROL
A.
           
For the purpose of this Plan, a "Change of Control" shall mean:
 
1.
            
The acquisition by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "")) (a "") of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 20% or more of either (i) the then outstanding shares of common stock of the Corporation (the "") or (ii) the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the ""); , that for purposes of this subsection 1, the following acquisitions shall not constitute a Change of Control:  (i) any acquisition directly from the Corporation, (ii) any acquisition by the Corporation, (iii) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Corporation or any corporation controlled by the Corporation or (iv) any acquisition by any corporation pursuant to a transaction which complies with clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of subsection A.3. of this Exhibit A; or
Exchange Act
Person
Outstanding Corporation Common Stock
Outstanding Corporation Voting Securities
provided, however
 
2.
            
Individuals who, as of the date hereof, constitute the Corporation's Board of Directors (the "") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board; , that any individual becoming a director subsequent to the date hereof whose election, or nomination for election by the Corporation's stockholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board; or
Incumbent Board
provided, however
 
3.
            
Consummation of a reorganization, merger or consolidation or sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the Corporation's assets (a ""), in each case, unless, following such Business Combination, (i) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners, respectively, of the Outstanding Corporation Common Stock and Outstanding Corporation Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the case may be, of the company resulting from such Business
Business Combination
 
Combination (including, without limitation, a corporation which as a result of such transaction owns the Corporation or all or substantially all of the Corporation's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such Business Combination of the Outstanding Corporation Common Stock and Outstanding Corporation Voting Securities, as the case may be, (ii) no Person (excluding any corporation resulting from such Business Combination or any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of the Corporation or such corporation resulting from such Business Combination) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock of the company resulting from such Business Combination or the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of such corporation except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the Business Combination and (iii) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the company resulting from such Business Combination were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement, or of the action of the Board, providing for such Business Combination; or
 
4.
            
Approval by the Corporation's stockholders of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Corporation.
 
B.
           
With respect to any Award subject to Section 409A of the Code, the above definition of "Change of Control" shall mean:
 
1.
            
any one person, or more than one person acting as a group, acquires ownership of stock of the Corporation that, together with stock held by such person or group, constitutes more than 50% of the total fair market value or total voting power of the stock of the Corporation;
 
2.
            
any one person, or more than one person acting as a group, acquires (or has acquired during any twelve (12) month period) ownership of stock of the Corporation possessing 30% or more of the total voting power of the stock of the Corporation;
 
3.
            
a majority of the members of the Board is replaced during any twelve (12) month period by directors whose appointment is not endorsed by a majority of the members of the Board before the date of the appointment or election; or
 
4.
            
any one person, or more than one person acting as a group, acquires (or has acquired during any twelve (12) month period) assets from the Corporation that have a total gross fair market value equal to or more than 40% of the total gross fair market value of all of the assets of the Corporation immediately before such acquisition or acquisitions.
 
The determination of whether a Change of Control has occurred under this Section B of Exhibit A shall be made by the Committee in accordance with the provisions of Code Section 409A and the Regulations promulgated thereunder.


