FILE:CMA/CMA-8K-20111214163754.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 7.01 REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
On December 14, 2011, Comerica Incorporated ("Comerica") issued a press release announcing that the Board of Directors of Comerica (the "Board") approved Comerica's plan to continue its existing share repurchase program in the first quarter of 2012. Comerica anticipates that its share repurchase program, combined with dividend payments, will result in a payout of up to 50 percent of net income for the first quarter of 2012. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
The information in this report (including Exhibit 99.1 hereto) is being "furnished" and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is not subject to the liabilities of that section and is not deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Any statements in this report that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "anticipates," "believes," "feels," "expects," "estimates," "seeks," "strives," "plans," "intends," "outlook," "forecast," "position," "target," "mission," "assume," "achievable," "potential," "strategy," "goal," "aspiration," "opportunity," "initiative," "outcome," "continue," "remain," "maintain," "trend," "objective," "pending," "looks forward" and variations of such words and similar expressions, or future or conditional verbs such as "will," "would," "should," "could," "might," "can," "may" or similar expressions, as they relate to Comerica or its management, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are predicated on the beliefs and assumptions of Comerica's management based on information known to Comerica's management as of the date of this report and do not purport to speak as of any other date. Forward-looking statements may include descriptions of plans and objectives of Comerica's management for future or past operations, products or services, and forecasts of Comerica's revenue, earnings or other measures of economic performance, including statements of profitability, business segments and subsidiaries, estimates of credit trends and global stability. Such statements reflect the view of Comerica's management as of this date with respect to future events and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Should one or more of these risks materialize or should underlying beliefs or assumptions prove incorrect, Comerica's actual results could differ materially from those discussed. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences are changes in general economic, political or industry conditions and related credit and market conditions; changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies, including the interest rate policies of the Federal Reserve Board; adverse conditions in the capital markets; the interdependence of financial service companies; changes in regulation or oversight, including the effects of recently enacted legislation, actions taken by or proposed by the U.S. Treasury, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Texas Department of Banking and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, legislation or regulations enacted in the future, and the impact and expiration of such legislation and regulatory actions; unfavorable developments concerning credit quality; the acquisition of Sterling Bancshares, Inc., or any future acquisitions; the effects of more stringent capital or liquidity requirements; declines or other changes in the businesses or industries in which Comerica has a concentration of loans, including, but not limited to, the automotive production industry and the real estate business lines; the implementation of Comerica's strategies and business models, including the anticipated performance of any new banking centers and the implementation of revenue enhancements and efficiency improvements; Comerica's ability to utilize technology to efficiently and effectively develop, market and deliver new products and services; operational difficulties or information security problems; changes in the financial markets, including fluctuations in interest rates and their impact on deposit pricing; the entry of new competitors in Comerica's markets; changes in customer borrowing, repayment, investment and deposit practices; management's ability to maintain and expand customer relationships; management's ability to retain key officers and employees; the impact of legal and regulatory proceedings; the effectiveness of methods of reducing risk exposures; the effects of war and other armed conflicts or acts of terrorism and the effects of catastrophic events including, but not limited to, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, fires, droughts and floods. Comerica cautions that the foregoing list of factors is not exclusive. For discussion of factors that may cause actual results to differ from expectations, please refer to our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In particular, please refer to "Item 1A. Risk Factors" beginning on page 16 of the Comerica's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, "Item 1A. Risk Factors" beginning on page 65 of Comerica's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011, "Item 1A. Risk Factors" beginning on page 74 of Comerica's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2011 and "Item 1A. Risk Factors" beginning on page 81 of Comerica's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2011. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. Comerica does not undertake to update forward-looking statements to reflect facts, circumstances, assumptions or events that occur after the date the forward-looking statements are made. For any forward-looking statements made in this report or in any documents, Comerica claims the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(d) Exhibit
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: December 14, 2011
 

 
The Board of Directors of Comerica Incorporated approved Comerica's plan to continue its existing share repurchase program in the first quarter of 2012. Comerica anticipates that its share repurchase program, combined with dividend payments, will result in a payout of up to 50 percent of net income for the first quarter of 2012.
DALLAS/
December 14, 2011
Comerica Incorporated (NYSE: CMA) is a financial services company headquartered in Dallas, Texas, and strategically aligned by three business segments: The Business Bank, The Retail Bank, and Wealth Management. Comerica focuses on relationships, and helping people and businesses be successful. In addition to Texas, Comerica Bank locations can be found in Arizona, California, Florida and Michigan, with select businesses operating in several other states, as well as in Canada and Mexico. Comerica reported total assets of $60.9 billion at September 30, 2011. To receive e-mail alerts of breaking Comerica news, go to .
http://www.comerica.com/newsalerts
Forward-looking Statements
Any statements in this news release that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "anticipates," "believes," "feels," "expects," "estimates," "seeks," "strives," "plans," "intends," "outlook," "forecast," "position," "target," "mission," "assume," "achievable," "potential," "strategy," "goal," "aspiration," "opportunity," "initiative," "outcome," "continue," "remain," "maintain," "trend," "objective," "pending," "looks forward" and variations of such words and similar expressions, or future or conditional verbs such as "will," "would," "should," "could," "might," "can," "may" or similar expressions, as they relate to Comerica or its management, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are predicated on the beliefs and assumptions of Comerica's management based on information known to Comerica's management as of the date of this news release and do not purport to speak as of any other date. Forward-looking statements may include descriptions of plans and objectives of Comerica's management for future or past operations, products or services, and forecasts of Comerica's revenue, earnings or other measures of economic performance, including statements of profitability, business segments and subsidiaries, estimates of credit trends and global stability. Such statements reflect the view of Comerica's management as of this date with respect to future events and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Should one or more of these risks materialize or should underlying beliefs or assumptions prove incorrect, Comerica's actual results could differ materially from those discussed. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences are changes in general economic, political or industry conditions and related credit and market conditions; changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies, including the interest rate policies of the Federal Reserve Board; adverse conditions in the capital markets; the interdependence of financial service companies; changes in regulation or oversight, including the effects of recently enacted legislation, actions taken by or proposed by the U.S. Treasury, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Texas Department of Banking and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, legislation or regulations enacted in the future, and the impact and expiration of such legislation and regulatory actions; unfavorable developments concerning credit quality; the acquisition of Sterling Bancshares, Inc., or any future acquisitions; the effects of more stringent capital or liquidity requirements; declines or
other changes in the businesses or industries in which Comerica has a concentration of loans, including, but not limited to, the automotive production industry and the real estate business lines; the implementation of Comerica's strategies and business models, including the anticipated performance of any new banking centers and the implementation of revenue enhancements and efficiency improvements; Comerica's ability to utilize technology to efficiently and effectively develop, market and deliver new products and services; operational difficulties or information security problems; changes in the financial markets, including fluctuations in interest rates and their impact on deposit pricing; the entry of new competitors in Comerica's markets; changes in customer borrowing, repayment, investment and deposit practices; management's ability to maintain and expand customer relationships; management's ability to retain key officers and employees; the impact of legal and regulatory proceedings; the effectiveness of methods of reducing risk exposures; the effects of war and other armed conflicts or acts of terrorism and the effects of catastrophic events including, but not limited to, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, fires, droughts and floods. Comerica cautions that the foregoing list of factors is not exclusive. For discussion of factors that may cause actual results to differ from expectations, please refer to our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In particular, please refer to "Item 1A. Risk Factors" beginning on page 16 of the Comerica's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, "Item 1A. Risk Factors" beginning on page 65 of Comerica's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011, "Item 1A. Risk Factors" beginning on page 74 of Comerica's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2011 and "Item 1A. Risk Factors" beginning on page 81 of Comerica's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2011. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. Comerica does not undertake to update forward-looking statements to reflect facts, circumstances, assumptions or events that occur after the date the forward-looking statements are made. For any forward-looking statements made in this news release or in any documents, Comerica claims the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
 


