FILE:CMA/CMA-8K-20110118070840.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Comerica Incorporated ("Comerica") today released its earnings for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2010. A copy of the press release and the presentation slides which will be discussed in Comerica's webcast earnings call are attached hereto as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively.
The information in this report (including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto) is being "furnished" and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is not subject to the liabilities of that section and is not deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
January 18, 2011
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99.1
 Comerica Incorporated (NYSE: CMA) today reported fourth quarter 2010 net income of $96 million, compared to $59 million for the third quarter 2010. Fourth quarter 2010 net income included a provision for loan losses of $57 million, compared to $122 million for the third quarter 2010.
DALLAS/January 18, 2011
 
 
"We saw many encouraging and positive signs in the fourth quarter," said Ralph W. Babb Jr., chairman and chief executive officer. "Period-end loan outstandings were stable, with commercial loans up more than $700 million, or about three percent. We were pleased to see growth in loan outstandings across multiple business lines, particularly Middle Market loans in Texas, as well as growth in National Dealer Services, Mortgage Banker Finance, Energy Lending, and Technology and Life Sciences. These increases were muted by the planned and continued reduction of loans in our Commercial Real Estate business line. We also saw broad-based improvement in credit quality, strong deposit growth and fee income generation. Continued balance sheet strength through careful management of liquidity and capital has positioned Comerica for growth as the economic environment improves.
"Our customers are conveying a more positive and confident tone. Generally, they are feeling much better about the economy. Throughout our geographic footprint, our relationship managers report a growing sense of optimism among customers and prospects. This can be seen in our strong loan pipeline. Given the many positive signs we have seen, as well as our strategy for success, which is focused on growth and balance, we believe we are uniquely positioned for the future."
COMERICA REPORTS FOURTH QUARTER NET INCOME OF $96 MILLION  2
 
Fourth Quarter and Full-Year 2010 Overview
Fourth Quarter 2010 Highlights Compared to Third Quarter 2010
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Full-Year 2010 Compared to Full-Year 2009
 
 
 
 
COMERICA REPORTS FOURTH QUARTER NET INCOME OF $96 MILLION  3
 
Full-Year 2010 Compared to Full-Year 2009 (continued)
 
 
 
 
Net Interest Income and Net Interest Margin
 
 
 
COMERICA REPORTS FOURTH QUARTER NET INCOME OF $96 MILLION  4
 
 
 
 
 
Noninterest Income
Noninterest income was $215 million for the fourth quarter 2010, compared to $186 million for the third quarter 2010. The $29 million increase resulted largely from increases in commercial lending fees ($7 million), deferred compensation asset returns ($6 million), bank-owned life insurance ($5 million), customer derivative income ($4 million), and a $4 million insurance recovery in the fourth quarter 2010, as well as smaller increases across several fee categories. As expected, service charges on deposit accounts declined $2 million, largely the result of the impact of Regulation E on overdraft fees.
Noninterest Expenses
Noninterest expenses were $437 million for the fourth quarter 2010, compared to $402 million for the third quarter 2010. The $35 million increase in noninterest expenses was primarily due to an increase in salaries expense ($18 million), a $5 million one-time charge related to the redemption of subordinated notes previously discussed, and increases in outside processing fees ($4 million) and litigation and operational losses ($4 million). The increase in salaries expense was primarily due to increases in executive and business unit incentives ($10 million), deferred compensation plan costs ($6 million) (offset by an increase in deferred compensation asset returns in noninterest income) and severance expense ($3 million), partially offset by a decrease in share-based compensation expense ($5 million). Full-time equivalent staff decreased by approximately 330 employees, or four percent, from December 31, 2009.
Credit Quality
"All of the key credit metrics are moving in the right direction, with decreases in net charge-offs, watch list loans and nonaccrual loans, all leading to a significant decline in the provision for loan losses," said Babb. "Comerica's credit performance throughout this cycle has been among the best in our peer group. We believe it is a reflection of our strong credit culture and the diligent credit quality review processes we employ. We expect to see continued improvement given the moderate pace of the economic recovery."
 
COMERICA REPORTS FOURTH QUARTER NET INCOME OF $96 MILLION  5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COMERICA REPORTS FOURTH QUARTER NET INCOME OF $96 MILLION  6
 
Balance Sheet and Capital Management
Total assets and common shareholders' equity were $53.7 billion and $5.8 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2010, compared to $55.0 billion and $5.9 billion, respectively, at September 30, 2010. There were approximately 177 million common shares outstanding at December 31, 2010.
Comerica's tangible common equity ratio was 10.54 percent at December 31, 2010, an increase of 15 basis points from September 30, 2010. The estimated Tier 1 ratio increased 12 basis points, to 10.08 percent at December 31, 2010, from September 30, 2010.
Full-Year 2011 Outlook
For full-year 2011, management expects the following, compared to full-year 2010, based on a continuation of modest growth in the economy. NOTE: This outlook does not include any impact from the acquisition of Sterling Bancshares, Inc.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COMERICA REPORTS FOURTH QUARTER NET INCOME OF $96 MILLION  7
 
Business Segments
Comerica's continuing operations are strategically aligned into three major business segments: the Business Bank, the Retail Bank, and Wealth & Institutional Management. The Finance Division also is included as a segment. The financial results below are based on the internal business unit structure of the Corporation and methodologies in effect at December 31, 2010 and are presented on a fully taxable equivalent (FTE) basis. The accompanying narrative addresses fourth quarter 2010 results compared to third quarter 2010.
The following table presents net income (loss) by business segment.
 
 
Business Bank
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COMERICA REPORTS FOURTH QUARTER NET INCOME OF $96 MILLION  8
 
Retail Bank
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wealth and Institutional Management
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COMERICA REPORTS FOURTH QUARTER NET INCOME OF $96 MILLION  9
 
Geographic Market Segments
Comerica also provides market segment results for four primary geographic markets: Midwest, Western, Texas and Florida. In addition to the four primary geographic markets, Other Markets and International are also reported as market segments. The financial results below are based on methodologies in effect at December 31, 2010 and are presented on a fully taxable equivalent (FTE) basis. The accompanying narrative addresses fourth quarter 2010 results compared to third quarter 2010.
The following table presents net income (loss) by market segment.
 
 
Midwest Market
 
 
 
 
 
 
COMERICA REPORTS FOURTH QUARTER NET INCOME OF $96 MILLION  10
 
Western Market
 
 
 
 
 
 
Texas Market
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COMERICA REPORTS FOURTH QUARTER NET INCOME OF $96 MILLION  11
 
Florida Market
 
 
 
 
 
Conference Call and Webcast
Comerica will host a conference call to review fourth quarter and full-year 2010 financial results at 7 a.m. CT Tuesday, January 18, 2011. Interested parties may access the conference call by calling (800) 309-2262 or (706) 679-5261 (event ID No. 38040930). The call and supplemental financial information can also be accessed on the Internet at www.comerica.com. A replay will be available approximately two hours following the conference call through January 31, 2011. The conference call replay can be accessed by calling (800) 642-1687 or (706) 645-9291 (event ID No. 38040930). A replay of the Webcast can also be accessed via Comerica's "Investor Relations" page at www.comerica.com.
Comerica Incorporated is a financial services company headquartered in Dallas, Texas, and strategically aligned by three major business segments: the Business Bank, the Retail Bank, and Wealth & Institutional Management. Comerica focuses on relationships and helping people and businesses be successful. In addition to Texas, Comerica Bank locations can be found in Arizona, California, Florida and Michigan, with select businesses operating in several other states, as well as in Canada and Mexico.
This press release contains both financial measures based on accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP) and non-GAAP based financial measures, which are used where management believes it to be helpful in understanding Comerica's results of operations or financial position. Where non-GAAP financial measures are used, the comparable GAAP financial measure, as well as the reconcilement to the comparable GAAP financial measure, can be found in this press release. These disclosures should not be viewed as a substitute for operating results determined in accordance with GAAP, nor are they necessarily comparable to non-GAAP performance measures that may be presented by other companies.
 
COMERICA REPORTS FOURTH QUARTER NET INCOME OF $96 MILLION  12
 
Forward-looking Statements
Any statements in this news release that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "anticipates," "believes," "feels," "expects," "estimates," "seeks," "strives," "plans," "intends," "outlook," "forecast," "position," "target," "mission," "assume," "achievable," "potential," "strategy," "goal," "aspiration," "outcome," "continue," "remain," "maintain," "trend," "objective" and variations of such words and similar expressions, or future or conditional verbs such as "will," "would," "should," "could," "might," "can," "may" or similar expressions, as they relate to Comerica or its management, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are predicated on the beliefs and assumptions of Comerica's management based on information known to Comerica's management as of the date of this news release and do not purport to speak as of any other date. Forward-looking statements may include descriptions of plans and objectives of Comerica's management for future or past operations, products or services, and forecasts of Comerica's revenue, earnings or other measures of economic performance, including statements of profitability, business segments and subsidiaries, estimates of credit trends and global stability. Such statements reflect the view of Comerica's management as of this date with respect to future events and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Should one or more of these risks materialize or should underlying beliefs or assumptions prove incorrect, Comerica's actual results could differ materially from those discussed. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences are further economic downturns, changes in the pace of an economic recovery and related changes in employment levels, changes in real estate values, fuel prices, energy costs or other events that could affect customer income levels or general economic conditions, the effects of recently enacted legislation, actions taken by or proposed by the U.S. Department of Treasury, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Texas Department of Banking and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, legislation or regulations enacted in the future, and the impact and expiration of such legislation and regulatory actions, the effects of war and other armed conflicts or acts of terrorism, the effects of natural disasters including, but not limited to, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, fires, droughts and floods, the disruption of private or public utilities, the implementation of Comerica's strategies and business models, management's ability to maintain and expand customer relationships, changes in customer borrowing, repayment, investment and deposit practices, management's ability to retain key officers and employees, changes in the accounting treatment of any particular item, the impact of regulatory examinations, declines or other changes in the businesses or industries in which Comerica has a concentration of loans, including, but not limited to, the automotive production industry and the real estate business lines, the anticipated performance of any new banking centers, the entry of new competitors in Comerica's markets, changes in the level of fee income, changes in applicable laws and regulations, including those concerning taxes, banking, securities and insurance, changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies, including the interest rate policies of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, fluctuations in inflation or interest rates, changes in general economic, political or industry conditions and related credit and market conditions, the interdependence of financial service companies and adverse conditions in the stock market. Comerica cautions that the foregoing list of factors is not exclusive. For discussion of factors that may cause actual results to differ from expectations, please refer to our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In particular, please refer to "Item 1A. Risk Factors" beginning on page 11 of Comerica's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, "Item 1A. Risk Factors" beginning on page 67 of Comerica's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2010, "Item 1A. Risk Factors" beginning on page 71 of Comerica's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2010 and "Item 1A. Risk Factors" beginning on page 72 of Comerica's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2010. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. Comerica does not undertake to update forward-looking statements to reflect facts, circumstances, assumptions or events that occur after the date the forward-looking statements are made. For any forward-looking statements made in this news release or in any documents, Comerica claims the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS (unaudited)
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
 
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (unaudited)
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
 
CONSOLIDATED QUARTERLY STATEMENTS OF INCOME (unaudited)
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
N/M - Not meaningful
 
ANALYSIS OF THE ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES (unaudited)
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
 
ANALYSIS OF THE ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES ON LENDING-RELATED COMMITMENTS (unaudited)
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
 
 
NONPERFORMING ASSETS (unaudited)
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
 
 
ANALYSIS OF NET INTEREST INCOME (FTE) (unaudited)
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
 
 
ANALYSIS OF NET INTEREST INCOME (FTE) (unaudited)
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
 
 
CONSOLIDATED STATISTICAL DATA (unaudited)
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
 
 
PARENT COMPANY ONLY BALANCE SHEETS (unaudited)
Comerica Incorporated
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY (unaudited)
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
 
BUSINESS SEGMENT FINANCIAL RESULTS (unaudited)
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
 
FTE - Fully Taxable Equivalent
N/M - Not Meaningful
 
MARKET SEGMENT FINANCIAL RESULTS (unaudited)
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
 
FTE - Fully Taxable Equivalent
N/M - Not Meaningful
 
 
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
 
The net interest margin (FTE), excluding excess liquidity, removes interest earned on balances deposited with the FRB from net interest income (FTE) and average balances deposited with the FRB from average earning assets from the numerator and denominator of the net interest margin (FTE) ratio, respectively. Comerica believes this measurement provides meaningful information to investors, regulators, management and others of the impact on net interest income and net interest margin resulting from Comerica's short-term investment in low yielding instruments.
 
 
Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
 
The Tier 1 common capital ratio removes preferred stock and qualifying trust preferred securities from Tier 1 capital as defined by and calculated in conformity with bank regulations. The tangible common equity removes preferred stock and the effect of intangible assets from capital and the effect of intangible assets from total assets. Comerica believes these measurements are meaningful measures of capital adequacy used by investors, regulators, management and others to evaluate the adequacy of common equity and to compare against other companies in the industry.
 



