FILE:CMA/CMA-8K-20120314080733.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 7.01     REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
On March 14, 2012, Comerica Incorporated ("Comerica") issued a press release announcing that the Federal Reserve had completed its 2012 Capital Plan review and that it did not object to the Comerica capital plan and capital distributions contemplated in the plan. The plan provides for up to $375 million in equity repurchases for the period commencing the first quarter 2012 and ending the first quarter 2013. The plan, which was approved by Comerica's Board of Directors, further contemplates an increase in Comerica's quarterly dividend from 10 cents per share to 15 cents per share, a 50 percent increase. The dividend proposal will be considered by the Board at its April 24, 2012, meeting. In addition, Comerica's Capital Plan includes the authority to redeem its remaining $25 million of trust preferred securities when callable. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
The information in this report (including Exhibit 99.1 hereto) is being "furnished" and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is not subject to the liabilities of that section and is not deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Forward Looking Statements
Any statements in this filing that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "anticipates," "believes," "contemplates," "feels," "expects," "estimates," "seeks," "strives," "plans," "intends," "outlook," "forecast," "position," "target," "mission," "assume," "achievable," "potential," "strategy," "goal," "aspiration," "opportunity," "initiative," "outcome," "continue," "remain," "maintain," "on course," "trend," "objective," "looks forward" and variations of such words and similar expressions, or future or conditional verbs such as "will," "would," "should," "could," "might," "can," "may" or similar expressions, as they relate to Comerica or its management, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are predicated on the beliefs and assumptions of Comerica's management based on information known to Comerica's management as of the date of this filing and do not purport to speak as of any other date. Forward-looking statements may include descriptions of plans and objectives of Comerica's management for future or past operations, products or services, and forecasts of Comerica's revenue, earnings or other measures of economic performance, including statements of profitability, business segments and subsidiaries, estimates of credit trends and global stability. Such statements reflect the view of Comerica's management as of this date with respect to future events and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Should one or more of these risks materialize or should underlying beliefs or assumptions prove incorrect, Comerica's actual results could differ materially from those discussed. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences are changes in general economic, political or industry conditions; changes in monetary and fiscal policies, including the interest rate policies of the Federal Reserve Board; volatility and disruptions in global capital and credit markets; changes in Comerica's credit rating; the interdependence of financial service companies; changes in regulation or oversight; unfavorable developments concerning credit quality; the acquisition of Sterling Bancshares, Inc., or any future acquisitions; the effects of more stringent capital or liquidity requirements; declines or other changes in the businesses or industries of Comerica's customers; the implementation of Comerica's strategies and business models, including the implementation of revenue enhancements and efficiency improvements; Comerica's ability to utilize technology to efficiently and effectively develop, market and deliver new products and services; operational difficulties, failure of technology infrastructure or information security incidents; changes in the financial markets, including fluctuations in interest rates and their impact on deposit pricing; competitive product and pricing pressures among financial institutions within Comerica's markets; changes in customer behavior; management's ability to maintain and expand customer relationships; management's ability to retain key officers and employees; the impact of legal and regulatory proceedings; the effectiveness of methods of reducing risk exposures; the effects of terrorist activities and other hostilities; the effects of catastrophic events including, but not limited to, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, fires, droughts and floods; changes in accounting standards and the critical nature of Comerica's accounting policies. Comerica cautions that the foregoing list of factors is not exclusive. For discussion of factors that may cause actual results to differ from expectations, please refer to our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In particular, please refer to "Item 1A. Risk Factors" beginning on page 12 of Comerica's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. Comerica does not undertake to update forward-looking statements to reflect facts, circumstances, assumptions or events that occur after the date the forward-looking statements are made. For any forward-looking statements made in this filing or in any documents, Comerica claims the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
ITEM 9.01     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
March 14, 2012
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Comerica Incorporated (NYSE: CMA) today announced that the Federal Reserve had completed its 2012 Capital Plan review and that it did not object to the Comerica capital plan and capital distributions contemplated in the plan. The plan provides for up to $375 million in equity repurchases for the period commencing the first quarter 2012 and ending the first quarter 2013. The plan, which was approved by Comerica's Board of Directors, further contemplates an increase in Comerica's quarterly dividend from 10 cents per share to 15 cents per share, a 50 percent increase. The dividend proposal will be considered by the Board at its April 24, 2012, meeting. In addition, Comerica's Capital Plan includes the authority to redeem its remaining $25 million of trust preferred securities when callable.
DALLAS/March 14
, 2012 
"We are pleased the Federal Reserve has completed its review and that we are moving forward with our capital plan, which targets an increase in our total payout to shareholders in 2012. The targeted equity repurchase amount represents a significant increase over the $110 million we repurchased in 2011," said Ralph W. Babb Jr., chairman and chief executive officer. "Our ability to execute our plan reaffirms our company's strong capital position and improved financial performance."
Comerica Incorporated is a financial services company headquartered in Dallas, Texas, and strategically aligned by three business segments: The Business Bank, The Retail Bank, and Wealth Management. Comerica focuses on relationships, and helping people and businesses be successful. In addition to Texas, Comerica Bank locations can be found in Arizona, California, Florida and Michigan, with select businesses operating in several other states, as well as in Canada and Mexico. Comerica reported total assets of $61 billion at December 31, 2011. To receive e-mail alerts of breaking Comerica news, go to .
http://www.comerica.com/newsalerts
Forward Looking Statements
Any statements in this news release that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "anticipates," "believes,"
"contemplates,"
"feels," "expects," "estimates," "seeks," "strives," "plans," "intends," "outlook," "forecast," "position," "target," "mission," "assume," "achievable," "potential," "strategy," "goal," "aspiration," "opportunity," "initiative," "outcome," "continue," "remain," "maintain," "on course," "trend," "objective," "looks forward" and variations of such words and similar expressions, or future or conditional verbs such as "will," "would," "should," "could," "might," "can," "may" or similar expressions, as they relate to Comerica or its management, are intended to identify forward-looking
statements. These forward-looking statements are predicated on the beliefs and assumptions of Comerica's management based on information known to Comerica's management as of the date of this news release and do not purport to speak as of any other date. Forward-looking statements may include descriptions of plans and objectives of Comerica's management for future or past operations, products or services, and forecasts of Comerica's revenue, earnings or other measures of economic performance, including statements of profitability, business segments and subsidiaries, estimates of credit trends and global stability. Such statements reflect the view of Comerica's management as of this date with respect to future events and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Should one or more of these risks materialize or should underlying beliefs or assumptions prove incorrect, Comerica's actual results could differ materially from those discussed. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences are changes in general economic, political or industry conditions; changes in monetary and fiscal policies, including the interest rate policies of the Federal Reserve Board; volatility and disruptions in global capital and credit markets; changes in Comerica's credit rating; the interdependence of financial service companies; changes in regulation or oversight; unfavorable developments concerning credit quality; the acquisition of Sterling Bancshares, Inc., or any future acquisitions; the effects of more stringent capital or liquidity requirements; declines or other changes in the businesses or industries of Comerica's customers; the implementation of Comerica's strategies and business models, including the implementation of revenue enhancements and efficiency improvements; Comerica's ability to utilize technology to efficiently and effectively develop, market and deliver new products and services; operational difficulties, failure of technology infrastructure or information security incidents; changes in the financial markets, including fluctuations in interest rates and their impact on deposit pricing; competitive product and pricing pressures among financial institutions within Comerica's markets; changes in customer behavior; management's ability to maintain and expand customer relationships; management's ability to retain key officers and employees; the impact of legal and regulatory proceedings; the effectiveness of methods of reducing risk exposures; the effects of terrorist activities and other hostilities; the effects of catastrophic events including, but not limited to, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, fires, droughts and floods; changes in accounting standards and the critical nature of Comerica's accounting policies. Comerica cautions that the foregoing list of factors is not exclusive. For discussion of factors that may cause actual results to differ from expectations, please refer to our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In particular, please refer to "Item 1A. Risk Factors" beginning on page 12 of Comerica's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. Comerica does not undertake to update forward-looking statements to reflect facts, circumstances, assumptions or events that occur after the date the forward-looking statements are made. For any forward-looking statements made in this news release or in any documents, Comerica claims the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
 


