FILE:IGT/IGT-8K-20050913135502.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 8.01 OTHER EVENTS
On September 7, 2005 International Game Technology ("IGT") issued a press release attached as Exhibit 99.1, to provide an update on the impact of Hurricane Katrina to its Gulf Coast area employees and operations.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (c) .
Exhibits
     99.1     Press Release of International Game Technology issued on September 7, 2005.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
      International Game Technology (NYSE: IGT) today provided an update on the impact of Hurricane Katrina to its Gulf Coast area employees and operations.
(Reno, NV  September 7, 2005)
     T.J. Matthews, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer commented, "We have now accounted for all 100 of our Gulf Coast area employees and are thankful that none of them was injured. Our focus is now on providing immediate assistance to our employees and their families who are dealing with the aftermath of this disaster, many of whom who have lost their homes and all of their personal belongings. To further respond to this disaster, IGT has committed $1 million to assist relief efforts for our employees, customers and the communities that have suffered from the hurricane. We have also established an IGT Employee Relief Program to assist our affected employees. IGT will provide unlimited matching dollars to employees who contribute to the Relief Program or the American Red Cross."
     IGT's gaming operations monitoring sites in Gulfport and New Orleans were rendered non-operational by Hurricane Katrina and remain down. We are currently working with the gaming regulators in Louisiana and Mississippi and seeking emergency approval for alternative monitoring sites that could be operational by September 30. At the time of the hurricane, IGT owned and operated approximately 2,300 gaming devices in Louisiana and Mississippi. Approximately 900 of these devices are located in casinos that were directly affected by the disaster and will remain non-operational until such time as the casinos reopen. The balance of these devices are located in casinos that were either not affected by the hurricane or have since reopened, of which, approximately 700 are inoperable pending reestablishment of our monitoring sites. The remaining 700 devices are operating as stand-alone or Native American linked machines. It is anticipated that play levels may be soft until the markets return to normal.
th
 
International Game Technology Provides Update on Impact of Hurricane Katrina Page 2 of 2
     At the time of the disaster, IGT had approximately 600 machines pending sale and delivery by September 30, 2005, to casinos directly impacted. In addition, IGT anticipated selling 1,000 to 2,000 units during fiscal year 2006, which are now on indefinite hold pending the reopening of casinos. Also on indefinite hold are product sales from IGT Advantage Systems of approximately $5 million for fiscal year 2005 and $2 to $3 million for fiscal year 2006.
     The estimated book value of gaming operations machines and related assets located in the effected area total approximately $10 million. The estimated book value of inventory, notes and accounts receivable, and other assets located in the effected areas is approximately $27 million.
     The Company carries comprehensive business interruption and property damage insurance policies, which are subject to policy deductibles.
     IGT remains committed to working with its employees, customers and local officials in the reconstruction efforts and will do everything reasonably possible with-in its control to support these efforts during the coming months.
     
Statements in this release, which are not historical facts, are "forward looking" statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although IGT believes that the expectations reflected in any of its forward-looking statements are reasonable, actual results could differ materially from those projected or assumed. IGT's future financial condition and results of operations, as well as any forward-looking statements, are subject to change and to inherent known and unknown risks and uncertainties. Meaningful factors which could cause actual results to differ from expectations described in this release include, but are not limited to, uncertainties generally associated with our ability and timing to restore operations of monitoring sites and IGT's owned gaming devices, the impact on future product sales, and our ability to recover losses under insurance policies. IGT does not intend, and undertakes no obligation, to update forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.
     
Information on additional risks and factors that could affect IGT's business and financial results are included in our public filings made with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
     International Game Technology () is a global company specializing in the design, development, manufacturing, distribution and sales of computerized gaming machines and systems products.
www.IGT.com
     Contact: Patrick Cavanaugh, Director of Investor Relations, 866-296-4232


