FILE:IGT/IGT-8K-20061220170144.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On December 14, 2006, International Game Technology (the "Company") entered into a purchase agreement (the "Purchase Agreement") under which it agreed to sell $900 million aggregate principal amount (including the over allotment option that was granted to the initial purchasers and subsequently exercised by them) of its 2.60% Convertible Debentures due December 15, 2036 (the "Debentures") to Bank of America Securities LLC, Bear, Stearns & Co. Inc., Deutsche Bank Securities, Goldman Sachs & Co., Merrill Lynch & Co., UBS Investment Bank, Wachovia Securities, BNP Paribas, Mitsubishi UFJ Securities, Mizuho International plc, RBS Greenwich Capital and Wells Fargo Securities (collectively, the "Initial Purchasers"). The net proceeds to the Company from the offering after deducting the Initial Purchaser's discount and the estimated offering expenses payable by the Company were approximately $884 million. A copy of the Purchase Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1, and this description of the Purchase Agreement is a summary and is qualified in its entirety by the terms of the Purchase Agreement.
The closing of the sale of the Debentures occurred on December 20, 2006. The Debentures and the shares of the Company's common stock, par value $0.000015625 per share (the "Common Stock"), issuable in certain circumstances upon conversion of the Debentures have not been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"). The Company offered and sold the Debentures to the Initial Purchasers in reliance on the exemption from registration provided by Section 4(2) of the Securities Act. The Initial Purchasers then sold the Debentures to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to the exemption from registration provided by Rule 144A under the Securities Act.
The Debentures are governed by an indenture, dated as of December 20, 2006 (the "Indenture"), between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee (the "Trustee"). A copy of the Indenture is attached as Exhibit 4.1 and the descriptions of the Indenture and the Debentures in this report are summaries and are qualified in their entirety by the terms of the Indenture and Debentures, respectively. The Debentures are general unsecured obligations of the Company and rank equally in right of payment with all of the Company's other existing and future obligations that are unsecured and unsubordinated. The Debentures are effectively subordinated to all the Company's existing and future secured debt and to the indebtedness and other liabilities of the Company's subsidiaries.
The Debentures bear interest at a rate of 2.60% per year payable semiannually in arrears in cash on June 15 and December 15 of each year, beginning on June 15, 2007. Additional interest, of up to 0.25% of the trading price of the Debentures, will be payable after December 20, 2009 if the trading price of the Debentures equals or exceeds 120% or more of the principal amount of the Debentures over specified trading periods. The Debentures mature on December 15, 2036.
Each $1,000 principal amount of the Debentures will initially be convertible, in certain circumstances, into cash and if applicable Common Stock based on an initial conversion rate of 16.1875 shares of our Common Stock per $1,000 principal amount of Debentures, which is equivalent to an initial conversion price of approximately $61.78 per share of Common Stock. The Debentures may be converted into cash and if applicable Common Stock under the following circumstances: (1) during any fiscal quarter ending after March 31, 2007, if the closing sale price for our Common Stock reaches a specified threshold over a specified number of Trading Days during the immediately preceding fiscal quarter, (2) if the Debentures are called for redemption, (3) if specified corporate transactions occur, or (4) during the last three months prior to maturity of the Debentures. Upon conversion, for each $1,000 principal amount of the Debentures a holder will receive an amount in cash equal to the lesser of (i) $1,000 and (ii) the conversion value, determined in the manner set forth in the Indenture. If the conversion value exceeds $1,000, the Company will also deliver Common Stock for the conversion value in excess of $1,000. If a holder elects to convert its Debentures in connection with a Fundamental Change, as defined in the Indenture, the Company will pay a make-whole premium in some circumstances by increasing the conversion rate applicable to such Debentures. If a Fundamental Change occurs on or after December 20, 2009, there will be no such make-whole premium. The conversion rate for the Debentures may be adjusted in certain circumstances including where the Company issues dividends in cash, Common Stock, debt securities or other assets, in the event of a stock split or combination of shares of Common Stock, in the event of a tender or exchange offer for shares of Common Stock or upon issuance of rights or warrants to purchase the Common Stock.
Table of Contents
The Company may not redeem the Debentures prior to December 20, 2009. The Company may redeem some or all of the Debentures for cash on or after December 20, 2009 at 100% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. Holders of the Debentures may require the Company to repurchase all or a portion of their Debentures for cash on December 15, 2009, December 15, 2011, December 15, 2016, December 15, 2021, December 15, 2026 and December 15, 2031, at 100% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. In addition, if the Company experiences a Fundamental Change, holders may require it to purchase all or a portion of their Debentures, subject to specified exceptions, at 100% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any.
In connection with the sale of the Debentures, the Company entered into a registration rights agreement, dated as of December 20, 2006, with the Initial Purchasers (the "Registration Rights Agreement"). Under the Registration Rights Agreement, the Company has agreed to, within 90 days after the closing of the offering of the Debentures, file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or otherwise designate an existing filing as, a shelf registration statement with respect to the resale of the Debentures and the shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Debentures. The Company agreed to use its reasonable best efforts to keep the shelf registration statement effective after its effective date until the earlier of: (1) the sale of all Registrable Securities, as defined in the Registration Rights Agreement, registered under the Shelf Registration Statement; (2) the expiration of the period referred to in Rule 144(k) of the Securities Act with respect to all Registrable Securities held by persons that are not affiliates of the Company; (3) two years from the last date of original issuance of any Registrable Securities; and (4) the date when there are no Registrable Securities outstanding. The Company will be required to pay additional interest, subject to some limitations, to the holders of the Debentures if it fails to comply with its obligation to register the Registrable Securities issuable upon conversion of the Debentures. A copy of the Registration Rights Agreement is attached as Exhibit 4.2 and this description is a summary and is qualified in its entirety by the terms of the Registration Rights Agreement.
The Debentures and the underlying Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Debentures have not been registered under the Securities Act and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from registration requirements. This report on Form 8-K does not constitute an offer to sell, or a solicitation of an offer to buy, any security and shall not constitute an offer, solicitation or sale in any jurisdiction in which such offering would be unlawful.
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
The information included in Item 1.01 of this current report on Form 8-K is incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03.
Item 3.02 Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities.
The information included in Item 1.01 of this current report on Form 8-K is incorporated by reference into this Item 3.02.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On December 20, 2006, the Company issued a press release announcing the closing of its offering for 2.60% Convertible Debentures due December 15, 2036 and its redemption and conversion of its outstanding zero coupon convertible debentures due January 29, 2033. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Table of Contents
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 4.1 EXECUTION VERSION INTERNATIONAL GAME TECHNOLOGY 2.60% CONVERTIBLE DEBENTURES DUE 2036 ---------- INDENTURE DATED AS OF DECEMBER 20, 2006 ---------- WELLS FARGO BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION TRUSTEE
TIA CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE Note: The Cross-Reference Table shall not for any purpose be deemed to be a part of the Indenture. i
TABLE OF CONTENTS ii
Section 3.13. Repayment to the Company.............................. 31 ARTICLE 4 COVENANTS...................................................... 31 Section 4.01. Payment of Securities................................. 31 Section 4.02. SEC and Other Reports................................. 31 Section 4.03. Compliance Certificate................................ 32 Section 4.04. Further Instruments and Acts.......................... 32 Section 4.05. Maintenance of Office or Agency....................... 32 Section 4.06. Notification of Contingent Interest................... 33 Section 4.07. Delivery of Certain Information....................... 33 ARTICLE 5 SUCCESSOR CORPORATION.......................................... 33 Section 5.01. When Company May Merge or Transfer Assets............. 33 ARTICLE 6 DEFAULTS AND REMEDIES.......................................... 34 Section 6.01. Events of Default..................................... 34 Section 6.02. Acceleration.......................................... 36 Section 6.03. Other Remedies........................................ 37 Section 6.04. Waiver of Past Defaults............................... 37 Section 6.05. Control by Majority................................... 37 Section 6.06. Limitation on Suits................................... 38 Section 6.07. Rights of Holders to Receive Payment.................. 38 Section 6.08. Collection Suit by Trustee............................ 38 Section 6.09. Trustee May File Proofs of Claim...................... 38 Section 6.10. Priorities............................................ 39 Section 6.11. Undertaking for Costs................................. 39 Section 6.12. Waiver of Stay, Extension or Usury Laws............... 39 ARTICLE 7 TRUSTEE........................................................ 39 Section 7.01. Duties of Trustee..................................... 39 Section 7.02. Rights of Trustee..................................... 40 Section 7.03. Individual Rights of Trustee.......................... 41 Section 7.04. Trustee's Disclaimer.................................. 42 Section 7.05. Notice of Defaults.................................... 42 Section 7.06. Reports by Trustee to Holders......................... 42 Section 7.07. Compensation and Indemnity............................ 42 Section 7.08. Replacement of Trustee................................ 43 Section 7.09. Successor Trustee by Merger........................... 44 Section 7.10. Eligibility; Disqualification......................... 44 Section 7.11. Preferential Collection of Claims Against Company..... 45 Section 7.12. Trustee's Application for Instructions from the Company............................................... 45 Section 7.13. Reports by Trustee to Gaming Authorities.............. 45 ARTICLE 8 DISCHARGE OF INDENTURE......................................... 45 Section 8.01. Discharge of Liability on Securities.................. 45 Section 8.02. Repayment to the Company.............................. 46
iii
ARTICLE 9 AMENDMENTS..................................................... 46 Section 9.01. Without Consent of Holders............................ 46 Section 9.02. With Consent of Holders............................... 47 Section 9.03. Compliance with Trust Indenture Act................... 48 Section 9.04. Revocation and Effect of Consents, Waivers and Actions............................................... 48 Section 9.05. Notation on or Exchange of Securities................. 48 Section 9.06. Trustee to Sign Supplemental Indentures............... 48 Section 9.07. Effect of Supplemental Indentures..................... 48 ARTICLE 10 CONVERSIONS................................................... 49 Section 10.01. Conversion Privilege and Consideration................ 49 Section 10.02. Conversion Procedure.................................. 51 Section 10.03. Fractional Shares..................................... 51 Section 10.04. Taxes on Conversion................................... 52 Section 10.05. Company to Provide Stock.............................. 52 Section 10.06. Adjustment for Change in Capital Stock................ 52 Section 10.07. Adjustment for Rights Issue........................... 53 Section 10.08. Adjustment for Other Distributions.................... 54 Section 10.08A. Adjustment for Cash Dividends......................... 55 Section 10.09. Adjustment for Company Tender Offer................... 56 Section 10.10. When Adjustment May be Deferred....................... 56 Section 10.11. When No Adjustment Required........................... 57 Section 10.12. Notice of Adjustment.................................. 58 Section 10.13. Voluntary Increase.................................... 58 Section 10.14. Notice of Certain Transactions........................ 58 Section 10.15. Reorganization of Company; Special Distributions...... 59 Section 10.16. Company Determination Final........................... 60 Section 10.17. Trustee's Adjustment Disclaimer....................... 60 Section 10.18. Simultaneous Adjustments.............................. 60 Section 10.19. Successive Adjustments................................ 61 Section 10.20. Limitation on Adjustments............................. 61 Section 10.21. Adjustment to Conversion Rate Upon Certain Fundamental Change Transactions................................... 61 ARTICLE 11 PAYMENT OF INTEREST........................................... 62 Section 11.01. Payment of Interest................................... 62 Section 11.02. Contingent Interest................................... 63 Section 11.03. Payment of Contingent Interest........................ 63 Section 11.04. Notice of Contingent Interest......................... 63 Section 11.05. Defaulted Interest.................................... 63 Section 11.06. Interest Rights Preserved............................. 64
iv
ARTICLE 12 MISCELLANEOUS................................................. 64 Section 12.01. Trust Indenture Act Controls.......................... 64 Section 12.02. Notices............................................... 64 Section 12.03. Communication by Holders with Other Holders........... 65 Section 12.04. Certificate and Opinion as to Conditions Precedent.... 65 Section 12.05. Statements Required in Certificate or Opinion......... 66 Section 12.06. Separability Clause................................... 66 Section 12.07. Rules by Trustee, Paying Agent, Conversion Agent, and Registrar............................................. 66 Section 12.08. Legal Holidays........................................ 66 Section 12.09. Governing Law......................................... 66 Section 12.10. No Recourse Against Others............................ 66 Section 12.11. Successors............................................ 67 Section 12.12. Multiple Originals.................................... 67 Section 12.13. Table of Contents; Headings........................... 67 EXHIBIT A................................................................ A-1 EXHIBIT B................................................................ B-1
v
INDENTURE dated as of December 20, 2006 between INTERNATIONAL GAME TECHNOLOGY, a Nevada corporation ("COMPANY") and WELLS FARGO BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, a national banking association ("TRUSTEE"). Each party agrees as follows for the benefit of the other party and for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders of the Company's 2.60% Convertible Debentures due 2036: ARTICLE 1 DEFINITIONS AND INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE Section 1.01. Definitions. "AFFILIATE" of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For the purposes of this definition, "control" when used with respect to any specified Person means the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have meanings correlative to the foregoing. "ADDITIONAL INTEREST" means all additional interest then owing pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement. "APPLICABLE PROCEDURES" means, with respect to any transfer or transaction involving a Global Security or any beneficial interest therein, the rules and procedures of the Depositary for such Security, in each case to the extent applicable to such transfer or transaction and as in effect from time to time. "BOARD OF DIRECTORS" means either the board of directors of the Company or any duly authorized committee of such board. "BUSINESS DAY" means any calendar day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday in New York, New York and on which commercial banks are open for business in New York, New York. "CAPITAL LEASE OBLIGATIONS" means any obligation under a lease that is required to be capitalized for financial reporting purposes in accordance with GAAP; and the amount of Indebtedness represented by such obligation shall be the capitalized amount of such obligations determined in accordance with GAAP; and the stated maturity thereof shall be the date of the last payment of rent or any other amount due under such lease prior to the first date upon which such lease may be terminated by the lessee without payment of a penalty. "CAPITAL STOCK" for any entity means any and all shares, interests, rights to purchase, warrants, options, participations or other equivalents of or interests in (however designated) stock issued by that corporation. "CERTIFICATED SECURITIES" means securities that are in registered definitive form.
"CLOSING SALE PRICE" of the Common Stock on any date means the closing per share sale price (or if no closing sale price is reported, the average of the bid and ask prices or, if more than one in either case, the average of the average bid and the average ask prices) on such date as reported on the NYSE or, if the shares of Common Stock are not listed on the NYSE, then as reported by the Nasdaq Stock Market or the principal other national or regional securities exchange on which the shares of the Common Stock are then traded or, if the Common Stock is not listed or approved for trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market or another national or regional securities exchange, on the principal market on which shares of the Common Stock are then traded. If the Common Stock is not so traded, the "Closing Sale Price" will be the average of the midpoint of the last bid and ask prices for the Common Stock on the relevant date from each of at least three nationally recognized independent investment banking firms selected by the Company for this purpose. "COMMON STOCK" shall mean the shares of common stock, $0.00015625 par value per share, of the Company existing on the date of this Indenture or any other shares of Capital Stock of the Company into which such shares of common stock shall be reclassified or changed. "COMPANY" means the party named as such in this Indenture until a successor replaces it pursuant to the applicable provisions hereof and, thereafter, means the successor. "COMPANY ORDER" means a written request or order signed in the name of the Company by any two Officers. "CONTINGENT INTEREST" means the interest amounts payable pursuant to Section 11.02. "CONTINUING DIRECTOR" means any individual who on the Issue Date of the Securities was a member of the Board of Directors, together with any new directors whose election, or, solely to fill the vacancy of a continuing director, appointment by such Board of Directors or whose nomination for election by the Company's stockholders is duly approved by the vote of a majority of the directors on the Board of Directors then still in office who were either directors on the Issue Date or whose election, appointment (in the case of a vacancy of a continuing director), or nomination for election was previously approved by a majority of the continuing directors, either by specific vote or by approval of the proxy statement issued by the Company on behalf of the Board of Directors in which such individual is named as a nominee for director. "CORPORATE TRUST OFFICE" means the corporate trust office of the Trustee at which at any time the trust created by this Indenture shall be administered, which office at the date hereof is located at 100 West Washington Street, 22nd Floor, Phoenix, Arizona 85003, Attention: Vice President - Brenda D. Black or such other address as the Trustee may designate from time to time by notice to the Holders and the Company, or the corporate trust office of any successor Trustee at which such trust shall be administered (or such other address as a successor Trustee may designate from time to time by notice to the Holders and the Company). "DEFAULT" means any event which is, or after notice or passage of time or both would be, an Event of Default. "DIVIDEND THRESHOLD AMOUNT" means any quarterly cash dividend on the Common Stock to the extent that the aggregate cash dividend per share of Common Stock in any fiscal 2
quarter does not exceed $0.13. The Dividend Threshold Amount is subject to adjustment in a manner inversely proportional to adjustments to the conversion rate, provided that no adjustment will be made to the Dividend Threshold Amount for any adjustment made to the Conversion Rate under Section 10.08A. "EXCHANGE ACT" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. "EX-DIVIDEND DATE" means the first date on which the shares of Common Stock trade on the applicable exchange or in the applicable market, regular way, without the right to receive the issuance, dividend or distribution in question. "GAAP" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America as in effect and, to the extent optional, adopted by the Company, on the date of this Indenture, consistently applied. "GAMING AUTHORITY" means the United States federal government, any foreign government, or any state, county municipality or other political subdivision or any agency or other governmental authority thereof that now or hereafter has jurisdiction over all or any portion of the gaming activities of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries. "GAMING LAW" means any law, statute, ordinance, code, regulation, constitutional provision, rule, order, directive or other enforcement requirement now or hereafter in existence of any Gaming Authority. "GAMING LICENSE" means any license, qualification, finding of suitability, approval, franchise, or other authorization of the Company and its Subsidiaries on the date of this Indenture or thereafter required to own, lease, operate or otherwise conduct the gaming business of the Company and its Subsidiaries, including all licenses granted under any Gaming Laws. "GLOBAL SECURITY" means a permanent Global Security that is in the form of the Security attached hereto as Exhibit A, and that is deposited with and registered in the name of the Depositary. "HOLDER" or "HOLDERS" means a Person or Persons in whose name a Security is registered on the Registrar's books. "INDEBTEDNESS" means (i) all obligations for borrowed money, (ii) all obligations evidenced by debentures, notes or other similar instruments, (iii) all obligations in respect of letters of credit or bankers acceptances or similar instruments (or reimbursement obligations with respect thereto), (iv) all obligations to pay the deferred purchase price of property or services, except trade accounts payable arising in the ordinary course of business, (v) Capital Lease Obligations and (vi) all Indebtedness of others guaranteed by the Company or for which the Company or any of its property is legally responsible or liable (whether by agreement to purchase indebtedness of, or to supply funds or to invest in, others). "INDENTURE" means this Indenture, as amended or supplemented from time to time in accordance with the terms hereof, including the provisions of the TIA that are deemed to be a part hereof. 3
"ISSUE DATE" of any Security means the date on which the Security was originally issued or deemed issued as set forth on the face of the Security. "MARKET DISRUPTION EVENT" means the occurrence or existence for more than one half hour period in the aggregate on any scheduled Trading Day of any suspension or limitation imposed on trading (by reason of movements in price exceeding limits permitted by the principal market on which shares of Common Stock are listed or approved for trading) in shares of Common Stock or in any options, contracts or future contracts relating to shares of Common Stock, and such suspension or limitation occurs or exists at any time before 1:00 p.m. (New York City time) on such day. "NYSE" means The New York Stock Exchange. "OFFICER" means the Chairman of the Board, the Vice Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Financial Officer, any Executive Vice President, any Senior Vice President, any Vice President, the Treasurer or the Secretary or any Assistant Treasurer or Assistant Secretary of the Company. "OFFICERS' CERTIFICATE" means a written certificate containing the information specified in Sections 12.04 and 12.05, signed in the name of the Company by any two Officers, and delivered to the Trustee. An Officers' Certificate given pursuant to Section 4.03 shall be signed by a financial or accounting Officer of the Company but need not contain the information specified in Sections 12.04 and 12.05. "OPINION OF COUNSEL" means a written opinion containing the information specified in Sections 12.04 and 12.05, from legal counsel. The counsel may be an employee of, or counsel to, the Company. "PERSON" means any individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization, or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof. "PRINCIPAL" of any Indebtedness (including the Securities) means the principal amount of such Indebtedness plus the premium, if any, on such Indebtedness. "REDEMPTION DATE" or "REDEMPTION DATE" means the date specified in a notice of redemption on which the Securities may be redeemed in accordance with the terms of the Securities and this Indenture. "REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT" means the Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of December 20, 2006, between the Company and Bank of America Securities LLC as representative of the initial purchasers. "REPAYMENT" means, in respect of any Indebtedness, the repayment, prepayment, repurchase, redemption, legal defeasment or other retirement of such Indebtedness. "RESTRICTED SECURITY" means a Security required to bear the restrictive legend set forth in the form of Security set forth in Exhibit A of this Indenture. 4
"RULE 144A" means Rule 144A under the Securities Act (or any successor provision), as it may be amended from time to time. "SEC" means the Securities and Exchange Commission. "SECURITIES" means any of the Company's 2.60% Convertible Debentures due December 15, 2036, as amended or supplemented from time to time, issued under this Indenture. "SECURITIES ACT" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. "SIGNIFICANT SUBSIDIARY" means any Subsidiary that would be a "Significant Subsidiary" of the Company within the meaning of Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-X promulgated by the SEC. "STATED MATURITY", when used with respect to any Security, means December 15, 2036. "SUBSIDIARY" means a Person more than 50% of the outstanding Voting Stock of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company or by one or more other Subsidiaries of the Company, or by the Company and one or more other Subsidiaries of the Company. "TERMINATION OF TRADING" means the Common Stock (or other common stock into which the Securities are then convertible) is neither listed or approved for trading on a U.S. national securities exchange. "TIA" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as in effect on the date of this Indenture, provided, however, that in the event the TIA is amended after such date, TIA means, to the extent required by any such amendment, the TIA as so amended. "TRADING DAY" means a day on which (i) there is no Market Disruption Event and (ii) trading in the Company's securities generally occurs on the NYSE, or if shares of Common Stock are not listed on the NYSE, then as reported by the Nasdaq Stock Market or the principal other national or regional securities exchange on which the shares of the Common Stock are then traded or, if the Common Stock is not listed or approved for trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market or another national or regional securities exchange, on the principal market on which shares of the Common Stock are then traded, provided that if the Common Stock is not so listed or traded then a "Trading Day" shall have the same meaning as Business Day. "TRADING PRICE" of the Securities on any date of determination means the average of the secondary market bid quotations per Security obtained by the Company or a financial institution engaged by the Company for this purpose for $5,000,000 principal amount of the Securities at approximately 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on such determination date from two independent nationally recognized securities dealers selected by the Company, provided that if at least two such bids cannot reasonably be obtained by the Company or such financial institution, but one such bid can reasonably be obtained by the Company or such financial institution, this one bid shall be used. If the Company or such financial institution cannot reasonably obtain at least one bid for $5,000,000 principal amount of the Securities from a nationally recognized securities dealer or in the Company's reasonable judgment, the bid quotations are not indicative of the secondary market value of the Securities, then the trading price of the Securities will equal (a) the applicable Conversion Rate of the Securities multiplied by (b) the Closing Sale Price on 5
the NYSE, or if shares of Common Stock are not listed on the NYSE, then as reported by the Nasdaq Stock Market or the principal other national or regional securities exchange on which the shares of the Common Stock are then traded or, if the Common Stock is not listed or approved for trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market or another national or regional securities exchange, on the principal market on which shares of the Common Stock are then traded, of the Common Stock on such determination date. The Company, or upon its request a financial institution engaged by the Company for this purpose, will determine the trading price. "TRUSTEE" means the party named as the "TRUSTEE" in the first paragraph of this Indenture until a successor replaces it pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture and, thereafter, shall mean such successor. The foregoing sentence shall likewise apply to any subsequent such successor or successors. "TRUST OFFICER" means any officer within the Corporate Trust Administration department of the Trustee (or any successor group of the Trustee) with direct responsibility for the administration of this Indenture and also means, with respect to a particular corporate trust matter, any other officer to whom such matter is referred because of his knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject. "UNIFORM COMMERCIAL CODE" means the New York Uniform Commercial Code as in effect from time to time. "VOTING STOCK" of a Person means Capital Stock of such Person of the class or classes pursuant to which the holders thereof have the general voting power under ordinary circumstances to elect at least a majority of the board of directors, managers or trustees of such Person (irrespective of whether or not at the time Capital Stock of any other class or classes shall have or might have voting power by reason of the happening of any contingency). "WHOLLY OWNED SUBSIDIARY" means, at any time, a Subsidiary all the Voting Stock of which (except directors' qualifying shares which shall be deemed to include investments by foreign nationals mandated by applicable law) is at such time owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company and its other Wholly Owned Subsidiaries. Section 1.02. Other Definitions. Term Section: Defined in: 6
7
Section 1.03. Incorporation by Reference of Trust Indenture Act. Whenever this Indenture refers to a provision of the TIA, the provision is incorporated by reference in and made a part of this Indenture. The following TIA terms used in this Indenture have the following meanings: "COMMISSION" means the SEC. "INDENTURE SECURITIES" means the Securities and the Subsidiary Guarantees. "INDENTURE SECURITY HOLDER" means a Holder. "INDENTURE TO BE QUALIFIED" means this Indenture. "INDENTURE TRUSTEE" or "INSTITUTIONAL TRUSTEE" means the Trustee. "OBLIGOR" on the indenture securities means the Company and any other obligor on the indenture securities. All other TIA terms used in this Indenture that are defined by the TIA, defined by TIA reference to another statute or defined by SEC rule have the meanings assigned to them by such definitions. Section 1.04. Rules of Construction. (1) a term has the meaning assigned to it; (2) an accounting term not otherwise defined has the meaning assigned to it and shall be construed in accordance with "U.S. GAAP"; (3) "OR" is not exclusive; (4) "INCLUDING" means including, without limitation; (5) words in the singular include the plural, and words in the plural include the singular; (6) all references to $, dollars, cash payments or money refer to United States currency; and (7) all references to payments of interest on the Securities shall include Contingent Interest, if any and Additional Interest, if any, payable in accordance with the terms of the Registration Rights Agreement. Section 1.05. Acts of Holders. Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided by this Indenture to be given or taken by Holders may be embodied in and evidenced by one or more instruments of substantially similar tenor signed by such Holders in Person or by agent duly appointed in writing; and, except as herein otherwise expressly provided, such action shall become effective when such instrument or instruments are delivered to the Trustee and to the Company. Such instrument or instruments (and the action 8
embodied therein and evidenced thereby) are herein sometimes referred to as the "Act" of Holders signing such instrument or instruments. Proof of execution of any such instrument or of a writing appointing any such agent shall be sufficient for any purpose of this Indenture and conclusive in favor of the Trustee and the Company, if made in the manner provided in this Section. (a) The fact and date of the execution by any Person of any such instrument or writing may be proved by the affidavit of a witness of such execution or by a certificate of a notary public or other officer authorized by law to take acknowledgments of deeds, certifying that the individual signing such instrument or writing acknowledged to such officer the execution thereof. Where such execution is by a signer acting in a capacity other than such signer's individual capacity, such certificate or affidavit shall also constitute sufficient proof of such signer's authority. The fact and date of the execution of any such instrument or writing, or the authority of the Person executing the same, may also be proved in any other manner which the Trustee deems sufficient. (b) The ownership of Securities shall be proved by the register for the Securities. (c) Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act of the Holder of any Security shall bind every future Holder of the same Security and the holder of every Security issued upon the registration of transfer thereof or in exchange therefor or in lieu thereof in respect of anything done, omitted or suffered to be done by the Trustee, the Company or the Conversion Agent in reliance thereon, whether or not notation of such action is made upon such Security. (d) If the Company shall solicit from the Holders any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act, the Company may, at its option, by or pursuant to a Board Resolution, fix in advance a record date for the determination of Holders entitled to give such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act, but the Company shall have no obligation to do so. If such a record date is fixed, such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act may be given before or after such record date, but only the Holders of record at the close of business on such record date shall be deemed to be Holders for the purposes of determining whether Holders of the requisite proportion of outstanding Securities have authorized or agreed or consented to such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act, and for that purpose the outstanding Securities shall be computed as of such record date; provided that no such authorization, agreement or consent by the Holders on such record date shall be deemed effective unless it shall become effective pursuant to the provisions of this Indenture not later than six months after the record date. 9
ARTICLE 2 THE SECURITIES Section 2.01. Form and Dating. The Securities and the Trustee's certificate of authentication shall be substantially in the form of Exhibit A, which is a part of this Indenture. The Securities may have notations, legends or endorsements required by law, stock exchange rule or usage (provided that any such notation, legend or endorsement required by usage is in a form acceptable to the Company). The Company shall provide any such notations, legends or endorsements to the Trustee in writing. Each Security shall be dated the date of its authentication. Except as otherwise expressly permitted in this Indenture, all Securities shall be identical in all respects. Notwithstanding any differences among them, all Securities issued under this Indenture shall vote and consent together on all matters as one class. (a) Global Securities. Securities offered and sold to qualified institutional buyers as defined in Rule 144A ("QIBS") in reliance on Rule 144A shall be issued initially in the form of a Global Security, which shall be deposited with the Trustee at its Corporate Trust Office, as custodian for the Depositary (as defined below) and registered in the name of The Depository Trust Company ("DTC") or the nominee thereof (DTC, or any successor thereto, and any such nominee being hereinafter referred to as the "DEPOSITARY"), duly executed by the Company and authenticated by the Trustee as hereinafter provided. The aggregate principal amount of the Global Securities may from time to time be increased or decreased by adjustments made on the records of the Trustee and the Depositary as hereinafter provided. (b) Global Securities in General. Each Global Security shall represent such of the outstanding Securities as shall be specified therein and each shall provide that it shall represent the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Securities from time to time endorsed thereon and that the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Securities represented thereby may from time to time be reduced or increased, as appropriate, to reflect exchanges, redemptions, repurchases and conversions. Any adjustment of the aggregate principal amount of a Global Security to reflect the amount of any increase or decrease in the amount of outstanding Securities represented thereby shall be made by the Trustee in accordance with instructions given by the Holder thereof as required by Section 2.12 hereof and shall be made on the records of the Trustee and the Depositary. (c) Book-Entry Provisions. This Section 2.01(c) shall apply only to Global Securities deposited with or on behalf of the Depositary. The Company shall execute and the Trustee shall, in accordance with this Section 2.01(c), authenticate and deliver initially one or more Global Securities that (a) shall be registered in the name of the Depositary, (b) shall be delivered by the Trustee to the Depositary or pursuant to the Depositary's instructions and (c) shall bear legends substantially to the following effect: 10
THIS SECURITY AND ANY COMMON STOCK ISSUABLE UPON THE CONVERSION OF THIS SECURITY HAVE NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE U.S. SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), AND MAY NOT BE SOLD OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR AN APPLICABLE EXEMPTION THEREFROM. EACH PURCHASER OF THIS SECURITY IS HEREBY NOTIFIED THAT THE SELLER OF THIS SECURITY MAY BE RELYING ON THE EXEMPTION FROM THE PROVISIONS OF SECTION 5 OF THE SECURITIES ACT PROVIDED BY RULE 144A THEREUNDER. THE HOLDER OF THIS SECURITY SHALL BE DEEMED TO HAVE AGREED FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE COMPANY THAT THIS SECURITY AND ANY COMMON STOCK ISSUABLE UPON THE CONVERSION OF THIS SECURITY MAY NOT BE OFFERED, SOLD, PLEDGED OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT (A) (1) TO A PERSON WHO THE TRANSFEROR REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER WITHIN THE MEANING OF RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT ACQUIRING FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER IN A TRANSACTION MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF RULE 144A, (2) PURSUANT TO AN EXEMPTION FROM REGISTRATION UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT PROVIDED BY RULE 144 THEREUNDER (IF AVAILABLE), (3) PURSUANT TO ANOTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENT OF THE SECURITIES ACT SUBJECT TO THE COMPANY'S AND THE TRUSTEE'S RIGHT PRIOR TO ANY SUCH OFFER, SALE OR TRANSFER PURSUANT TO THIS CLAUSE (3) TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF AN OPINION OF COUNSEL, CERTIFICATIONS AND/OR OTHER INFORMATION SATISFACTORY TO EACH OF THEM, AND IN EACH OF THE FOREGOING CASES, TO REQUIRE THAT A CERTIFICATE OF TRANSFER IN THE FORM APPEARING ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THIS SECURITY IS COMPLETED AND DELIVERED BY THE TRANSFEROR TO THE TRUSTEE OR (4) PURSUANT TO AN EFFECTIVE REGISTRATION STATEMENT UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, AND (B) IN ACCORDANCE WITH ALL APPLICABLE SECURITIES LAWS OF THE STATES OF THE UNITED STATES AND OTHER JURISDICTIONS. THIS SECURITY, ANY SHARES OF COMMON STOCK ISSUABLE UPON ITS CONVERSION AND ANY RELATED DOCUMENTATION MAY BE AMENDED OR SUPPLEMENTED FROM TIME TO TIME TO MODIFY THE RESTRICTIONS ON RESALES AND OTHER TRANSFERS OF THIS SECURITY AND ANY SUCH SHARES TO REFLECT ANY CHANGE IN APPLICABLE LAW OR REGULATION (OR THE INTERPRETATION THEREOF) OR IN PRACTICES RELATING TO THE RESALE OR TRANSFER OF RESTRICTED SECURITIES GENERALLY. THE HOLDER OF THIS SECURITY AND SUCH SHARES SHALL BE DEEMED BY THE ACCEPTANCE OF THIS SECURITY AND ANY SUCH SHARES TO HAVE AGREED TO ANY SUCH AMENDMENT OR SUPPLEMENT." Section 2.02. Execution and Authentication. The Securities shall be executed on behalf of the Company by any Officer. The signature of the Officer on the Securities may be manual or facsimile. 11
If an Officer whose signature is on a Security no longer holds that office at the time the Trustee authenticates the Security, the Security shall be valid nevertheless. At any time after the execution and delivery of this Indenture, the Company may deliver Securities executed by the Company to the Trustee for authentication, together with a written order of the Company in the form of an Officers' Certificate for the authentication and delivery of such Securities, and the Trustee in accordance with such written order of the Company shall authenticate and deliver such Securities. A Security shall not be valid until an authorized signatory of the Trustee manually signs the certificate of authentication on the Security. The signature shall be conclusive evidence that the Security has been authenticated under this Indenture. The Securities shall originally be issued only in registered form without coupons and only in denominations of $1,000 of principal amount and any integral multiple thereof. The Trustee shall authenticate and deliver the Securities for original issue in an aggregate principal amount of $900,000,000, upon one or more Company Orders without any further action by the Company. The aggregate principal amount of the Securities due at the Stated Maturity thereof outstanding at any time may not exceed the amount set forth in the foregoing sentence. The Trustee shall act as the initial authenticating agent. Thereafter, the Trustee may appoint an authenticating agent acceptable to the Company to authenticate Securities. An authenticating agent may authenticate Securities whenever the Trustee may do so. Each reference in this Indenture to authentication by the Trustee includes authentication by such agent. An authenticating agent shall have the same rights as the Registrar, Paying Agent or Conversion Agent to deal with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company. Section 2.03. Registrar, Paying Agent and Conversion Agent. The Company shall maintain an office or agency where Securities may be presented for registration of transfer or for exchange ("REGISTRAR"), an office or agency where Securities may be presented for repurchase or payment ("PAYING AGENT") an office or agency where Securities may be presented for conversion ("CONVERSION AGENT") and an office or agency where notices to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities and this Indenture may be served. The Registrar shall keep a register of the Securities and of their transfer, exchange and conversion. The Company may have one or more co-registrars, one or more additional paying agents and one or more additional conversion agents. The term Paying Agent includes any additional paying agent, including any named pursuant to Section 4.05. The term Conversion Agent includes any additional conversion agent, including any named pursuant to Section 4.05. The Company shall enter into an appropriate agency agreement with any Registrar, Paying Agent, Conversion Agent or co-registrar not a party to this Indenture, which shall incorporate the terms of the TIA. The agreement shall implement the provisions of this Indenture that relate to such agent. The Company shall notify the Trustee of the name and address of any such agent. If the Company fails to maintain a Registrar, Paying Agent or Conversion Agent, the Trustee shall act as such and shall be entitled to appropriate compensation 12
therefor pursuant to Section 7.07. The Company or any of its domestically incorporated Wholly Owned Subsidiaries may act as Paying Agent, Registrar, Conversion Agent or co-registrar. The Company initially appoints the Trustee as Registrar, Conversion Agent and Paying Agent in connection with the Securities, and each of the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee and the office or agency of the Trustee in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, to be such office or agency of the Company for the aforesaid purposes. Section 2.04. Paying Agent to Hold Money and Securities in Trust. Except as otherwise provided herein, on or prior to each due date of payment in respect of any Security, the Company shall deposit with the Paying Agent a sum of money (in immediately available funds if deposited on the due date) or Common Stock or, as permitted by this Indenture, a combination thereof, sufficient to make such payments when so becoming due. The Company shall require each Paying Agent (other than the Trustee) to agree in writing that the Paying Agent shall hold in trust for the benefit of Holders or the Trustee all money and Common Stock held by the Paying Agent for the making of payments in respect of the Securities and shall notify the Trustee of any default by the Company in making any such payment. At any time during the continuance of any such default, the Paying Agent shall, upon the written request of the Trustee, forthwith pay to the Trustee all money and Common Stock so held in trust. If the Company or a Wholly Owned Subsidiary acts as Paying Agent, it shall segregate the money and Common Stock held by it as Paying Agent and hold it as a separate trust fund. The Company at any time may require a Paying Agent to pay all money and Common Stock held by it to the Trustee and to account for any funds and Common Stock disbursed by the Paying Agent. Upon complying with this Section, the Paying Agent shall have no further liability for the money delivered to the Trustee. Section 2.05. Holder Lists. The Trustee shall preserve in as current a form as is reasonably practicable the most recent list available to it of the names and addresses of Holders. If the Trustee is not the Registrar, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee, in writing at least five Business Days before each semiannual interest payment date, and at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing, a list in such form and as of such date as the Trustee may reasonably require of the names and addresses of Holders. Section 2.06. Transfer and Exchange. Subject to Section 2.11 hereof, (a) upon surrender for registration of transfer of any Security, together with a written instrument of transfer satisfactory to the Registrar duly executed by the Holder or such Holder's attorney duly authorized in writing, at the office or agency of the Company designated as Registrar or co-registrar pursuant to Section 2.03, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in the name of the designated transferee or transferees, one or more new Securities of any authorized denomination or denominations, of a like aggregate principal amount. The Company shall not charge a service charge for any registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to pay all taxes, assessments or other governmental charges that may be imposed in connection with the transfer or exchange of the Securities from the Holder requesting such transfer or exchange. At the option of the Holder, Securities may be exchanged for other Securities of any authorized denomination or denominations, of a like aggregate principal amount, upon surrender of the Securities to be exchanged, together with a written instrument of transfer satisfactory to 13
the Registrar duly executed by the Holder or such Holder's attorney-in-fact duly authorized in writing, at such office or agency. Whenever any Securities are so surrendered for exchange, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, the Securities which the Holder making the exchange is entitled to receive. The Company shall not be required to make, and the Registrar need not register, transfers or exchanges of Securities selected for redemption (except, in the case of Securities to be redeemed in part, the portion thereof not to be redeemed) or any Securities in respect of which a Repurchase Notice or Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice has been given and not withdrawn by the Holder thereof in accordance with the terms of this Indenture (except, in the case of Securities to be repurchased in part, the portion thereof not to be repurchased) or any Securities for a period of 15 days before the mailing of a notice of redemption of Securities to be redeemed. (b) Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary herein, so long as a Global Security remains outstanding and is held by or on behalf of the Depositary, transfers of a Global Security, in whole or in part, shall be made only in accordance with Section 2.12 and this Section 2.06(b). Transfers of a Global Security shall be limited to transfers of such Global Security, to the Depositary, to nominees of the Depositary or to a successor of the Depositary or such successor's nominee. (c) Successive registrations and registrations of transfers and exchanges as aforesaid may be made from time to time as desired, and each such registration shall be noted on the register for the Securities. (d) Any Registrar appointed pursuant to Section 2.03 hereof shall provide to the Trustee such information as the Trustee may reasonably require in connection with the delivery by such Registrar of Securities upon transfer or exchange of Securities. (e) No Registrar shall be required to make registrations of transfer or exchange of Securities during any periods designated in the text of the Securities or in this Indenture as periods during which such registration of transfers and exchanges need not be made. (f) If Securities are issued upon the transfer, exchange or replacement of Securities subject to restrictions on transfer and bearing the legends set forth on the form of Security attached hereto as Exhibit A setting forth such restrictions (collectively, the "LEGEND"), or if a request is made to remove the Legend on a Security, the Securities so issued shall bear the Legend, or the Legend shall not be removed, as the case may be, unless there is delivered to the Company and the Registrar such satisfactory evidence, which shall include an Opinion of Counsel, as may be reasonably required by the Company and the Registrar, that neither the Legend nor the restrictions on transfer set forth therein are required to ensure that transfers thereof comply with the provisions of Rule 144A or Rule 144 under the Securities Act or that such Securities are not "restricted" within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Upon (i) provision of such satisfactory evidence, or (ii) notification by the Company to the Trustee and Registrar of the sale of such Security pursuant to a registration statement that is effective 14
at the time of such sale, the Trustee, pursuant to a Company Order, shall authenticate and deliver a Security that does not bear the Legend. If the Legend is removed from the face of a Security and the Security is subsequently held by the Company or an Affiliate of the Company, the Legend shall be reinstated. Section 2.07. Replacement Securities. If a mutilated Security is surrendered to the Registrar or if the Holder of a Security claims that such Security has been lost, destroyed or wrongfully taken, the Company shall issue and the Trustee shall authenticate a replacement Security if the requirements of Section 8-405 of the Uniform Commercial Code are met and the Holder satisfies any other reasonable requirements of the Trustee. If required by the Trustee or the Company, such Holder shall furnish an indemnity bond sufficient in the judgment of the Company and the Trustee to protect the Company, the Trustee, the Paying Agent, the Registrar and any co-registrar from any loss which any of them may suffer if a Security is replaced. The Company and the Trustee may charge the Holder for their expenses in replacing a Security. In case any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security has become or is about to become due and payable, or is about to be repurchased by the Company pursuant to Article 3 hereof, the Company in its discretion may, instead of issuing a new Security, pay or repurchase such Security in cash. Upon the issuance of any new Securities under this Section 2.07, the Company may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto and any other expenses (including the fees and expenses of the Trustee) connected therewith. Every new Security issued pursuant to this Section 2.07 in exchange for any mutilated Security, or in lieu of any destroyed, lost or stolen Security, shall constitute an original additional contractual obligation of the Company and any other obligor upon the Securities, whether or not the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall be at any time enforceable by anyone, and shall be entitled to all benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all other Securities duly issued hereunder. Section 2.08. Outstanding Securities. Securities outstanding at any time are all Securities authenticated by the Trustee except for those cancelled by it, those delivered to it for cancellation and those described in this Section 2.08 as not outstanding. A Security does not cease to be outstanding because the Company or an Affiliate of the Company holds the Security; provided, however, that in determining whether the Holders of the requisite principal amount of Securities have given or concurred in any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action hereunder, Securities owned by the Company or any obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or such other obligor shall be disregarded and deemed not to be outstanding, except that, in determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying upon any such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action, only Securities which a Trust Officer of the Trustee actually knows to be so owned shall be so disregarded. Subject to the foregoing, only Securities outstanding at the time of such determination shall be considered in any such determination (including, without limitation, determinations pursuant to Articles 6 and 9). 15
If a Security is replaced pursuant to Section 2.07, it ceases to be outstanding unless the Trustee and the Company receive proof satisfactory to them that the replaced Security is held by a bona fide purchaser. If the Paying Agent holds, in accordance with this Indenture, on a Redemption Date, or on the Business Day following a Repurchase Date or a Fundamental Change Repurchase Date, or on Stated Maturity, money sufficient to pay Securities payable on that date, then immediately after such Redemption Date, Repurchase Date, Fundamental Change Repurchase Date or Stated Maturity, as the case may be, such Securities shall cease to be outstanding and interest, if any, on such Securities shall cease to accrue and such Securities shall cease to be convertible; provided, that if such Securities are to be redeemed, notice of such redemption has been duly given pursuant to this Indenture or provision therefor satisfactory to the Trustee has been made. If a Security is converted in accordance with Article 10, then from and after the time of conversion on the Conversion Date, such Security shall cease to be outstanding and interest, if any, shall cease to accrue on such Security. Section 2.09. Temporary Securities. Until definitive Securities are ready for delivery, the Company may prepare and the Trustee shall authenticate temporary Securities. Temporary Securities shall be substantially in the form of definitive Securities but may have variations that the Company considers appropriate for temporary Securities. Without unreasonable delay, the Company shall prepare and the Trustee shall authenticate definitive Securities and deliver them in exchange for temporary Securities. Section 2.10. Cancellation. The Company at any time may deliver Securities to the Trustee for cancellation. The Registrar and the Paying Agent shall forward to the Trustee any Securities surrendered to them for registration of transfer, exchange or payment. The Trustee and no one else shall cancel all Securities surrendered for registration of transfer, exchange, payment or cancellation and shall dispose of such cancelled securities in its customary manner. The Company may not issue new Securities to replace Securities it has redeemed, paid or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation or that any Holder has converted pursuant to Article 10. Section 2.11. Persons Deemed Owners. Prior to due presentment of a Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name such Security is registered as the owner of such Security for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of the Security or the payment of any Redemption Price, Repurchase Price or Fundamental Change Repurchase Price in respect thereof, and interest thereon, for the purpose of conversion and for all other purposes whatsoever, whether or not such Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall be affected by notice to the contrary. Section 2.12. Global Securities. (a) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Indenture or the Securities, (A) transfers of a Global Security, in whole or in part, shall be made only in accordance with Section 2.06 and Section 2.12(a)(i), (B) transfers of a beneficial interest in a Global Security for a Certificated Security shall comply with Section 2.06 and Section 2.12(a)(ii) below, and (C) transfers of a Certificated Security shall comply with Section 2.06 and 2.12(a)(iii)and (iv) below. 16
(i) Transfer of Global Security. A Global Security may not be transferred, in whole or in part, to any Person other than the Depositary or a nominee or any successor thereof, and no such transfer to any such other Person may be registered; provided that this clause (i) shall not prohibit any transfer of a Security that is issued in exchange for a Global Security but is not itself a Global Security. No transfer of a Security to any Person shall be effective under this Indenture or the Securities unless and until such Security has been registered in the name of such Person. Nothing in this Section 2.12(a)(i) shall prohibit or render ineffective any transfer of a beneficial interest in a Global Security effected in accordance with the other provisions of this Section 2.12(a). (ii) Restrictions on Transfer of a Beneficial Interest in a Global Security for a Certificated Security. A beneficial interest in a Global Security may not be exchanged for a Certificated Security except: (A) Certificated Securities shall be issued to all owners of beneficial interests in a Global Security in exchange for such interests if: 1) DTC notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for such Global Security or DTC ceases to be a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act, at a time when DTC is required to be so registered in order to act as Depositary, and in each case a successor Depositary is not appointed by the Company within 90 days of such notice; or 2) the Company executes and delivers to the Trustee and Registrar an Officers' Certificate stating that such Global Security shall be so exchangeable. In connection with the exchange of an entire Global Security for Certificated Securities pursuant to this subsection (ii), such Global Security shall be deemed to be surrendered to the Trustee for cancellation, and the Company shall execute, and upon Company Order the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, to each beneficial owner identified by DTC in exchange for its beneficial interest in such Global Security, an equal aggregate principal amount of Certificated Securities of authorized denominations. (B) The owner of a beneficial interest in a Global Security will be entitled to receive a Certificated Security in exchange for such interest if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing. Upon receipt by the Registrar of instructions from the Holder of a Global Security directing the Registrar to (x) issue one or more Certificated Securities in the amounts specified to the owner of a beneficial interest in such Global Security and (y) debit or cause to be debited an equivalent amount of beneficial interest in such Global Security, subject to the rules and procedures of DTC: 1) the Registrar shall notify the Company and the Trustee of such instructions, identifying the owner and amount of such beneficial interest in such Global Security; 17
2) the Company shall promptly execute, and upon Company Order the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, to such beneficial owner Certificated Security(ies) in an equivalent amount to such beneficial interest in such Global Security; and 3) the Registrar shall decrease such Global Security by such amount in accordance with the foregoing. (iii) Transfer and Exchange of Certificated Securities. When Certificated Securities are presented to the Registrar with a request: (x) to register the transfer of such Certificated Securities; or (z) to exchange such Certificated Securities for an equal principal amount of Certificated Securities of other authorized denominations, the Registrar shall register the transfer or make the exchange as requested if its reasonable requirements for such transaction are met; provided, however, that the Certificated Securities surrendered for transfer or exchange: (1) shall be duly endorsed or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form reasonably satisfactory to the Company and the Registrar, duly executed by the Holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing; and (2) so long as such Securities are Restricted Securities, such Securities are being transferred or exchanged pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act or pursuant to clause (A), (B) or (C) below, and are accompanied by the following additional information and documents, as applicable: (A) if such Certificated Securities are being delivered to the Registrar by a Holder for registration in the name of such Holder, without transfer, a certification from such Holder to that effect; or (B) if such Certificated Securities are being transferred to the Company, a certification to that effect; or (C) if such Certificated Securities are being transferred pursuant to an exemption from registration, (i) a certification to that effect (in the form set forth in Exhibit B, if applicable) and (ii) if the Company so requests, an opinion of counsel in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to it or other evidence in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to it as to the compliance with the restrictions set forth in the Legend. (iv) Restrictions on Transfer of a Certificated Security for a Beneficial Interest in a Global Security. A Certificated Security may not be exchanged for a beneficial interest in a Global Security except upon satisfaction of the requirements set forth below. 18
Upon receipt by the Trustee of a Certificated Security, duly endorsed or accompanied by appropriate instruments of transfer, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, together with: (I) so long as the Securities are Restricted Securities, certification, in the form set forth in Exhibit B, that such Certificated Security is being transferred to a QIB in accordance with Rule 144A; and (II) written instructions directing the Trustee to make, or to direct the Registrar to make, an adjustment on its books and records with respect to such Global Security to reflect an increase in the aggregate principal amount of the Securities represented by the Global Security, such instructions to contain information regarding the Depositary account to be credited with such increase, then the Trustee shall cancel such Certificated Security and cause, or direct the Registrar to cause, in accordance with the standing instructions and procedures existing between the Depositary and the Registrar, the aggregate principal amount of Securities represented by the Global Security to be increased by the aggregate principal amount of the Certificated Security to be exchanged, and shall credit or cause to be credited to the account of the Person specified in such instructions a beneficial interest in the Global Security equal to the principal amount of the Certificated Security so cancelled. If no Global Securities are then outstanding, the Company shall issue and the Trustee shall authenticate, upon written order of the Company in the form of an Officers' Certificate, a new Global Security in the appropriate principal amount. (b) Subject to the succeeding Section 2.12(c), every Security shall be subject to the restrictions on transfer provided in the Legend including the delivery of an opinion of counsel, if so required. Whenever any Restricted Security is presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or for exchange for a Security registered in a name other than that of the Holder, such Security must be accompanied by a certificate in substantially the form set forth in Exhibit B, dated the date of such surrender and signed by the Holder of such Security, as to compliance with such restrictions on transfer. The Registrar shall not be required to accept for such registration of transfer or exchange any Security not so accompanied by a properly completed certificate. (c) The restrictions imposed by the Legend upon the transferability of any Security shall cease and terminate when such Security has been sold pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act or transferred in compliance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act (or any successor provision thereto) or, if earlier, upon the expiration of the holding period applicable to sales thereof under Rule 144(k) under the Securities Act (or any successor provision). Any Security as to which such restrictions on transfer shall have expired in accordance with their terms or shall have terminated may, upon a surrender of such Security for exchange to the Registrar in accordance with the provisions of this Section 2.12 (accompanied, in the event that such restrictions on transfer have terminated by reason of a transfer in compliance with Rule 144 or any successor provision, by an opinion of counsel having substantial experience in practice under the Securities Act and otherwise reasonably acceptable in form and substance to the Company, addressed to the Company, to the effect that the transfer of such Security has been made in compliance with Rule 144 or such successor provision), 19
be exchanged for a new Security, of like tenor and aggregate principal amount, which shall not bear the restrictive Legend. The Company shall inform the Trustee of the effective date of any registration statement registering the Securities under the Securities Act. The Trustee shall not be liable for any action taken or omitted to be taken by it in good faith in accordance with the aforementioned opinion of counsel or registration statement. (d) As used in the preceding two paragraphs of this Section 2.12, the term "transfer" encompasses any sale, pledge, transfer, loan, hypothecation, or other disposition of any Security. (e) The provisions of clauses (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) below shall apply only to Global Securities: (i) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Indenture or the Securities, a Global Security shall not be exchanged in whole or in part for a Security registered in the name of any Person other than the Depositary or one or more nominees thereof, provided that a Global Security may be exchanged for Securities registered in the names of any Person designated by the Depositary in the event that (A) the Depositary has notified the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for such Global Security or such Depositary has ceased to be a "clearing agency" registered under the Exchange Act, and a successor Depositary is not appointed by the Company within 90 days or (B) an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing with respect to the Securities. Any Global Security exchanged pursuant to clause (A) above shall be so exchanged in whole and not in part, and any Global Security exchanged pursuant to clause (B) above may be exchanged in whole or from time to time in part as directed by the Depositary. Any Security issued in exchange for a Global Security or any portion thereof shall be a Global Security; provided that any such Security so issued that is registered in the name of a Person other than the Depositary or a nominee thereof shall not be a Global Security. (ii) Securities issued in exchange for a Global Security or any portion thereof shall be issued in definitive, fully registered form, without interest coupons, shall have an aggregate principal amount equal to that of such Global Security or portion thereof to be so exchanged, shall be registered in such names and be in such authorized denominations as the Depositary shall designate and shall bear the applicable legends provided for herein. Any Global Security to be exchanged in whole shall be surrendered by the Depositary to the Trustee, as Registrar. With regard to any Global Security to be exchanged in part, either such Global Security shall be so surrendered for exchange or, if the Trustee is acting as custodian for the Depositary or its nominee with respect to such Global Security, the principal amount thereof shall be reduced, by an amount equal to the portion thereof to be so exchanged, by means of an appropriate adjustment made on the records of the Trustee. Upon any such surrender or adjustment, the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver the Security issuable on such exchange to or upon the order of the Depositary or an authorized representative thereof. (iii) Subject to the provisions of subsection (f) below, the registered Holder may grant proxies and otherwise authorize any Person, including Agent Members (as 20
defined below) and Persons that may hold interests through Agent Members, to take any action which a holder is entitled to take under this Indenture or the Securities. (iv) In the event of the occurrence of any of the events specified in clause (i) above, the Company will promptly make available to the Trustee a reasonable supply of Certificated Securities in definitive, fully registered form, without interest coupons. (f) Neither any members of, or participants in, the Depositary (collectively, the "AGENT MEMBERS") nor any other Persons on whose behalf Agent Members may act shall have any rights under this Indenture with respect to any Global Security registered in the name of the Depositary or any nominee thereof, or under any such Global Security, and the Depositary or such nominee, as the case may be, may be treated by the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee as the absolute owner and holder of such Global Security for all purposes whatsoever. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall prevent the Company, the Trustee or any agent of the Company or the Trustee from giving effect to any written certification, proxy or other authorization furnished by the Depositary or such nominee, as the case may be, or impair, as between the Depositary, its Agent Members and any other Person on whose behalf an Agent Member may act, the operation of customary practices of such Persons governing the exercise of the rights of a holder of any Security. The registered Holder of a Global Security may grant proxies and otherwise authorize any Person, including Agent Members and persons that may hold interests through Agent Members, to take any action that a Holder is entitled to take under this Indenture or the Securities. Section 2.13. CUSIP and ISIN Numbers. The Company in issuing the Securities may use "CUSIP" and "ISIN" numbers (if then generally in use) and, if so, the Trustee shall use CUSIP and ISIN numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders; provided, however, that neither the Company nor the Trustee shall have any responsibility for any defect in the CUSIP or ISIN number that appears on any Security, check, advice of payment or redemption notice, and any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Securities or as contained in any notice of a redemption and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Securities, and any such redemption shall not be affected by any defect in or omission of such numbers. The Company shall promptly notify the Trustee in the event of any change in the CUSIP or ISIN numbers. Section 2.14. Certain Tax Matters. The Trustee on behalf of the Holders agrees and each Holder is deemed to have agreed (a) that for United States federal income tax purposes the Securities will be treated as indebtedness subject to the Treasury regulations governing contingent payment debt instruments, (b) that the Holders will report original issue discount and interest on the Securities in accordance with the Company's determination of both the "comparable yield" and the "projected payment schedule" and (c) to be bound by the Company's application of the Treasury regulations that govern contingent payment debt instruments. For this purpose, the "comparable yield" for the Securities is 6.54% compounded semi-annually and the "projected payment schedule" may be obtained by contacting the Company at the address set forth in Section 12.02. The Company shall file with the Trustee no later than the end of each calendar year, (i) a written notice specifying the amount of original issue discount (including 21
daily rates and accrual periods) accrued on outstanding Securities as of the end of such year and (ii) such other specific information relating to such original issue discount as may then be relevant under the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time (the "CODE"). Section 2.15. Additional Interest Under Registration Rights Agreements. Under certain circumstances, the Company may be obligated to pay Additional Interest to Holders, as and to the extent set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement the terms of which reference is hereby made. Additional Interest, if required to be paid, is deemed to be interest for purposes of this Indenture. ARTICLE 3 REDEMPTION AND REPURCHASES Section 3.01. Company's Right to Redeem; Notices to Trustee. The Company, at its option, may redeem the Securities in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 5 of the Securities. If the Company elects to redeem Securities pursuant to Paragraph 5 or Paragraph 10 of the Securities, it shall notify the Trustee in writing of the Redemption Date, the principal amount of Securities to be redeemed and that such redemption is being made pursuant to Paragraph 5 or Paragraph 10 of the Securities. The Company shall give each notice to the Trustee provided for in this Section 3.01 at least 45 days before the redemption date unless the Trustee consents to a shorter period or unless a shorter period is required by the applicable Gaming Authority with respect to a redemption pursuant to Paragraph 10 of the Securities. Such notice shall be accompanied by an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel from the Company to the effect that such redemption will comply with the conditions herein. Section 3.02. Selection of Securities To Be Redeemed. If fewer than all the Securities are to be redeemed, the Trustee shall select the Securities to be redeemed pro rata or by lot or by a method that complies with applicable legal and securities exchange requirements, if any, and that the Trustee considers appropriate and in accordance with methods generally used at the time of selection by fiduciaries in similar circumstances or in any manner required by the Depositary. The Trustee shall make the selection from outstanding Securities not previously called for redemption. The Trustee may select for redemption portions of the principal amount of Securities that have denominations larger than $1,000. Securities and portions of Securities the Trustee selects shall be in principal amounts of $1,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000. Provisions of this Indenture that apply to Securities called for redemption also apply to portions of Securities called for redemption. The Trustee shall notify the Company promptly of the Securities or portions of Securities to be redeemed. If any Security selected for partial redemption is converted in part before termination of the conversion right with respect to the portion of the Security so selected, the converted portion of such Security shall be deemed (so far as may be) to be the portion selected for redemption. Securities which have been converted during a selection of Securities to be redeemed may be treated by the Trustee as outstanding for the purpose of such selection. 22
Section 3.03. Notice of Redemption. At least 15 days but not more than 60 days before a Redemption Date, the Company or the Trustee shall mail a notice of redemption by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to each Holder of Securities to be redeemed. The notice shall identify the Securities to be redeemed and shall state: (a) the Redemption Date; (b) the Redemption Price; (c) the then existing Conversion Rate; (d) the name and address of the Paying Agent and the Conversion Agent; (e) that Securities called for redemption may be converted at any time before the close of business on the Business Day immediately preceding the Redemption Date; (f) that Holders who want to convert their Securities must satisfy the requirements set forth in Paragraph 8 of the Securities; (g) that Securities called for redemption must be surrendered to the Paying Agent to collect the Redemption Price; (h) if fewer than all of the outstanding Securities are to be redeemed, the certificate numbers, if any, and principal amounts of the particular Securities to be redeemed; (i) that, unless the Company defaults in making payment of such Redemption Price, interest, if any, on Securities called for redemption will cease to accrue on and after the Redemption Date; and (j) the CUSIP and ISIN number(s) of the Securities. At the Company's request, the Trustee shall give the notice of redemption in the Company's name and at the Company's expense, provided that the Company makes such request at least three Business Days prior to the date by which such notice of redemption must be given to Holders in accordance with this Section 3.03. Section 3.04. Effect of Notice of Redemption. Once notice of redemption is given, Securities called for redemption become due and payable on the Redemption Date and at the Redemption Price stated in the notice except for Securities which are converted in accordance with the terms of this Indenture. Upon surrender to the Paying Agent, such Securities shall be paid at the Redemption Price stated in the notice. Section 3.05. Deposit of Redemption Price. Prior to 10:00 a.m. (New York City time), on the Redemption Date, the Company shall deposit with the Paying Agent (or if the Company or a Wholly Owned Subsidiary is the Paying Agent, shall segregate and hold in trust) money sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of all Securities to be redeemed on that date other than 23
Securities or portions of Securities called for redemption which on or prior thereto have been delivered by the Company to the Trustee for cancellation or have been converted. The Paying Agent shall as promptly as practicable return to the Company any money not required for that purpose because of conversion of Securities pursuant to Article 10. If such money is then held by the Company in trust and is not required for such purpose it shall be discharged from such trust. Section 3.06. Securities Redeemed in Part. Upon surrender of a Security that is redeemed in part, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder a new Security in an authorized denomination equal in principal amount to the unredeemed portion of the Security surrendered, or in the case of a Global Security, the Company shall instruct the Registrar to decrease such Global Security by the principal amount of the redeemed portion of the Security surrendered. Section 3.07. Repurchase of Securities by the Company at Option of the Holder. (a) General. Securities shall be repurchased by the Company pursuant to Paragraph 7 of the Securities at the option of the Holder on December 15, 2009, December 15, 2011, December 15, 2016, December 15, 2021, December 15, 2026 and December 15, 2031 or the next Business Day following such dates to the extent such dates are not Business Days (each, a "REPURCHASE DATE"), in U.S. legal tender ("CASH") at 100% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on such Repurchase Date (the "REPURCHASE PRICE"). Repurchases of Securities hereunder shall be made, at the option of the Holder thereof, upon: (i) delivery to the Paying Agent by the Holder of a written notice (or in the case of Global Securities, a notice delivered electronically or by other means in accordance with the Depositary's customary procedures) of repurchase (a "REPURCHASE NOTICE") during the period beginning at any time from the opening of business on the date that is 20 Business Days prior to the relevant Repurchase Date until the close of business on the last day prior to such Repurchase Date stating: (A) the certificate number of the Security which the Holder will deliver to be repurchased, if any, (B) the portion of the principal amount of the Security which the Holder will deliver to be repurchased, which portion must be in principal amounts of $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof, and (C) that such Security shall be repurchased by the Company as of the Repurchase Date pursuant to the terms and conditions specified in Paragraph 7 of the Securities and in this Indenture. (ii) delivery of such Security to the Paying Agent prior to, on or after the Repurchase Date (together with all necessary endorsements) at the offices of the Paying Agent, such delivery being a condition to receipt by the Holder of the Repurchase Price therefor; provided, however, that such Repurchase Price shall be so paid pursuant to this Section 3.07 only if the Security so delivered to the Paying Agent shall conform in all respects to the description thereof in the related Repurchase Notice, as determined by the Company. 24
The Company shall repurchase from the Holder thereof, pursuant to this Section 3.07, a portion of a Security, if the principal amount of such portion is $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000. Provisions of this Indenture that apply to the repurchase of all of a Security also apply to the repurchase of such portion of such Security. Any repurchase by the Company contemplated pursuant to the provisions of this Section 3.07 shall be consummated by the delivery to the Paying Agent of the consideration to be received by the Holder promptly following the later of the Repurchase Date and the time of delivery of the Security. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, any Holder delivering to the Paying Agent the Repurchase Notice contemplated by this Section 3.07(a) shall have the right to withdraw such Repurchase Notice at any time prior to the close of business on the last day prior to the Repurchase Date by delivery of a written notice of withdrawal to the Paying Agent in accordance with Section 3.09. The Paying Agent shall promptly notify the Company of the receipt by it of any Repurchase Notice or written notice of withdrawal thereof. (b) Company Notice. Not less than 20 Business Days prior to the Repurchase Date (the "COMPANY NOTICE DATE"), the Company shall give notice to Holders setting forth information specified in this Section 3.07(b) (the "COMPANY NOTICE"). Each Company Notice shall include a form of Repurchase Notice to be completed by a Holder and shall state: (i) the Repurchase Price and the then Conversion Rate; (ii) the name and address of the Paying Agent and the Conversion Agent; (iii) that Securities as to which a Repurchase Notice has been given may be converted if they are otherwise convertible only in accordance with Article 10 hereof and Paragraph 8 of the Securities if the applicable Repurchase Notice has been withdrawn in accordance with the terms of this Indenture; (iv) that Securities must be surrendered to the Paying Agent to collect payment; (v) that the Repurchase Price for any security as to which a Repurchase Notice has been given and not withdrawn will be paid promptly following the later of the Repurchase Date and the time of surrender of such Security as described in (iv); (vi) the procedures the Holder must follow to exercise its put rights under this Section 3.07 and a brief description of those rights; 25
(vii) briefly, the conversion rights of the Securities; (viii) the procedures for withdrawing a Repurchase Notice; (ix) that, unless the Company defaults in making payment on Securities for which a Repurchase Notice has been submitted, interest, if any, on such Securities will cease to accrue on the Repurchase Date; and (x) the CUSIP and ISIN number(s) of the Securities. At the Company's request, the Trustee shall give such Company Notice in the Company's name and at the Company's expense; provided, however, that, in all cases, the text of such Company Notice shall be prepared by the Company. (c) Procedure upon Repurchase. The Company shall deposit cash (in respect of cash repurchases under this Section 3.07, at the time and in the manner as provided in Section 3.10, sufficient to pay the aggregate Repurchase Price of all Securities to be repurchased pursuant to this Section 3.07. Section 3.08. Repurchase of Securities at Option of the Holder Upon a Fundamental Change. (a) If a Fundamental Change occurs, the Securities not previously repurchased by the Company shall be repurchased by the Company, at the option of the Holder thereof, in cash, at the Repurchase Price on the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date (the "FUNDAMENTAL CHANGE REPURCHASE PRICE"), as of the date that is no more than 45 days after the date of the Fundamental Change Notice delivered by the Company (the "FUNDAMENTAL CHANGE REPURCHASE DATE"), subject to satisfaction by or on behalf of the Holder of the requirements set forth in Section 3.08(c). A "FUNDAMENTAL CHANGE" shall be deemed to have occurred at such time after the Securities are originally issued that any of the following events shall occur: (i) any person, including any syndicate or group deemed to be a "person" under Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act, acquires beneficial ownership, directly or indirectly, through a purchase, merger or other acquisition transaction or series of transactions, of shares of the Company's Capital Stock entitling the person to exercise 50% or more of the total voting power of all shares of the Company's Capital Stock that are entitled to vote generally in elections of directors, other than an acquisition by the Company, any of its Subsidiaries or any of its employee benefit plans; (ii) the Company merges or consolidates with or into any other person (other than a Subsidiary), any merger of another person into the Company, or the Company conveys, sells, transfers or leases all or substantially all of its assets to another person (other than a Subsidiary), other than any transaction: (A) involving a merger or consolidation that does not result in any reclassification, conversion, exchange or cancellation of the Company's outstanding shares of Common Stock (other than the cancellation of any of the Company's outstanding shares of Common Stock held by the 26
person with whom the Company merges or consolidates), or (B) pursuant to which the holders of the Company's shares of Common Stock immediately prior to the transaction have the entitlement to exercise, directly or indirectly, 50% or more of the total voting power of all shares of Capital Stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors of the continuing or surviving corporation immediately after the transaction, or (C) which is effected solely to change the Company's jurisdiction of incorporation and results in a reclassification, conversion or exchange of outstanding shares of Common Stock solely into shares of common stock of the surviving entity; (iii) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Board of Directors does not consist of Continuing Directors; or (iv) a Termination of Trading. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 3.08, a Fundamental Change shall not be deemed to have occurred if (A) the Closing Sale Price per share of Common Stock on the NYSE or, if the shares of Common Stock are not listed on the NYSE, on the principal other national or regional securities exchange on which the shares of Common Stock are then listed, or if the shares of Common Stock are not listed on a U.S. national or regional exchange, as reported on the principal other market on which the shares of Common Stock are then traded, for any five Trading Days within the period of 10 consecutive Trading Days ending immediately after the later of the Fundamental Change or the public announcement of the Fundamental Change, in the case of a Fundamental Change relating to an acquisition of Capital Stock, or the period of 10 consecutive Trading Days ending immediately before the Fundamental Change, in the case of Fundamental Change relating to a merger, consolidation or asset sale, equals or exceeds 105% of the conversion price of the Securities in effect on each of those Trading Days or (B) at least 90% (excluding cash payments for fractional shares and cash payments made pursuant to dissenters' appraisal rights) in a merger or consolidation otherwise constituting a Fundamental Change under clause (i) and/or clause (ii) above consists of shares of common stock or American Depositary Receipts traded on a national securities exchange (or will be so traded immediately following the merger or consolidation) and as a result of the merger or consolidation the Securities become convertible into such consideration. For purposes of this Section 3.08, (x) whether a Person is a "BENEFICIAL OWNER" shall be determined in accordance with Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act and (y) "Person" includes any syndicate or group that would be deemed to be a "person" under Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act. At least three Business Days before the Fundamental Change Notice Date (as defined below), the Company shall deliver an Officers' Certificate to the Trustee specifying: (i) the information required by Section 3.08(b); and (ii) whether the Company desires the Trustee to give the Fundamental Change Notice required by Section 3.08(b). (b) No later than 30 days after the Company knows or reasonably should know of the occurrence of a Fundamental Change, the Company shall mail a written notice of the Fundamental Change (the "FUNDAMENTAL CHANGE NOTICE," the date of such 27
mailing, the "FUNDAMENTAL CHANGE NOTICE DATE") by first-class mail to the Trustee and to each Holder (and to beneficial owners as required by applicable law). The notice shall include a form of Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice to be completed by the Holder and shall state: (i) briefly, the nature of the Fundamental Change and the date of such Fundamental Change; (ii) the date by which the Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice pursuant to Section 3.08(c) must be given; (iii) the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date; (iv) the Fundamental Change Repurchase Price; (v) the name and address of the Paying Agent and the Conversion Agent; (vi) the then existing Conversion Rate and any adjustments thereto; (vii) that the Securities as to which a Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice has been given may be converted if they are otherwise convertible pursuant to Article 10 hereof only if the Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice has been withdrawn in accordance with the terms of this Indenture; (viii) that the Securities must be surrendered to the Paying Agent to collect payment; (ix) that the Fundamental Change Repurchase Price for any Security as to which a Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice has been duly given and not withdrawn will be paid promptly following the later of the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date and the time of surrender of such Security as described in (viii); (x) briefly, the procedures the Holder must follow to exercise rights under this Section 3.08; (xi) briefly, the conversion rights, if any, of the Securities; (xii) the procedures for withdrawing a Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice; (xiii) that, unless the Company defaults in making payment of such Fundamental Change Repurchase Price, interest, if any, on Securities surrendered for repurchase by the Company will cease to accrue on and after the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date; and (xiv) the CUSIP and ISIN number(s) of the Securities. 28
(c) A Holder may exercise its rights specified in Section 3.08(a) upon delivery of a written notice of repurchase (a "FUNDAMENTAL CHANGE REPURCHASE NOTICE") to the Paying Agent at any time on or prior to the 30th day after the date the Company delivers its Fundamental Change Notice, stating: (i) the certificate number of the Security which the Holder will deliver to be repurchased; (ii) the portion of the principal amount of the Security which the Holder will deliver to be purchased, which portion must be $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof; and (iii) that such Security shall be repurchased pursuant to the terms and conditions specified in Paragraph 7 of the Securities. The delivery of such Security to the Paying Agent with the Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice (together with all necessary endorsements) at the offices of the Paying Agent shall be a condition to the receipt by the Holder of the Fundamental Change Repurchase Price therefor; provided, however, that such Fundamental Change Repurchase Price shall be so paid pursuant to this Section 3.08 only if the Security so delivered to the Paying Agent shall conform in all material respects to the description thereof set forth in the related Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice. The Company shall repurchase from the Holder thereof, pursuant to this Section 3.08, a portion of a Security if the principal amount of such portion is $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000. Provisions of this Indenture that apply to the repurchase of all of a Security also apply to the repurchase of such portion of such Security. Any repurchase by the Company contemplated pursuant to the provisions of this Section 3.08 shall be consummated by the delivery of the consideration to be received by the Holder on the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date. (d) Procedure upon Repurchase. The Company shall deposit cash, at the time and in the manner as provided in Section 3.10, sufficient to pay the aggregate Fundamental Change Repurchase Price of all Securities to be repurchased pursuant to this Section 3.08. Section 3.09. Effect of Repurchase Notice or Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice. Upon receipt by the Paying Agent of the Repurchase Notice or Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice specified in Section 3.07(a) or Section 3.08(c), as applicable, the Holder of the Security in respect of which such Repurchase Notice or Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice, as the case may be, was given shall (unless such Repurchase Notice or Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice, as the case may be, is withdrawn as specified in the following paragraph) thereafter be entitled to receive solely the Repurchase Price or Fundamental Change Repurchase Price, as the case may be, with respect to such Security. Such Repurchase Price or Fundamental Change Repurchase Price shall be paid to such Holder, subject to receipts of funds by the Paying Agent, promptly following the later of (i) the Repurchase Date or the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date, as the case may be, with respect to such Security (provided the conditions in Section 3.07(a) or Section 3.08(c), as applicable, have been satisfied) and (ii) the time of delivery of such 29
Security to the Paying Agent by the Holder thereof in the manner required by Section 3.07(a) or Section 3.08(c), as applicable. Securities in respect of which a Repurchase Notice or Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice has been given by the Holder thereof may not be converted pursuant to Article 10 hereof on or after the date of the delivery of such Repurchase Notice or Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice unless such Repurchase Notice or Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice has first been validly withdrawn as specified in the following two paragraphs. A Repurchase Notice or Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice may be withdrawn by means of a written notice of withdrawal delivered to the office of the Paying Agent in accordance with the Repurchase Notice or Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice, as the case may be, at any time prior to the close of business on the last day prior to the Repurchase Date or the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date, as the case may be, specifying: (a) the certificate number of the Security in respect of which such notice of withdrawal is being submitted or the appropriate Depositary procedures if Certificated Securities have been issued; (b) the principal amount of the Security with respect to which such notice of withdrawal is being submitted; and (c) the principal amount, if any, of such Security which remains subject to the original Repurchase Notice or Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice, as the case may be, and which has been or will be delivered for repurchase by the Company. Section 3.10. Deposit of Repurchase Price or Fundamental Change Repurchase Price. Prior to 10:00 a.m. New York City time on the Repurchase Date or the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date, as the case may be, the Company shall deposit with the Trustee or with the Paying Agent (or, if the Company or a Subsidiary or an Affiliate of either of them is acting as the Paying Agent, shall segregate and hold in trust as provided in Section 2.04) an amount of cash (in immediately available funds if deposited on such Business Day), sufficient to pay the aggregate Repurchase Price or Fundamental Change Repurchase Price, as the case may be, of all the Securities or portions thereof which are to be repurchased as of the Repurchase Date or Fundamental Change Repurchase Date, as the case may be. Section 3.11. Securities Repurchased in Part. Any Certificated Security which is to be repurchased only in part shall be surrendered at the office of the Paying Agent (with, if the Company or the Trustee so requires, due endorsement by, or a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Trustee duly executed by, the Holder thereof or such Holder's attorney duly authorized in writing) and the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder of such Security, without service charge, a new Security or Securities, of any authorized denomination as requested by such Holder in aggregate principal amount equal to, and in exchange for, the portion of the principal amount of the Security so surrendered which is not repurchased, or in the case of a Global Security, the Company shall instruct the Registrar to decrease such Global Security by the principal amount of the repurchased portion of the Security surrendered. 30
Section 3.12. Covenant to Comply with Securities Laws Upon Repurchase of Securities. When complying with the provisions of Section 3.07 or 3.08 hereof (provided that such offer or repurchase constitutes an "issuer tender offer" for purposes of Rule 13e-4 (which term, as used herein, includes any successor provision thereto) under the Exchange Act at the time of such offer or repurchase), the Company shall, to the extent applicable, (a) comply with Rule 13e-4 and Rule 14e-1 (or any successor provision) under the Exchange Act, (b) file the related Schedule TO (or any successor schedule, form or report) under the Exchange Act, and (c) otherwise comply with any applicable Federal and state securities laws so as to permit the rights and obligations under Sections 3.07 and 3.08 to be exercised in the time and in the manner specified in Sections 3.07 and 3.08. Section 3.13. Repayment to the Company. The Trustee and the Paying Agent shall return to the Company any cash that remain unclaimed as provided in Paragraph 13 of the Securities, held by them for the payment of the Repurchase Price or Fundamental Change Repurchase Price, as the case may be; provided, however, that to the extent that the aggregate amount of cash deposited by the Company pursuant to Section 3.10 exceeds the aggregate Repurchase Price or Fundamental Change Repurchase Price, as the case may be, of the Securities or portions thereof which the Company is obligated to repurchase as of the Repurchase Date or Fundamental Change Repurchase Date, as the case may be, then, unless otherwise agreed in writing with the Company, promptly after the Business Day following the Repurchase Date or Fundamental Change Repurchase Date, as the case may be, the Trustee shall return any such excess to the Company. ARTICLE 4 COVENANTS Section 4.01. Payment of Securities. The Company shall promptly make all payments in respect of the Securities on the dates and in the manner provided in the Securities or pursuant to this Indenture. Any amounts of cash or shares of Common Stock to be given to the Trustee or Paying Agent, shall be deposited with the Trustee or Paying Agent by 10:00 a.m. New York City time by the Company on the required date. The Company may, at its option, make payments in respect of the Securities by check mailed to a Holder's registered address or, with respect to Global Securities, by wire transfer. The Company shall make any required interest payments to the Person in whose name each Security is registered at the close of business on the record date for such interest payment. Principal amount, accrued interest, if any, Redemption Price, Repurchase Price and Fundamental Change Repurchase Price, shall be considered paid on the applicable date due if on such date (or, in the case of a Repurchase Price or Fundamental Change Repurchase Price, on the Business Day following the applicable Repurchase Date or Fundamental Change Repurchase Date, as the case may be) the Trustee or the Paying Agent holds, in accordance with this Indenture, cash sufficient to pay all such amounts then due. Section 4.02. SEC and Other Reports. The Company shall file with the Trustee, within 15 days after it files such annual and quarterly reports, information, documents and other reports with the SEC, copies of its annual report and of the information, documents and other reports (or copies of such portions of any of the foregoing as the SEC may by rules and regulations prescribe) which the Company is required to file with the SEC pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of 31
the Exchange Act. In the event the Company is at any time no longer subject to the reporting requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, it shall continue to provide the Trustee with annual and quarterly reports containing substantially the same information as would have been required to be filed with the SEC had the Company continued to have been subject to such reporting requirements. In such event, such annual and quarterly reports shall be provided at the times the Company would have been required to provide reports had it continued to have been subject to such reporting requirements. The Company also shall comply with the other provisions of TIA Section 314(a). Delivery of such reports, information and documents to the Trustee is for informational purposes only and the Trustee's receipt of such shall not constitute constructive notice of any information contained therein or determinable from information contained therein, including the Company's compliance with any of its covenants hereunder (as to which the Trustee is entitled to rely conclusively on Officers' Certificates). Section 4.03. Compliance Certificate. The Company shall deliver to the Trustee within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company an Officers' Certificate, stating whether or not to the best knowledge of the signers thereof, the Company is in default in the performance and observance of any of the terms, provisions and conditions of this Indenture (without regard to any period of grace or requirement of notice provided hereunder) and if the Company shall be in default, specifying all such defaults and the nature and status thereof of which they may have knowledge. Section 4.04. Further Instruments and Acts. Upon request of the Trustee, the Company will execute and deliver such further instruments and do such further acts as may be reasonably necessary or proper to carry out more effectively the purposes of this Indenture. Section 4.05. Maintenance of Office or Agency. The Company will maintain in the Borough of Manhattan, City of New York, an office or agency of the Trustee, Registrar, Paying Agent and Conversion Agent where Securities may be presented or surrendered for payment, where Securities may be surrendered for registration of transfer, exchange, repurchase, redemption or conversion and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities and this Indenture may be served. The office of Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, at 45 Broadway, Mail Stop N2666-120, New York, New York 10006, (Attention: Department of Corporate Trust Administration), shall initially be such office or agency for all of the aforesaid purposes. The Company shall give prompt written notice to the Trustee of the location, and of any change in the location, of any such office or agency (other than a change in the location of the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee). If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain any such required office or agency or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the address of the Trustee set forth in Section 12.02. The Company may also from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies where the Securities may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes and may from time to time rescind such designations; provided, however, that no such designation or rescission shall in any manner relieve the Company of its obligation to maintain an office or agency in the Borough of Manhattan, City of New York, for such purposes. 32
Section 4.06. Notification of Contingent Interest. The Company shall notify the Trustee upon the occurrence of any payment of Contingent Interest as contemplated by Section 11.04 and of the effect that such Contingent Interest has upon transfers permitted by Section 2.07. Unless and until the Trustee receives such certificate, the Trustee may assume without inquiry that no Contingent Interest is payable. Section 4.07. Delivery of Certain Information. At any time when the Company is not subject to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, upon the request of a Holder or any beneficial owner of Securities or holder or beneficial owner of shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion thereof, the Company will promptly furnish or cause to be furnished Rule 144A Information (as defined below) to such Holder or any beneficial owner of Securities or holder or beneficial owner of shares of Common Stock, or to a prospective purchaser of any such security designated by any such holder, as the case may be, to the extent required to permit compliance by such Holder or holder with Rule 144A under the Securities Act in connection with the resale of any such security. "RULE 144A INFORMATION" shall be such information as is specified pursuant to Rule 144A(d)(4) under the Securities Act. Whether a Person is a beneficial owner shall be determined by the Company to the Company's reasonable satisfaction. ARTICLE 5 SUCCESSOR CORPORATION Section 5.01. When Company May Merge or Transfer Assets. The Company shall not consolidate with or merge with or into any other Person, convey, transfer, sell or lease its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to any Person, or permit any Person to consolidate with or merge into the Company, unless: (a) either (i) the Company shall be the surviving Person or (ii) the surviving Person (if other than the Company) formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or the Person which acquires by conveyance, transfer or lease the properties and assets of the Company substantially as an entirety (A) shall be a corporation organized and validly existing under the laws of the United States of America, any State thereof or the District of Columbia or (B) the Company has received an opinion of nationally recognized counsel experienced in such matters to the effect that, under the relevant laws (as in effect at the date of the merger or consolidation, but taking into account reasonably expected changes in laws), (i) Holders of the Securities and holders of shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Securities will be subject to tax for U.S. federal income tax purposes with respect to their investment in the Securities after such transaction in the same amount, at the same time and otherwise in the same manner as prior to such transaction, and (ii) the net amount of payments to be received by the Holders of the Securities or holders of shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Securities will not be less than the amounts that such Holders of the Securities or holders of shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Securities, as applicable, would have been entitled to receive prior to the merger or consolidation and, in each case, shall expressly assume, by an indenture supplemental hereto, executed and delivered to the Trustee, in form reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee, all of the obligations of the Company under the Securities and this Indenture; 33
(b) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Event of Default, and no event that, after notice or lapse of time or both, would become an Event of Default, shall have occurred and be continuing; and (c) the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating that such consolidation, merger, conveyance, transfer, sale or lease and, if a supplemental indenture is required in connection with such transaction, such supplemental indenture, comply with this Article 5 and that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to such transaction have been satisfied. The successor Person formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or the successor Person to which such conveyance, transfer, sale or lease is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Company under this Indenture with the same effect as if such successor had been named as the Company herein; and thereafter, except in the case of a lease and obligations the Company may have under a supplemental indenture pursuant to Section 10.15, the Company shall be discharged from all obligations and covenants under this Indenture and the Securities. Subject to Section 9.06, the Company, the Trustee and the successor Person shall enter into a supplemental indenture to evidence the succession and substitution of such successor Person and such discharge and release of the Company. ARTICLE 6 DEFAULTS AND REMEDIES Section 6.01. Events of Default. Each of the following events shall be an "EVENT OF DEFAULT": (i) the Company defaults in any payment of interest due and payable on the Securities, and such default continues for a period of 30 days; (ii) the Company defaults in the payment of all or any part of the principal on the Securities and accrued and unpaid interest when the same becomes due and payable at its Stated Maturity, upon redemption, required repurchase or otherwise; (iii) the Company fails to provide a Fundamental Change Notice as required in Section 3.08(b); (iv) the Company defaults in its obligation to deliver the cash or shares of Common Stock, if any, required to be delivered upon conversion of the Securities, together with cash in lieu thereof in respect of any fractional shares, upon conversion of any Securities and such default continues for a period of 5 days or more; (v) the Company fails to comply with any covenant or agreement in the Securities or in this Indenture (other than a failure that is the subject of the foregoing clauses (i) or (ii)) and such failure continues for 60 days after receipt by the Company of a Notice of Default; 34
(vi) a default by the Company or any Significant Subsidiary under any Indebtedness (other than the Securities) having an outstanding principal amount of $100,000,000 (or its foreign currency equivalent), after the applicable grace period, which results in acceleration of the maturity of such Indebtedness, unless such declaration has been rescinded within 30 days; (vii) a default by the Company or any Significant Subsidiary in the payment of principal or premium at final maturity under any other instruments of indebtedness, which default is in an aggregate principal amount exceeding $100,000,000 and continues unremedied and unwaived for more than 30 business days after the expiration of any grace period or extension of the time for payments applicable thereto; (viii) the Company or any Significant Subsidiary pursuant to or within the meaning of any Bankruptcy Law: (A) commences a voluntary case; (B) consents to the entry of an order for relief against it in an involuntary case; (C) consents to the appointment of a Custodian of it or for any substantial part of its property; or (D) makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors; or takes any comparable action under any foreign laws relating to insolvency; or (ix) a court of competent jurisdiction enters an order or decree under any Bankruptcy Law that: (A) is for relief against the Company or any Significant Subsidiary in an involuntary case; (B) appoints a Custodian of the Company or any Significant Subsidiary or for any substantial part of its property; (C) orders the winding up or liquidation of the Company or any Significant Subsidiary; or (D) grants any similar relief under any foreign laws; and in each such case the order or decree remains unstayed and in effect for 60 days. The foregoing will constitute Events of Default whatever the reason for any such Event of Default and whether it is voluntary or involuntary or is effected by operation of law or pursuant to any judgment, decree or order of any court or any order, rule or regulation of any administrative or governmental body. The term "BANKRUPTCY LAW" means Title 11, United States Code, or any similar Federal, state or non-U.S. law for the relief of debtors. The term "CUSTODIAN" means any receiver, trustee, assignee, liquidator, custodian or similar official under any Bankruptcy Law. 35
A Default under clause (v) is not an Event of Default until the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Securities then outstanding notify the Company (and in the case of such notice by Holders, the Trustee) of the Default and the Company does not cure such Default within the time specified after receipt of such notice. Such notice must specify the Default, demand that it be remedied and state that such notice is a "NOTICE OF DEFAULT". The Company shall deliver to the Trustee, within 30 days after the occurrence thereof, written notice in the form of an Officers' Certificate of any Event of Default and any event of which it becomes aware that with the giving of notice or the lapse of time would become an Event of Default, its status and what action the Company is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto. Notwithstanding the foregoing, at the election of the Company, the sole remedy for an Event of Default specified in Section 6.01(v) relating to the failure by the Company to comply with Section 4.02 (the "COMPANY'S FILING OBLIGATIONS") and for any failure by the Company to comply with the requirements of Section 314(a)(1) of the Trust Indenture Act, shall for the first 60 days after the occurrence of such an Event of Default consist exclusively of the right to receive an extension fee on the Securities at an annual rate equal to 0.25% of the principal amount of the Securities. This extension fee will accrue on the Securities from and including the date on which an Event of Default relating to a failure to comply with the Company's Filing Obligations or the failure to comply with the requirements of Section 314(a)(1) of the Trust Indenture Act first occurs to but not including the 60th day thereafter (or such earlier date on which the Event of Default relating to such obligations shall have been cured or waived pursuant to Section 6.04). On such 60th day (or earlier, if such Event of Default is cured or waived pursuant to Section 6.04 prior to such 60th day), such extension fee will cease to accrue and, if such Event of Default has not been cured or waived pursuant to Section 6.04 prior to such 60th day, then the Trustee or the holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Securities may declare the principal of and accrued and unpaid interest and additional interest payable under this paragraph on all such Securities to be due and payable immediately. This provision shall not affect the rights of Holders in the event of the occurrence of any other Event of Default. If the Company elects to pay the extension fee as the sole remedy for an Event of Default specified in Section 6.01(v) relating to the failure by the Company to comply with the Company's Filing Obligations and for any failure by the Company to comply with the requirements of Section 314(a)(1) of the Trust Indenture Act, the Company shall notify, in the manner provided for in Section 12.02, the Holders and the Trustee of such election at any time on or before the close of business on the date on which such Event of Default first occurs. If the extension fee is payable under this Section 6.01, the Company shall deliver to the Trustee a certificate to that effect stating the date on which additional interest pursuant to this paragraph is payable. Unless and until a Trust Officer receives at the Corporate Trust Office such a certificate, the Trustee may assume without inquiry that no extension fee is payable. If the extension fee has been paid by the Company directly to the Persons entitled to them, the Company shall deliver to the Trustee a certificate setting forth the particulars of such payment. To make such election, the Company must deliver notice to the Trustee for Holders prior to the day any such Event of Default occurs. Section 6.02. Acceleration. If an Event of Default (other than an Event of Default specified in Sections 6.01(viii) or 6.01(ix) with respect to the Company) occurs and is 36
continuing, the Trustee by notice to the Company, or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Securities then outstanding by notice to the Company and the Trustee, may declare the principal amount of Securities outstanding plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on all the Securities to be immediately due and payable. Upon such a declaration, such accelerated amount shall be due and payable immediately. If an Event of Default specified in Sections 6.01(viii) or 6.01(ix) with respect to the Company occurs and is continuing, the principal amount of Securities outstanding plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on all the Securities shall, automatically and without any action by the Trustee or any Holder, become and be immediately due and payable without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any Holders. The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time outstanding by notice to the Trustee and the Company and without notice to any other Holder may rescind any declaration of acceleration if the rescission would not conflict with any judgment or decree and if all existing Events of Default have been cured or waived except nonpayment of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, that have become due solely as a result of acceleration. No such rescission shall affect any subsequent Default or impair any right consequent thereto. Section 6.03. Other Remedies. If an Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may pursue any available remedy to collect the payment of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Securities or to enforce the performance of any provision of the Securities or this Indenture. The Trustee may maintain a proceeding even if it does not possess any of the Securities or does not produce any of the Securities in the proceeding. A delay or omission by the Trustee or any Holder in exercising any right or remedy accruing upon an Event of Default shall not impair the right or remedy or constitute a waiver of or acquiescence in the Event of Default. No remedy is exclusive of any other remedy. All available remedies are cumulative. Section 6.04. Waiver of Past Defaults. The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time outstanding by notice to the Trustee and without notice to any other Holder may waive an existing default and its consequences except (a) an Event of Default described in Section 6.01(i), (b) a default in respect of a provision that under Section 9.02 cannot be amended without the consent of each Holder or (c) a default which constitutes a failure to convert any Security in accordance with the terms of Article 10. When a Default is waived, it is deemed cured, but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other default or impair any consequent right. Section 6.05. Control by Majority. The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time outstanding may direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee or of exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee. However, the Trustee may refuse to follow any direction that conflicts with law or this Indenture or, subject to Section 7.01, that the Trustee determines is prejudicial to the rights of other Holders or would potentially involve the Trustee in personal liability; provided, however, that the Trustee may take any other action deemed proper by the Trustee that is not inconsistent with such direction. Prior to taking any action hereunder, the Trustee shall be entitled to reasonable indemnification against all losses and expenses caused by taking or not taking such action. 37
Section 6.06. Limitation on Suits. A Holder may not pursue any remedy with respect to this Indenture or the Securities unless: (a) such Holder shall have previously given to the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default; (b) the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time outstanding make a written request, and such Holder of or Holders shall have offered reasonable indemnity satisfactory, to the Trustee to pursue such proceeding as trustee; and (c) the Trustee has failed to institute such proceeding and has not received from the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time outstanding a direction inconsistent with such request, within 60 days after such notice, request and offer. A Holder may not use this Indenture to prejudice the rights of any other Holder or to obtain a preference or priority over any other Holder. Section 6.07. Rights of Holders to Receive Payment. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture, the right of any Holder to receive payment of the principal amount, Redemption Price, Repurchase Price, Fundamental Change Repurchase Price or interest, if any, in respect of the Securities held by such Holder, on or after the respective due dates expressed in such Holder's Securities or any Redemption Date, and to convert the Securities in accordance with Article 10, or to bring suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after such respective dates or the right to convert, shall not be impaired or affected without the consent of such Holder. Section 6.08. Collection Suit by Trustee. If an Event of Default specified in Section 6.01(i) or 6.01(ii) occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may recover judgment in its own name and as trustee of an express trust against the Company for the whole amount then due and owing (together with interest on any unpaid interest to the extent lawful) and the amounts provided for in Section 7.07. Section 6.09. Trustee May File Proofs of Claim. The Trustee may file such proofs of claim and other papers or documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Trustee and the Holders allowed in any judicial proceedings relative to the Company, its creditors or its property and, unless prohibited by law or applicable regulations, may vote on behalf of the Holders in any election of a trustee in bankruptcy or other Person performing similar functions, and any Custodian in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder to make payments to the Trustee and, in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Holders, to pay to the Trustee any amount due it for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and its counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 7.07. 38
Section 6.10. Priorities. If the Trustee collects any money pursuant to this Article 6, it shall pay out the money in the following order: FIRST: to the Trustee for amounts due under Section 7.07; SECOND: to Holders for amounts due and unpaid on the Securities for the principal amount, Redemption Price, Repurchase Price, Fundamental Change Repurchase Price or interest, if any, as the case may be, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to such amounts due and payable on the Securities; and THIRD: the balance, if any, to the Company. The Trustee may fix a record date and payment date for any payment to Holders pursuant to this Section 6.10. At least 15 days before such record date, the Company shall mail to each Holder and the Trustee a notice that states the record date, the payment date and the amount to be paid. Section 6.11. Undertaking for Costs. In any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken or omitted by it as Trustee, a court in its discretion may require the filing by any party litigant in the suit of an undertaking to pay the costs of the suit, and the court in its discretion may assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses, against any party litigant in the suit, having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by the party litigant. This Section 6.11 does not apply to a suit by the Trustee, a suit by a Holder pursuant to Section 6.07 or a suit by Holders of more than 10% in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time outstanding. Section 6.12. Waiver of Stay, Extension or Usury Laws. The Company (to the extent it may lawfully do so) shall not at any time insist upon, or plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any stay or extension law wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, that may affect the covenants or the performance of this Indenture; and the Company (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law, and shall not hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Trustee, but shall suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law had been enacted. ARTICLE 7 TRUSTEE Section 7.01. Duties of Trustee. (a) If an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Trustee shall exercise the rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture and use the same degree of care and skill in its exercise as a prudent Person would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of such Person's own affairs. 39
(b) Except during the continuance of an Event of Default: (i) the Trustee undertakes to perform such duties and only such duties as are specifically set forth in this Indenture and no implied covenants or obligations shall be read into this Indenture against the Trustee; and (ii) in the absence of bad faith on its part, the Trustee may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon certificates or opinions furnished to the Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Indenture. (c) The Trustee may not be relieved from liability for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act or its own willful misconduct, except that: (i) this paragraph does not limit the effect of Section 7.01(b); (ii) the Trustee shall not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a Trust Officer unless it is proved that the Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts; and (iii) the Trustee shall not be liable with respect to any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in accordance with a direction received by it pursuant to Section 6.05. (d) Every provision of this Indenture that in any way relates to the Trustee is subject to Sections 7.01 (a), (b) and (c). (e) The Trustee shall not be liable for interest on any money received by it. (f) Money or Common Stock held in trust by the Trustee need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law. (g) No provision of this Indenture shall require the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur financial liability in the performance of any of its duties hereunder or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers. (h) Every provision of this Indenture relating to the conduct or affecting the liability of or affording protection to the Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of this Section and to the provisions of the TIA and the provisions of this Article 7 shall apply to the Trustee in its role as Registrar and Paying Agent. (i) The Trustee shall not be deemed to have notice of a Default or an Event of Default unless (i) a Trust Officer of the Trustee has received written notice thereof from the Company or any Holder or (ii) a Trust Officer shall have actual knowledge thereof. Section 7.02. Rights of Trustee. (a) The Trustee may conclusively rely on any document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper person. The Trustee need not investigate any fact or matter stated in the document. The Trustee may, 40
however, in its discretion make such further inquiry or investigation into such facts or matters as it may see fit and, if the Trustee shall determine to make such further inquiry or investigation, it shall be entitled to examine the books, records and premises of the Company, personally or by agent or attorney at the expense of the Company and shall incur no liability of any kind by reason of such inquiry or investigation. (b) Before the Trustee acts or refrains from acting, it may require an Officers' Certificate or an Opinion of Counsel. The Trustee shall not be liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in reliance on the Officers' Certificate or Opinion of Counsel. (c) The Trustee may act through agents, attorneys or custodians and shall not be responsible for the misconduct or negligence of any agent, attorney or custodian appointed with due care. (d) The Trustee shall not be liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith that it believes to be authorized or within its rights or powers; provided, however, that the Trustee's conduct does not constitute willful misconduct or negligence. (e) The Trustee may consult with counsel of its own selection, and the advice or opinion of counsel with respect to legal matters relating to this Indenture and the Securities shall be full and complete authorization and protection from liability in respect to any action taken, omitted or suffered by it here under in good faith and in accordance with the advice or opinion of such counsel. (f) The permissive rights of the Trustee to do things enumerated in this Indenture shall not be construed as a duty unless so specified herein. (g) The Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Indenture at the request or direction of any of the Holders pursuant to this Indenture, unless such Holders shall have offered to the Trustee security or indemnity satisfactory to the Trustee against the costs, expenses and liabilities which might be incurred by it in compliance with such request or direction.; (h) The rights, privileges, protections, immunities and benefits given to the Trustee, including, without limitation, its right to be indemnified, are extended to, and shall be enforceable by, the Trustee in each of its capacities hereunder, and each agent, custodian and other Person employed to act hereunder. (i) The Trustee may request that the Company deliver an Officers' Certificate setting forth the names of individuals and/or titles of officers authorized at such time to take specified actions pursuant to this Indenture, which Officers' Certificate may be signed by any person authorized to sign an Officers' Certificate, including any person specified as so authorized in any such certificate previously delivered and not superseded. Section 7.03. Individual Rights of Trustee. The Trustee in its individual or any other capacity may become the owner or pledgee of Securities and may otherwise deal with the Company or its Affiliates with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee. Any Paying 41
Agent, Registrar, Conversion Agent or co-registrar may do the same with like rights. However, the Trustee must comply with Sections 7.10 and 7.11. Section 7.04. Trustee's Disclaimer. The Trustee shall not be responsible for and makes no representation as to the validity, priority or adequacy of this Indenture or the Securities, it shall not be accountable for the Company's use of the proceeds from the Securities, and it shall not be responsible for any statement of the Company in this Indenture or in any document issued in connection with the sale of the Securities or in the Securities other than the Trustee's certificate of authentication. Section 7.05. Notice of Defaults. If a Default or Event of Default occurs and is continuing and if it is actually known to a Trust Officer of the Trustee, the Trustee shall mail to each Holder notice of the Default or Event of Default within 90 days after it is known to a Trust Officer or written notice of it is received by the Trustee. Except in the case of a Default described in Section 6.01(i) or 6.01(ii), the Trustee may withhold the notice if and so long as a committee of its Trust Officers in good faith determines that withholding the notice is in the interests of Holders. The second sentence of this Section 7.05 shall be in lieu of the proviso to Section 315(b) of the TIA and such proviso is hereby expressly excluded from this Indenture, as permitted by the TIA. The Trustee shall not be deemed to have knowledge of a Default unless a Trust Officer of the Trustee has received written notice of such Default. Section 7.06. Reports by Trustee to Holders. As promptly as practicable after each December 31 beginning with December 31, 2007, and in any event prior to March 31 in each year thereafter, the Trustee shall mail to each Holder a brief report dated as of December 31 each year that complies with TIA Section 313(a), if and to the extent required by such subsection. The Trustee shall also comply with TIA Section 313(b). A copy of each report at the time of its mailing to Holders shall be filed with the SEC and each stock exchange (if any) on which the Securities are listed. The Company agrees to notify promptly the Trustee whenever the Securities become listed on any stock exchange and of any delisting thereof. Section 7.07. Compensation and Indemnity. The Company shall pay to the Trustee from time to time such compensation as shall be agreed upon from time to time in writing for its services. The Trustee's compensation shall not be limited by any law on compensation of a trustee of an express trust. The Company shall reimburse the Trustee upon request for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred or made by it, including costs of collection, in addition to the compensation for its services. Such expenses shall include the reasonable compensation and expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee's agents, counsel, accountants and experts. The Company shall fully indemnify the Trustee against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage or expense (including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses) incurred by it in connection with the acceptance and administration of this trust and the performance of its duties hereunder, including the costs and expenses of defending itself against any claim (whether asserted by the Company, any Holder or any other Person). The Trustee shall notify the Company promptly of any claim for which it may seek indemnity. Failure by the Trustee to so notify the Company of any claim for which it may seek indemnity of which a Trust Officer has actually received written notice shall not relieve the Company of its obligations 42
hereunder except to the extent such failure shall have materially prejudiced the Company. The Company shall defend the claim and the Trustee shall cooperate in the defense. If the Trustee is advised by counsel in writing that it may have available to it defenses which are in conflict with the defenses available to the Company, then the Trustee may have separate counsel and the Company shall pay the reasonable fees and expenses of such counsel. The Company need not reimburse any expense or indemnify against any loss, liability or expense incurred by the Trustee through the Trustee's own willful misconduct or negligence. The Company need not pay for any settlement made by the Trustee without the Company's consent, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld. All indemnifications and releases from liability granted hereunder to the Trustee shall extend to its officers, directors, employees, agents, attorneys, custodians, successors and assigns. To secure the Company's payment obligations in this Section 7.07, the Trustee shall have a lien prior to the Securities on all money or property held or collected by the Trustee other than money or property held in trust to pay principal of and interest on particular Securities. The Company's payment obligations pursuant to this Section shall survive the resignation or removal of the Trustee and the discharge of this Indenture. When the Trustee incurs expenses after the occurrence of a Default specified in Section 6.01(viii) or 6.01(ix) with respect to the Company, the expenses are intended to constitute expenses of administration under the Bankruptcy Law. Section 7.08. Replacement of Trustee. The Trustee may resign at any time by so notifying the Company and applicable Gaming Authorities at least 30 days prior to the proposed resignation. The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities then outstanding may remove the Trustee by so notifying the Trustee. The Company shall remove the Trustee if: (a) the Trustee fails to comply with Section 7.10; (b) the Trustee is adjudged bankrupt or insolvent; (c) a receiver or other public officer takes charge of the Trustee or its property; (d) the Trustee otherwise becomes incapable of acting; or (e) the Trustee becomes disqualified or is found unsuitable under any applicable Gaming Law, or the Trustee's relationship with the Company may, in the Company's discretion, jeopardize any material Gaming License or franchise or right or approval granted thereto. If the Trustee resigns, is removed by the Company or by the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities then outstanding, or if a vacancy exists in the office of Trustee for any reason (the Trustee in such event being referred to herein as the retiring Trustee), the Company shall promptly appoint a successor Trustee. 43
A successor Trustee shall deliver a written acceptance of its appointment to the retiring Trustee and to the Company. Thereupon the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective, and the successor Trustee shall have all the rights, powers and duties of the Trustee under this Indenture. The successor Trustee shall mail a notice of its succession to Holders. The retiring Trustee shall upon payment of all of its costs and the costs of its agents and counsel promptly transfer all property held by it as Trustee to the successor Trustee, subject to the lien provided for in Section 7.07. If a successor Trustee does not take office within 60 days after the retiring Trustee resigns or is removed, the retiring Trustee or the Holders of 10% in aggregate principal amount of the Securities then outstanding may petition at the expense of the Company any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee. If the Trustee fails to comply with Section 7.10, any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six months may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee and the appointment of a successor Trustee. Notwithstanding the replacement of the Trustee pursuant to this Section, the Company's obligations under Section 7.07 shall continue for the benefit of the retiring Trustee. Section 7.09. Successor Trustee by Merger. If the Trustee consolidates with, merges or converts into, or transfers all or substantially all its corporate trust business or assets to, another corporation or banking association, the resulting, surviving or transferee corporation or banking association without any further act shall be the successor Trustee. In case at the time such successor or successors by merger, conversion or consolidation to the Trustee shall succeed to the trusts created by this Indenture any of the Securities shall have been authenticated but not delivered, any such successor to the Trustee may adopt the certificate of authentication of any predecessor trustee, and deliver such Securities so authenticated; and in case at that time any of the Securities shall not have been authenticated, any such successor to the Trustee may authenticate such Securities either in the name of any predecessor hereunder or in the name of the successor to the Trustee; and in all such cases such certificates shall have the full force which it is anywhere in the Securities or in this Indenture provided that the certificate of the Trustee shall have. Section 7.10. Eligibility; Disqualification. The Trustee shall at all times satisfy the requirements of TIA Section 310(a). The Trustee shall have (or, in the case of a corporation included in a bank holding company system, the related bank holding company shall have) a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000 as set forth in its (or its related bank holding company's) most recent published annual report of condition. The Trustee shall comply with TIA Section 310(b), subject to the penultimate paragraph thereof; provided, however, that there shall be excluded from the operation of TIA Section 310(b)(1) any indenture or indentures under which other securities or certificates of interest or participation in other securities of the Company are outstanding if the requirements for such exclusion set forth in TIA Section 310(b)(1) are met. 44
Section 7.11. Preferential Collection of Claims Against Company. The Trustee shall comply with TIA Section 311(a), excluding any creditor relationship listed in TIA Section 311(b). A Trustee who has resigned or been removed shall be subject to TIA Section 311(a) to the extent indicated therein. Section 7.12. Trustee's Application for Instructions from the Company. Any application by the Trustee for written instructions from the Company may, at the option of the Trustee, set forth in writing any action proposed to be taken or omitted by the Trustee under this Indenture and the date on and/or after which such action shall be taken or such omission shall be effective. The Trustee shall not be liable to the Company for any action taken by, or omission of, the Trustee in accordance with a proposal included in such application on or after the date specified in such application (which date shall not be less than three Business Days after the date any officer of the Company actually receives such application, unless any such officer shall have consented in writing to any earlier date) unless prior to taking any such action (or the effective date in the case of any omission), the Trustee shall have received written instructions in response to such application specifying the action to be taken or omitted. Section 7.13. Reports by Trustee to Gaming Authorities. (a) The Trustee shall promptly report the names of all Holders of the Securities to any Gaming Authorities upon request of such Gaming Authorities or the Company. The Trustee shall provide to any Gaming Authorities upon request of such Gaming Authorities or the Company, copies of all written communications from the Trustee to all Holders, notice of any Default, notice of any transfer or assignment of the Trustee's rights under this Indenture, any amendment to this Indenture or the Securities and notice of any recession, annulment or waiver in respect of an Event of Default under this Indenture. (b) The Trustee shall cooperate with the Company in providing information relating to the Securities or the Holders to any Gaming Authority pursuant to applicable Gaming Laws. ARTICLE 8 DISCHARGE OF INDENTURE Section 8.01. Discharge of Liability on Securities. When (a) the Company delivers to the Trustee all outstanding Securities (other than Securities replaced pursuant to Section 2.07) for cancellation or (b) all outstanding Securities have become due and payable, and the Company irrevocably deposits with the Trustee cash sufficient to pay all amounts due and owing on all outstanding Securities (other than Securities replaced pursuant to Section 2.07), and if in either case the Company pays all other sums payable hereunder by the Company, then this Indenture shall, subject to Section 7.07, cease to be of further effect. The Trustee shall acknowledge satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture with respect to the Securities on demand of the Company accompanied by an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel and at the cost and expense of the Company. 45
Section 8.02. Repayment to the Company. The Trustee and the Paying Agent shall promptly turn over to the Company upon request any excess money or securities held by them at any time. Subject to any applicable abandoned property law, the Trustee and the Paying Agent shall pay to the Company upon request any money held by them for the payment of principal or interest that remains unclaimed for two years, and, thereafter, Holders entitled to the money must look to the Company for payment as general creditors. ARTICLE 9 AMENDMENTS Section 9.01. Without Consent of Holders. The Company and the Trustee may amend or supplement this Indenture or the Securities without the consent of any Holder so long as such changes, other than those in clause (b), do not materially and adversely affect the interests of the Holders: (a) to cure any ambiguity, omission, defect or inconsistency; (b) to comply with Article 5; (c) to provide for uncertificated Securities in addition to or in place of certificated Securities; (d) to provide any security for or guarantee of the Securities; (e) to comply with any requirements to effect or maintain the qualification of this Indenture under the TIA; (f) to make any change that does not adversely affect any outstanding Securities in any material respect; (g) to add Events of Default with respect to the Securities; (h) to add to the Company's covenants for the benefit of the Holders or to surrender any right or power conferred upon the Company by this Indenture; (i) to make any change necessary for the registration of the Securities under the Securities Act or to comply with the TIA, or any amendment thereto, or to comply with any requirement of the SEC in connection with the qualification of the Indenture under the TIA; or (j) to add circumstances under which the Company will pay additional interest on the Securities. After an amendment under this Section 9.01 becomes effective, the Company shall mail to Holders a notice briefly describing such amendment. The failure to give such notice to all such Holders, or any defect therein, shall not impair or affect the validity of an amendment under this Section. 46
Section 9.02. With Consent of Holders. With the written consent of the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time outstanding, the Company and the Trustee may amend or supplement this Indenture or the Securities. However, without the consent of each Holder affected, an amendment to this Indenture or the Securities may not: (a) reduce any interest rate referred to in Paragraph 1 of the Securities or change the time for payment of interest thereon; (b) reduce the principal amount of or extend the Stated Maturity of any Security; (c) reduce the calculation of the value of the Common Stock to which reference is made in determining whether any Contingent Interest will be payable on the Securities, or change the method by which this value is calculated; (d) reduce the Redemption Price, Repurchase Price or Fundamental Change Repurchase Price of any Security or change the time at which the Securities may be redeemed or repurchased; (e) reduce the amount of Securities whose Holders must consent to an amendment, supplement or waiver; (f) make any payments on the Securities payable in currency other than as stated in the Security; (g) make any change in the percentage of principal amount of Securities necessary to waive compliance with the provisions of Section 6.04 or this Section 9.02, except to increase any percentage set forth therein; (h) make any change that in the good faith judgment of the Company's Board of Directors and the Trustee adversely affects the right to convert any Security in accordance with the terms thereof and this Indenture; (i) impair a Holder's right to institute suit for the enforcement of any payment on the Securities; (j) waive a continuing default or Event of Default regarding any payment on the Securities; or (k) adversely affect a Holder's rights under Sections 3.07 to 3.10 hereof, under Article 10 hereof or under Paragraph 7 or 8 of Exhibit A hereto. 47
It shall not be necessary for the consent of the Holders under this Section 9.02 to approve the particular form of any proposed amendment, but it shall be sufficient if such consent approves the substance thereof. After an amendment under this Section 9.02 becomes effective, the Company shall mail to each Holder a notice briefly describing the amendment. Section 9.03. Compliance with Trust Indenture Act. Every supplemental indenture executed pursuant to this Article shall comply with the TIA. Section 9.04. Revocation and Effect of Consents, Waivers and Actions. A consent to an amendment or a waiver by a Holder of a Security shall bind the Holder and every subsequent Holder of that Security or portion of the Security that evidences the same debt as the consenting Holder's Security, even if notation of the consent or waiver is not made on the Security. However, any such Holder or subsequent Holder may revoke the consent or waiver as to such Holder's Security or portion of the Security if the Trustee receives the notice of revocation before the date the amendment or waiver becomes effective. After an amendment or waiver becomes effective, it shall bind every Holder. An amendment or waiver becomes effective upon the execution of such amendment or waiver by the Trustee. The Company may, but shall not be obligated to, fix a record date for the purpose of determining the Holders entitled to give their consent or take any other action described above or required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Indenture. If a record date is fixed, then notwithstanding the immediately preceding paragraph, those Persons who were Holders at such record date (or their duly designated proxies), and only those Persons, shall be entitled to give such consent or to revoke any consent previously given or to take any such action, whether or not such Persons continue to be Holders after such record date. No such consent shall be valid or effective for more than 120 days after such record date. Section 9.05. Notation on or Exchange of Securities. Securities authenticated and delivered after the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to this Article may, and shall if required by the Trustee, bear a notation in form approved by the Trustee as to any matter provided for in such supplemental indenture. If the Company shall so determine, new Securities so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the Trustee and the Board of Directors, to any such supplemental indenture may be prepared and executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee in exchange for outstanding Securities. Section 9.06. Trustee to Sign Supplemental Indentures. The Trustee shall sign any supplemental indenture authorized pursuant to this Article 9 if the amendment contained therein does not affect the rights, duties, liabilities or immunities of the Trustee. If it does, the Trustee may, but need not, sign such supplemental indenture. In signing such supplemental indenture the Trustee shall be provided with, and (subject to the provisions of Section 7.01) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel stating that such amendment is authorized or permitted by this Indenture. Section 9.07. Effect of Supplemental Indentures. Upon the execution of any supplemental indenture under this Article, this Indenture shall be modified in accordance 48
therewith, and such supplemental indenture shall form a part of this Indenture for all purposes; and every Holder of Securities theretofore or thereafter authenticated and delivered hereunder shall be bound thereby. ARTICLE 10 CONVERSIONS Section 10.01. Conversion Privilege and Consideration. (a) A Holder of a Security may convert such Security at any time during the period stated in Paragraph 8 of the Securities into cash and shares, if any, of Common Stock. The "CONVERSION RATE" shall be that identified as such in Paragraph 8 of the Securities, subject to adjustment as herein set forth. The Company shall notify the Trustee of the date on which the Securities first become convertible, which notification shall set forth the calculations on which such determination was made. Unless and until the Trustee receives such notification, the Trustee may assume without inquiry that the Securities are not convertible. Whenever the Securities shall become convertible pursuant to this Section 10.01 and Paragraph 8 of the Securities, the Company or, at the Company's request, the Trustee in the name and at the expense of the Company, shall promptly notify the Holders of the event triggering such convertibility, and the Company shall also promptly disseminate a press release through Dow Jones & Company, Inc. or Bloomberg Business News and publish such information on the Company's website or through another public medium the Company may use at that time. Any notice so given shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the Holder receives such notice. A Holder may, during any applicable time referred to herein, convert a portion of the principal amount of a Security if the portion converted is in a $1,000 principal amount or an integral multiple of $1,000. Provisions of this Indenture that apply to conversion of all of a Security also apply to conversion of a portion of a Security. "TIME OF DETERMINATION" means the time and date of the earlier of (i) the determination of stockholders entitled to receive rights, warrants or options or a distribution, in each case, to which Section 10.07 or 10.08 applies and (ii) the time ("EX-DIVIDEND TIME") immediately prior to the commencement of "ex-dividend" trading for such rights, warrants or options or distribution on the NYSE or such other U.S. national or regional exchange or market on which the shares of Common Stock are then listed or quoted. (b) Subject to Section 10.01(a), a Holder upon conversion will receive, in respect of each $1,000 initial principal amount of Securities, (x) cash in an amount (the "PRINCIPAL RETURN") equal to the lesser of (1) $1,000, or (2) the Conversion Value; and (y) a number of shares of Common Stock (the "NET SHARE AMOUNT") equal to the sum of the Daily Share Amounts for each of the ten consecutive Trading Days in the Applicable Conversion Reference Period, provided, however that the Company will pay cash in lieu of fractional shares otherwise issuable upon conversion of the Securities. 49
The "APPLICABLE CONVERSION REFERENCE PERIOD" means: (1) for Securities that are converted after the Company has given notice to the Holders of a Redemption Date, the ten consecutive Trading Days beginning on the second Trading Day following the Redemption Date (in the case of a partial redemption, this clause applies only to those Securities which would be actually redeemed); or (2) in all other cases, the ten consecutive Trading Days beginning on the second Trading Day following the Conversion Date. The "CONVERSION VALUE" is equal to (1) the applicable Conversion Rate, multiplied by (2) the average of the Closing Sale Price of Common Stock on each of the ten consecutive Trading Days in the Applicable Conversion Reference Period. The "DAILY SHARE AMOUNT" for each day in the Applicable Conversion Reference Period is equal to the greater of: (1) zero; or (2) a number of shares determined by the following formula: (Closing Sale Price of the Common Stock on that Trading Day x applicable Conversion Rate) - $1,000 --------------------------------------------------------------- 10 x Closing Sale Price of the Common Stock on that Trading Day (c) If a Holder tenders Securities for conversion and the Conversion Value is being determined at a time when the Securities are convertible into other property (the "EXCHANGE PROPERTY") in addition to, or in lieu of, Common Stock, the Conversion Value of each Security and the Daily Share Amount shall be determined based on the value thereof during the Applicable Conversion Reference Period. For the purposes of this Section, the "Closing Sale Price of the Common Stock" shall be deemed to equal the sum of (A) the Closing Sale Price of a share of Common Stock (to the extent the Securities are still convertible into Common Stock), (B) 100% of the value of any Exchange Property consisting of cash received per share of Common Stock, (C) the closing sale price of any Exchange Property received per share of Common Stock consisting of securities that are traded on a U.S. national securities exchange or approved for quotation on the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation System and (D) the fair market value of any other Exchange Property received per share, as determined by three independent nationally recognized investment banks selected by the Company for this purpose. (d) Settlement (in cash, and to the extent required, shares as specified herein) will occur no later than the third Trading Day following the last day of the Applicable Conversion Reference Period. Any amount of the Net Share Amount to be delivered shall be paid in Exchange Property in addition to or in lieu of shares of Common Stock to the extent Securities are convertible into Exchange Property at such time in addition to or in lieu of shares of Common Stock. If the Securities are convertible into more than one kind of property, the amount of each kind to be delivered in respect of the Net Share Amount shall be in the proportion that the value (as calculated pursuant to Section 10.01(c)) of such kind bears to the value of all such Exchange Property and/or Common Stock. If the foregoing calculations would require the Company to deliver a fractional share or unit of Exchange Property to a Holder of Securities being converted, the Company shall deliver cash in lieu of such fractional share or unit based on the value of the Exchange Property. 50
Section 10.02. Conversion Procedure. To convert a Security a Holder must satisfy the requirements in Paragraph 8 of the Securities. The first Business Day on which the Holder satisfies all those requirements and delivers an irrevocable conversion notice together with such Holder's Securities for conversion is the conversion date (the "CONVERSION DATE"). No later than the third Trading Day after the last day of the Applicable Conversion Reference Period, the Company shall deliver to the Holder, through the Conversion Agent, cash and a certificate for the number of full shares, if any, of Common Stock issuable upon the conversion or exchange and additional cash in lieu of any fractional share determined pursuant to Section 10.03. The Person in whose name the certificate is registered shall be treated as a shareholder of record as of the close of business on the Conversion Date. Upon conversion of a Security in its entirety, such Person shall no longer be a Holder of such Security. No payment or adjustment will be made for dividends on, or other distributions with respect to, any shares of Common Stock except as provided in this Article 10. On conversion of a Security, that portion of accrued and unpaid interest, if any, through the Conversion Date with respect to the converted Security shall not be cancelled, extinguished or forfeited, but rather shall be deemed to be paid in full to the Holder thereof through delivery of cash and the shares, if any, of Common Stock (together with the cash payment, if any, in lieu of fractional shares) for the Security being converted pursuant to the provisions hereof; and the fair market value of cash and shares, if any, of Common Stock (together with any such cash payment in lieu of fractional shares) shall be treated as issued, to the extent thereof, first in exchange for accrued and unpaid interest, if any, through the Conversion Date, and the balance, if any, of such fair market value of cash and such shares, if any, of Common Stock (and any such cash payment) shall be treated as issued for the principal amount of the Security being converted pursuant to the provisions hereof. The Company will not adjust the Conversion Rate to account for accrued interest, if any. If the Holder converts more than one Security at the same time, the cash payment and the number of shares, if any, of Common Stock issuable upon the conversion shall be based on the total principal amount of the Securities converted. If the last day on which a Security may be converted is a Legal Holiday, the Security may be surrendered on the next succeeding day that is not a Legal Holiday. Upon surrender of a Security that is converted in part, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder, a new Security in an authorized denomination equal in principal amount to the unconverted portion of the Security surrendered, or in the case of a Global Security, the Company shall instruct the Registrar to decrease such Global Security by the principal amount of the converted portion of the Security surrendered. Section 10.03. Fractional Shares. The Company will not issue fractional shares of Common Stock upon conversion of a Security. Instead, the Company will pay cash based on the current market value of the fractional shares. The current market value of a fractional share shall be determined, to the nearest 1/10,000th of a share, by multiplying the Closing Sale Price, on the last Trading Day immediately prior to the Conversion Date, of a full share by the fractional 51
amount and rounding the product to the nearest whole cent. Whether fractional shares are issuable upon a conversion will be determined on the basis of the total number of Securities that the Holder is then converting into cash and Common Stock, if any, and the aggregate number of shares, if any, of Common Stock issuable upon such conversion. Section 10.04. Taxes on Conversion. If a Holder submits a Security for conversion, the Company shall pay all stamp and all other duties, if any, which may be imposed by the United States or any political subdivision thereof or taxing authority thereof or therein with respect to the issuance of shares, if any, of Common Stock upon the conversion. However, the Holder shall pay any such tax which is due because the Holder requests the shares to be issued in a name other than the Holder's name. The Conversion Agent may refuse to deliver the certificates representing the shares, if any, of Common Stock being issued in a name other than the Holder's name until the Conversion Agent receives a sum sufficient to pay any tax which will be due because the shares are to be issued in a name other than the Holder's name. Nothing herein shall preclude any tax withholding required by law or regulations. Section 10.05. Company to Provide Stock. The Company shall, prior to issuance of any Securities under this Article 10, and from time to time as may be necessary, reserve out of its authorized but unissued shares of Common Stock a sufficient number of shares of Common Stock to permit the conversion of the Securities. Any shares of Common Stock delivered upon conversion of the Securities shall be newly issued shares or treasury shares, shall be duly and validly issued and fully paid and nonassessable, and shall be free from preemptive rights and shall be free of any lien or adverse claim. The Company will endeavor promptly to comply with all federal and state securities laws regulating the offer and delivery of Common Stock, if any, upon conversion of Securities, if any, and will list or cause to have quoted such shares of Common Stock on each national securities exchange or in the over-the-counter market or such other market on which the shares of Common Stock are then listed or quoted. Section 10.06. Adjustment for Change in Capital Stock. If, after the Issue Date of the Securities, the Company, or in the case of (a) below, any Subsidiary of the Company: (a) pays a dividend or makes another distribution to all holders of the Company's Common Stock payable exclusively in shares of Common Stock on the Company's Common Stock; (b) subdivides the outstanding shares of Common Stock into a greater number of shares; or (c) combines the outstanding shares of Common Stock into a smaller number of shares; then the conversion privilege and the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to such action shall be adjusted so that the Holder of a Security thereafter converted may receive the number of shares of Capital Stock of the Company which such Holder would have owned immediately following such action if such Holder had converted the Security immediately prior to such 52
action, provided however, that no adjustment shall be made pursuant to clause (a) if all the Holders of the Securities may participate in such dividend or distribution. The adjustment shall become effective immediately after the close of business on the Business Day immediately preceding the Ex-Dividend Time in the case of a dividend, distribution or subdivision and immediately after the effective date in the case of a combination or reclassification. If after an adjustment a Holder of a Security upon conversion of such Security may receive shares of two or more classes of Capital Stock of the Company, the Conversion Rate shall thereafter be subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of an action taken with respect to any such class of Capital Stock as is contemplated by this Article 10 with respect to the Common Stock, on terms comparable to those applicable to Common Stock in this Article 10. Section 10.07. Adjustment for Rights Issue. If after the Issue Date of the Securities, the Company distributes any rights or warrants to all holders of the Company's Common Stock entitling them to purchase (for a period expiring within 60 days), shares of Common Stock at a price per share less (or having a conversion price per share less) than the then Closing Sale Price on the Business Day immediately preceding the Ex-Dividend Date for such distribution (except that no adjustment will be made if Holders of the Securities may participate in the distribution on a basis and with the notice that the Company's Board of Directors determines to be fair and appropriate), the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted in accordance with the formula: R' = R x (O + N) --------------- (O + (N x P)/M) where: R' = the adjusted Conversion Rate. R = the current Conversion Rate. O = the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding at the close of business on the Business Day immediately preceding the Ex-Dividend Date for the distribution to which this Section 10.07 is being applied. N = the number of additional shares of Common Stock offered pursuant to the distribution. P = the offering price per share of the additional shares. M = the Closing Sale Price on the Business Day immediately preceding the Ex-Dividend Date for such distribution, minus, in the case of (i) a distribution to which Section 10.06(a) applies or (ii) a distribution to which Section 10.08 applies, for which, in each case, (x) the record date shall occur on or before the record date for the distribution to which this Section 10.07 applies and (y) the Ex-Dividend Time shall occur on or after the date of the Time of Determination for the distribution to which this Section 10.07 applies, the fair market value (on the record date for the distribution to which this Section 10.07 applies) of the 53
(a) Capital Stock of the Company distributed in respect of each share of Common Stock in such Section 10.06(a) distribution, and (b) assets of the Company or debt securities or any rights, warrants or options to purchase securities of the Company distributed in respect of each share of Common Stock in such Section 10.08 distribution. The Board of Directors shall determine fair market values for the purposes of this Section 10.07, except as Section 10.08 otherwise provides in the case of a Spin-off (as defined below). The adjustment shall become effective immediately after the close of business on the Business Day immediately preceding the Ex-Dividend Date for the determination of shareholders entitled to receive the rights, warrants or options to which this Section 10.07 applies. If all of the shares of Common Stock subject to such rights, warrants or options have not been issued when such rights, warrants or options expire, then the Conversion Rate shall promptly be readjusted to the Conversion Rate which would then be in effect had the adjustment upon the issuance of such rights, warrants or options been made on the basis of the actual number of shares of Common Stock issued upon the exercise of such rights, warrants or options. No adjustment shall be made under this Section 10.07 if the application of the formula stated above in this Section 10.07 would result in a value of R' that is equal to or less than the value of R. Section 10.08. Adjustment for Other Distributions. If, after the Issue Date of the Securities, the Company distributes to all holders of its Common Stock any of its debt, securities or assets or any rights, warrants or options to purchase securities of the Company (including securities or cash, but excluding (a) distributions of Capital Stock referred to in Section 10.06 and distributions of rights, warrants or options referred to in Section 10.07 and (b) cash dividends or other cash distributions referred to in Section 10.08A, the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted, subject to the provisions of the last paragraph of this Section 10.08, in accordance with the formula: R' = R x M ------- (M - F) where: R' = the adjusted Conversion Rate. R = the current Conversion Rate. M = the Closing Sale Price on the Ex-Dividend Date for such distribution, minus, in the case of a distribution to which Section 10.06(a) applies, for which (i) the record date shall occur on or before the record date for the distribution to which this Section 10.08 applies and (ii) the Ex-Dividend Time shall occur on or after the date of the Time of Determination for the distribution to which this Section 10.08 applies, the fair market value (on the record date for the distribution to which this Section 10.08 applies) of any Capital Stock of the Company distributed in respect of each share of Common Stock in such Section 10.06(a) distribution. 54
F = the fair market value (at the close of business on the Business Day immediately preceding the Ex-Dividend Date for the distribution to which this Section 10.08 applies) of the assets, securities, rights, warrants or options to be distributed in respect of each share of Common Stock in the distribution to which this Section 10.08 is being applied (including, in the case of cash dividends or other cash distributions giving rise to an adjustment, all such cash distributed concurrently). In the event the Company distributes shares of Capital Stock of a Subsidiary, the Conversion Rate will be adjusted, if at all, based on the market value of the Subsidiary stock so distributed relative to the market value of the shares of Common Stock, as discussed below. The Board of Directors shall determine fair market values for the purposes of this Section 10.08, except that in respect of a dividend or other distribution of shares of Capital Stock of any class or series, or similar equity interests, of or relating to a Subsidiary or other business unit of the Company (a "SPIN-OFF"), the fair market value of the securities to be distributed shall equal the average of the daily Closing Sale Prices of those securities for the five consecutive Trading Days commencing on and including the sixth day of trading of those securities after the effectiveness of the Spin-off. In the event, however, that an underwritten initial public offering of the securities in the Spin-off occurs simultaneously with the Spin-off, fair market value of the securities distributed in the Spin-off shall mean the initial public offering price of such securities and the Closing Sale Price shall mean the Closing Sale Price for the Common Stock on the same Trading Day. The adjustment shall become effective immediately after the close of business on the Business Day immediately preceding the Ex-Dividend Time for the determination of shareholders entitled to receive the distribution to which this Section 10.08 applies, except that an adjustment related to a Spin-off shall become effective at the earlier to occur of (i) 10 Trading Days after the effective date of the Spin-off and (ii) the initial public offering of the securities distributed in the Spin-off. In the event that, with respect to any distribution to which this Section 10.08 would otherwise apply, the difference "M-F" as defined in the above formula is less than $1.00 or "F" is equal to or greater than "M", then the adjustment provided by this Section 10.08 shall not be made and in lieu thereof the provisions of Section 10.15 shall apply to such distribution. Section 10.08A. Adjustment for Cash Dividends. If, after the Issue Date of the Securities, the Company distributes to all or substantially all holders of its Common Stock any cash (excluding any dividend or distribution in connection with the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company, whether voluntary or involuntary), the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted in accordance with the formula: R' = R x M ------- (M - C) where, R' = the adjusted Conversion Rate; 55
R = the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the Time of Determination; M = Closing Sale Price on the Trading Day before the Ex-Dividend Date for such distribution; and C = the amount in cash per share the Company distributes to holders in excess of the Dividend Threshold Amount (and for which no adjustment has been made). If an adjustment is required to be made pursuant to this Section 10.08A, as a result of a distribution that is not a regular quarterly cash dividend, the Dividend Threshold Amount will be deemed to be zero. The adjustment shall become effective immediately after the close of business on the Business Day immediately preceding the Ex-Dividend Time with respect to the distribution. Section 10.09. Adjustment for Company Tender Offer. If, after the Issue Date of the Securities, the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company makes a payment to holders of the shares of Common Stock in respect of a tender or exchange offer, other than an odd-lot offer, by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries for shares of Common Stock, to the extent that the cash and value of any other consideration included in the payment per share of Common Stock exceeds the Closing Sale Price on the Trading Day following the last date on which tenders or exchanges may be made pursuant to such tender or exchange offer, the Conversion Rate shall be increased so that the same shall equal the price determined by multiplying the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the effectiveness of the Conversion Rate increase contemplated by this Section 10.09 by a fraction of which the numerator shall be the sum of (i) the fair market value, as determined by the Board of Directors, of the aggregate consideration payable to stockholders based on the acceptance (up to any maximum amount specified in the terms of the tender or exchange offer) of all shares validly tendered or exchanged and not validly withdrawn as of the expiration time of the tender or exchange offer (the "EXPIRATION TIME") (the shares deemed so accepted, up to any such maximum, being referred to as the "PURCHASED SHARES") and (ii) the product of the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding (less any such Purchased Shares) and the Closing Sale Price of the Common Stock on the Trading Day next succeeding the Expiration Time; and the denominator shall be the product of the number of shares of the Common Stock outstanding (including any such Purchased Shares) and the Closing Sale Price of the Common Stock on the Trading Day next succeeding the Expiration Time. The adjustment shall become effective immediately after the close of business on the Trading Day following the Expiration Time. Section 10.10. When Adjustment May be Deferred. No adjustment in the Conversion Rate need be made unless the adjustment would require an increase or decrease of at least 1% in the Conversion Rate. Any adjustments that are not made shall be carried forward and taken into account in any subsequent adjustment. Any adjustments that are carried forward shall be made at the time the Company mails a Redemption Notice and on the day five days prior to Stated Maturity. Thereafter any adjustment to the Conversion Rate shall be made without regard to the 1% threshold described above. 56
All calculations under this Article 10 shall be made to the nearest cent or to the nearest 1/10,000th of a share, as the case may be. Section 10.11. When No Adjustment Required. No adjustment need be made as a result of: (a) the issuance of the rights pursuant to the Company's adoption of a stockholders rights plan that provides that each share of Common Stock issued upon conversion of the Securities at any time prior to the distribution of separate certificates representing rights will be entitled to receive the right (a "STOCKHOLDER RIGHTS PLAN"); (b) the distribution of separate certificates representing the rights under a Stockholder Rights Plan; (c) the exercise or redemption of the rights in accordance with any rights agreement under a Stockholder Rights Plan; (d) the termination or invalidation of the rights under a Stockholder Rights Plan; (e) upon the issuance of any shares of Common Stock pursuant to any present or future plan providing for the reinvestment of dividends or interest payable on securities of the Company and the investment of additional optional amounts in Common Stock under any plan; (f) upon the issuance of any shares of Common Stock or options or rights to purchase those shares pursuant to any present or future employee, director or consultant benefit plan or program of or assumed by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries; (g) upon the issuance of any shares of Common Stock pursuant to any option, warrant, right, or exercisable, exchangeable or convertible security outstanding as of the date the Securities were first issued; (h) except as otherwise described in this Article 10, ordinary course of business stock repurchases, including structured or derivative transactions pursuant to a stock repurchase program approved by the Board of Directors; (i) any accrued and unpaid interest or Additional Interest; or (j) upon the repurchase by the Company of any shares of Common Stock pursuant to the buyback of shares announced December 13, 2006 contemporaneously with the announcement of the issuance of the Securities (provided, however, that no such repurchase is effected more than 30 days after date the Securities were first issued through a tender or exchange offer to the extent that the cash and value of any other consideration included in the payment per share of Common Stock exceeds the Closing Sale Price of the Common Stock on the Trading Day following the last date on which tenders or exchanges may be made pursuant to such tender or exchange offer). 57
No adjustment need be made for a transaction referred to in Section 10.07, 10.08 or 10.08A if Holders of the Securities may participate in the transaction on a basis and with notice that the Board of Directors determines to be fair and appropriate in light of the basis and notice on which holders of Common Stock participate in the transaction. No adjustment need be made for a transaction referred to in Section 10.08 or 10.08A above if all Holders of the Securities may participate in the transaction. No adjustment need be made for a change in the par value or no par value of the shares of Common Stock. To the extent the Securities become convertible pursuant to this Article 10 in whole or in part into cash, no adjustment need be made thereafter as to the cash. Interest will not accrue on the cash. Section 10.12. Notice of Adjustment. Whenever the Conversion Rate is adjusted, the Company shall promptly or within three Business Days mail to Holders a notice of the adjustment. The Company shall file with the Trustee and the Conversion Agent such notice briefly stating the facts requiring the adjustment and the manner of computing it. The notice of adjustment shall be conclusive evidence that the adjustment is correct. Neither the Trustee nor any Conversion Agent shall be under any duty or responsibility with respect to any such notice of adjustment except to exhibit the same to any Holder desiring inspection thereof. Section 10.13. Voluntary Increase. The Company from time to time may increase the Conversion Rate by any amount at any time for at least 20 Business Days, so long as the increase is irrevocable during such period. Whenever the Conversion Rate is increased, the Company shall mail to Holders and file with the Trustee and the Conversion Agent a notice of the increase. The Company shall mail the notice at least 15 days before the date the increased Conversion Rate takes effect. The notice shall state the increased Conversion Rate and the period it will be in effect. A voluntary increase of the Conversion Rate does not change or adjust the Conversion Rate otherwise in effect for purposes of Section 10.06, 10.07, 10.08 or 10.08A. Section 10.14. Notice of Certain Transactions. If: (a) the Company takes any action that would require an adjustment in the Conversion Rate pursuant to Section 10.06, 10.07, 10.08, 10.08A or 10.09 (unless no adjustment is to occur pursuant to Section 10.11); or (b) the Company takes any action that would require a supplemental indenture pursuant to Section 10.15; or (c) there is a liquidation or dissolution of the Company, then the Company shall mail to Holders and file with the Trustee and the Conversion Agent a notice stating the proposed record date for a dividend, distribution or subdivision or the proposed effective date of a combination, reclassification, consolidation, merger, binding share exchange, transfer, liquidation or dissolution. The Company shall file and mail the notice at least 15 scheduled Trading Days before such date. Failure to file or mail the notice or any defect in it shall not affect the validity of the transaction. 58
Section 10.15. Reorganization of Company; Special Distributions. If the Company is a party to a Fundamental Change pursuant to paragraph (ii) of the definition of Fundamental Change set forth in Section 3.08, upon effectiveness of such Fundamental Change, the Securities shall be convertible into cash and other property, as applicable. If, pursuant to Section 10.21 the Company is required to increase the conversion rate by the Additional Shares as a result of such a Fundamental Change, the Securities surrendered for conversion will be settled as follows: (a) if the last day of the Applicable Conversion Reference Period related to Securities surrendered for conversion is prior to the third Trading Day preceding the effective date of the Fundamental Change, (i) the conversion shall be settled as described in Section 10.01(b) by delivering the amount of cash and shares of Common Stock, if any, based on the Conversion Rate then in effect without regard to the number of Additional Shares to be added to the Conversion Rate as described above, on the third Trading Day immediately following the last day of the Applicable Conversion Reference Period and (ii) as soon as practicable following the Fundamental Change Effective Date, the Company shall deliver the increase in such amount of cash and reference property deliverable in lieu of shares of Common Stock, if any, as if the Conversion Rate had been increased by such number of Additional Shares during the related Applicable Conversion Reference Period and based upon the average of the Closing Sale Prices of the Common Stock during such Applicable Conversion Reference Period. If such increased amount results in an increase to the amount of cash to be paid to Holders, the Company shall pay such increase in cash, and if such increased settlement amount results in an increase to the number of shares of Common Stock, the Company shall deliver such increase by delivering reference property based on such increased number of shares; and (b) if the last day of the Applicable Conversion Reference Period related to Securities surrendered for conversion is on or following the third scheduled Trading Day preceding the Fundamental Change Effective Date, the conversion shall be settled as described in Section 10.01(b) based on the Conversion Rate as increased by the Additional Shares payable on the later to occur of (1) the effective date of the transaction and (2) the third Trading Day immediately following the last day of the Applicable Conversion Reference Period. (c) If the Company makes a distribution to all holders of its Common Stock of any of its assets, or debt securities or any rights, warrants or options to purchase securities of the Company that, but for the provisions of the last paragraph of Section 10.08, would otherwise result in an adjustment in the Conversion Rate pursuant to the provisions of Section 10.08, then, from and after the record date for determining the holders of Common Stock entitled to receive the distribution, the Conversion Value and the Daily Share Amount will be calculated based upon, in addition to the shares of Common Stock into which the Security is convertible (before taking into account the net share settlement provisions), the kind and amount of securities, cash or other assets comprising the distribution that a holder of a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the Conversion Rate would have received if such Holder had converted the Security immediately prior to the record date for determining the holders of Common Stock entitled to receive the distribution. (d) If the Company is a party to a transaction subject to Section 5.01 (other than a sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company in a transaction in which the holders of Common Stock immediately prior to such transaction do not receive securities, cash 59
or other assets of the Company or any other Person) or a merger or binding share exchange which reclassifies or changes its outstanding shares of Common Stock, the Person obligated to deliver securities, cash or other assets upon conversion of Securities shall enter into a supplemental indenture. If the issuer of securities deliverable upon conversion of Securities is an Affiliate of the successor Company, that issuer shall join in the supplemental indenture. (e) The supplemental indenture described in subsection (d) shall provide that the Conversion Value and Daily Share Amount will be determined based upon the kind and amount of securities, cash or other assets which a holder of a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the Conversion Rate would have received in the consolidation, merger, binding share exchange or transfer, assuming (to the extent applicable) that such holder was not a constituent Person or an Affiliate of a constituent Person to such transaction. In the event holders of the Common Stock have the opportunity to elect the form of consideration to be received in any such transaction, the Company will make adequate provision whereby the Holders of the Securities shall have a reasonable opportunity to determine the form of consideration, into which all of the Securities, treated as a single class, shall be convertible from and after the effective date of such transaction (subject to the Company's ability to settle the conversion obligation in cash). Any such determination shall be subject to any limitations to which all of the holders of the Common Stock are subject, such as pro-rata reductions applicable to any portion of the consideration to be paid and shall be conducted in such a manner as to be completed by the date which is the earliest of (a) the deadline for elections to be made by holders of the Common Stock in connection with such transaction, and (b) two scheduled Trading Days prior to the anticipated effective date of such event. The Company shall provide notice of the opportunity to determine the form of such consideration, as well as notice of the determination made by Holders of the Securities by issuing a press release and providing a copy of such notice to the Trustee. The Company will not become a party to any such transaction unless its terms are consistent with the foregoing. The supplemental indenture shall provide for adjustments which shall be as nearly equivalent as may be practical to the adjustments provided for in this Article 10. The successor Company shall mail to Holders a notice briefly describing the supplemental indenture. Section 10.16. Company Determination Final. Any determination that the Company or the Board of Directors must make pursuant to Section 10.03, 10.06, 10.07, 10.08, 10.08A, 10.09, 10.10, 10.11, 10.15 or 10.17 is conclusive, absent manifest error. Section 10.17. Trustee's Adjustment Disclaimer. The Trustee has no duty to determine when an adjustment under this Article 10 should be made, how it should be made or what it should be. The Trustee has no duty to determine whether a supplemental indenture under Section 10.15 need be entered into or whether any provisions of any supplemental indenture are correct. The Trustee shall not be accountable for and makes no representation as to the validity or value of any securities or assets issued upon conversion of Securities. The Trustee shall not be responsible for the Company's failure to comply with this Article 10. Each Conversion Agent shall have the same protection under this Section 10.17 as the Trustee. Section 10.18. Simultaneous Adjustments. In the event that this Article 10 requires adjustments to the Conversion Rate under more than one of Sections 10.06(d), 10.07, 10.08 or 10.08A, and the record dates for the distributions giving rise to such adjustments shall occur on the same date, then such adjustments shall be made by applying, first, the provisions of Section 60
10.06, second, the provisions of Section 10.08, third, the provisions of Section 10.08A and, fourth, the provisions of Section 10.07. Section 10.19. Successive Adjustments. After an adjustment to the Conversion Rate under this Article 10, any subsequent event requiring an adjustment under this Article 10 shall cause an adjustment to the Conversion Rate as so adjusted. Section 10.20. Limitation on Adjustments. The Company shall not take any action that would result in an adjustment pursuant to the foregoing provisions in this Article 10 if that adjustment would reduce the Conversion Price below the then par value of the shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Securities. Section 10.21. Adjustment to Conversion Rate Upon Certain Fundamental Change Transactions. If, after the Issue Date and prior to December 20, 2009, a Fundamental Change pursuant to paragraphs (i) or (ii) of the definition of Fundamental Change set forth in Section 3.08 (or an event that would have been a Fundamental Change pursuant to paragraphs (i) or (ii) of the definition of Fundamental Change set forth in Section 3.08 but for clause (A) of the paragraph following the definition of Fundamental Change set forth in Section 3.08), occurs and a Holder elects to convert its Securities in connection with such a Fundamental Change the Company will increase the Applicable Conversion Rate for the Securities surrendered for conversion by a number of additional shares of Common Stock (the "ADDITIONAL SHARES"), as described in this Section 10.21. A conversion of Securities will be deemed for the purposes of this Section 10.21 to be "in connection with" a Fundamental Change if the notice of conversion of the Securities is received by the Conversion Agent from and including the date that is 15 scheduled Trading Days prior to the anticipated effective date of the Fundamental Change, up to and including the related Fundamental Change Repurchase Date or the date that is 15 scheduled Trading Days after the effective date of the Fundamental Change if there is no such related Fundamental Change Repurchase Date. The Company shall mail Holders not later than 25 scheduled Trading Days prior to the anticipated effective date of the Fundamental Change, a notice describing the Fundamental Change and the Holders' rights to Additional Shares. The number of Additional Shares will be determined by reference to the table below and is based on the date which such Fundamental Change transaction occurs or becomes effective (the "FUNDAMENTAL CHANGE EFFECTIVE DATE") and the price (the "SHARE PRICE") paid per share of Common Stock in such Fundamental Change transaction. If the holders of Common Stock receive only cash in the Fundamental Change transaction, the Share Price shall be the cash amount paid per share of Common Stock. Otherwise, the Share Price shall be the average of the Closing Sale Prices of the Common Stock on the five consecutive Trading Days up to but excluding the Fundamental Change Effective Date. 61
The Share Prices set forth in the Share Price column of the table below will be adjusted as of any date on which the Conversion Rate is adjusted. The adjusted Share Prices will equal the Share Prices applicable immediately prior to such adjustment, multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the applicable Conversion Rate immediately prior to the adjustment giving rise to the Share Price adjustment and the denominator of which is the applicable Conversion Rate as so adjusted. If the exact Share Prices and Fundamental Change Effective Dates are not set forth in the table, then: (i) if the Share Price is between two Share Price amounts in the table or the effective date is between two dates in the table, the Additional Shares issued upon conversion of the Securities will be determined by a straight-line interpolation between the number of Additional Shares set forth for the higher and lower Share Price amounts and the two dates in the table, based on a 365-day year, (ii) if the Share Price exceeds $160.00 per share, subject to adjustment as set forth herein, no Additional Shares will be issued upon conversion of the Securities; and (iii) if the Share Price is less than $45.76 per share, subject to adjustment as set forth herein, no Additional Shares will be issued upon conversion of the Securities. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event will the total number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion exceed 21.8531 shares per $1,000 principal amount of Securities, subject to adjustments in the same manner as the Conversion Rate pursuant to Article 10. ARTICLE 11 PAYMENT OF INTEREST Section 11.01. Payment of Interest. (a) The Company shall pay interest on the Securities at a rate of 2.60% per annum, payable semi-annually in arrears on June 15 and December 15 of each year (each, an "INTEREST PAYMENT DATE"), or if any such day is not a Business Day, the immediately following Business Day, commencing June 15, 2007. Interest on a Security shall be paid to the Holder of such Security at the close of business on June 1 or December 1 (each, a "RECORD DATE"), as the case may be, next preceding the related Interest Payment Date, and shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year comprised of twelve 30-day months. In the event of the maturity, conversion, or purchase of a Security by the Company at the option of the Holder, interest shall cease to accrue on such Security. (b) Upon conversion of a Security, (i) a Holder shall not receive any cash payment of interest (unless such conversion occurs between a Record Date and the Interest Payment Date to which it relates, in which case a Holder on the Record Date will receive on the Interest Payment Date accrued and unpaid interest) and the Conversion Rate shall not be adjusted to account for accrued and unpaid interest and (ii) except as set forth in clause (c) below, the Company's delivery to a Holder of cash and shares, if any, of Common Stock into which the Security is convertible shall be deemed to satisfy its obligation with respect to such Security, and any 62
accrued but unpaid interest shall be deemed to be paid in full upon conversion, rather than cancelled, extinguished or forfeited. (c) Securities surrendered for conversion by a Holder after the close of business on any Record Date but prior to the next Interest Payment Date must be accompanied by payment of an amount equal to the interest that the Holder is to receive on the Securities; provided, however, that no such payment need be made (1) if the Company has specified a Redemption Date that is after a Record Date and on or prior to the next Interest Payment Date, (2) if the Company has specified a Fundamental Change Repurchase Date that is after a Record Date and on or prior to the next Interest Payment Date or (3) only to the extent of overdue interest, if any overdue interest exists at the time of conversion with respect to such Securities. Section 11.02. Contingent Interest. The Company will pay Contingent Interest to Holders during the period commencing December 20, 2009 and ending June 14, 2010 and for any six-month period thereafter from December 15 to June 15 or from June 15 to December 15 ("INTEREST PERIOD"), if the average Trading Price of per $1,000 principal amount of the Securities for the five Trading Day measurement period ending on the third Trading Day immediately preceding the first day of the applicable Interest Period (the "MEASUREMENT PERIOD") equals 120% or more of an equal principal amount of the Securities as of the last day of the Measurement Period. The amount of Contingent Interest payable in any Interest Period pursuant to this Section 11.02 shall equal 0.25% per annum of the average Trading Price of the Securities for the applicable Measurement Period. Contingent Interest, if any, will accrue from the first day of any relevant Interest Period. Section 11.03. Payment of Contingent Interest. The Company shall pay Contingent Interest owed pursuant to Section 11.02 for any Interest Period on the Interest Payment Date immediately succeeding the applicable Interest Period, to Holders of Securities as of the Record Date related to such Interest Payment Date. Section 11.04. Notice of Contingent Interest. As soon as practicable following the first Business Day of an Interest Period for which Contingent Interest will be payable pursuant to Section 11.02, the Company shall notify the Holders of the right of such Holders to receive Contingent Interest by disseminating a press release through Dow Jones & Company, Inc. or Bloomberg Business News containing this information or publish the information on the Company's web site or through such other public medium as it may use at that time. If in connection with a payment of Contingent Interest the Company determines that U.S. withholding tax may be required because the Securities are not actively traded within the meaning of Section 871(h)(4)(C)(v)(I) (or applicable successor provision) of the Code, the Company shall provide such information in the same manner as information to be disseminated pursuant to the preceding sentence. Section 11.05. Defaulted Interest. Any installment of interest that is payable, but is not punctually paid or duly provided for on any Interest Payment Date ("Defaulted Interest") shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holders in whose names the Securities were registered on the Record Date applicable to such installment of interest. Defaulted Interest (including any interest on such Defaulted Interest) may be paid by the Company, at its election, as provided in this Section 11.05 (a) or (b). 63
(a) The Company may elect to make payment of any Defaulted Interest (including any interest on such Defaulted Interest) to the Holders in whose names the Securities are registered at the close of business on a special record date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest (a "SPECIAL RECORD DATE"), which shall be fixed in the following manner. The Company shall notify the Trustee in writing of the amount of Defaulted Interest proposed to be paid and the date of the proposed payment, and at the same time the Company shall deposit with the Trustee an amount of money equal to the aggregate amount proposed to be paid in respect of such Defaulted Interest or shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for such deposit prior to the date of the proposed payment, such money when deposited to be held in trust for the benefit of the Holders entitled to such Defaulted Interest as provided in this Section 11.05(a). Thereupon the Trustee shall fix a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest, which shall be not more than 15 calendar days and not less than ten calendar days prior to the date of the proposed payment and not less than ten calendar days after the receipt by the Trustee of the notice of the proposed payment. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company of such Special Record Date and, in the name and at the expense of the Company, shall cause notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor to be sent, first-class mail, postage prepaid, to each Holder at such Holder's address as it appears in the registration books of the Registrar, not less than ten calendar days prior to such Special Record Date. Notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor having been mailed as aforesaid, such Defaulted Interest shall be paid to the Holders in whose names the Securities are registered at the close of business on such Special Record Date and shall no longer be payable pursuant to Section 11.05(b). (b) Alternatively, the Company may make payment of any Defaulted Interest (including any interest on such Defaulted Interest) in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, if, after notice given by the Company to the Trustee of the proposed payment pursuant to this Section 11.05(b), such manner of payment shall be deemed practicable by the Trustee. Section 11.06. Interest Rights Preserved. Subject to the foregoing provisions of this Article 11 and Section 2.06, each Security delivered under this Indenture upon registration of transfer of or in exchange for or in lieu of any other Security shall carry the rights to interest accrued and unpaid, and to accrue, which were carried by such other Security. ARTICLE 12 MISCELLANEOUS Section 12.01. Trust Indenture Act Controls. If any provision of this Indenture limits, qualifies, or conflicts with another provision which is required to be included in this Indenture by the TIA, the required provision shall control. Section 12.02. Notices. Any request, demand, authorization, notice, waiver, consent or communication shall be in writing and delivered in Person or mailed by first-class mail, postage 64
prepaid, addressed as follows or transmitted by facsimile transmission (confirmed by guaranteed overnight courier) to the following facsimile numbers: if to the Company: International Game Technology 9295 Prototype Drive P.O. Box 10580 Reno, Nevada 89510 Facsimile: (775) 448-0777 Attention of: Chief Financial Officer if to the Trustee: Wells Fargo Bank, National Association 100 West Washington Street, 22nd Floor Phoenix, Arizona 85003 Facsimile: 602-378-2333 Attention: Vice President - Brenda D. Black The Company or the Trustee by notice given to the other in the manner provided above may designate additional or different addresses for subsequent notices or communications. Any notice or communication given to a Holder shall be mailed to the Holder, by first-class mail, postage prepaid, at the Holder's address as it appears on the registration books of the Registrar and shall be deemed sufficiently given if so mailed within the time prescribed. Failure to mail a notice or communication to a Holder or any defect in it shall not affect its sufficiency with respect to other Holders. If a notice or communication is mailed in the manner provided above, it is duly given, whether or not received by the addressee. If the Company mails a notice or communication to the Holders, it shall mail a copy to the Trustee and each Registrar, Paying Agent, Conversion Agent or co-registrar. Section 12.03. Communication by Holders with Other Holders. Holders may communicate pursuant to TIA Section 312(b) with other Holders with respect to their rights under this Indenture or the Securities. The Company, the Trustee, the Registrar, the Paying Agent, the Conversion Agent and anyone else shall have the protection of TIA Section 312(c). Section 12.04. Certificate and Opinion as to Conditions Precedent. Upon any request or application by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under this Indenture, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee: (a) an Officers' Certificate stating that, in the opinion of the signers, all conditions precedent, if any, provided for in this Indenture relating to the proposed action have been complied with; and 65
(b) if required by the Trustee, an Opinion of Counsel stating that, in the opinion of such counsel, all such conditions precedent (to the extent of legal conclusions) have been complied with. Section 12.05. Statements Required in Certificate or Opinion. Each Officers' Certificate or Opinion of Counsel with respect to compliance with a covenant or condition provided for in this Indenture shall include: (a) a statement that each Person making such Officers' Certificate or Opinion of Counsel has read such covenant or condition; (b) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such Officers' Certificate or Opinion of Counsel are based; (c) a statement that, in the opinion of each such Person, he has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable such Person to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and (d) a statement that, in the opinion of such Person, such covenant or condition has been complied with. Section 12.06. Separability Clause. In case any provision in this Indenture or in the Securities shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby. Section 12.07. Rules by Trustee, Paying Agent, Conversion Agent, and Registrar. The Trustee may make reasonable rules for action by or a meeting of Holders. The Registrar, the Conversion Agent and the Paying Agent may make reasonable rules for their functions. Section 12.08. Legal Holidays. A "LEGAL HOLIDAY" is a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which banking institutions are not required to be open in the State of New York. If a payment date is a Legal Holiday, payment shall be made on the next succeeding day that is not a Legal Holiday, and no interest (or Contingent Interest, if applicable) shall accrue for the intervening period. If a Record Date is a Legal Holiday, the Record Date shall not be affected. Section 12.09. Governing Law. THIS INDENTURE AND THE SECURITIES SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK BUT WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW TO THE EXTENT THAT THE APPLICATION OF THE LAWS OF ANOTHER JURISDICTION WOULD BE REQUIRED THEREBY. Section 12.10. No Recourse Against Others. A director, officer, employee or stockholder, as such, of the Company shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Securities or this Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creation. By accepting a Security, each Holder shall waive and release all such liability. The waiver and release shall be part of the consideration for the issue of the Securities. 66
Section 12.11. Successors. All agreements of the Company in this Indenture and the Securities shall bind its successor. All agreements of the Trustee in this Indenture shall bind its successor. Section 12.12. Multiple Originals. The parties may sign any number of copies of this Indenture. Each signed copy shall be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement. One signed copy is enough to prove this Indenture. Section 12.13. Table of Contents; Headings. The table of contents and headings of the Articles and Sections of this Indenture have been inserted for convenience of reference only, are not intended to be considered a part hereof and shall not modify or restrict any of the terms or provisions hereof. 67
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, INTERNATIONAL GAME TECHNOLOGY has caused this Indenture to be duly executed as a deed the day and year first before written. INTERNATIONAL GAME TECHNOLOGY /s/ Maureen T. Mullarkey - ------------------------------------- Name: Maureen T. Mullarkey Title: Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, being duly authorized, has executed this Indenture as of the date first above written. WELLS FARGO BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION By: /s/ Brenda D. Black ------------------------------------ Name: Brenda D. Black Title: Vice President 68
EXHIBIT A [FORM OF FACE OF GLOBAL SECURITY] FOR PURPOSES OF SECTIONS 1273 AND 1275 OF THE INTERNAL REVENUE CODE, THIS SECURITY IS ISSUED WITH AN INDETERMINATE AMOUNT OF ORIGINAL ISSUE DISCOUNT FOR UNITED STATES FEDERAL INCOME TAX PURPOSES AND WILL BE SUBJECT TO THE REGULATIONS GOVERNING CONTINGENT PAYMENT DEBT INSTRUMENTS FOR UNITED STATES FEDERAL INCOME TAX PURPOSES. THE ISSUE DATE AND THE COMMENCEMENT DATE FOR THE ACCRUAL OF ORIGINAL ISSUE DISCOUNT IS DECEMBER 20, 2006. AS REQUIRED UNDER APPLICABLE TREASURY REGULATIONS, THE "COMPARABLE YIELD" IS SET FORTH IN SECTION 2.14 OF THE INDENTURE PURSUANT TO WHICH THIS SECURITY IS BEING ISSUED. UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (AND ANY PAYMENT HEREON IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL SINCE THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN. TRANSFERS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS TO NOMINEES OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, OR TO A SUCCESSOR THEREOF OR SUCH SUCCESSOR'S NOMINEE AND TRANSFERS OF PORTIONS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS MADE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE RESTRICTIONS SET FORTH IN ARTICLE TWO OF THE INDENTURE REFERRED TO ON THE REVERSE HEREOF. THIS SECURITY AND ANY COMMON STOCK ISSUABLE UPON THE CONVERSION OF THIS SECURITY HAVE NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE U.S. SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), AND MAY NOT BE SOLD OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR AN APPLICABLE EXEMPTION THEREFROM. EACH PURCHASER OF THIS SECURITY IS HEREBY NOTIFIED THAT THE SELLER OF THIS SECURITY MAY BE RELYING ON THE EXEMPTION FROM THE PROVISIONS OF SECTION 5 OF THE SECURITIES ACT PROVIDED BY RULE 144A THEREUNDER. THE HOLDER OF THIS SECURITY SHALL BE DEEMED TO HAVE AGREED FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE COMPANY THAT THIS SECURITY AND ANY COMMON STOCK ISSUABLE UPON THE CONVERSION OF THIS SECURITY MAY NOT BE A-1
OFFERED, SOLD, PLEDGED OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT (A) (1) TO A PERSON WHO THE TRANSFEROR REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER WITHIN THE MEANING OF RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT ACQUIRING FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER IN A TRANSACTION MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF RULE 144A, (2) PURSUANT TO AN EXEMPTION FROM REGISTRATION UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT PROVIDED BY RULE 144 THEREUNDER (IF AVAILABLE), (3) PURSUANT TO ANOTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT SUBJECT TO THE COMPANY'S AND THE TRUSTEE'S RIGHT PRIOR TO ANY SUCH OFFER, SALE OR TRANSFER PURSUANT TO THIS CLAUSE (3) TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF AN OPINION OF COUNSEL, CERTIFICATIONS AND/OR OTHER INFORMATION SATISFACTORY TO EACH OF THEM, AND IN EACH OF THE FOREGOING CASES, TO REQUIRE THAT A CERTIFICATE OF TRANSFER IN THE FORM APPEARING ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THIS SECURITY IS COMPLETED AND DELIVERED BY THE TRANSFEROR TO THE TRUSTEE OR (4) PURSUANT TO AN EFFECTIVE REGISTRATION STATEMENT UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, AND (B) IN ACCORDANCE WITH ALL APPLICABLE SECURITIES LAWS OF THE STATES OF THE UNITED STATES AND OTHER JURISDICTIONS. THIS SECURITY, ANY SHARES OF COMMON STOCK ISSUABLE UPON ITS CONVERSION AND ANY RELATED DOCUMENTATION MAY BE AMENDED OR SUPPLEMENTED FROM TIME TO TIME TO MODIFY THE RESTRICTIONS ON RESALES AND OTHER TRANSFERS OF THIS SECURITY AND ANY SUCH SHARES TO REFLECT ANY CHANGE IN APPLICABLE LAW OR REGULATION (OR THE INTERPRETATION THEREOF) OR IN PRACTICES RELATING TO THE RESALE OR TRANSFER OF RESTRICTED SECURITIES GENERALLY. THE HOLDER OF THIS SECURITY AND SUCH SHARES SHALL BE DEEMED BY THE ACCEPTANCE OF THIS SECURITY AND ANY SUCH SHARES TO HAVE AGREED TO ANY SUCH AMENDMENT OR SUPPLEMENT. A-2
No. [_____] CUSIP: 459902 AN2 ISIN: US459902AN 26 Principal Amount $[________] as revised by the Schedule of Increases and Decreases in the Global Security attached hereto INTERNATIONAL GAME TECHNOLOGY 2.60%CONVERTIBLE DEBENTURES DUE 2036 International Game Technology, a Nevada corporation, promises to pay to Cede & Co. or registered assigns, the principal amount of $[____] on December 15, 2036. Interest Payment Dates: June 15 and December 15. Record Dates: June 1 and December 1. Additional provisions of this Security are set forth on the other side of this Security. Dated: December 20, 2006 INTERNATIONAL GAME TECHNOLOGY By: ------------------------------------ Title: --------------------------------- TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION WELLS FARGO BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Trustee, certifies that this is one of the Securities referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture. By ---------------------------------- Authorized Signatory Dated: ------------------------------ A-3
[FORM OF REVERSE OF GLOBAL SECURITY] 2.60% Convertible Debentures due 2036 1. Interest This Security shall bear cash interest at the rate of 2.60% per annum. Interest on this Security shall accrue from the Issue Date, or from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or provided for. Interest shall be payable semiannually in arrears on June 15 and December 15 of each year, beginning on June 15, 2007, to the holders of record of Securities at the close of business on the June 1 or December 1 immediately preceding such Interest Payment Date (or repurchase, redemption or Stated Maturity, as applicable). Each payment of cash interest on this Security shall include interest accrued for the period commencing on and including the immediately preceding Interest Payment Date (or, if none, the scheduled original Issue Date) through the day before the applicable Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date, Repurchase Date or Stated Maturity, as applicable. Any payment required to be made on any day that is not a Business Day shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day and no additional interest shall accrue. Interest shall be calculated using a 360-day year composed of twelve 30-day months. Interest shall cease to accrue on this Security upon its Stated Maturity, conversion or repurchase by the Company including a repurchase at the option of the Holder upon a Fundamental Change in accordance with Paragraph 7 hereof. Interest on Securities converted after a Record Date but prior to the corresponding Interest Payment Date will be paid to the Holder of the Securities on the Record Date but, upon conversion the Holder must pay the Company the interest which has accrued and will be paid on such Interest Payment Date. No such payment need be made (1) if the Company has specified a Redemption Date that is after a Record Date and on or prior to the next Interest Payment Date, (2) if the Company has specified a Fundamental Change Repurchase Date that is after a Record Date and on or prior to the next Interest Payment Date or (3) only to the extent of overdue interest, if any overdue interest exists at the time of conversion with respect to such Securities. From and after December 20, 2009, the Company will pay Contingent Interest on this Security under the circumstances and in the amounts described in Article 11 of the Indenture. Such Contingent Interest, if any, shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Interest Payment Date. Contingent Interest, if any, will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. In the event of any payment of Contingent Interest, the Company will disseminate a press release through Dow Jones & Company, Inc. or Bloomberg Business News containing this information or through such other public medium as the Company may use at that time. 2. Method of Payment. The Company shall promptly make all payments in respect of the Securities on the dates and in the manner provided herein and in the Indenture. The Company will pay interest (except Defaulted Interest) on the principal amount of the Securities on each June 15 and December 15 to the Persons who are registered Holders of Securities at the close of business on the June 1 and A-4
December 1 next preceding the Interest Payment Date even if Securities are canceled or repurchased after such Record Date and on or before the Interest Payment Date. Holders must surrender Securities to a Paying Agent to collect principal payments. The Company will pay principal and interest in money of the United States that at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts. The Company will make all payments in respect of a Certificated Security (including principal and interest) in U.S. dollars at the office of the Trustee. At the Company's option, however, the Company may make such payments by mailing a check to the registered address of each Holder thereof as such address shall appear on the register or, with respect to Securities represented by a Global Security, by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the accounts specified by the Depositary. If an Interest Payment Date is a date other than a Business Day, payment may be made at that place on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day and no interest shall accrue for the intervening period. 3. Paying Agent, Conversion Agent and Registrar. Initially, the Trustee will act as Paying Agent, Conversion Agent and Registrar. The Company may appoint and change any Paying Agent, Conversion Agent or Registrar without notice, other than notice to the Trustee; provided that the Company will maintain at least one Paying Agent in the United States of America, which shall initially be an office or agency of the Trustee. The Company or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their Affiliates may act as Paying Agent, Conversion Agent or Registrar. 4. Indenture. The Company issued the Securities under an Indenture dated as of December 20, 2006 (the "Indenture"), between the Company and the Trustee. The terms of the Securities include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as in effect from time to time. Capitalized terms used herein and not defined herein have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Indenture. The Securities are subject to all such terms, and Holders are referred to the Indenture and the TIA for a statement of those terms. The Securities are general unsecured obligations of the Company limited to an aggregate principal amount of $900,000,000. The Indenture does not limit other indebtedness of the Company, secured or unsecured. 5. Redemption at the Option of the Company. No sinking fund is provided for the Securities. Subject to the terms and conditions of this Indenture, the Securities are redeemable at the option of the Company in whole or in part, at any time or from time to time on, or after December 20, 2009 for a cash price equal to the 100% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, up to the Redemption Date (the "REDEMPTION PRICE"). 6. Notice of Redemption. Notice of redemption pursuant to Paragraph 5 of this Security will be mailed at least 15 days but not more than 60 days before the Redemption Date to each Holder of Securities to be A-5
redeemed at the Holder's registered address. If money sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of all Securities (or portions thereof) to be redeemed on the Redemption Date is deposited with the Paying Agent prior to or on the Redemption Date, immediately after such Redemption Date interest ceases to accrue on such Securities or portions thereof. Securities in denominations larger than $1,000 of principal amount may be redeemed in part but only in integral multiples of $1,000 of principal amount. 7. Purchase By the Company at the Option of the Holder. (a) Subject to the terms and conditions of the Indenture, the Company shall become obligated to repurchase, at the option of the Holder, all or any portion of the Securities held by such Holder on December 15, 2009, December 15, 2011, December 15, 2016, December 15, 2021, December 15, 2026 and December 15, 2031 or the next Business Day following such dates to the extent such dates are not Business Days in integral multiples of $1,000 in cash at a Repurchase Price equal to 100% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Repurchase Date. To exercise such right, a Holder shall deliver to the Company a Repurchase Notice containing the information set forth in the Indenture, at any time from the opening of business on the date that is 20 Business Days prior to such Repurchase Date until the close of business on the last Business Day prior to such Repurchase Date, and shall deliver the Securities to the Paying Agent as set forth in the Indenture. (b) At the option of the Holder and subject to the terms and conditions of the Indenture, the Company shall become obligated to offer to repurchase the Securities held by such Holder within 30 days (which repurchase shall occur no more than 45 days after the date of such offer) after the occurrence of a Fundamental Change of the Company (as defined in the Indenture) for a Fundamental Change Repurchase Price equal to 100% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date, which Fundamental Change Repurchase Price shall be paid in cash. (c) Holders have the right to withdraw any Repurchase Notice delivered pursuant to Paragraph 7(a) above or Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice delivered pursuant to Paragraph 7(b), as the case may be, by delivering to the Paying Agent a written notice of withdrawal in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture at any time prior to the close of business of the last day prior to the Repurchase Date. If cash sufficient to pay the Repurchase Price or Fundamental Change Repurchase Price, as the case may be, of all Securities or portions thereof to be repurchased as of the Repurchase Date or the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date, as the case may be, is deposited with the Paying Agent on the Repurchase Date or the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date, interest will cease to accrue on such Securities (or portions thereof) immediately after such Repurchase Date or Fundamental Change Repurchase Date, and the Holder thereof shall have no other rights as such other than the right to receive the Repurchase Price or Fundamental Change Repurchase Price upon surrender of such Security. 8. Conversion. (a) The initial Conversion Rate is 16.1875 shares of Common Stock per $1,000 principal amount, subject to adjustment in certain events described in the Indenture. Upon conversion, a Holder will receive, in respect of each $1,000 principal amount of Securities, (x) A-6
cash equal to the lesser of (1) $1,000 or (2) the Conversion Value; and (y) a number of shares of Common Stock equal the sum of the Daily Share Amounts (as defined in the Indenture) for each of the ten consecutive Trading Days in the Applicable Conversion Reference Period (as defined in the Indenture), as more fully set forth in the Indenture. A Holder that surrenders Securities for conversion will receive cash in lieu of any fractional share of Common Stock based on the Closing Sale Price of the Common Stock of the Company on the Trading Day immediately prior to the Conversion Date. (b) Holders may surrender Securities for conversion into cash and shares, if any, of Common Stock during any fiscal quarter ending after March 31, 2007 (and only during such fiscal quarter) if, the Closing Sale Price of the Common Stock for at least 20 Trading Days in the 30 Trading Day period ending on the last Trading Day of the immediately preceding fiscal quarter is more than 130% of the Conversion Price per share of the Common Stock on the last day of such preceding fiscal quarter. The "CONVERSION PRICE" per share of Common Stock as of any day will equal the result obtained by dividing $1,000 by the then applicable Conversion Rate. (c) A Holder may also surrender for conversion a Security or portion of a Security which has been called for redemption pursuant to Paragraph 5 hereof, and such Securities may be surrendered for conversion until the close of business on the Business Day prior to the Redemption Date. A Security in respect of which a Holder has delivered a Repurchase Notice or a Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice exercising the option of such Holder to require the Company to repurchase such Security may be converted only if such notice of exercise is withdrawn in accordance with the terms of the Indenture. (d) If the Company elects to either (i) distribute to all Holders of Common Stock certain rights entitling them to purchase, for a period expiring within 60 days, shares of Common Stock at less than the current market price at the time, or (ii) distribute to all Holders of Common Stock the Company's assets, debt securities or certain rights to purchase the Company's securities, which distribution has a per share value exceeding 12.5% of the Closing Sale Price of a share of Common Stock on the day prior to the declaration date for such distribution, the Company must give notice to the Holders at least 25 scheduled Trading Days prior to the Ex-Dividend Date for such distribution. Once such notice has been given, the Securities may be surrendered for conversion at any time until the earlier of the close of business on the Business Day prior to the Ex-Dividend Date or until the Company announces that such distribution will not take place. No adjustment to the ability of a holder to convert will be made if the holder will otherwise participate in the distribution without conversion. The Company shall notify Holders at least 25 scheduled Trading Days prior to the Ex-Dividend Date for such distribution. (e) If the Company is party to any transaction or event that constitutes a Fundamental Change, including any event that would be a Fundamental Change but for the existence of an exception specified in clauses (A) or (B) of the paragraph following the definition thereof), a Holder may surrender Securities for conversion at any time from and after the 15th scheduled Trading Day prior to the anticipated effective date of such transaction or event until the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date (or if there is no Fundamental Change Repurchase Date with respect to such event, the 15th day after the effective date thereof, as set forth in Section A-7
3.08 of the Indenture) corresponding to such event. The Company will notify Holders at least 25 scheduled Trading Days prior to the anticipated effective date of such transaction. (f) If the Company is a party to a combination, merger, binding share exchange or sale or conveyance of all or substantially all of its property and assets, in each case pursuant to which the Common Stock would be converted into cash, securities and/or other property that does not also constitute Fundamental Change, including any event that would be a Fundamental Change but for the existence of an exception specified in clauses (A) or (B) of the paragraph following the definition thereof), Holders shall have the right to surrender Securities for conversion at any time from and after the date which is 15 scheduled Trading Days prior to the date that is the actual effective date of such transaction and ending on the 15th scheduled Trading Day following the effective date of such transaction. The Company will notify Holders at least 25 scheduled Trading Days prior to the anticipated effective date of such transaction. (g) Holders may surrender Securities for conversion at any time on or after September 15, 2036 until the close of business on the business day immediately preceding the Stated Maturity. (h) To surrender a Security for conversion, a Holder must (1) complete and manually sign the irrevocable conversion notice below (or complete and manually sign a facsimile of such notice) and deliver such notice to the Conversion Agent, (2) surrender the Security to the Conversion Agent, (3) furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents and (4) pay any transfer or similar tax, if required. (i) A Holder may convert a portion of a Security if the principal amount of such portion is $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000. No payment or adjustment will be made for dividends on the shares of Common Stock except as provided in the Indenture. Except as provided in Paragraph 1 hereof, on conversion of a Security, the Holder will not receive any cash payment representing accrued and unpaid interest with respect to the converted Securities. Instead, upon conversion the Company will deliver to the Holder cash, a fixed number of shares of Common Stock, if any, and any cash payment to account for fractional shares. Accrued and unpaid interest will be deemed paid in full rather than cancelled, extinguished or forfeited. The Company will not adjust the Conversion Rate to account for accrued and unpaid interest. (j) The Conversion Rate will be adjusted as provided in Article 10 of the Indenture. The Company may increase the Conversion Rate for at least 20 Business Days, so long as the increase is irrevocable during such period. (k) If the Company is a party to a consolidation, merger or binding share exchange or a transfer of all or substantially all of its assets as set forth in Section 5.01 of the Indenture, or upon certain events described in Section 10.15 of the Indenture, then at the effective time of the transaction, the Conversion Value and Daily Share Amount will be determined based upon the kind and amount of cash, securities or other property that a holder of a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the Conversion Rate would have received in the transaction or event. (l) The Company will notify Holders of any event triggering the right to convert the Securities as specified in the Indenture. A-8
9. Conversion Arrangement on Call for Redemption. A Holder may surrender for conversion any of the Securities called for redemption at any time prior to the close of business one Business Day prior to the Redemption Date, even if it is not otherwise convertible at such time. If a Holder has already delivered a Repurchase Notice or a Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice with respect to a Security, however, the Holder may not surrender that Security for conversion until the Holder has withdrawn the notice in accordance with the Indenture. 10. Mandatory Disposition Due to Gaming Laws. Each holder, by accepting this Security, shall be deemed to have agreed that if the Gaming Authority of any jurisdiction in which Company or any Subsidiary does business requires that a person who is a holder or the beneficial owner of the Security be licensed, qualified or found suitable under applicable Gaming Laws, such holder or beneficial owner, as the case may be, shall apply for a license, qualification or a finding of suitability within the required time period. If such person fails to apply or become licensed or qualified or is found unsuitable, the Company shall have the right, at its option to: (1) require such person to dispose of this Security or beneficial interest in this Security within 30 days of receipt of notice of the Company's election or such earlier date as may be requested or prescribed by such Gaming Authority; or (2) redeem this Security at a redemption price equal to: (A) the lesser of (i) such person's cost, and (ii) the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the earlier of the redemption date or the date of the finding of unsuitability, which may be less than 30 days following the notice of redemption if so required or prescribed by the applicable Gaming Authority; or (B) such other amount as may be required by applicable law or by order of any applicable Gaming Authority. The Company shall notify the Trustee in writing of any such redemption as soon as practicable. The Company shall not be responsible for any costs or expenses any such holder may incur in connection with its application for a license, qualification or a finding of suitability. 11. Denominations; Transfer; Exchange. The Securities are in fully registered form, without coupons, in denominations of $1,000 of principal amount and integral multiples of $1,000. A Holder may transfer or exchange Securities in accordance with the Indenture. The Registrar may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents and to pay any taxes and fees required by law or permitted by the Indenture. The Registrar need not transfer or exchange any A-9
Securities selected for redemption (except, in the case of a Security to be redeemed in part, the portion of the Security not to be redeemed) or any Securities in respect of which a Repurchase Notice or Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice has been given and not withdrawn (except, in the case of a Security to be repurchased in part, the portion of the Security not to be repurchased) or any Securities for a period of 15 days before the mailing of a notice of redemption of Securities to be redeemed. 12. Persons Deemed Owners. The registered Holder of this Security may be treated as the owner of this Security for all purposes. 13. Unclaimed Money or Securities. The Trustee and the Paying Agent shall return to the Company upon written request any money or securities held by them for the payment of any amount with respect to the Securities that remains unclaimed for two years, subject to applicable unclaimed property law. After return to the Company, Holders entitled to the money or securities must look to the Company for payment as general creditors unless an applicable abandoned property law designates another Person. 14. Trustee Dealings with the Company. Subject to certain limitations imposed by the TIA, the Trustee under the Indenture, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Securities and may otherwise deal with and collect obligations owed to it by the Company or its Affiliates and may otherwise deal with the Company or its Affiliates with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee. 15. Calculations in Respect of Securities. The Company will be responsible for making all calculations called for under the Securities. These calculations include, but not limited to, determinations of the market prices of the Securities and the Common Stock, any accrued interest payable on the Securities, the Conversion Value, the Daily Share Amount and the Conversion Price of the Securities. The Company will make these calculations in good faith and, absent manifest error, the calculations will be final and binding on Holders of the Securities. The Company will provide to the Trustee a schedule of its calculations, and the Trustee is entitled to rely upon the accuracy of such calculations without independent verification. The Trustee will forward the Company's calculations to any Holder of the Securities upon the request of such Holder. 16. No Recourse Against Others. A director, officer, employee or shareholder, as such, of the Company shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Securities or the Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creation. By accepting a Security, each Holder waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issue of the Securities. A-10
17. Authentication. This Security shall not be valid until an authorized signatory of the Trustee manually signs the Trustee's Certificate of Authentication on the other side of this Security. 18. Abbreviations. Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee, such as TEN COM (=tenants in common), TEN ENT (=tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (=joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (=custodian), and U/G/M/A (=Uniform Gift to Minors Act). 19. GOVERNING LAW. THIS INDENTURE AND THE SECURITIES SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK BUT WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW TO THE EXTENT THAT THE APPLICATION OF THE LAWS OF ANOTHER JURISDICTION WOULD BE REQUIRED THEREBY. 20. Registration Rights. The Holders of the Securities are entitled to the benefits of a Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of December 20, 2006, between the Company and Banc of America Securities LLC, as representative of the initial purchasers, including the receipt of Additional Interest upon a registration default (as defined in such agreement). The Company will furnish to any Holder upon written request and without charge a copy of the Indenture which has in it the text of this Security in larger type. Requests may be made to: International Game Technology 9295 Prototype Drive P.O. Box 10580 Reno, Nevada 89510 A-11
ASSIGNMENT FORM CONVERSION NOTICE To assign this Security, fill in the To convert this Security into shares of form below: Common Stock of the Company, check the box [ ] I or we assign and transfer this Security To convert only part of this Security, state the principal amount to be _____________________________________ converted _________________________ (which must be $1,000 or an integral _____________________________________ multiple of $1,000): _____________________________________ If you want the stock certificate made (Insert assignee's soc. sec. or tax out in another Person's name fill in the ID no.) form below: _____________________________________ ________________________________________ _____________________________________ ________________________________________ (Print or type assignee's name, address and zip code) (Insert the other Person's soc. sec. tax and irrevocably appoint _____________ ID no.) agent to transfer this Security on the books of the Company. The agent ________________________________________ may substitute another to act for him. ________________________________________ (Print or type other Person's name, address and zip code) Date: Your Signature: ------------ --------------------------------------------- (Sign exactly as your name appears on the other side of this Security) Signature Guaranteed Participant in a Recognized Signature Guarantee Medallion Program By: --------------------------------- Authorized Signatory A-12
SCHEDULE OF INCREASES AND DECREASES OF GLOBAL SECURITY Initial Principal amount of Global Security: _________($_________). A-13
EXHIBIT B 2.60% Convertible Debentures due 2036 Transfer Certificate In connection with any transfer of any of the Securities within the period prior to the expiration of the holding period applicable to the sales thereof under Rule 144(k) under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act") (or any successor provision), the undersigned registered owner of this Security hereby certifies with respect to $____________ principal amount of the above-captioned Securities presented or surrendered on the date hereof (the "Surrendered Securities") for registration of transfer, or for exchange or conversion where the securities issuable upon such exchange or conversion are to be registered in a name other than that of the undersigned registered owner (each such transaction being a "transfer"), that such transfer complies with the restrictive legend set forth on the face of the Surrendered Securities for the reason checked below: [ ] A transfer of the Surrendered Securities is made to the Company or any of its subsidiaries; or [ ] The transfer of the Surrendered Securities complies with Rule 144A under the Securities Act; or [ ] The transfer of the Surrendered Securities is pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, or [ ] The transfer of the Surrendered Securities is pursuant to another available exemption from the registration requirement of the Securities Act. Unless the box below is checked, the undersigned confirms that, to the undersigned's knowledge, such Securities are not being transferred to an "affiliate" of the Company as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act (an "Affiliate"). [ ] The transferee is an Affiliate of the Company. DATE: ----------------- ---------------------------------------- Signature(s) B-1
(If the registered owner is a corporation, partnership or fiduciary, the title of the Person signing on behalf of such registered owner must be stated.) Signature Guaranteed - ------------------------------------------ Participant in a Recognized Signature Guarantee Medallion Program By: -------------------------------------- Authorized Signatory B-2

Exhibit 4.2 [FACE OF GLOBAL SECURITY] FOR PURPOSES OF SECTIONS 1273 AND 1275 OF THE INTERNAL REVENUE CODE, THIS SECURITY IS ISSUED WITH AN INDETERMINATE AMOUNT OF ORIGINAL ISSUE DISCOUNT FOR UNITED STATES FEDERAL INCOME TAX PURPOSES AND WILL BE SUBJECT TO THE REGULATIONS GOVERNING CONTINGENT PAYMENT DEBT INSTRUMENTS FOR UNITED STATES FEDERAL INCOME TAX PURPOSES. THE ISSUE DATE AND THE COMMENCEMENT DATE FOR THE ACCRUAL OF ORIGINAL ISSUE DISCOUNT IS DECEMBER 20, 2006. AS REQUIRED UNDER APPLICABLE TREASURY REGULATIONS, THE "COMPARABLE YIELD" IS SET FORTH IN SECTION 2.14 OF THE INDENTURE PURSUANT TO WHICH THIS SECURITY IS BEING ISSUED. UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (AND ANY PAYMENT HEREON IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL SINCE THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN. TRANSFERS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS TO NOMINEES OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, OR TO A SUCCESSOR THEREOF OR SUCH SUCCESSOR'S NOMINEE AND TRANSFERS OF PORTIONS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS MADE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE RESTRICTIONS SET FORTH IN ARTICLE TWO OF THE INDENTURE REFERRED TO ON THE REVERSE HEREOF. THIS SECURITY AND ANY COMMON STOCK ISSUABLE UPON THE CONVERSION OF THIS SECURITY HAVE NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE U.S. SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), AND MAY NOT BE SOLD OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR AN APPLICABLE EXEMPTION THEREFROM. EACH PURCHASER OF THIS SECURITY IS HEREBY NOTIFIED THAT THE SELLER OF THIS SECURITY MAY BE RELYING ON THE EXEMPTION FROM THE PROVISIONS OF SECTION 5 OF THE SECURITIES ACT PROVIDED BY RULE 144A THEREUNDER. THE HOLDER OF THIS SECURITY SHALL BE DEEMED TO HAVE AGREED FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE COMPANY THAT THIS SECURITY AND ANY COMMON STOCK ISSUABLE UPON THE CONVERSION OF THIS SECURITY MAY NOT BE OFFERED, SOLD, PLEDGED OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT (A) (1) TO A A-1
PERSON WHO THE TRANSFEROR REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER WITHIN THE MEANING OF RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT ACQUIRING FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER IN A TRANSACTION MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF RULE 144A, (2) PURSUANT TO AN EXEMPTION FROM REGISTRATION UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT PROVIDED BY RULE 144 THEREUNDER (IF AVAILABLE), (3) PURSUANT TO ANOTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT SUBJECT TO THE COMPANY'S AND THE TRUSTEE'S RIGHT PRIOR TO ANY SUCH OFFER, SALE OR TRANSFER PURSUANT TO THIS CLAUSE (3) TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF AN OPINION OF COUNSEL, CERTIFICATIONS AND/OR OTHER INFORMATION SATISFACTORY TO EACH OF THEM, AND IN EACH OF THE FOREGOING CASES, TO REQUIRE THAT A CERTIFICATE OF TRANSFER IN THE FORM APPEARING ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THIS SECURITY IS COMPLETED AND DELIVERED BY THE TRANSFEROR TO THE TRUSTEE OR (4) PURSUANT TO AN EFFECTIVE REGISTRATION STATEMENT UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, AND (B) IN ACCORDANCE WITH ALL APPLICABLE SECURITIES LAWS OF THE STATES OF THE UNITED STATES AND OTHER JURISDICTIONS. THIS SECURITY, ANY SHARES OF COMMON STOCK ISSUABLE UPON ITS CONVERSION AND ANY RELATED DOCUMENTATION MAY BE AMENDED OR SUPPLEMENTED FROM TIME TO TIME TO MODIFY THE RESTRICTIONS ON RESALES AND OTHER TRANSFERS OF THIS SECURITY AND ANY SUCH SHARES TO REFLECT ANY CHANGE IN APPLICABLE LAW OR REGULATION (OR THE INTERPRETATION THEREOF) OR IN PRACTICES RELATING TO THE RESALE OR TRANSFER OF RESTRICTED SECURITIES GENERALLY. THE HOLDER OF THIS SECURITY AND SUCH SHARES SHALL BE DEEMED BY THE ACCEPTANCE OF THIS SECURITY AND ANY SUCH SHARES TO HAVE AGREED TO ANY SUCH AMENDMENT OR SUPPLEMENT. A-2
No. [_____] CUSIP: 459902 AN2 ISIN: US459902AN 26 Principal Amount $[______] as revised by the Schedule of Increases and Decreases in the Global Security attached hereto INTERNATIONAL GAME TECHNOLOGY 2.60% CONVERTIBLE DEBENTURES DUE 2036 International Game Technology, a Nevada corporation, promises to pay to Cede & Co. or registered assigns, the principal amount of $[__] on December 15, 2036. Interest Payment Dates: June 15 and December 15. Record Dates: June 1 and December 1. Additional provisions of this Security are set forth on the other side of this Security. Dated: December 20, 2006 INTERNATIONAL GAME TECHNOLOGY By: ------------------------------------ Title: --------------------------------- TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION WELLS FARGO BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Trustee, certifies that this is one of the Securities referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture. By ----------------------------------- Authorized Signatory Dated: ------------- A-3
[REVERSE OF GLOBAL SECURITY] 2.60% Convertible Debentures due 2036 1. Interest This Security shall bear cash interest at the rate of 2.60% per annum. Interest on this Security shall accrue from the Issue Date, or from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or provided for. Interest shall be payable semiannually in arrears on June 15 and December 15 of each year, beginning on June 15, 2007, to the holders of record of Securities at the close of business on the June 1 or December 1 immediately preceding such Interest Payment Date (or repurchase, redemption or Stated Maturity, as applicable). Each payment of cash interest on this Security shall include interest accrued for the period commencing on and including the immediately preceding Interest Payment Date (or, if none, the scheduled original Issue Date) through the day before the applicable Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date, Repurchase Date or Stated Maturity, as applicable. Any payment required to be made on any day that is not a Business Day shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day and no additional interest shall accrue. Interest shall be calculated using a 360-day year composed of twelve 30-day months. Interest shall cease to accrue on this Security upon its Stated Maturity, conversion or repurchase by the Company including a repurchase at the option of the Holder upon a Fundamental Change in accordance with Paragraph 7 hereof. Interest on Securities converted after a Record Date but prior to the corresponding Interest Payment Date will be paid to the Holder of the Securities on the Record Date but, upon conversion the Holder must pay the Company the interest which has accrued and will be paid on such Interest Payment Date. No such payment need be made (1) if the Company has specified a Redemption Date that is after a Record Date and on or prior to the next Interest Payment Date, (2) if the Company has specified a Fundamental Change Repurchase Date that is after a Record Date and on or prior to the next Interest Payment Date or (3) only to the extent of overdue interest, if any overdue interest exists at the time of conversion with respect to such Securities. From and after December 20, 2009, the Company will pay Contingent Interest on this Security under the circumstances and in the amounts described in Article 11 of the Indenture. Such Contingent Interest, if any, shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Interest Payment Date. Contingent Interest, if any, will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. In the event of any payment of Contingent Interest, the Company will disseminate a press release through Dow Jones & Company, Inc. or Bloomberg Business News containing this information or through such other public medium as the Company may use at that time. 2. Method of Payment. The Company shall promptly make all payments in respect of the Securities on the dates and in the manner provided herein and in the Indenture. The Company will pay interest (except Defaulted Interest) on the principal amount of the Securities on each June 15 and December 15 R-1
to the Persons who are registered Holders of Securities at the close of business on the June 1 and December 1 next preceding the Interest Payment Date even if Securities are canceled or repurchased after such Record Date and on or before the Interest Payment Date. Holders must surrender Securities to a Paying Agent to collect principal payments. The Company will pay principal and interest in money of the United States that at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts. The Company will make all payments in respect of a Certificated Security (including principal and interest) in U.S. dollars at the office of the Trustee. At the Company's option, however, the Company may make such payments by mailing a check to the registered address of each Holder thereof as such address shall appear on the register or, with respect to Securities represented by a Global Security, by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the accounts specified by the Depositary. If an Interest Payment Date is a date other than a Business Day, payment may be made at that place on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day and no interest shall accrue for the intervening period. 3. Paying Agent, Conversion Agent and Registrar. Initially, the Trustee will act as Paying Agent, Conversion Agent and Registrar. The Company may appoint and change any Paying Agent, Conversion Agent or Registrar without notice, other than notice to the Trustee; provided that the Company will maintain at least one Paying Agent in the United States of America, which shall initially be an office or agency of the Trustee. The Company or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their Affiliates may act as Paying Agent, Conversion Agent or Registrar. 4. Indenture. The Company issued the Securities under an Indenture dated as of December 20, 2006 (the "Indenture"), between the Company and the Trustee. The terms of the Securities include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as in effect from time to time. Capitalized terms used herein and not defined herein have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Indenture. The Securities are subject to all such terms, and Holders are referred to the Indenture and the TIA for a statement of those terms. The Securities are general unsecured obligations of the Company limited to an aggregate principal amount of $900,000,000. The Indenture does not limit other indebtedness of the Company, secured or unsecured. 5. Redemption at the Option of the Company. No sinking fund is provided for the Securities. Subject to the terms and conditions of this Indenture, the Securities are redeemable at the option of the Company in whole or in part, at any time or from time to time on, or after December 20, 2009 for a cash price equal to the 100% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, up to the Redemption Date (the "REDEMPTION PRICE"). R-2
6. Notice of Redemption. Notice of redemption pursuant to Paragraph 5 of this Security will be mailed at least 15 days but not more than 60 days before the Redemption Date to each Holder of Securities to be redeemed at the Holder's registered address. If money sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of all Securities (or portions thereof) to be redeemed on the Redemption Date is deposited with the Paying Agent prior to or on the Redemption Date, immediately after such Redemption Date interest ceases to accrue on such Securities or portions thereof. Securities in denominations larger than $1,000 of principal amount may be redeemed in part but only in integral multiples of $1,000 of principal amount. 7. Purchase By the Company at the Option of the Holder. (a) Subject to the terms and conditions of the Indenture, the Company shall become obligated to repurchase, at the option of the Holder, all or any portion of the Securities held by such Holder on December 15, 2009, December 15, 2011, December 15, 2016, December 15, 2021, December 15, 2026 and December 15, 2031 or the next Business Day following such dates to the extent such dates are not Business Days in integral multiples of $1,000 in cash at a Repurchase Price equal to 100% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Repurchase Date. To exercise such right, a Holder shall deliver to the Company a Repurchase Notice containing the information set forth in the Indenture, at any time from the opening of business on the date that is 20 Business Days prior to such Repurchase Date until the close of business on the last Business Day prior to such Repurchase Date, and shall deliver the Securities to the Paying Agent as set forth in the Indenture. (b) At the option of the Holder and subject to the terms and conditions of the Indenture, the Company shall become obligated to offer to repurchase the Securities held by such Holder within 30 days (which repurchase shall occur no more than 45 days after the date of such offer) after the occurrence of a Fundamental Change of the Company (as defined in the Indenture) for a Fundamental Change Repurchase Price equal to 100% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date, which Fundamental Change Repurchase Price shall be paid in cash. (c) Holders have the right to withdraw any Repurchase Notice delivered pursuant to Paragraph 7(a) above or Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice delivered pursuant to Paragraph 7(b), as the case may be, by delivering to the Paying Agent a written notice of withdrawal in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture at any time prior to the close of business of the last day prior to the Repurchase Date. If cash sufficient to pay the Repurchase Price or Fundamental Change Repurchase Price, as the case may be, of all Securities or portions thereof to be repurchased as of the Repurchase Date or the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date, as the case may be, is deposited with the Paying Agent on the Repurchase Date or the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date, interest will cease to accrue on such Securities (or portions thereof) immediately after such Repurchase Date or Fundamental Change Repurchase Date, and the Holder thereof shall have no other rights as such other than the right to receive the Repurchase Price or Fundamental Change Repurchase Price upon surrender of such Security. R-3
8. Conversion. (a) The initial Conversion Rate is 16.1875 shares of Common Stock per $1,000 principal amount, subject to adjustment in certain events described in the Indenture. Upon conversion, a Holder will receive, in respect of each $1,000 principal amount of Securities, (x) cash equal to the lesser of (1) $1,000 or (2) the Conversion Value; and (y) a number of shares of Common Stock equal the sum of the Daily Share Amounts (as defined in the Indenture) for each of the ten consecutive Trading Days in the Applicable Conversion Reference Period (as defined in the Indenture), as more fully set forth in the Indenture. A Holder that surrenders Securities for conversion will receive cash in lieu of any fractional share of Common Stock based on the Closing Sale Price of the Common Stock of the Company on the Trading Day immediately prior to the Conversion Date. (b) Holders may surrender Securities for conversion into cash and shares, if any, of Common Stock during any fiscal quarter ending after March 31, 2007 (and only during such fiscal quarter) if, the Closing Sale Price of the Common Stock for at least 20 Trading Days in the 30 Trading Day period ending on the last Trading Day of the immediately preceding fiscal quarter is more than 130% of the Conversion Price per share of the Common Stock on the last day of such preceding fiscal quarter. The "CONVERSION PRICE" per share of Common Stock as of any day will equal the result obtained by dividing $1,000 by the then applicable Conversion Rate. (c) A Holder may also surrender for conversion a Security or portion of a Security which has been called for redemption pursuant to Paragraph 5 hereof, and such Securities may be surrendered for conversion until the close of business on the Business Day prior to the Redemption Date. A Security in respect of which a Holder has delivered a Repurchase Notice or a Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice exercising the option of such Holder to require the Company to repurchase such Security may be converted only if such notice of exercise is withdrawn in accordance with the terms of the Indenture. (d) If the Company elects to either (i) distribute to all Holders of Common Stock certain rights entitling them to purchase, for a period expiring within 60 days, shares of Common Stock at less than the current market price at the time, or (ii) distribute to all Holders of Common Stock the Company's assets, debt securities or certain rights to purchase the Company's securities, which distribution has a per share value exceeding 12.5% of the Closing Sale Price of a share of Common Stock on the day prior to the declaration date for such distribution, the Company must give notice to the Holders at least 25 scheduled Trading Days prior to the Ex-Dividend Date for such distribution. Once such notice has been given, the Securities may be surrendered for conversion at any time until the earlier of the close of business on the Business Day prior to the Ex-Dividend Date or until the Company announces that such distribution will not take place. No adjustment to the ability of a holder to convert will be made if the holder will otherwise participate in the distribution without conversion. The Company shall notify Holders at least 25 scheduled Trading Days prior to the Ex-Dividend Date for such distribution. (e) If the Company is party to any transaction or event that constitutes a Fundamental Change, including any event that would be a Fundamental Change but for the existence of an exception specified in clauses (A) or (B) of the paragraph following the definition thereof), a R-4
Holder may surrender Securities for conversion at any time from and after the 15th scheduled Trading Day prior to the anticipated effective date of such transaction or event until the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date (or if there is no Fundamental Change Repurchase Date with respect to such event, the 15th day after the effective date thereof, as set forth in Section 3.08 of the Indenture) corresponding to such event. The Company will notify Holders at least 25 scheduled Trading Days prior to the anticipated effective date of such transaction. (f) If the Company is a party to a combination, merger, binding share exchange or sale or conveyance of all or substantially all of its property and assets, in each case pursuant to which the Common Stock would be converted into cash, securities and/or other property that does not also constitute Fundamental Change, including any event that would be a Fundamental Change but for the existence of an exception specified in clauses (A) or (B) of the paragraph following the definition thereof), Holders shall have the right to surrender Securities for conversion at any time from and after the date which is 15 scheduled Trading Days prior to the date that is the actual effective date of such transaction and ending on the 15th scheduled Trading Day following the effective date of such transaction. The Company will notify Holders at least 25 scheduled Trading Days prior to the anticipated effective date of such transaction. (g) Holders may surrender Securities for conversion at any time on or after September 15, 2036 until the close of business on the business day immediately preceding the Stated Maturity. (h) To surrender a Security for conversion, a Holder must (1) complete and manually sign the irrevocable conversion notice below (or complete and manually sign a facsimile of such notice) and deliver such notice to the Conversion Agent, (2) surrender the Security to the Conversion Agent, (3) furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents and (4) pay any transfer or similar tax, if required. (i) A Holder may convert a portion of a Security if the principal amount of such portion is $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000. No payment or adjustment will be made for dividends on the shares of Common Stock except as provided in the Indenture. Except as provided in Paragraph 1 hereof, on conversion of a Security, the Holder will not receive any cash payment representing accrued and unpaid interest with respect to the converted Securities. Instead, upon conversion the Company will deliver to the Holder cash, a fixed number of shares of Common Stock, if any, and any cash payment to account for fractional shares. Accrued and unpaid interest will be deemed paid in full rather than cancelled, extinguished or forfeited. The Company will not adjust the Conversion Rate to account for accrued and unpaid interest. (j) The Conversion Rate will be adjusted as provided in Article 10 of the Indenture. The Company may increase the Conversion Rate for at least 20 Business Days, so long as the increase is irrevocable during such period. (k) If the Company is a party to a consolidation, merger or binding share exchange or a transfer of all or substantially all of its assets as set forth in Section 5.01 of the Indenture, or upon certain events described in Section 10.15 of the Indenture, then at the effective time of the transaction, the Conversion Value and Daily Share Amount will be determined based upon the R-5
kind and amount of cash, securities or other property that a holder of a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the Conversion Rate would have received in the transaction or event. (l) The Company will notify Holders of any event triggering the right to convert the Securities as specified in the Indenture. 9. Conversion Arrangement on Call for Redemption. A Holder may surrender for conversion any of the Securities called for redemption at any time prior to the close of business one Business Day prior to the Redemption Date, even if it is not otherwise convertible at such time. If a Holder has already delivered a Repurchase Notice or a Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice with respect to a Security, however, the Holder may not surrender that Security for conversion until the Holder has withdrawn the notice in accordance with the Indenture. 10. Mandatory Disposition Due to Gaming Laws. Each holder, by accepting this Security, shall be deemed to have agreed that if the Gaming Authority of any jurisdiction in which Company or any Subsidiary does business requires that a person who is a holder or the beneficial owner of the Security be licensed, qualified or found suitable under applicable Gaming Laws, such holder or beneficial owner, as the case may be, shall apply for a license, qualification or a finding of suitability within the required time period. If such person fails to apply or become licensed or qualified or is found unsuitable, the Company shall have the right, at its option to: (1) require such person to dispose of this Security or beneficial interest in this Security within 30 days of receipt of notice of the Company's election or such earlier date as may be requested or prescribed by such Gaming Authority; or (2) redeem this Security at a redemption price equal to: (A) the lesser of (i) such person's cost, and (ii) the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the earlier of the redemption date or the date of the finding of unsuitability, which may be less than 30 days following the notice of redemption if so required or prescribed by the applicable Gaming Authority; or (B) such other amount as may be required by applicable law or by order of any applicable Gaming Authority. The Company shall notify the Trustee in writing of any such redemption as soon as practicable. The Company shall not be responsible for any costs or expenses any such holder may incur in connection with its application for a license, qualification or a finding of suitability. R-6
11. Denominations; Transfer; Exchange. The Securities are in fully registered form, without coupons, in denominations of $1,000 of principal amount and integral multiples of $1,000. A Holder may transfer or exchange Securities in accordance with the Indenture. The Registrar may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents and to pay any taxes and fees required by law or permitted by the Indenture. The Registrar need not transfer or exchange any Securities selected for redemption (except, in the case of a Security to be redeemed in part, the portion of the Security not to be redeemed) or any Securities in respect of which a Repurchase Notice or Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice has been given and not withdrawn (except, in the case of a Security to be repurchased in part, the portion of the Security not to be repurchased) or any Securities for a period of 15 days before the mailing of a notice of redemption of Securities to be redeemed. 12. Persons Deemed Owners. The registered Holder of this Security may be treated as the owner of this Security for all purposes. 13. Unclaimed Money or Securities. The Trustee and the Paying Agent shall return to the Company upon written request any money or securities held by them for the payment of any amount with respect to the Securities that remains unclaimed for two years, subject to applicable unclaimed property law. After return to the Company, Holders entitled to the money or securities must look to the Company for payment as general creditors unless an applicable abandoned property law designates another Person. 14. Trustee Dealings with the Company. Subject to certain limitations imposed by the TIA, the Trustee under the Indenture, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Securities and may otherwise deal with and collect obligations owed to it by the Company or its Affiliates and may otherwise deal with the Company or its Affiliates with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee. 15. Calculations in Respect of Securities. The Company will be responsible for making all calculations called for under the Securities. These calculations include, but not limited to, determinations of the market prices of the Securities and the Common Stock, any accrued interest payable on the Securities, the Conversion Value, the Daily Share Amount and the Conversion Price of the Securities. The Company will make these calculations in good faith and, absent manifest error, the calculations will be final and binding on Holders of the Securities. The Company will provide to the Trustee a schedule of its calculations, and the Trustee is entitled to rely upon the accuracy of such calculations without independent verification. The Trustee will forward the Company's calculations to any Holder of the Securities upon the request of such Holder. R-7
16. No Recourse Against Others. A director, officer, employee or shareholder, as such, of the Company shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Securities or the Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creation. By accepting a Security, each Holder waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issue of the Securities. 17. Authentication. This Security shall not be valid until an authorized signatory of the Trustee manually signs the Trustee's Certificate of Authentication on the other side of this Security. 18. Abbreviations. Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee, such as TEN COM (=tenants in common), TEN ENT (=tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (=joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (=custodian), and U/G/M/A (=Uniform Gift to Minors Act). 19. GOVERNING LAW. THIS INDENTURE AND THE SECURITIES SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK BUT WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW TO THE EXTENT THAT THE APPLICATION OF THE LAWS OF ANOTHER JURISDICTION WOULD BE REQUIRED THEREBY. 20. Registration Rights. The Holders of the Securities are entitled to the benefits of a Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of December 20, 2006, between the Company and Banc of America Securities LLC, as representative of the initial purchasers, including the receipt of Additional Interest upon a registration default (as defined in such agreement). The Company will furnish to any Holder upon written request and without charge a copy of the Indenture which has in it the text of this Security in larger type. Requests may be made to: International Game Technology 9295 Prototype Drive P.O. Box 10580 Reno, Nevada 89510 R-8
ASSIGNMENT FORM CONVERSION NOTICE To assign this Security, fill in the To convert this Security into shares form below: of Common Stock of the Company, check the box [ ] I or we assign and transfer this Security To convert only part of this Security, state the principal amount _____________________________________ to be converted ________________________ (which must be $1,000 or _____________________________________ an integral multiple of $1,000): _____________________________________ If you want the stock certificate made out in another Person's name (Insert assignee's soc. sec. or tax fill in the form below: ID no.) _____________________________________ ________________________________________ _____________________________________ ________________________________________ (Print or type assignee's name, (Insert the other Person's soc. sec. address and zip code) tax ID no.) and irrevocably appoint _____________ ________________________________________ agent to transfer this Security on the books of the Company. The agent ________________________________________ may substitute another to act for him. (Print or type other Person's name, address and zip code) Date: Your Signature: -------------------- ------------------------------------ (Sign exactly as your name appears on the other side of this Security) Signature Guaranteed - ------------------------------------- Participant in a Recognized Signature Guarantee Medallion Program By: --------------------------------- Authorized Signatory
SCHEDULE OF INCREASES AND DECREASES OF GLOBAL SECURITY Initial Principal amount of Global Security: _________($_________).

Exhibit 4.3 INTERNATIONAL GAME TECHNOLOGY 2.60% CONVERTIBLE DEBENTURES DUE 2036 REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT December 20, 2006 Banc of America Securities LLC As Representative of the several Purchasers (the "Representative") c/o Banc of America Securities LLC 9 West 57th Street, 21st Floor New York, NY 10019 Ladies and Gentlemen: International Game Technology, a Nevada corporation (the "Company"), proposes to issue and sell to the Purchasers (as defined herein) upon the terms set forth in the Purchase Agreement (as defined herein) its 2.60% Convertible Debentures due 2036 (the "Securities"). As an inducement to the Purchasers to enter into the Purchase Agreement and in satisfaction of a condition to the obligations of the Purchasers thereunder, the Company agrees with the Purchasers for the benefit of Holders (as defined herein) from time to time of the Registrable Securities (as defined herein) as follows: 1. Definitions. (a) Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Purchase Agreement. As used in this Agreement, the following defined terms shall have the following meanings: "Additional Interest" has the meaning assigned thereto in Section 7(a) hereof. "Affiliate" of any specified person means any other person which, directly or indirectly, is in control of, is controlled by, or is under common control with such specified person. For purposes of this definition, control of a person means the power, direct or indirect, to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such person whether by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have meanings correlative to the foregoing. "Closing Date" means the First Time of Delivery as defined in the Purchase Agreement.
"Commission" means the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, or any other federal agency at the time administering the Exchange Act or the Securities Act, whichever is the relevant statute for the particular purpose. "Common Stock" means the Company's common stock, par value $.00015265 per share. "DTC" means The Depository Trust Company. "Effectiveness Period" has the meaning assigned thereto in Section 2(b)(i) hereof. "Effective Time" means the time at which the Commission declares the Shelf Registration Statement effective or at which the Shelf Registration Statement otherwise becomes effective. "Electing Holder" has the meaning assigned thereto in Section 3(a)(iii) hereof. "Exchange Act" means the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. "Free Writing Prospectus" means a free writing prospectus, as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act. "Holder" means any person that is the record owner of Registrable Securities (and includes any person that has a beneficial interest in any Registrable Security in book-entry form). "Indenture" means the Indenture, dated as of December , 2006, between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as amended and supplemented from time to time in accordance with its terms. "Issuer Free Writing Prospectus" means an issuer free writing prospectus, as defined in Rule 433 under the Securities Act. "Managing Underwriters" means the investment banker or investment bankers and manager or managers that shall administer an underwritten offering, if any, conducted pursuant to Section 6 hereof. "NASD Rules" means the Rules of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc., as amended from time to time. "Notice and Questionnaire" means a Notice of Registration Statement and Selling Securityholder Questionnaire substantially in the form of Appendix A hereto. "Permitted Free Writing Prospectus" has the meaning assigned thereto in Section 9(a) hereof. The term "person" means an individual, partnership, corporation, trust or unincorporated organization, or a government or agency or political subdivision thereof. 2
"Prospectus" means the prospectus (including, without limitation, any preliminary prospectus, any final prospectus and any prospectus that discloses information previously omitted from a prospectus filed as part of an effective registration statement in reliance upon Rule 430A under the Securities Act) included in the Shelf Registration Statement, as amended or supplemented by any prospectus supplement with respect to the terms of the offering of any portion of the Registrable Securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement and by all other amendments and supplements to such prospectus, including all material incorporated by reference in such prospectus and all documents filed after the date of such prospectus by the Company under the Exchange Act and incorporated by reference therein. "Purchasers" means the Initial Purchasers named in Schedule I to the Purchase Agreement. "Purchase Agreement" means the purchase agreement, dated as of December 14, 2006, between the Company and the Representative relating to the initial placement of the Securities. "Registrable Securities" means all or any portion of the Securities issued from time to time under the Indenture in registered form and the shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of such Securities; provided, however, that a security ceases to be a Registrable Security when it is no longer a Restricted Security. "Registration Default" has the meaning assigned thereto in Section 7(a) hereof. "Restricted Security" means any Security or share of Common Stock issuable upon conversion thereof except any such Security or share of Common Stock that (i) has been effectively registered under the Securities Act and sold in a manner contemplated by the Shelf Registration Statement, (ii) has been transferred in compliance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act (or any successor provision thereto) or is transferable pursuant to paragraph (k) of such Rule 144 (or any successor provision thereto) or (iii) has otherwise been transferred and a new Security or share of Common Stock not subject to transfer restrictions under the Securities Act has been delivered by or on behalf of the Company in accordance with Section 2.7(f) of the Indenture or (iv) ceases to be outstanding. "Rules and Regulations" means the published rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, as applicable, as in effect at any relevant time. "Securities Act" means the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended. "Shelf Registration" means a registration effected pursuant to Section 2 hereof. "Shelf Registration Statement" means a "shelf" registration statement filed under the Securities Act providing for the registration of, and the sale on a continuous or delayed basis by 3
the Holders of, all of the Registrable Securities pursuant to Rule 415 under the Securities Act and/or any similar rule that may be adopted by the Commission, filed by the Company pursuant to the provisions of Section 2 of this Agreement, including the Prospectus contained therein, any amendments and supplements to such registration statement, including post-effective amendments, and all exhibits and all material incorporated by reference in such registration statement. "Suspension Period" has the meaning specified in Section 2(c) hereof. "Trust Indenture Act" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, or any successor thereto, and the rules, regulations and forms promulgated thereunder, as the same shall be amended from time to time. The term "underwriter" means any underwriter of Registrable Securities in connection with an offering thereof under a Shelf Registration Statement. (b) Wherever there is a reference in this Agreement to a percentage of the "principal amount" of Registrable Securities or to a percentage of Registrable Securities, Common Stock constituting Registrable Securities shall be treated as representing the principal amount of Securities that was surrendered for conversion or exchange in order to receive such number of shares of Common Stock. 2. Shelf Registration. (a) The Company shall, no later than 90 calendar days following the Closing Date, file with the Commission, or otherwise designate an existing filing with the Commission as, a Shelf Registration Statement relating to the offer and sale of the Registrable Securities by the Electing Holders from time to time in accordance with the methods of distribution elected by such Holders which shall be an automatic shelf registration statement if the Company is then eligible to use an automatic shelf registration statement and shall be such other form as the Company is eligible to use if the Company is not then eligible to use an automatic shelf registration statement, and, thereafter, shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause such Shelf Registration Statement to become effective under the Act, or otherwise make available for use by Holders a previously filed effective Shelf Registration Statement, no later than 180 calendar days following the Closing Date; provided, however, that the Company may, upon written notice to all Holders, postpone having the Shelf Registration Statement become effective for a reasonable period not to exceed 90 days if the Company possesses material non-public information, the disclosure of which would have a material adverse effect on the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole or would impede the consummation of a proposed or pending material business transaction; provided, further, however, that no Holder shall be entitled to be named as a selling securityholder in the Shelf Registration Statement or to use the Prospectus forming a part thereof or any related Issuer Free Writing Prospectus for resales of Registrable Securities unless such Holder is an Electing Holder. 4
(b) The Company shall use its reasonable best efforts: (i) to keep the Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective, supplemented and amended as required by the provisions of Section 3(j) hereto, in order to permit the Prospectus forming a part thereof and any related Issuer Free Writing Prospectus to be usable by Electing Holders until the earliest of (1) the sale of all Registrable Securities registered under the Shelf Registration Statement; (2) the expiration of the period referred to in Rule 144(k) of the Act with respect to all Registrable Securities held by Persons that are not Affiliates of the Company; (3) two years from the last date of original issuance of any Registrable Securities; and (4) the date when there are no Registrable Securities outstanding (such period being referred to herein as the "Effectiveness Period"); (ii) after the Effective Time of the Shelf Registration Statement, promptly upon the request of any Holder of Registrable Securities that is not then an Electing Holder, to take any action reasonably necessary (other than the preparation and filing of any post effective amendment, if at such time the Company is eligible to use an automatic shelf registration statement and to supplement such automatic shelf registration statement by prospectus supplement) to enable such Holder to use the Prospectus forming a part thereof and any related Issuer Free Writing Prospectus for resales of Registrable Securities, including, without limitation, any action necessary to identify such Holder as a selling securityholder in the Shelf Registration Statement; provided, however, that nothing in this subparagraph shall relieve such Holder of the obligation to return a completed and signed Notice and Questionnaire to the Company in accordance with Section 3(a)(ii) hereof; and (iii) if at any time the Securities, pursuant to Article 10 of the Indenture, are convertible into securities other than Common Stock, to cause, or to cause any successor under the Indenture to cause, such securities to be included in the Shelf Registration Statement no later than the date on which the Securities may then be convertible into such securities. The Company shall be deemed not to have used its reasonable best efforts to keep the Shelf Registration Statement effective during the Effectiveness Period if the Company voluntarily takes any action that would result in Holders of Registrable Securities covered thereby not being able to offer and sell any of such Registrable Securities during that period, unless such action is (A) required by applicable law and the Company thereafter promptly complies with the requirements of paragraph 3(j) below or (B) permitted pursuant to Section 2(c) below. (c) The Company may suspend the use of the Prospectus for a period not to exceed 45 days in any 90-day period or an aggregate of 90 days in any 12-month period, during the period beginning on the issue date and ending on or prior to the second anniversary of the last 5
issue date of any Debentures (each, a "Suspension Period") if the Board of Directors of the Company shall have determined in good faith that because of valid business reasons (not including avoidance of the Company's obligations hereunder), including the acquisition or divestiture of assets, pending corporate developments and similar events, it is in the best interests of the Company to suspend such use, and prior to suspending such use the Company provides the Electing Holders with written notice of such suspension, which notice need not specify the nature of the event giving rise to such suspension. 3. Registration Procedures. In connection with the Shelf Registration Statement, the following provisions shall apply: (a) (i) Not less than 30 calendar days prior to the Effective Time of the Shelf Registration Statement, the Company shall mail the Notice and Questionnaire to the Holders of Registrable Securities. Holders of Registrable Securities shall have at least 20 calendar days from the date on which the Notice and Questionnaire is first mailed to such Holders to return a completed and signed Notice and Questionnaire to the Company. The Company shall take action to name each Holder that is a Electing Holder as of the date that is five business days prior to the effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement as a selling securityholder in the Shelf Registration Statement at the time of its effectiveness so that such Holder is permitted to deliver the Prospectus forming a part thereof as of such time to purchasers of such Holder's Registrable Securities in accordance with applicable law. The Company shall not be required to take any action to name any Holder as a selling securityholder in the Shelf Registration Statement or to enable any Holder to use the Prospectus forming a part thereof for resales of Registrable Securities unless such Holder has returned a completed and signed Notice and Questionnaire to the Company by the deadline set forth herein prior to the Effective Time or after the Effective Time as specified below. (ii) After the Effective Time of the Shelf Registration Statement, the Company shall, upon the request of any Holder of Registrable Securities that is not then an Electing Holder, promptly send a Notice and Questionnaire to such Holder. From and after the Effective Time of the Shelf Registration Statement, the Company shall (A) as promptly as is practicable after the date a completed and signed Notice and Questionnaire is delivered to the Company, and in any event within five Business Days after such date, prepare and file with the Commission (x) a supplement to the Prospectus or, if required by applicable law, a post-effective amendment to the Shelf Registration Statement and (y) any other document required by applicable law, so that the Holder delivering such Notice and Questionnaire is named as a selling securityholder in the Shelf Registration Statement and is permitted to deliver the Prospectus to purchasers of such Holder's Registrable Securities in accordance with applicable law, and (B) if the Company shall file a post-effective amendment to the Shelf Registration Statement, use its reasonable best efforts to cause such post-effective amendment to become effective under the Securities Act as 6
promptly as is practicable; provided, however, that if a Notice and Questionnaire is delivered to the Company during a Suspension Period, the Company shall not be obligated to take the actions set forth in this clause (ii) until the termination of such suspension period; and provided, further, that any supplements or amendments that solely list an additional Electing Holder need not be submitted for prior review of counsel to Electing Holders under Section 3(c) below. (iii) The term "Electing Holder" shall mean any Holder of Registrable Securities that has returned a completed and signed Notice and Questionnaire to the Company in accordance with Section 3(a)(i) or 3(a)(ii) hereof. (b) The Company shall furnish to one counsel for the Electing Holders which counsel shall initially be Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP, prior to the Effective Time, a copy of the Shelf Registration Statement initially filed with the Commission, and shall furnish to Electing Holders upon request, prior to the filing thereof with the Commission, copies of each amendment thereto, each amendment or supplement, if any, to the Prospectus included therein, and any related Issuer Free Writing Prospectus and shall use its reasonable best efforts to reflect in each such document, at the Effective Time or when so filed with the Commission, as the case may be, such comments as such Holders and their counsel reasonably may propose. (c) The Company shall promptly take such action as may be necessary so that (i) each of the Shelf Registration Statement and any amendment thereto, the Prospectus forming a part thereof and any amendment or supplement thereto and any related Issuer Free Writing Prospectus (and each report or other document incorporated therein by reference in each case) complies in all material respects with the Securities Act and the Exchange Act and the respective rules and regulations thereunder, (ii) each of the Shelf Registration Statement and any amendment thereto does not, when it becomes effective, contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading and (iii) each of the Prospectus forming a part of the Shelf Registration Statement, any amendment or supplement to such Prospectus, and any related Issuer Free Writing Prospectus does not at any time during the Effectiveness Period include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. (d) The Company shall promptly advise each Electing Holder: (i) when a Shelf Registration Statement and any amendment thereto has been filed with the Commission and when a Shelf Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment thereto has become effective, in each case by making a public announcement thereof by release made to Dow Jones & Company, Inc., Bloomberg Business News or PR Newswire; 7
(ii) of any request by the Commission for amendments or supplements to the Shelf Registration Statement or the Prospectus included therein or for additional information; (iii) of the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement or the initiation of any proceedings for such purpose; (iv) of the receipt by the Company of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification of the securities included in the Shelf Registration Statement for sale in any jurisdiction or the initiation of any proceeding for such purpose; and (v) of the happening of any event or the existence of any state of facts that requires the making of any changes in the Shelf Registration Statement or the Prospectus included therein or any related Issuer Free Writing Prospectus so that, as of such date, such Shelf Registration Statement, Prospectus and any such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus do not contain an untrue statement of a material fact and do not omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein (in the case of the Prospectus and any such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, in light of the circumstances under which they were made) not misleading (which advice shall be accompanied by an instruction to such Holders to suspend the use of the Prospectus or Issuer Free Writing Prospectus until the requisite changes have been made which notice need not specify the nature of the event giving rise to such suspension). (e) The Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to prevent the issuance, and if issued to obtain the withdrawal at the earliest possible time, of any order suspending the effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement. (f) The Company shall furnish to each Electing Holder, upon their request, without charge, at least one copy of the Shelf Registration Statement, all post-effective amendments any prospectus supplement thereto, including any financial statements and schedules included therein, and, if such Electing Holder so requests in writing, all reports, other documents and exhibits that are filed with or incorporated by reference in the Shelf Registration Statement that are not at such time available on the SEC's Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval system. (g) The Company shall, during the Effectiveness Period, make available to each Electing Holder, without charge, as many copies of the Prospectus (including each preliminary Prospectus) included in the Shelf Registration Statement, any related Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, and, in each case, any amendment or supplement thereto as such Electing Holder may reasonably request; and the Company consents (except during a Suspension Period or during the continuance of any event or the existence of any state of facts described in Sections 8
3(d)(iii) and (iv) above) to the use of the Prospectus, any related Issuer Free Writing Prospectus and, in each case, any amendment or supplement thereto by each of the Electing Holders in connection with the offering and sale of the Registrable Securities covered by the Prospectus and any related Issuer Free Writing Prospectus and, in each case, any amendment or supplement thereto during the Effectiveness Period. (h) Prior to any offering of Registrable Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement, the Company shall (i) register or qualify or cooperate with the Electing Holders and their counsel in connection with the registration or qualification of such Registrable Securities for offer and sale under the securities or "blue sky" laws of such jurisdictions within the United States as any Electing Holder may reasonably request, (ii) keep such registrations or qualifications in effect and comply with such laws so as to permit the continuance of offers and sales in such jurisdictions for so long as may be necessary to enable any Electing Holder or underwriter, if any, to complete its distribution of Registrable Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement, and (iii) take any and all other actions necessary or advisable to enable the disposition in such jurisdictions of such Registrable Securities; provided, however, that in no event shall the Company be obligated to (A) qualify as a foreign corporation or as a dealer in securities in any jurisdiction where it would not otherwise be required to so qualify but for this Section 3(h) or (B) file any general consent to service of process or subject itself to taxation in any jurisdiction where it is not as of the date hereof so subject. (i) Unless any Registrable Securities shall be in book-entry only form, the Company shall cooperate with the Electing Holders to facilitate the timely preparation and delivery of certificates representing Registrable Securities to be sold pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement, which certificates, if so required by any securities exchange upon which any Registrable Securities are listed, shall be penned, lithographed or engraved, or produced by any combination of such methods, on steel engraved borders, and which certificates shall be free of any restrictive legends and in such permitted denominations and registered in such names as Electing Holders may request in connection with the sale of Registrable Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement. (j) Upon the occurrence of any fact or event contemplated by paragraph 3(d)(v) above, subject to Section 2(c) hereof, the Company shall promptly following such occurrence prepare, file (and have become effective) a post-effective amendment to any Shelf Registration Statement or an amendment or supplement to the related Prospectus included therein or file any other document with the Commission so that, as thereafter delivered to purchasers of the Registrable Securities, the Prospectus and any related Issuer Free Writing Prospectus will not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. If the Company notifies the Electing Holders of the occurrence of any fact or event contemplated by paragraph 3(d)(v) above or of a Suspension Period, the Electing Holder shall 9
suspend the use of the Prospectus and any related Issuer Free Writing Prospectus until the requisite changes to the Prospectus or the Issuer Free Writing Prospectus have been made. (k) Not later than the Effective Time of the Shelf Registration Statement, the Company shall provide a CUSIP number for the Registrable Securities that are debt securities. (l) The Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to comply with all applicable Rules and Regulations, and to make generally available to its securityholders as soon as practicable, but in any event not later than eighteen months after (i) the effective date (as defined in Rule 158(c) under the Securities Act) of the Shelf Registration Statement, (ii) the effective date of each post-effective amendment to the Shelf Registration Statement, and (iii) the date of each filing by the Company with the Commission of an Annual Report on Form 10-K that is incorporated by reference in the Shelf Registration Statement, an earnings statement of the Company and its subsidiaries complying with Section 11(a) of the Securities Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder (including, at the option of the Company, Rule 158). (m) Not later than the Effective Time of the Shelf Registration Statement, the Company shall cause the Indenture to be qualified under the Trust Indenture Act; in connection with such qualification, the Company shall cooperate with the Trustee under the Indenture and the Holders (as defined in the Indenture) to effect such changes to the Indenture as may be required for such Indenture to be so qualified in accordance with the terms of the Trust Indenture Act; and the Company shall execute, and shall use all reasonable efforts to cause the Trustee to execute, all documents that may be required to effect such changes and all other forms and documents required to be filed with the Commission to enable such Indenture to be so qualified in a timely manner. In the event that any such amendment or modification referred to in this Section 3(m) involves the appointment of a new trustee under the Indenture, the Company shall appoint a new trustee thereunder pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Indenture. (n) In the event of an underwritten offering conducted pursuant to Section 6 hereof, the Company shall, if requested, promptly include or incorporate in a Prospectus supplement or post-effective amendment to the Shelf Registration Statement such information as the Managing Underwriters and the Company reasonably agree should be included therein and shall make all required filings of such Prospectus supplement or post-effective amendment as soon as practicable after it is notified of the matters to be included or incorporated in such Prospectus supplement or post-effective amendment. (o) The Company shall enter into such customary agreements (including an underwriting agreement in customary form in the event of an underwritten offering conducted pursuant to Section 6 hereof (which will include lock-up agreements only if the Company so agrees) and take all other appropriate action in order to expedite and facilitate the registration and disposition of the Registrable Securities, and in connection therewith, if an underwriting 10
agreement is entered into, cause the same to contain indemnification provisions and procedures substantially identical to those set forth in Section 5 hereof with respect to all parties to be indemnified pursuant to Section 5 hereof. (p) The Company shall: (i) (A) subject to the provisions of this paragraph, make reasonably available for inspection during normal business hours by the Electing Holders, any underwriter participating in any disposition pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement, and any attorney or accountant or other agent retained by such Electing Holders or any such underwriter all relevant financial and other records, pertinent corporate documents and properties of the Company and its subsidiaries, and (B) cause the Company's officers, directors and employees to supply all information reasonably requested by such Electing Holders or any such underwriter, attorney or accountant or agent in connection with the Shelf Registration Statement, in each case, as is customary for similar due diligence examinations; provided, however, that all records, information and documents that are designated by the Company, in good faith, as confidential shall be kept confidential by such Electing Holders and any such underwriter, attorney or accountant or agent, unless such disclosure is made in connection with a court proceeding or required by law, or such records, information or documents become available to the public generally or through a third party without an accompanying obligation of confidentiality and the Company may request that the Electing Holders agree in writing to maintain the confidentiality of information obtained in such due diligence examination; and provided, further, that, such inspection and information gathering shall be coordinated on behalf of the Electing Holders and the other parties entitled thereto by one counsel designated by and on behalf of the Electing Holders and other parties; (ii) in connection with any underwritten offering conducted pursuant to Section 6 hereof, make such representations and warranties to the Electing Holders participating in such underwritten offering and to the Managing Underwriters, in form, substance and scope as are customarily made by the Company to underwriters in primary underwritten offerings of equity and convertible debt securities and covering matters including, but not limited to, those set forth in the Purchase Agreement; (iii) in connection with any underwritten offering conducted pursuant to Section 6 hereof, obtain opinions of counsel to the Company (which counsel and opinions (in form, scope and substance) shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Managing Underwriters) addressed to each Electing Holder participating in such underwritten offering and the underwriters, covering such matters as are customarily covered in opinions requested in primary underwritten offerings of equity and convertible debt securities and such other matters as may be reasonably requested by such Electing Holders and underwriters (it being agreed that the matters to be covered by such opinions 11
shall include, without limitation, as of the date of the opinion and as of the Effective Time of the Shelf Registration Statement or most recent post-effective amendment thereto, as the case may be, the absence from the Shelf Registration Statement, the Prospectus and any related Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, in each case, including the documents incorporated by reference therein, of an untrue statement of a material fact or the omission of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein (in the case of the Prospectus and any such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, in light of the circumstances under which they were made) not misleading; (iv) in connection with any underwritten offering conducted pursuant to Section 6 hereof, obtain "cold comfort" letters and updates thereof from the independent public accountants of the Company (and, if necessary, from the independent public accountants of any subsidiary of the Company or of any business acquired by the Company for which financial statements and financial data are, or are required to be, included in the Shelf Registration Statement), addressed to each Electing Holder participating in such underwritten offering (if such Electing Holder has provided such letter, representations or documentation, if any, required by the accountants for such "cold comfort" letter to be so addressed) and the underwriters, in customary form and covering matters of the type customarily covered in "cold comfort" letters in connection with primary underwritten offerings; (v) in connection with any underwritten offering conducted pursuant to Section 6 hereof, deliver such documents and certificates as are customary and may be reasonably requested by counsel to the Electing Holders participating in such underwritten offering and the Managing Underwriters, if any, including, without limitation, certificates to evidence compliance with Section 3(j) hereof and with any conditions contained in the underwriting agreement or other agreements entered into by the Company. (q) The Company will use its best efforts to cause the Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Securities to be listed on the New York Stock Exchange or other stock exchange or trading system on which the Common Stock primarily trades on or prior to the Effective Time of the Shelf Registration Statement hereunder. (r) In the event that any broker-dealer registered under the Exchange Act shall be an "affiliate" (as defined in Rule 2720(b)(1) of the NASD Rules (or any successor provision thereto)) of the Company or has a "conflict of interest" (as defined in Rule 2720(b)(7) of the NASD Rules (or any successor provision thereto)) and such broker-dealer shall underwrite, participate as a member of an underwriting syndicate or selling group or assist in the distribution of any Registrable Securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement, whether as a Holder of such Registrable Securities or as an underwriter, a placement or sales agent or a broker or dealer in respect thereof, or otherwise, the Company shall assist such broker-dealer in complying 12
with the requirements of the NASD Rules, including, without limitation, by (A) engaging a "qualified independent underwriter" (as defined in Rule 2720(b)(15) of the NASD Rules (or any successor provision thereto)) to participate in the preparation of the registration statement relating to such Registrable Securities, to exercise usual standards of due diligence in respect thereto and to recommend the public offering price of such Registrable Securities, (B) indemnifying such qualified independent underwriter to the extent of the indemnification of underwriters provided in Section 5 hereof, and (C) providing such information to such broker-dealer as may be required in order for such broker-dealer to comply with the requirements of the NASD Rules. (s) The Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to take all other steps necessary to effect the registration, offering and sale of the Registrable Securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement contemplated hereby. 4. Registration Expenses. Except as otherwise provided in Section 3, the Company shall bear all fees and expenses incurred in connection with the performance of its obligations under Sections 2, 3 and 6 hereof and shall bear or reimburse the Electing Holders for the reasonable fees and disbursements of a single counsel selected by a plurality of all Electing Holders who own an aggregate of not less than 25% of the aggregate principal amount of the Registrable Securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement, or designated by the Purchasers if Electing Holders have not so designated, to act as counsel for all the Electing Holders in connection therewith. Each Electing Holder shall pay all underwriting discounts and commissions and transfer taxes, if any, relating to the sale or disposition of such Electing Holder's Registrable Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement. 5. Indemnification and Contribution. (a) Indemnification by the Company. Upon the registration of the Registrable Securities pursuant to Section 2 hereof, the Company shall indemnify and hold harmless each Electing Holder and each underwriter, if any, and each of their respective officers and directors and each person who controls such Electing Holder or underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act (each such person being sometimes referred to as an "Indemnified Person") against any losses, claims, damages or liabilities, joint or several, to which such Indemnified Person may become subject under the Securities Act or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon an untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Shelf Registration Statement under which such Registrable Securities are to be registered under the Securities Act, or any Prospectus or related Issuer Free Writing Prospectus contained therein or furnished by the Company to any Indemnified Person, or, in each case, any amendment or supplement thereto, or arise out of or are based upon the omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, 13
and the Company hereby agrees to reimburse such Indemnified Person for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by them in connection with investigating or defending any such action or claim as such expenses are incurred; provided, however, that the Company shall not be liable to any such Indemnified Person in any such case to the extent that any such loss, claim, damage or liability arises out of or is based upon an untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission made in such Shelf Registration Statement, Prospectus or related Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, or, in each case, amendment or supplement, in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by such Indemnified Person expressly for use therein; and provided, further, that the Company shall not be liable for loss, claim, damage or expense arising from any offer or sale of Registrable Securities during a Suspension Period of which the Electing Holder has received notice. (b) Indemnification by the Electing Holders and any Agents and Underwriters. Each Electing Holder agrees, as a consequence of the inclusion of any of such Electing Holder's Registrable Securities in such Shelf Registration Statement, and each underwriter, selling agent or other securities professional, if any, which facilitates the disposition of Registrable Securities shall agree, as a consequence of facilitating such disposition of Registrable Securities, severally and not jointly, to (i) indemnify and hold harmless the Company, its directors, officers who sign any Shelf Registration Statement and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of either Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act, against any losses, claims, damages or liabilities to which the Company or such other persons may become subject, under the Securities Act or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon an untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in such Shelf Registration Statement or Prospectus, or any amendment or supplement, or arise out of or are based upon the omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, in each case to the extent, but only to the extent, that such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission was made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by such Electing Holder, underwriter, selling agent or other securities professional expressly for use therein, and (ii) reimburse the Company for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by the Company in connection with investigating or defending any such action or claim as such expenses are incurred. (c) Notices of Claims, Etc. Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under subsection (a) or (b) above of notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party shall, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against an indemnifying party under this Section 5, notify such indemnifying party in writing of the commencement thereof; but the omission so to notify the indemnifying party shall not relieve it from any liability under subsection (a) or (b) above except to the extent it has been materially prejudiced by such failure, or any liability, which it may have to any indemnified party otherwise than under the indemnification provisions of or contemplated by subsection (a) or (b) above. In no event shall the indemnifying party be 14
liable for the fees and expenses of more than one counsel (other than local counsel) for all indemnified parties in connection with any one action or separate but similar actions in the same jurisdiction arising out of the same general allegations or circumstances. In case any such action shall be brought against Holders, such counsel shall be designated by a plurality of all such Holders who own an aggregate of not less than 25% of the aggregate principal amount of Registrable Securities. In case any such action shall be brought against any indemnified party and it shall notify an indemnifying party of the commencement thereof, such indemnifying party shall be entitled to participate therein and, to the extent that it shall wish, jointly with any other indemnifying party similarly notified, to assume the defense thereof, with counsel reasonably satisfactory to such indemnified party (who shall not, except with the consent of the indemnified party, be counsel to the indemnifying party), and, after notice from the indemnifying party to such indemnified party of its election so to assume the defense thereof, such indemnifying party shall not be liable to such indemnified party under this Section 5 for any legal expenses of other counsel or any other expenses, in each case subsequently incurred by such indemnified party, in connection with the defense thereof other than reasonable costs of investigation. No indemnifying party shall, without the written consent of the indemnified party, effect the settlement or compromise of, or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to, any pending or threatened action or claim in respect of which indemnification or contribution may be sought hereunder (whether or not the indemnified party is an actual or potential party to such action or claim) unless such settlement, compromise or judgment (i) includes an unconditional release of the indemnified party from all liability arising out of such action or claim and (ii) does not include a statement as to, or an admission of, fault, culpability or a failure to act, by or on behalf of any indemnified party. (d) Contribution. If the indemnification provided for in this Section 5 is unavailable to or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party under subsection (a) or (b) above in respect of any losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) referred to therein, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such indemnified party as a result of such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative fault of the indemnifying party and the indemnified party in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof), as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative fault of such indemnifying party and indemnified party shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by such indemnifying party or by such indemnified party, and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission. The parties hereto agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 5(d) were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Electing Holders or any underwriters, selling agents or other securities professionals or all of them were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in this Section 5(d). The 15
amount paid or payable by an indemnified party as a result of the losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) referred to above shall be deemed to include any legal or other fees or expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in connection with investigating or defending any such action or claim. No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. The obligations of the Electing Holders and any underwriters, selling agents or other securities professionals in this Section 5(d) to contribute shall be several in proportion to the percentage of principal amount of Registrable Securities registered or underwritten, as the case may be, by them and not joint. (e) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section 5, in no event will any (i) Electing Holder be required to undertake liability to any person under this Section 5 for any amounts in excess of the dollar amount of the proceeds to be received by such Holder from the sale of such Holder's Registrable Securities (after deducting any fees, discounts and commissions applicable thereto) pursuant to any Shelf Registration Statement under which such Registrable Securities are to be registered under the Securities Act and (ii) underwriter, selling agent or other securities professional be required to undertake liability to any person hereunder for any amounts in excess of the discount, commission or other compensation payable to such underwriter, selling agent or other securities professional with respect to the Registrable Securities underwritten by it and distributed to the public. (f) The obligations of the Company under this Section 5 shall be in addition to any liability which the Company may otherwise have to any Indemnified Person and the obligations of any Indemnified Person under this Section 5 shall be in addition to any liability which such Indemnified Person may otherwise have to the Company. The remedies provided in this Section 5 are not exclusive and shall not limit any rights or remedies which may otherwise be available to an indemnified party at law or in equity. 6. Underwritten Offering. Any Holder of Registrable Securities who desires to do so may sell Registrable Securities (in whole or in part) in an underwritten offering; provided that (i) the Electing Holders of at least 33-1/3% in aggregate principal amount of the Registrable Securities then covered by the Shelf Registration Statement shall request such an offering) and (ii) at least such aggregate principal amount of such Registrable Securities shall be included in such offering; and provided, further, that the Company shall not be obligated to cooperate with more than one underwritten offering during the Effectiveness Period. Upon receipt of such a request, the Company shall provide all Holders of Registrable Securities written notice of the request, which notice shall inform such Holders that they have the opportunity to participate in the offering. In any such underwritten offering, the investment banker or bankers and manager or managers that will administer the offering will be selected by, and the underwriting arrangements with respect thereto (including the size of the offering) will be approved by, the holders of a majority of the Registrable Securities to be included in such offering; provided, 16
however, that such investment bankers and managers and underwriting arrangements must be reasonably satisfactory to the Company. No Holder may participate in any underwritten offering contemplated hereby unless (a) such Holder agrees to sell such Holder's Registrable Securities to be included in the underwritten offering in accordance with any approved underwriting arrangements, (b) such Holder completes and executes all reasonable questionnaires, powers of attorney, indemnities, underwriting agreements, lock-up letters and other documents required under the terms of such approved underwriting arrangements, and (c) if such Holder is not then an Electing Holder, such Holder returns a completed and signed Notice and Questionnaire to the Company in accordance with Section 3(a)(ii) hereof within a reasonable amount of time before such underwritten offering. The Holders participating in any underwritten offering shall be responsible for any underwriting discounts and commissions and fees and, subject to Section 4 hereof, expenses of their own counsel. The Company shall pay all expenses customarily borne by issuers in an underwritten offering, including but not limited to filing fees, the fees and disbursements of its counsel and independent public accountants and any printing expenses incurred in connection with such underwritten offering. Notwithstanding the foregoing or the provisions of Section 3(n) hereof, upon receipt of a request from the Managing Underwriter or a representative of Holders of a majority of the Registrable Securities to be included in an underwritten offering to prepare and file an amendment or supplement to the Shelf Registration Statement and Prospectus in connection with an underwritten offering, the Company may delay the filing of any such amendment or supplement for up to 90 days if the Board of Directors of the Company shall have determined in good faith that the Company has a bona fide business reason for such delay. 7. Additional Interest. (a) Notwithstanding any postponement of the effectiveness pursuant to Section 2(a) hereof, if (i) on or prior to the 90th day following the Closing Date, a Shelf Registration Statement has not been filed with the Commission, (ii) on or prior to the 180th day following the Closing Date, such Shelf Registration Statement has not become effective or (iii) if, after the effectiveness date of the Shelf Registration Statement, (x) the Shelf Registration Statement ceases to be effective or usable for the offer and sale of Registrable Securities (other than due to a Suspension Period), and the Company fails to file (and have become effective,), within 10 Business Days, a post-effective amendment to the Shelf Registration Statement or amendment or supplement to the Prospectus contained therein or such other document with the Commission to make the Shelf Registration Statement effective or such Prospectus usable, or (y) Suspension Periods exceed 45 days, whether or not consecutive, in any 90-day period, or more than 90 days, whether or not consecutive, during any 12-month period during the Effectiveness Period (each, a "Registration Default"), the Company shall be required to pay additional interest ("Additional Interest"), from and including the day following such Registration Default until such Registration Default is cured, at a rate per annum equal to one-quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the aggregate principal amount of the Debentures, to and including the 90th day following such 17
Registration Default and one-half of one percent (0.50%) of the aggregate principal amount of the Debentures from and after the 91st day following such Registration Default. (b) If a Holder has converted some or all of its Securities into Common Stock, the Holder will be entitled to receive equivalent amounts of Additional Interest based on the principal amount at maturity of the Securities converted. A Holder will not be entitled to Additional Interest unless it has provided all information requested by the Notice and Questionnaire prior to the date of the Registration Default, if the date of the Registration Default is after the deadline for the return of the Notice and Questionnaire. (c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event will Additional Interest be payable in connection with a failure to register the Common Stock. For the avoidance of doubt, if the Company fails to register both the Securities and the Common Stock, then the Additional Interest shall be payable in connection with the failure to register the Securities. (d) Any amounts to be paid as Additional Interest pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 7 shall be paid in cash semiannually in arrears, with the first semiannual payment due on the first June 15 or December 15, as applicable, following the date on which such Additional Interest begin to accrue. (e) Except as provided in Section 9(c) hereof, the Additional Interest as set forth in this Section 7 shall be the exclusive monetary remedy available to the Holders of Registrable Securities for such Registration Default. In no event shall the Company be required to pay Additional Interest in excess of the applicable maximum amount of one-half of one percent (0.50%) set forth above, regardless of whether one or multiple Registration Defaults exist. 8. Rule 144A. The Company agrees with each Holder, for so long as any Registrable Securities remain outstanding and during any period in which the Company is not subject to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, to make available, upon request of any Holder, to such Holder of Registrable Securities in connection with any sale thereof and any prospective purchaser of such Registrable Securities designated by such Holder, the information required by Rule 144A(d)(4) under the Securities Act in order to permit resales of such Registrable Securities pursuant to Rule 144A. 9. Miscellaneous. (a) Free Writing Prospectuses. Each Holder represents that it has not prepared or had prepared on its behalf or used or referred to, and agrees that it will not prepare or have prepared on its behalf or use or refer to, any Free Writing Prospectus, and has not distributed and will not distribute any written materials in connection with the offer or sale of the Registrable Securities without the prior express written consent of the Company and, in connection with any underwritten offering, the underwriters. Any such Free Writing Prospectus consented to by the 18
Company and, if applicable, the underwriters, as the case may be, is hereinafter referred to as a "Permitted Free Writing Prospectus." The Company represents and agrees that it has treated and will treat, as the case may be, each Permitted Free Writing Prospectus as an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, including in respect of timely filing with the Commission, legending and recordkeeping. (b) Other Registration Rights. The Company may grant registration rights that would permit any person that is a third party the right to piggy-back on any Shelf Registration Statement, provided that if the Managing Underwriter of any underwritten offering conducted pursuant to Section 6 hereof notifies the Company and the Electing Holders that the total amount of securities which the Electing Holders and the holders of such piggy-back rights intend to include in any Shelf Registration Statement is so large as to materially threaten the success of such offering (including the price at which such securities can be sold), then the amount, number or kind of securities to be offered for the account of holders of such piggy-back rights will be reduced to the extent necessary to reduce the total amount of securities to be included in such offering to the amount, number and kind recommended by the Managing Underwriter prior to any reduction in the amount of Registrable Securities to be included in such Shelf Registration Statement. (c) Specific Performance. The parties hereto acknowledge that there would be no adequate remedy at law if the Company fails to perform any of its obligations hereunder and that the Purchasers and the Holders from time to time may be irreparably harmed by any such failure, and accordingly agree that the Purchasers and such Holders, in addition to any other remedy to which they may be entitled at law or in equity and without limiting the remedies available to the Electing Holders under Section 7 hereof, shall, at any time the Securities are convertible into Common Stock, be entitled to compel specific performance of the obligations of the Company under this Registration Rights Agreement in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Registration Rights Agreement, in any court of the United States or any State thereof having jurisdiction. (d) Actions Affecting Transfer Restricted Securities. The Company shall not, directly or indirectly, take any action with respect to the Registrable Securities as a class that would adversely affect the ability of the Holders of Registrable Securities to include such Registrable Securities in a registration undertaken pursuant to this Agreement. (e) No Inconsistent Agreements. The Company has not, as of the date hereof, entered into, nor shall it, on or after the date hereof, enter into, any agreement with respect to its securities that is inconsistent with the rights granted to the Holders in this Agreement or otherwise conflicts with the provisions hereof. (f) Amendments and Waivers. This Agreement, including this Section 9(f), may be amended, and waivers or consents to departures from the provisions hereof may be given, only 19
by a written instrument duly executed by the Company and the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of Registrable Securities then outstanding. Each Holder of Registrable Securities outstanding at the time of any such amendment, waiver or consent or thereafter shall be bound by any amendment, waiver or consent effected pursuant to this Section 9(f), whether or not any notice, writing or marking indicating such amendment, waiver or consent appears on the Registrable Securities or is delivered to such Holder. (g) Notices. All notices and other communications provided for or permitted hereunder shall be given as provided in the Indenture. (h) Securities Held by the Company or Their Affiliates. Whenever the consent or approval of Holders of a specified percentage of Registrable Securities is required hereunder, Registrable Securities held by the Company or its Affiliates (other than subsequent Holders if such subsequent Holders are deemed to be Affiliates solely by reason of their holding of such Registrable Securities) shall not be counted in determining whether such consent or approval was given by the Holders of such required percentage. (i) Parties in Interest. The parties to this Agreement intend that all Holders of Registrable Securities shall be entitled to receive the benefits of this Agreement and that any Electing Holder shall be bound by the terms and provisions of this Agreement by reason of such election with respect to the Registrable Securities which are included in a Shelf Registration Statement. All the terms and provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon, shall inure to the benefit of and shall be enforceable by the respective successors and assigns of the parties hereto and any Holder from time to time of the Registrable Securities to the aforesaid extent. In the event that any transferee of any Holder of Registrable Securities shall acquire Registrable Securities, in any manner, whether by gift, bequest, purchase, operation of law or otherwise, such transferee shall, upon notice in writing to the Company, be entitled to receive the benefits of and, if an Electing Holder, be conclusively deemed to have agreed to be bound by and to perform all of the terms and provisions of this Agreement to the aforesaid extent. (j) Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement. (k) Headings. The headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not limit or otherwise affect the meaning hereof. (l) GOVERNING LAW. THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK. (m) Entire Agreement. This Agreement is intended by the parties as a final expression of their agreement and intended to be a complete and exclusive statement of the agreement and 20
understanding of the parties hereto in respect of the subject matter contained herein. There are no restrictions, promises, warranties or undertakings, other than those set forth or referred to herein with respect to the registration rights granted by the Company with respect to the Registrable Securities. This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings between the parties with respect to such subject matter. (n) Severability. In the event that any one or more of the provisions contained herein, or the application thereof in any circumstances, is held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect for any reason, the validity, legality and enforceability of any such provision in every other respect and of the remaining provisions hereof shall not be in any way impaired or affected thereby, it being intended that all of the rights and privileges of the parties hereto shall be enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law. (o) Survival. The respective indemnities, agreements, representations, warranties and other provisions set forth in this Agreement or made pursuant hereto shall remain in full force and effect, regardless of any investigation (or any statement as to the results thereof) made by or on behalf of any Electing Holder, any director, officer or partner of such Holder, any agent or underwriter, any director, officer or partner of such agent or underwriter, or any controlling person of any of the foregoing, and shall survive the transfer and registration of the Registrable Securities of such Holder. 21
Please confirm that the foregoing correctly sets forth the agreement between the Company and you. Very truly yours, International Game Technology By: /s/ Maureen Mullarkey ------------------------------------ Name: Maureen Mullarkey Title: Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer The foregoing Agreement is hereby confirmed and Accepted as of the date first above written. BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES LLC For themselves and the several Initial Purchasers By BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES LLC By: /s/ Tom Morrison --------------------------------- Name: Tom Morrison Title: Managing Director 22
APPENDIX A INTERNATIONAL GAME TECHNOLOGY INSTRUCTION TO DTC PARTICIPANTS (Date of Mailing) URGENT - IMMEDIATE ATTENTION REQUESTED DEADLINE FOR RESPONSE: [DATE] The Depository Trust Company ("DTC") has identified you as a DTC Participant through which beneficial interests in 2.60% Convertible Debentures due 2036 (the "Securities") of International Game Technology (the "Company") are held. The Company is in the process of registering the Securities under the Securities Act of 1933 for resale by the beneficial owners thereof. In order to have their Securities included in the registration statement, beneficial owners must complete and return the enclosed Notice of Registration Statement and Selling Securityholder Questionnaire. It is important that beneficial owners of the Securities receive a copy of the enclosed materials as soon as possible as their rights to have the Securities included in the registration statement depend upon their returning the Notice and Questionnaire by [DEADLINE FOR RESPONSE]. Please forward a copy of the enclosed documents to each beneficial owner that holds interests in the Securities through you. If you require more copies of the enclosed materials or have any questions pertaining to this matter, please contact [NAME, ADDRESS AND TELEPHONE NUMBER OF CONTACT AT THE ISSUER].
INTERNATIONAL GAME TECHNOLOGY Notice of Registration Statement and Selling Securityholder Questionnaire [DATE] International Game Technology (the "Company") has filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") a registration statement on Form S-3 (the "Shelf Registration Statement") for the registration and resale under Rule 415 of the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), of the Company's 2.60% Convertible Debentures due 2036 (the "Securities") and the shares of common stock, par value $0.00015625 per share (the "Common Stock"), issuable upon conversion thereof, in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of December 20, 2006 (the "Registration Rights Agreement"), between the Company and the purchasers named therein. A copy of the Registration Rights Agreement is attached hereto. All capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Registration Rights Agreement. In order to have Registrable Securities included in the Shelf Registration Statement (or a supplement or amendment thereto), this Notice of Registration Statement and Selling Securityholder Questionnaire ("Notice and Questionnaire") must be completed, executed and delivered to the Company at the address set forth herein for receipt ON OR BEFORE [DEADLINE FOR RESPONSE]. Beneficial owners of Registrable Securities who do not complete, execute and return this Notice and Questionnaire by such date (i) will not be named as selling securityholders in the Shelf Registration Statement and (ii) may not use the Prospectus forming a part thereof or any related Issuer Free Writing Prospectus for resales of Registrable Securities. Certain legal consequences arise from being named as a selling securityholder in the Shelf Registration Statement and related Prospectus. Accordingly, holders and beneficial owners of Registrable Securities are advised to consult their own securities law counsel regarding the consequences of being named or not being named as a selling securityholder in the Shelf Registration Statement and related Prospectus. 24
The term "Registrable Securities" is defined in the Registration Rights Agreement to mean all or any portion of the Securities issued from time to time under the Indenture in registered form and the shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of such Securities; provided, however, that a security ceases to be a Registrable Security when it is no longer a Restricted Security. The term "Restricted Security" is defined in the Registration Rights Agreement to mean any Security or share of Common Stock issuable upon conversion thereof except any such Security or share of Common Stock which (i) has been effectively registered under the Securities Act and sold in a manner contemplated by the Shelf Registration Statement, or (ii) has been transferred in compliance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act (or any successor provision thereto) or is transferable pursuant to paragraph (k) of such Rule 144 (or any successor provision thereto), (iii) has otherwise been transferred and a new Security or share of Common Stock not subject to transfer restrictions under the Securities Act has been delivered by or on behalf of the Company in accordance with Section 2.06(f) of the Indenture, or (iv) ceases to be outstanding. ELECTION The undersigned holder (the "Selling Securityholder") of Registrable Securities hereby elects to include in the Shelf Registration Statement the Registrable Securities beneficially owned by it and listed below in Item (3). The undersigned, by signing and returning this Notice and Questionnaire, agrees to be bound with respect to such Registrable Securities by the terms and conditions of this Notice and Questionnaire and the Registration Rights Agreement, including, without limitation, Section 5 of the Registration Rights Agreement, as if the undersigned Selling Securityholder were an original party thereto. Upon any sale of Registrable Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement, the Selling Securityholder will be required to deliver to the Company and the Trustee the Notice of Transfer (completed and signed) set forth in Exhibit 1 to this Notice and Questionnaire. The Selling Securityholder hereby provides the following information to the Company and represents and warrants that such information is accurate and complete: 25
QUESTIONNAIRE (1) (a) Full Legal Name of Selling Securityholder: ______________________________________________________________________ (b) Full Legal Name of Registered Holder (if not the same as in (a) above) of Registrable Securities Listed in Item (3) Below: ______________________________________________________________________ (c) Full Legal Name of DTC Participant (if applicable and if not the same as (b) above) Through Which Registrable Securities Listed in Item (3) Below are Held: ______________________________________________________________________ (2) Address for Notices to Selling Securityholder: _______________________________ _______________________________ _______________________________ Telephone: _______________________________ Fax: _______________________________ Contact Person: _______________________________ (3) Beneficial Ownership of Securities: Except as set forth below in this Item (3), the undersigned Selling Securityholder does not beneficially own any Securities or shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion, repurchase or redemption of any Securities. (a) Principal amount of Registrable Securities (as defined in the Registration Rights Agreement) beneficially owned: ___________________ CUSIP No(s). of such Registrable Securities: _________________________ Number of shares of Common Stock (if any) issued upon conversion, repurchase or redemption of Registrable Securities: __________________ (b) Principal amount of Securities other than Registrable Securities beneficially owned: ______________________________________________________________________ CUSIP No(s). of such other Securities: _______________________________ Number of shares of Common Stock (if any) issued upon conversion of such other Securities: _______________________________________________ (c) Principal amount of Registrable Securities which the undersigned wishes to be included in the Shelf Registration Statement: ______________________________________________________________________ 26
CUSIP No(s). of such Registrable Securities to be included in the Shelf Registration Statement: ________________________________________ Number of shares of Common Stock (if any) issued upon conversion of Registrable Securities which are to be included in the Shelf Registration Statement: ______________________________________________ (4) Beneficial Ownership of Other Securities of the Company: Except as set forth below in this Item (4), the undersigned Selling Securityholder is not the beneficial or registered owner of any shares of Common Stock or any other securities of the Company, other than the Securities and shares of Common Stock listed above in Item (3). State any exceptions here: ______________________________________________________________________ ______________________________________________________________________ ______________________________________________________________________ (5) Relationships with the Company: Except as set forth below, neither the Selling Securityholder nor any of its affiliates, officers, directors or principal equity holders (5% or more) has held any position or office or has had any other material relationship with the Company (or its predecessors or affiliates) during the past three years. State any exceptions here: ______________________________________________________________________ ______________________________________________________________________ ______________________________________________________________________ (6) Nature of the Selling Securityholder: (a) Is the Selling Securityholder a reporting company under the Securities Exchange Act, a majority owned subsidiary of a reporting company under the Securities Exchange Act, or a registered investment company under the Investment Company Act, and if so, please state which one. If the entity is a majority owned subsidiary of a reporting company, identify the majority stockholder that is a reporting company. If the entity is not any of the above, identify the natural person or persons having voting and investment control over the Company's securities that the entity owns. (b) Is the Selling Securityholder is a registered broker-dealer. Yes ____ No ____ State whether the Selling Securityholder received the Registrable Securities as compensation for underwriting activities and, if so, provide a brief description of the transaction(s) involved. 27
State whether the Selling Securityholder is an affiliate of a broker-dealer and if so, list the name(s) of the broker-dealer affiliate(s). Yes ____ No ____ IF THE ANSWER IS "YES," YOU MUST ANSWER THE FOLLOWING: If the Selling Securityholder is an affiliate of a registered broker-dealer, the Selling Securityholder purchased the Registrable Securities (i) in the ordinary course of business and (ii) at the time of the purchase of the Registrable Securities, had no agreements or understandings, directly or indirectly, with any person to distribute the Registrable Securities. Yes ____ No ____ If the answer is "No", state any exceptions here: _________________________________________________________________ IF THE ANSWER IS "NO," THIS MAY AFFECT YOUR ABILITY TO BE INCLUDED IN THE REGISTRATION STATEMENT. (7) Plan of Distribution: Except as set forth below, the undersigned Selling Securityholder intends to distribute the Registrable Securities listed above in Item (3) only as follows (if at all): Such Registrable Securities may be sold from time to time directly by the undersigned Selling Securityholder or, alternatively, through underwriters, broker-dealers or agents. Such Registrable Securities may be sold in one or more transactions at fixed prices, at prevailing market prices at the time of sale, at varying prices determined at the time of 28
sale, or at negotiated prices. Such sales may be effected in transactions (which may involve crosses or block transactions) (i) on any national securities exchange or quotation service on which the Registrable Securities may be listed or quoted at the time of sale, (ii) in the over-the-counter market, (iii) in transactions otherwise than on such exchanges or services or in the over-the-counter market, or (iv) through the writing of options. In connection with sales of the Registrable Securities or otherwise, the Selling Securityholder may enter into transactions with broker-dealers, which may in turn engage in short sales of the Registrable Securities in the course of hedging the positions they assume. The Selling Securityholder may also sell Registrable Securities short and deliver Registrable Securities to close out such short positions, or loan or pledge Registrable Securities to broker-dealers that in turn may sell such securities. State any exceptions here: _________________________________________________________________ _________________________________________________________________ _________________________________________________________________ Note: In no event may such method(s) of distribution take the form of an underwritten offering of the Registrable Securities except as provided in the Registration Rights Agreement or otherwise not commercially unreasonable. By signing below, the Selling Securityholder acknowledges that it understands its obligation to comply, and agrees that it will comply, with the prospectus delivery and other provisions of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder, particularly Regulation M. In the event that the Selling Securityholder transfers all or any portion of the Registrable Securities listed in Item (3) above after the date on which such information is provided to the Company, the Selling Securityholder agrees to notify the transferee(s) at the time of the transfer of its rights and obligations under this Notice and Questionnaire and the Registration Rights Agreement. By signing below, the Selling Securityholder consents to the disclosure of the information contained herein in its answers to Items (1) through (6) above and the inclusion of such information in the Shelf Registration Statement and related Prospectus and any related Issuer Free Writing Prospectus. The Selling Securityholder understands that such information will be relied upon by the Company in connection with the preparation of the Shelf Registration Statement and related Prospectus and any related Issuer Free Writing Prospectus. 29
In accordance with the Selling Securityholder's obligation under Section 3(a) of the Registration Rights Agreement to provide such information as may be required by law for inclusion in the Shelf Registration Statement, the Selling Securityholder agrees to promptly notify the Company of any inaccuracies or changes in the information provided herein which may occur subsequent to the date hereof at any time while the Shelf Registration Statement remains in effect. All notices hereunder and pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement shall be made in writing, by hand-delivery, first-class mail, or air courier guaranteeing overnight delivery as follows: (i) To the Company: _________________________ _________________________ _________________________ _________________________ _________________________ (ii) With a copy to: _________________________ _________________________ _________________________ _________________________ _________________________ Once this Notice and Questionnaire is executed by the Selling Securityholder and received by the Company, the terms of this Notice and Questionnaire, and the representations and warranties contained herein, shall be binding on, shall inure to the benefit of and shall be enforceable by the respective successors, heirs, personal representatives, and assigns of the Company and the Selling Securityholder (with respect to the Registrable Securities beneficially owned by such Selling Securityholder and listed in Item (3) above). This Agreement shall be governed in all respects by the laws of the State of New York. 30
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, by authority duly given, has caused this Notice and Questionnaire to be executed and delivered either in person or by its duly authorized agent. Dated: ----------------------------- _________________________________________________________________________ Selling Securityholder (Print/type full legal name of beneficial owner of Registrable Securities) By: --------------------------------- Name: ------------------------------- Title: ------------------------------ PLEASE RETURN THE COMPLETED AND EXECUTED NOTICE AND QUESTIONNAIRE FOR RECEIPT ON OR BEFORE [DEADLINE FOR RESPONSE] TO THE COMPANY AT: _________________________ _________________________ _________________________ _________________________ _________________________ 31
EXHIBIT 1 TO APPENDIX A NOTICE OF TRANSFER PURSUANT TO REGISTRATION STATEMENT International Game Technology [address] Attention: [GENERAL COUNSEL] [NAME OF TRUSTEE] [ADDRESS OF TRUSTEE] Attention: [CORPORATE TRUST SERVICES] Re: International Game Technology (the "Company") 2.60% Convertible Debentures due 2036 (the "Securities") Dear Sirs: Please be advised that _____________________ has transferred $___________ aggregate principal amount of the above-referenced Securities or shares of the Company's common stock, issued upon conversion of Securities, pursuant to an effective Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-____) filed by the Company. We hereby certify that the prospectus delivery requirements, if any, of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, have been satisfied with respect to the transfer described above and that the above-named beneficial owner of the Securities or common stock is named as a selling securityholder in the Prospectus dated [DATE], or in amendments or supplements thereto, and that the aggregate principal amount of the Securities or number of shares of common stock transferred are a portion of the Securities or shares of common stock listed in such Prospectus as amended or supplemented opposite such owner's name. Dated: ----------------- Very truly yours, ---------------------------------------- (Name) By: ------------------------------------ (Authorized Signature) 32

Exhibit 10.1 EXECUTION VERSION INTERNATIONAL GAME TECHNOLOGY 2.60% CONVERTIBLE DEBENTURES DUE 2036 ---------- PURCHASE AGREEMENT December 14, 2006 Banc of America Securities LLC As Representative of the several Purchasers named in Schedule I hereto (the "Representative") c/o Banc of America Securities LLC 9 West 57th Street, 21st Floor New York, NY 10019 Ladies and Gentlemen: International Game Technology, a Nevada corporation (the "Company"), proposes, subject to the terms and conditions stated herein, to issue and sell to the purchasers named in Schedule I hereto (the "Purchasers") an aggregate of $825,000,000 principal amount of the 2.60% Convertible Debentures, convertible into common stock par value $0.00015625 ("Stock") of the Company, specified above (the "Firm Securities") and, at the election of the Purchasers, up to an aggregate of $75,000,000 additional principal amount of such Debentures (the "Optional Securities") (the Firm Securities and the Optional Securities which the Purchasers elect to purchase pursuant to Section 2 hereof are herein collectively called the "Securities"). The Securities will have the benefit of a registration rights agreement (the "Registration Rights Agreement"), to be dated as of December 20, 2006, between the Company and the Purchasers. Banc of America Securities LLC will act as the global coordinator for the offering and together with Bear, Stearns & Co. Inc, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Goldman, Sachs & Co., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, UBS Securities LLC and Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC, will act as joint-book-running managers for the offering. 1. The Company represents and warrants as of the Applicable Time and each Time of Delivery (each as defined below), and agrees with, each of the Purchasers that: (a) A preliminary Offering Circular, dated December 13, 2006 (the "Preliminary Offering Circular") and an Offering Circular, dated December 14, 2006 (the "Offering Circular"), have been prepared in connection with the offering of the Securities and the shares of the Stock issuable upon conversion thereof. The Preliminary Offering Circular, as amended or supplemented at the Applicable Time (as defined herein), together with the Final Term Sheet (as defined herein) and any other oral information and/or writings that the parties expressly agree in writing (as set forth on Schedule II hereto) to treat as part of the Disclosure Package ("Issuer Written Information"), is hereinafter referred to as the "Disclosure Package". Any reference to the Preliminary Offering Circular, the Disclosure Package or the Offering Circular shall be deemed to refer to and include the Company's most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K (the "Form
10-K"), the definitive Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A, filed with the Commission on January 17, 2006, and the Current Reports on Form 8-K filed on March 13, 2006, June 21, 2006, July 7, 2006, September 29, 2006 and October 4, 2006, and all documents filed subsequent to the 10-K with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") pursuant to Section 13(a), 13(c), 14 or 15(d) of the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), on or prior to the date of the Preliminary Offering Circular, the Disclosure Package or the Offering Circular, as the case may be, and any reference to the Preliminary Offering Circular, the Disclosure Package or the Offering Circular, as amended or supplemented, as of any specified date, shall be deemed to include (i) any documents filed with the Commission pursuant to Section 13(a), 13(c), 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act after the date of the Preliminary Offering Circular, the Disclosure Package or the Offering Circular, as the case may be, and prior to such specified date and (ii) any Additional Issuer Information (as defined in Section 5(f)) furnished by the Company prior to the completion of the distribution of the Securities; and all documents filed under the Exchange Act and so deemed to be included in the Preliminary Offering Circular, the Disclosure Package or the Offering Circular, as the case may be, or any amendment or supplement thereto are hereinafter called the "Exchange Act Reports". The Exchange Act Reports, when they were or are filed with the Commission, conformed or will conform in all material respects to the applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the applicable rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder. The Preliminary Offering Circular and the Offering Circular and any amendments or supplements thereto and the Exchange Act Reports did not and will not, as of their respective dates, contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; provided, however, that this representation and warranty shall not apply to any statements or omissions made in reliance upon and in conformity with information furnished in writing to the Company by any Purchaser through the Representative expressly for use therein; (b) The Disclosure Package as of 5:00 pm (Eastern time) on the date hereof (the "Applicable Time") will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; provided, however, that this representation and warranty shall not apply to any statements or omissions made in reliance upon and in conformity with information furnished in writing to the Company by any Purchaser through the Representative expressly for use therein; (c) Any Issuer Written Information does not conflict with the information contained in the Preliminary Offering Circular, as amended or supplemented at the Applicable Time, or the Offering Circular and any such Issuer Written Information, as supplemented by and taken together with the Disclosure Package as of the Applicable Time, did not include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; provided, however, that this representation and warranty shall not apply to any statements or omissions made in reliance upon and in conformity with information furnished in writing to the Company by any Purchaser through the Representative expressly for use therein; 2
(d) Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has sustained since the date of the latest audited financial statements included in the Disclosure Package and the Offering Circular any material loss or interference with its business from fire, explosion, flood or other calamity, whether or not covered by insurance, or from any labor dispute or court or governmental action, order or decree, otherwise than as set forth or contemplated in the Disclosure Package and the Offering Circular; and, since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Disclosure Package and the Offering Circular, there has not been any change in the capital stock (other than issuances of Common Stock pursuant to existing employment agreements, stock option and other employee benefit plans and repurchases of Common Stock pursuant to the Company's stock repurchase program) or long-term debt of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any material adverse change, or any development involving a prospective material adverse change, in or affecting the general affairs, management, financial position, stockholders' equity or results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as whole, otherwise than as set forth or contemplated in the Disclosure Package and the Offering Circular; (e) The Company and its subsidiaries have good and marketable title in fee simple to all real property and good and marketable title to all personal property owned by them, in each case free and clear of all liens, encumbrances and defects except such as are described in the Disclosure Package and the Offering Circular or such as do not materially affect the value of such property and do not interfere with the use made and proposed to be made of such property by the Company and its subsidiaries; and any real property, equipment and buildings held under lease by the Company and its subsidiaries are held by them under valid, subsisting and enforceable leases with such exceptions as are not material and do not interfere with the use made and proposed to be made of such real property, equipment and buildings by the Company and its subsidiaries; (f) The Company has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the state of Nevada, with power and authority (corporate and other) to own its properties and conduct its business as described in the Disclosure Package and the Offering Circular, and has been duly qualified as a foreign corporation for the transaction of business and is in good standing under the laws of each other jurisdiction in which it owns or leases properties or conducts any business so as to require such qualification, except where the failure to be so qualified would not reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, prospects or results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole (a "Material Adverse Effect"); and each subsidiary of the Company has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of incorporation; (g) The Company has an authorized capitalization as set forth in the Disclosure Package and the Offering Circular, and all of the issued shares of capital stock of the Company have been duly and validly authorized and issued and are fully paid and non-assessable; the shares of Stock initially issuable upon conversion of the Securities have been duly and validly authorized and reserved for issuance and, when issued and delivered in accordance with the provisions of the Securities and the Indenture referred to below, will be duly and validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable, will conform to the description of the Stock contained in the Disclosure Package and the Offering Circular; the issuance of the Stock issuable upon conversion of the Securities will not be subject to any preemptive or similar rights; and all of the issued shares of capital stock of each subsidiary of the Company have been duly and 3
validly authorized and issued, are fully paid and non-assessable (except that with respect to foreign subsidiaries, this representation is limited to the extent the concepts of fully paid and non-assessable are not recognized under the laws of their respective jurisdiction of incorporation) and (except for directors' qualifying shares and that with respect to the Company's subsidiaries in Argentina and Iceland, a nominal number of shares are held by citizens of such jurisdictions as required by the laws of such jurisdictions) are owned directly or indirectly by the Company, free and clear of all liens, encumbrances, equities or claims; (h) The Securities have been duly authorized and, when issued and delivered pursuant to this Agreement, will have been duly executed, authenticated, issued and delivered and will constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company entitled to the benefits provided by the indenture to be dated as of December 20, 2006 (the "Indenture") between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Trustee (the "Trustee"), under which they are to be issued; the Indenture has been duly authorized and, when executed and delivered by the Company and the Trustee, the Indenture will constitute a valid and legally binding instrument, enforceable in accordance with its terms, subject, as to enforcement, to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization and other laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors' rights and to general equity principles; the Securities and the Indenture will conform in all material respects to the descriptions thereof in the Disclosure Package and the Offering Circular; (i) This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company; and the Registration Rights Agreement has been duly authorized and, assuming due authorization, execution and delivery by the Purchasers, when executed and delivered by the Company, will constitute a legal, valid, binding and enforceable instrument of the Company, subject, as to the enforcement, to bankruptcy, insolvency reorganization of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors' rights and to general equity principles; (j) Except as described in the Disclosure Package and the Offering Circular, each of the Company and its subsidiaries possesses such licenses, certificates, authorizations, approvals, franchises, permits or other rights and all authorizations from all Federal, state or other governmental entities or agencies (including, without limitation, any agency established by a federally recognized Indian tribe to regulate gaming on such tribe's reservation) which have, or may at any time have, jurisdiction over the activities of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any successor to such authority, including without limitation any such governmental entities or agencies, which has, or may at any time have, jurisdiction over the gaming activities of the Company or any of its subsidiaries (the "Gaming Authorities"), as are currently necessary (i) to own its property and conduct in all material respects the business now operated by it, (ii) for the Company to execute, deliver and perform this Agreement, the Registration Rights Agreement and the Indenture and (iii) to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby; except as described in the Disclosure Package and the Offering Circular, neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has received any notice of proceedings or has knowledge that any proceedings are pending or threatened, relating to the revocation or modification of any such license, certificate, authorization, approval, franchise, permit or other right which, individually or in the aggregate, would be reasonably expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; except as described in the Disclosure Package and the Offering Circular, to the best knowledge of the Company, 4
no Gaming Authority is investigating the Company, its subsidiaries or its affiliates, officers, directors, stockholders or other related parties, other than in ordinary course administrative reviews; all of the officers and directors of the Company have complied with all necessary suitability and qualification requirements of all Gaming Authorities and the Company has not received any notice of any pending revocation of, or investigation with respect to, any such qualification or suitability finding; (k) Prior to the date hereof, neither the Company nor any of its affiliates has taken any action which is designed to or which has constituted or which might have been expected to cause or result in stabilization or manipulation of the price of any security of the Company in connection with the offering of the Securities; (l) Subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the Purchasers in Section 3 hereof, the issue and sale of the Securities and the compliance by the Company with all of the provisions of the Securities, the Indenture, the Registration Rights Agreement and this Agreement and the consummation of the transactions herein and therein contemplated will not conflict with or result in a breach or violation of any of the terms or provisions of, or constitute a default under, (i) any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan agreement or other agreement or instrument to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or by which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is bound or to which any of the property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is subject, or (ii) the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation or By-laws of the Company or (iii) any statute or any order, rule or regulation of any court or governmental agency or body having jurisdiction over the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any of their properties (including, without limitation, any laws, rules or regulations of any Gaming Authority), except, with respect to clauses (i) and (iii), to the extent such breach, conflict, violation or default would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; (m) No consent, approval, authorization, order, registration or qualification of or with any such court or governmental agency or body, including Gaming Authorities, is required for the issue and sale of the Securities or the consummation by the Company of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, the Indenture or the Registration Rights Agreement, except for such consents, approvals, authorizations, registrations or qualifications as may be required to comply with the provisions of the Registration Rights Agreement, under state securities or Blue Sky laws in connection with the purchase and distribution of the Securities by the Purchasers, and such other approvals as have been duly obtained and are in full force and effect; (n) Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is in violation of (i) its Certificate of Incorporation or By-laws or (ii) in default in the performance or observance of any obligation, covenant or condition contained in any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan agreement, lease or other agreement or instrument to which it is a party or by which it or any of its properties may be bound, except with respect to clause (ii) to the extent such default would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; (o) The statements set forth in the Disclosure Package and the Offering Circular under the caption "Description of Debentures" and "Description of Common Stock", insofar as they purport to constitute a summary of the terms of the Securities and the Stock, under the caption "Certain United States Federal Income Tax Consequences", and under the caption "Plan of Distribution", insofar as they purport to 5
describe the provisions of the laws and documents referred to therein, are accurate and complete in all material respects; (p) Other than as set forth in the Disclosure Package and the Offering Circular, there are no legal or governmental proceedings pending to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or of which any property of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is the subject which would individually or in the aggregate reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; to the Company's knowledge, no Gaming Authority or any other governmental agencies are investigating the Company or any related party, other than in ordinary course administrative reviews or in any ordinary course review of the transactions contemplated hereby; and, to the best of the Company's knowledge, no such legal or governmental or Gaming Authority proceedings are threatened; (q) When the Securities are issued and delivered pursuant to this Agreement, the Securities will not be of the same class (within the meaning of Rule 144A under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Act")) as securities which are listed on a national securities exchange registered under Section 6 of the Exchange Act or quoted in a U.S. automated inter-dealer quotation system; (r) The Company is subject to and in compliance in all material respects with the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act; and the Company has made all filings required by the Commission in a timely manner to ensure the availability of form S-3; (s) The Company is not, and after giving effect to the offering and sale of the Securities, will not be an "investment company", as such term is defined in the United States Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the "Investment Company Act"); (t) Neither the Company or any affiliate of the Company, nor any person acting on its or their behalf, has offered or sold the Securities by means of any general solicitation or general advertising within the meaning of Rule 502(c) under the Act; (u) Within the preceding six months, neither the Company nor any other person acting on behalf of the Company has offered or sold to any person any Securities, or any securities of the same or a similar class as the Securities, other than Securities offered or sold to the Purchasers hereunder. The Company will take reasonable precautions designed to insure that any offer or sale, direct or indirect, in the United States or to any U.S. person (as defined in Rule 902 under the Act) of any Securities or any substantially similar security issued by the Company, within six months subsequent to the date on which the distribution of the Securities has been completed (as notified to the Company by the Representative), is made under restrictions and other circumstances reasonably designed not to affect the status of the offer and sale of the Securities in the United States and to U.S. persons contemplated by this Agreement as transactions exempt from the registration provisions of the Act; (v) Deloitte & Touche LLP, which has audited certain financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries, is an independent registered public accounting firm as required by the Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder; 6
(w) Except as disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Offering Circular, and except as would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, the Company and its subsidiaries own, or have valid, binding and enforceable licenses or other rights to use, free and clear of all liens, charges, claims, encumbrances, pledges, security interests, defects and other like restrictions, all Intellectual Property (as defined below) necessary to conduct the business of the Company and its subsidiaries in the manner presently conducted, without any conflict with the rights of others; "Intellectual Property" means all patents, patent applications, trademarks, trademark applications, trade names, service marks, service names, copyrights, trade secrets, know how (including all unpatented or unpatentable proprietary or confidential information, systems or procedures), technology, inventions, designs, processes, methods, technical data and information or other intangible asset, other proprietary intellectual property right or any license or other right to use any of the foregoing; (x) The Company and each of its subsidiaries maintain (i) effective internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15 under the Exchange Act) as described in the Form 10-K and (ii) a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurance that (A) transactions are executed in accordance with management's general or specific authorizations; (B) transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and to maintain asset accountability; (C) access to assets is permitted only in accordance with management's general or specific authorization; and (D) the recorded accountability for assets is compared with the existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences; (y) Since the end of the Company's most recent audited fiscal year, there has been (i) no material weakness in the Company's internal control over financial reporting (whether or not remediated) and (ii) no change in the Company's internal control over financial reporting that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control over financial reporting; (z) The Company and its subsidiaries maintain an effective system of "disclosure controls and procedures" (as defined in Rule 13a-15 under the Exchange Act) that is effective at the reasonable assurance level as described in the Form 10-K and that is designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Commission's rules and forms, including controls and procedures designed to ensure that such information is accumulated and communicated to the Company's management as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. The Company and its subsidiaries have carried out evaluations of the effectiveness of their disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the Company's last completed fiscal quarter; and (aa) There is and has been no material failure on the part of the Company and any of the Company's directors or officers, in their capacities as such, to comply with any provision of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated in connection therewith. 7
2. Subject to the terms and conditions herein set forth, the Company agrees to issue and sell to each of the Purchasers, and each of the Purchasers agrees, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company, at a purchase price of 98.25% of the principal amount thereof, the principal amount of Securities set forth opposite the name of such Purchaser in Schedule I hereto. The Company hereby grants an option to the several Purchasers to purchase, severally and not jointly, at their election (exercised jointly through the Representative) up to $75,000,000 aggregate principal amount of Optional Securities, at the purchase price set forth in the first paragraph of this Section 2. Any such election to purchase Optional Securities may be exercised in whole or from time to time in part by written notice from you through the Representative to the Company, setting forth the aggregate principal amount of Optional Securities to be purchased and the date on which such Optional Securities are to be delivered, as determined by you, but in no event earlier than three business days after the date of such notice or prior to the First Time of Delivery and no later than the last day in the 13-day period commencing on and including the First Time of Delivery (as defined below). 3. Upon the authorization by you of the release of the Securities, the several Purchasers propose to offer the Securities for sale upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, the Disclosure Package and the Offering Circular, and each Purchaser hereby represents and warrants to, and agrees with, the Company, severally and not jointly, that: (a) It will offer and sell the Securities only to persons who it reasonably believes are "qualified institutional buyers" ("QIBs") within the meaning of Rule 144A under the Act in transactions meeting the requirements of Rule 144A; (b) It will not offer or sell the Securities by any form of general solicitation or general advertising, including but not limited to the methods described in Rule 502(c) under the Act; and (c) Without the prior written consent of the Company, it will not use, authorize use of, refer to or participate in the planning for use of, any material that would be deemed to be a "free writing prospectus" under the Securities Act if the offer or sale of the Securities or Stock were registered under the Securities Act; provided that such material shall not include the Disclosure Package, the Offering Circular and any other offering materials prepared by or with the prior consent of the Company; and provided further that the Purchasers may send customary notices in respect of the offering of the Securities through the Bloomberg system. 4. (a) The Securities to be purchased by each Purchaser hereunder, in definitive form, and in such authorized denominations and registered in such names as the Representative may request upon at least forty-eight hours' prior notice to the Company, shall be delivered by or on behalf of the Company to the Representative, through the facilities of The Depository Trust Company ("DTC"), for the account of each Purchaser, against payment by or on behalf of such Purchaser of the purchase price therefor by wire transfer of Federal (same-day) funds. The Company will cause the certificates representing the Securities to be made available for checking and packaging at least twenty-four hours prior to the Time of Delivery (as defined below) at the office of DTC or its designated custodian (the "Designated Office"). The time and date of such delivery and payment shall be, with respect to the Firm Securities, 9:30 a.m., New York City time, on December 20, 2006 or such other time and date as the Representative and the Company may agree upon in writing, and, with respect to the Optional Securities, 9:30 a.m., New York City time, on the date specified by the Representative in the written notice given by the Representative of the election to purchase such Optional Securities, 8
or such other time and date as the Representative and the Company may agree upon in writing, provided that the Second Time of Delivery (as defined below), if any, shall be within the 13-day period commencing on and including the First Time of Delivery (as defined below). The time and date for delivery of the Firm Securities is herein called the "First Time of Delivery", the time and date for delivery of the Optional Securities, if not the First Time of Delivery, is herein called the "Second Time of Delivery", and each such time and date for delivery is herein called a "Time of Delivery". (b) The documents to be delivered at the Time of Delivery by or on behalf of the parties hereto pursuant to Section 7 hereof, including the cross-receipt for the Securities and any additional documents requested by the Representative pursuant to Section 7(k) hereof, will be delivered at such time and date at the offices of Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP, One Liberty Plaza, New York, New York (the "Closing Location"), and the Securities will be delivered at the Designated Office, all at the Time of Delivery. A meeting will be held at the Closing Location at 2:00 p.m., New York City time, on the business day next preceding the Time of Delivery, at which meeting the final drafts of the documents to be delivered pursuant to the preceding sentence will be available for review by the parties hereto. 5. The Company agrees with each of the Purchasers: (a) To prepare the Preliminary Offering Circular, the Disclosure Package and the Offering Circular in a form approved by you; to make no amendment or any supplement to any of the foregoing which shall be disapproved by you promptly after reasonable notice thereof; and to furnish you with copies thereof; (b) Promptly from time to time to take such action as you may reasonably request to qualify the Securities and the shares of Stock issuable upon conversion of the Securities for offering and sale under the securities laws of such jurisdictions as you may request and to comply with such laws so as to permit the continuance of sales and dealings therein in such jurisdictions for as long as may be necessary to complete the distribution of the Securities, provided that in connection therewith the Company shall not be required to qualify as a foreign corporation or to file a general consent to service of process in any jurisdiction; (c) To furnish the Purchasers with copies of the Preliminary Offering Circular, the Disclosure Package and the Offering Circular and each amendment or supplement thereto and additional written and electronic copies thereof in such quantities as you may from time to time reasonably request, and if, at any time prior to the expiration of nine months after the date of the Offering Circular, any event shall have occurred as a result of which the Offering Circular as then amended or supplemented would include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made when such Offering Circular is delivered, not misleading, or, if for any other reason it shall be necessary or desirable during such same period to amend or supplement the Offering Circular, to notify you and upon your request to prepare and furnish without charge to you and to any dealer in securities as many written and electronic copies as you may from time to time reasonably request of an amended Offering Circular or a supplement to the Offering Circular which will correct such statement or omission or effect such compliance; 9
(d) During the period beginning from the date hereof and continuing until the date 90 days after the Time of Delivery, not to offer, sell, contract to sell or otherwise dispose of, or file (or participate in the filing of) a registration statement (other than the filing of a shelf registration statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement) with the Commission with respect to, except as provided hereunder, any securities of the Company that are substantially similar to the Securities or the Stock, including but not limited to any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, Stock or any such substantially similar securities, without your prior written consent, except (i) the Company may issue Stock pursuant to existing employment agreements, stock option and other employee benefit plans consistent with past practices and (ii) the Company may contracts to issue Stock in connection with an acquisition, provided that (A) no actual issuance of Stock shall take place within such 90-day period, (B) such contract does not relate to a number of shares of Stock in excess of 20% of the Company's market capitalization at that time and (C) the Company shall have used its reasonable best effort to cause the other party or parties to such contract to deliver "lock-up" letters containing substantially similar terms to this Section 5(d); (e) Not to be or become, at any time prior to the expiration of the earlier to occur of (i) the date on which none of the Securities are restricted securities within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Act and (ii) two years after the last Time of Delivery, an open-end investment company, unit investment trust, closed-end investment company or face-amount certificate company that is or is required to be registered under Section 8 of the Investment Company Act; (f) At any time when the Company is not subject to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, for the benefit of holders from time to time of Securities, to furnish at its expense, upon request, to holders of Securities and prospective purchasers of securities information (the "Additional Issuer Information") satisfying the requirements of subsection (d)(4)(i) of Rule 144A under the Act; (g) If requested by you, to use its best efforts to cause such Designated Securities to be eligible for the PORTAL trading system of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.; (h) To furnish to the holders of the Securities as soon as practicable after the end of each fiscal year an annual report (including a balance sheet and statements of income, stockholders' equity and cash flows of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries certified by independent public accountants) and, as soon as practicable after the end of each of the first three quarters of each fiscal year (beginning with the fiscal quarter ending after the date of the Offering Circular), to make available to its stockholders consolidated summary financial information of the Company and its subsidiaries for such quarter in reasonable detail; provided that the Company shall have satisfied this obligation to the extent its annual reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q are timely filed on EDGAR; (i) (i) During a period of three years from the date of the Offering Circular, to furnish to you copies of all reports or other communications (financial or other) furnished to stockholders of the Company, and to deliver to you as soon as they are available, copies of any reports and financial statements furnished to or filed with the Commission or any securities exchange on which the Securities or any class of securities of the 10
Company is listed (or, if the Securities are not subject to filing requirements, such information as is required by Rule 144A under the Securities Act), provided that any document filed on EDGAR shall be deemed delivered; and (ii) prior to the completion of the distribution of the Securities by the Purchasers, to furnish to you from time to time as you may reasonably request, any additional information to update or confirm the information previously provided to you concerning the business and financial condition of the Company; (j) During the period of two years after the Time of Delivery, the Company will not, and will not permit any of its "affiliates" (as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act) to, resell any of the Securities which constitute "restricted securities" under Rule 144 that have been reacquired by any of them; (k) To use the net proceeds received by it from the sale of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement in the manner specified in the Disclosure Package and the Offering Circular under the caption "Use of Proceeds"; (l) To reserve and keep available at all times, free of preemptive rights, shares of Stock for the purpose of enabling the Company to satisfy any obligations to issue shares of its Stock upon conversion of the Securities; (m) To use its best efforts to list, subject to notice of issuance, the shares of Stock issuable upon conversion of the Securities on the New York Stock Exchange; (n) Without the prior written consent of the Representative, the Company will not use, authorize use of, refer to or participate in the planning for use of, any material that would be deemed to be a "free writing prospectus" under the Securities Act if the offer or sale of the Debentures or Common Stock were registered under the Securities Act; provided that such material shall not include the Disclosure Package, the Final Memorandum and any other offering materials prepared by or with the prior consent of the Representative; (o) That any Issuer Written Information the use of which has been consented to by the Company and the Representative is listed on Schedule II hereto; and (p) To prepare a final term sheet, containing solely a description of the Securities and the offering thereof, in the form approved by you and attached as Annex I hereto (the "Final Term Sheet"). 6. The Company covenants and agrees with the several Purchasers that the Company will pay or cause to be paid the following: (i) the fees, disbursements and expenses of the Company's counsel and accountants in connection with the issue of the Securities and the shares of Stock issuable upon conversion of the Securities and all other expenses in connection with the preparation, printing and (if required) filing of the Preliminary Offering Circular, the materials contained in the Disclosure Package and the Offering Circular and any amendments and supplements thereto and the mailing and delivering of copies thereof to the Purchasers and dealers; (ii) the cost of printing or producing this Agreement, the Indenture, the Registration Rights Agreement, the Blue Sky and Legal Investment Memoranda, if any, closing documents (including any compilations thereof) and any other documents in connection with the offering, purchase, sale and delivery of the Securities; (iii) all expenses in connection with the qualification of the Securities and the shares of Stock issuable upon conversion of the 11
Securities for offering and sale under state securities laws as provided in Section 5(b) hereof, including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Purchasers in connection with such qualification and in connection with the Blue Sky and legal investment surveys; (iv) any fees charged by securities rating services for rating the Securities; (v) the cost of preparing the Securities; (vi) the fees and expenses of the Trustee and any agent of the Trustee and the fees and disbursements of counsel for the Trustee in connection with the Indenture and the Securities; (vii) any cost incurred in connection with the designation of the Securities for trading in PORTAL and the listing of the shares of Stock issuable upon conversion of the Securities; and all other costs and expenses incident to the performance of its obligations hereunder which are not otherwise specifically provided for in this Section. It is understood, however, that, except as provided in this Section, and Sections 8 and 11 hereof, each Purchaser will pay all of its own costs and expenses, including the fees of its counsel, transfer taxes on resale of any of the Securities by it, and any advertising expenses connected with any offers it may make. 7. The obligations of each Purchaser hereunder shall be subject, in its discretion, to the condition that all representations and warranties and other statements of the Company herein are, at and as of each Time of Delivery, true and correct, the condition that the Company shall have performed all of its obligations hereunder theretofore to be performed, and the following additional conditions: (a) Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP, counsel for the Purchasers, shall have furnished to you such opinion or opinions, dated the Time of Delivery, with respect to the matters as you may reasonably request, and such counsel shall have received such papers and information as they may reasonably request to enable them to pass upon such matters; (b) O'Melveny & Myers LLP, counsel for the Company, shall have furnished to you their written opinion, dated the Time of Delivery, in form and substance satisfactory to you, in the form of Annex II; (c) David D. Johnson, the General Counsel of the Company, shall have furnished to you a written opinion, dated the Time of Delivery, in form and substance satisfactory to you, in the form of Annex III; (d) On the date of the Offering Circular prior to the execution of this Agreement and also at the Time of Delivery, Deloitte & Touche LLP shall have furnished to you a letter or letters, dated the respective dates of delivery thereof, in form and substance satisfactory to you, to the effect set forth in Annex IV hereto; (e) (i) Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries shall have sustained since the date of the latest audited financial statements included in the Disclosure Package and the Offering Circular any loss or interference with its business from fire, explosion, flood or other calamity, whether or not covered by insurance, or from any labor dispute or court or governmental action, order or decree, otherwise than as set forth or contemplated in the Disclosure Package and the Offering Circular, and (ii) since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Disclosure Package and the Offering Circular, there shall not have been any change in the capital stock or long-term debt of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any change, or any development involving a prospective change, in or affecting the general affairs, management, financial position, stockholders' equity or results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries, otherwise than as set forth or contemplated in the Disclosure Package and 12
the Offering Circular, the effect of which, in any such case described in clause (i) or (ii), is in the judgment of the Representative so material and adverse as to make it impracticable or inadvisable to proceed with the offering or the delivery of the Securities on the terms and in the manner contemplated in this Agreement, in the Disclosure Package and in the Offering Circular; (f) On or after the date hereof (i) no downgrading shall have occurred in the rating accorded the Company's debt securities by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization", as that term is defined by the Commission for purposes of Rule 436(g)(2) under the Act, and (ii) no such organization shall have publicly announced that it has under surveillance or review, with possible negative implications, its rating of any of the Company's debt securities; (g) On or after the date hereof there shall not have occurred any of the following: (i) a suspension or material limitation in trading in securities generally on the New York Stock Exchange; (ii) a suspension or material limitation in trading in the Company's securities on the New York Stock Exchange; (iii) a general moratorium on commercial banking activities declared by either Federal or New York State authorities or a material disruption in commercial banking or securities settlement or clearance services in the United States; (iv) the outbreak or escalation of hostilities involving the United States or the declaration by the United States of a national emergency or war or (v) the occurrence of any other calamity or crisis or any change in financial, political or economic conditions in the United States or elsewhere, if, in the case of any such event specified in clause (iv) or (v), the effect in the judgment of the Representative makes it impracticable or inadvisable to proceed with the offering or the delivery of the Securities on the terms and in the manner contemplated in the Disclosure Package and the Offering Circular; (h) The Securities have been designated for trading on PORTAL; (i) The shares of Stock issuable upon conversion of the Securities shall have been duly listed, subject to notice of issuance, on the Exchange; and (j) The Company shall have furnished or caused to be furnished to you at the Time of Delivery certificates of officers of the Company satisfactory to you as to the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the Company herein at and as of such Time of Delivery, as to the performance by the Company of all of its obligations hereunder to be performed at or prior to such Time of Delivery, as to the matters set forth in subsections (a) and (e) of this Section and as to such other matters as you may reasonably request. 8. (a) The Company will indemnify and hold harmless each Purchaser against any losses, claims, damages or liabilities, joint or several, to which such Purchaser may become subject, under the Act or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon an untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Preliminary Offering Circular, the Offering Circular, the Final Term Sheet, any Issuer Written Information or any other written information used by or on behalf of the Company in connection with the offer or sale of the Securities, or any amendment or supplement to any of the foregoing, or arise out of or are based upon the omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, and will 13
reimburse each Purchaser for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such Purchaser in connection with investigating or defending any such action or claim as such expenses are incurred; provided, however, that the Company shall not be liable in any such case to the extent that any such loss, claim, damage or liability arises out of or is based upon an untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission made in any Preliminary Offering Circular, the Offering Circular, the Final Term Sheet, any Issuer Written Information or any other written information used by or on behalf of the Company in connection with the offer or sale of the Securities, or any amendment or supplement to any of the foregoing, in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Purchaser through the Representative expressly for use therein. The Company acknowledges that the information set forth on Schedule III hereto constitutes the only information furnished in writing by or on behalf of the Initial Purchasers for inclusion in the Preliminary Memorandum or the Final Memorandum or in any amendment or supplement thereto. (b) Each Purchaser will indemnify and hold harmless the Company, severally and not jointly, against any losses, claims, damages or liabilities to which the Company may become subject, under the Act or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon an untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Preliminary Offering Circular, the Offering Circular, the Final Term Sheet, any Issuer Written Information or any other written information used by or on behalf of the Company in connection with the offer or sale of the Securities, or any amendment or supplement to any of the foregoing, or arise out of or are based upon the omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, in each case to the extent, but only to the extent, that such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission was made in any Preliminary Offering Circular, the Offering Circular, the Final Term Sheet, any Issuer Written Information or any other written information used by or on behalf of the Company in connection with the offer or sale of the Securities, or any amendment or supplement to any of the foregoing, in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by such Purchaser through the Representative expressly for use therein; and will reimburse the Company for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by the Company in connection with investigating or defending any such action or claim as such expenses are incurred. (c) Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under subsection (a) or (b) above of notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party shall, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against the indemnifying party under such subsection, notify the indemnifying party in writing of the commencement thereof; but the omission so to notify the indemnifying party shall not relieve it from any liability which it may have to any indemnified party otherwise than under such subsection. In case any such action shall be brought against any indemnified party and it shall notify the indemnifying party of the commencement thereof, the indemnifying party shall be entitled to participate therein and, to the extent that it shall wish, jointly with any other indemnifying party similarly notified, to assume the defense thereof, with counsel satisfactory to such indemnified party (who shall not, except with the consent of the indemnified party, be counsel to the indemnifying party), and, after notice from the indemnifying party to such indemnified party of its election so to assume the defense thereof, the indemnifying party shall not be liable to such indemnified party under such subsection for any legal expenses of other counsel or any other expenses, in each case subsequently incurred by such indemnified party, in connection with the defense thereof other than reasonable costs of investigation. No indemnifying party shall, without the written consent of the indemnified party, effect the settlement or compromise of, or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to, 14
any pending or threatened action or claim in respect of which indemnification or contribution may be sought hereunder (whether or not the indemnified party is an actual or potential party to such action or claim) unless such settlement, compromise or judgment (i) includes an unconditional release of the indemnified party from all liability arising out of such action or claim and (ii) does not include a statement as to, or an admission of, fault, culpability or a failure to act, by or on behalf of any indemnified party. (d) If the indemnification provided for in this Section 8 is unavailable to or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party under subsection (a) or (b) above in respect of any losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) referred to therein, each indemnifying party shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such indemnified party as a result of such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and the Purchasers on the other from the offering of the Securities. If, however, the allocation provided by the immediately preceding sentence is not permitted by applicable law or if the indemnified party failed to give the notice required under subsection (c) above, then, each indemnifying party shall contribute to such amount paid or payable by such indemnified party in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only such relative benefits but also the relative fault of the Company on the one hand and the Purchasers on the other in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof), as well as any other relevant equitable considerations (including any failure by the indemnified party to provide any notice specified above). The relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and the Purchasers on the other shall be deemed to be in the same proportion as the total net proceeds from the offering (before deducting expenses) received by the Company bear to the total underwriting discounts and commissions received by the Purchasers, in each case as set forth in the Disclosure Package and the Offering Circular. The relative fault shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company on the one hand or the Purchasers on the other and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission. The Company and the Purchasers agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this subsection (d) were determined by pro rata allocation or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to above in this subsection (d). The amount paid or payable by an indemnified party as a result of the losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) referred to above in this subsection (d) shall be deemed to include any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in connection with investigating or defending any such action or claim. Notwithstanding the provisions of this subsection (d), no Purchaser shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which the Securities underwritten by it and distributed to investors were offered to investors exceeds the amount of any damages which such Purchaser has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission. (e) The obligations of the Company under this Section 8 shall be in addition to any liability which the Company may otherwise have and shall extend, upon the same terms and conditions, to each person, if any, who controls each Purchaser or to any affiliate of each Purchaser within the meaning of the Act; and the obligations of the Purchasers under this Section 8 shall be in addition to any liability which the Purchasers may otherwise have and shall extend, upon the same terms and conditions, to each officer and director of the Company and to each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of the Act. 15
9. If, at the First Time of Delivery or the Second Time of Delivery, as the case may be, any one or more of the several Purchasers shall fail or refuse to purchase Securities that it or they have agreed to purchase hereunder on such date, and the aggregate principal amount of Securities which such defaulting Purchaser or Purchasers agreed but failed or refused to purchase does not exceed 10% of the aggregate principal amount of the Securities to be purchased on such date, the other Purchasers shall be obligated, severally, in the proportions that the principal amount of Firm Securities set forth opposite their respective names on Schedule I bears to the aggregate principal amount of Firm Securities set forth opposite the names of all such non-defaulting Purchasers, or in such other proportions as may be specified by the Representatives with the consent of the non-defaulting Purchasers, to purchase the Securities which such defaulting Purchaser or Purchasers agreed but failed or refused to purchase on such date. If, at the First Time of Delivery or the Second Time of Delivery, as the case may be, any one or more of the Purchasers shall fail or refuse to purchase Securities and the aggregate principal amount of Securities with respect to which such default occurs exceeds 10% of the aggregate principal amount of Securities to be purchased on such date, and arrangements satisfactory to the Representatives and the Company for the purchase of such Securities are not made within 48 hours after such default, this Agreement shall terminate without liability of any party (other than a defaulting Purchaser) to any other party except that the provisions of Section 6, Section 8, Section 9 shall at all times be effective and shall survive such termination. In any such case either the Representative or the Company shall have the right to postpone the First Time of Delivery or any Subsequent Time of Delivery, as the case may be, but in no event for longer than seven days in order that the required changes, if any, to the Final Offering Memorandum or any other documents or arrangements may be effected. As used in this Agreement, the term "Purchaser" shall be deemed to include any person substituted for a defaulting Purchaser under this Section 9. Any action taken under this Section 9 shall not relieve any defaulting Purchaser from liability in respect of any default of such Purchaser under this Agreement. 10. The respective indemnities, agreements, representations, warranties and other statements of the Company and the Purchasers, as set forth in this Agreement or made by or on behalf of them, respectively, pursuant to this Agreement, shall remain in full force and effect, regardless of any investigation (or any statement as to the results thereof) made by or on behalf of the Purchasers or any controlling person of the Purchasers, or the Company, or any officer or director or controlling person of the Company, and shall survive delivery of and payment for the Securities. 11. If for any reason the Securities are not delivered by or on behalf of the Company as provided herein, the Company will reimburse the Purchasers for all of their out-of-pocket expenses, including fees and disbursements of counsel, reasonably incurred by the Purchasers in making preparations for the purchase, sale and delivery of the Securities, but the Company shall then be under no further liability to the Purchasers except as provided in Sections 6 and 8 hereof. 12. The Company acknowledges and agrees that: (i) the purchase and sale of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement, including the determination of the offering price of the Securities and any related discounts and commissions, is an arm's-length commercial transaction between the Company, on the one hand, and the Purchasers, on the other hand, and the Company is capable of evaluating and understanding and understands and accepts the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; (ii) in connection with each transaction contemplated hereby and the process leading to such transaction, each Purchaser is and has been acting solely as a principal and is not the financial 16
advisor, agent or fiduciary of the Company or its affiliates, stockholders, creditors or employees or any other party; (iii) no Purchaser has assumed or will assume an advisory, agency or fiduciary responsibility in favor of the Company with respect to any of the transactions contemplated hereby or the process leading thereto (irrespective of whether such Purchaser has advised or is currently advising the Company on other matters) and no Purchaser has any obligation to the Company with respect to the offering contemplated hereby except the obligations expressly set forth in this Agreement; (iv) each Purchaser and its affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Company and no Purchaser has any obligation to disclose any of such interests by virtue of any advisory, agency or fiduciary relationship; and (v) no Purchaser has provided any legal, accounting, regulatory or tax advice with respect to the offering contemplated hereby and the Company has consulted its own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it deemed appropriate. The Company agrees that it will not claim that the Purchaser, or any of them, has rendered advisory services of any nature or respect, or owes a fiduciary or similar duty to the Company, in connection with such transaction or the process leading thereto. 13. All statements, requests, notices and agreements hereunder shall be in writing, and if to the Purchasers shall be delivered or sent by mail, telex or facsimile transmission c/o Banc of America Securities LLC, 9 West 57th Street, New York, New York 10019, Facsimile: 212-933-2217, Attention: Syndicate Department; and if to the Company shall be delivered or sent by mail, telex or facsimile transmission to the address of the Company set forth in the Offering Circular, Attention: Secretary; provided, however, that any notice to a Purchaser pursuant to Section 8 hereof shall be delivered or sent by mail, telex or facsimile transmission to such Purchaser at its address set forth in its Purchasers' Questionnaire, or telex constituting such Questionnaire, which address will be supplied to the Company by you upon request. Any such statements, requests, notices or agreements shall take effect upon receipt thereof. 14. This Agreement shall be binding upon, and inure solely to the benefit of, the Purchasers, the Company and, to the extent provided in Sections 8 and 10 hereof, the officers and directors of the Company and each person who controls the Company or any Purchaser, and their respective heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns, and no other person shall acquire or have any right under or by virtue of this Agreement. No purchaser of any of the Securities from any Purchaser shall be deemed a successor or assign by reason merely of such purchase. 15. Time shall be of the essence of this Agreement. 16. This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings (whether written or oral) between the Company and the Purchasers, or any of them, with respect to the subject matter hereof. 17. THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK. 18. This Agreement may be executed by any one or more of the parties hereto in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, but all such respective counterparts shall together constitute one and the same instrument. 19. The Company is authorized, subject to applicable law, to disclose any and all aspects of this potential transaction that are necessary to support any U.S. federal income tax benefits expected to be claimed with respect to such transaction, and all materials of any kind (including tax opinions and other tax analyses) related to those benefits, without any Purchaser imposing any limitation of any kind. 17
If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding, please sign and return to us five counterparts hereof, and upon the acceptance hereof by you, on behalf of each of the Purchasers, this letter and such acceptance hereof shall constitute a binding agreement between each of the Purchasers and the Company. Very truly yours, International Game Technology By: /s/ Thomas J. Matthews ------------------------------------ Name: Thomas J. Matthews Title: President, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Operating Officer Accepted as of the date hereof on behalf of each of the Purchasers: Banc of America Securities LLC By: /s/ Tom Morrison --------------------------------- Name: Tom Morrison Title: Managing Director 18
SCHEDULE I S-1
SCHEDULE II Issuer Written Information: (i) Written Information: None (ii) Oral Information: Issue Price: 98.625% I-2
SCHEDULE III Initial Purchaser information pursuant to Section 8(a). (i) By or on behalf of the Initial Purchasers: The statements set forth under the heading "Plan of Distribution," in the first, second and sixth sentences of the eighth paragraph in the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum. (ii) By or on behalf of Mitsubishi UFJ Securities International plc only: The statement set forth under the heading "Plan of Distribution," in the seventh paragraph in the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum. I-3
ANNEX I FORM OF FINAL TERM SHEET TERMS SHEET Dated December 14, 2006 INTERNATIONAL GAME TECHNOLOGY 2.60% CONVERTIBLE DEBENTURES DUE DECEMBER 15, 2036 The information in this term sheet supplements IGT's preliminary offering circular, dated December 13, 2006 (the "Preliminary Circular") and supercedes the information in the Preliminary Circular to the extent inconsistent with the information in the Preliminary Circular. This term sheet is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Preliminary Circular. Terms used herein but not defined herein shall have the respective meanings as set forth in the Preliminary Circular.
Issuer: International Game Technology (NYSE: IGT) Title of securities: 2.60% Convertible Debentures Due 2036 Aggregate principal amount offered: $825,000,000 million (excluding initial purchasers' option to purchase up to $75 million of additional Debentures to cover over-allotments) Net Proceeds: Approximately $810 million after deducting the initial purchasers' discount and IGT's estimated expenses. Maturity: December 15, 2036, unless earlier redeemed, repurchased or converted Annual interest rate: 2.60% per annum, accruing from the settlement date Interest payment dates: Each June 15 and December 15, beginning June 15, 2007 Trade date: December 14, 2006 Registration: 144A with Registration Rights Conversion rate: 16.1875 shares of common stock per $1,000 aggregate principal amount of Debentures Reference Price: $45.76 Conversion Premium: 35% over NYSE closing price on December 14, 2006 Conversion price: Approximately $61.78 per share of common stock Settlement: December 20, 2006 CUSIP/ISIN: 144A Debentures: CUSIP Number: 459902 AN 2 ISIN Number: US459902AN26 144A common stock issued on conversion of Debentures: CUSIP Number: 459902 AP 7 ISIN Number: US459902AP73 Adjustment to Conversion Rate upon See below a Fundamental Change:
I-1
The following table sets forth the Share Price paid per share of our Common Stock in certain Fundamental Change transactions and the number of additional shares per $1,000 principal amount of Debentures by which the conversion rate will be increased (subject to adjustment). - If the Share Price is greater than $160.00 per share (subject to adjustment), the conversion rate will not be adjusted. - If the Share Price is less than $45.76 per share (subject to adjustment), the conversion rate will not be adjusted. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event will the total number of the issuer's shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion exceed 21.8531 shares per $1,000 principal amount of Debentures, subject to adjustment. This communication is intended for the sole use of the person to whom it is provided by the sender. These securities have not been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and may only be sold to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to Rule 144A or pursuant to another applicable exemption. ANY DISCLAIMERS OR OTHER NOTICES THAT MAY APPEAR BELOW ARE NOT APPLICABLE TO THIS COMMUNICATION AND SHOULD BE DISREGARDED. SUCH DISCLAIMERS OR OTHER NOTICES WERE AUTOMATICALLY GENERATED AS A RESULT OF THIS COMMUNICATION BEING SENT VIA BLOOMBERG OR ANOTHER EMAIL SYSTEM. I-2
ANNEX II FORM OF OPINION OF O'MELVENY & MYERS LLP December [__], 2006 [LEAD MANAGER] As Representative of the several Purchasers named in Schedule I hereto c/o [ADDRESS OF LEAD MANAGER] Ladies and Gentlemen: We have acted as counsel to International Game Technology, a Nevada corporation (the "Company"), in connection with the offer and sale, to the several purchasers named in Schedule I to the Purchase Agreement (as defined below), of an aggregate of $[___] principal amount of [___]% Convertible Debentures, convertible into common stock, par value $0.00015625 (the "Stock"), of the Company (the "Firm Securities") and, at the election of the Purchasers, up to an aggregate of $[___] additional principal amount of such Debentures (the "Optional Securities") (the Firm Securities and the Optional Securities are collectively referred to as the "Securities"). We are providing this opinion to you at the request of the Company pursuant to Section 7(b) of the Purchase Agreement. Except as otherwise indicated, capitalized terms used in this opinion without definition will have the meanings given to such terms in the Purchase Agreement. In our capacity as such counsel, we have examined originals or copies of those corporate and other records and documents we considered appropriate including the following: (a) an executed copy of the Purchase Agreement, dated December [___], 2006, by and between the Company and the Purchasers (the "Purchase Agreement"); (b) the Registration Rights Agreement; (c) the form of Securities; and (d) the Indenture. As to relevant factual matters, we have relied upon, among other things, certificates of officers of the Company. In addition, we have obtained and relied upon those certificates of public officials we considered appropriate. We have also examined the Preliminary Offering Circular, dated December [__], 2006, prepared in connection with the offer and sale of the Securities (the "Preliminary Offering Circular"), together with the documents included as Schedule I hereto, and the Offering Circular, dated December [__], 2006, prepared in connection with the offer and sale of the Securities (the "Offering Circular"). We also have examined the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006 (the "Form 10-K") and the Company's Proxy Statement filed January 17, 2006. II-1
We have assumed the genuineness of all signatures, the authenticity of all documents submitted to us as originals and the conformity with originals of all documents submitted to us as copies. We have further assumed without independent verification that (a) the Company is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing in the jurisdiction of its organization and has the corporate power and authority to execute, deliver and perform its obligations under the Purchase Agreement, Indenture, Securities and Registration Rights Agreement and (b) the Purchase Agreement, Indenture, Securities and Registration Rights Agreement have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of the Company and have been duly executed and delivered by the Company. To the extent the Company's obligations depend on the enforceability of the Purchase Agreement, Registration Rights Agreement or Indenture against the other parties to the Purchase Agreement, Registration Rights Agreement or Indenture, we have assumed that each of the Purchase Agreement, Registration Rights Agreement and Indenture is enforceable against the other parties thereto. On the basis of such examination, our reliance upon the assumptions in this opinion and our consideration of those questions of law we considered relevant, and subject to the limitations and qualifications in this opinion, we are of the opinion that: (i) The Indenture constitutes the legally valid and binding obligation of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, except as may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws relating to or affecting creditors' rights generally (including, without limitation, fraudulent conveyance laws) and by general principles of equity, including, without limitation, concepts of materiality, reasonableness, good faith and fair dealing and the possible unavailability of specific performance or injunctive relief, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law. (ii) Upon payment for and delivery of the Securities in accordance with the Purchase Agreement and the authentication of the certificates representing the Securities by a duly authorized signatory of the Trustee, the Securities will be legally valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, except as may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws relating to or affecting creditors' rights generally (including, without limitation, fraudulent conveyance laws) and by general principles of equity, including, without limitation, concepts of materiality, reasonableness, good faith and fair dealing and the possible unavailability of specific performance or injunctive relief, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law. (iii) The Registration Rights Agreement constitutes the legally valid and binding obligation of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, except as may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws relating to or affecting creditors' rights generally (including, without limitation, fraudulent conveyance laws) and by general principles of equity, including, without limitation, concepts of materiality, reasonableness, good faith and fair dealing and the possible unavailability of specific performance or injunctive relief, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law) and except as rights to indemnity and contribution thereunder may be limited by federal or state securities laws or principles of public policy. (iv) The statements in the Preliminary Offering Circular, considered together with the documents included as Schedule I hereto, and in the Offering Circular under the II-2
captions "Description of Debentures" and "Certain United States Federal Income Tax Considerations", insofar as they purport to summarize the provisions of laws and documents referred to therein, are accurate and complete in all material respects. (v) No order, consent, permit, registration, qualification or approval of any New York or Federal governmental authority that we have, in the exercise of customary diligence, recognized as applicable to the Company or to the transactions of the type contemplated by the Purchase Agreement is required on the part of the Company for the execution and delivery of the Purchase Agreement, the Indenture, the Registration Rights Agreement or for the issuance and sale of the Securities, except such as may be required under the Registration Rights Agreement and applicable Blue Sky or state securities laws or gaming laws. (vi) The Company's execution and delivery of, and performance of its obligations under, the Indenture, the Purchase Agreement and the Registration Rights Agreement, do not (a) violate the Company's Articles of Incorporation or By-laws, (b) violate, breach or result in a default under, any existing obligation of or restriction on the Company under any other agreement (the "Other Agreements") listed as an exhibit to the Form 10-K or (c) breach or otherwise violate any existing obligation of or restriction on the Company under any order, judgment or decree of any New York or federal court or governmental authority binding on the Company and identified to such counsel in a certificate provided by the Company, except that we express no opinion as to the effect of the Company's performance of its obligations in the Purchase Agreement, the Indenture and the Registration Rights Agreement on the Company's compliance with financial covenants in the Other Agreements. (vii) The Company's execution and delivery of, and performance of its obligations under, the Indenture, the Purchase Agreement and the Registration Rights Agreement, do not violate any New York or Federal statute, rule or regulation that we have, in the exercise of customary professional diligence, recognized as applicable to the Company or any of its subsidiaries or to transactions of the type contemplated by the Indenture, the Purchase Agreement or the Registration Rights Agreement, except that we express no opinion regarding any federal securities laws, Blue Sky or state securities laws, gaming laws, or the indemnification and contribution sections of the Purchase Agreement, the Registration Rights Agreement and the Indenture, except as otherwise expressly stated herein. (viii) Assuming the accuracy of the representations of the Company in Section 2, paragraphs (q) and (t) of the Purchase Agreement, and the Purchasers in Section 3 of the Purchase Agreement, it is not necessary in connection with the sale of the Securities under the circumstances contemplated by the Purchase Agreement or the initial sale of the Securities by the Purchasers as described in the Preliminary Offering Circular and the Offering Circular to register the Securities under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or to qualify the Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act, except that we express no opinion as to the securities laws of any state. (ix) The Company is not and, after giving effect to the offering and sale of the Securities and the application of the proceeds thereof as described in the Preliminary Offering Circular and the Offering Circular, will not be an investment company required to register under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended. (x) The Incorporated Documents, on the respective dates they were filed, appeared on their face to comply in all material respects with the requirements as to form for II-3
reports on Form 10-K and proxy statements, as the case may be, under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the related rules and regulations in effect at the respective dates of their filing, except that we express no opinion concerning the financial statements and other financial information contained or incorporated by reference therein or omitted therefrom. We have participated in conferences in connection with the preparation of the Preliminary Offering Circular, the documents included as Schedule I hereto and the Offering Circular and reviewed the Preliminary Offering Circular, the documents included as Schedule I hereto, the Offering Circular and the Incorporated Documents but we have not independently verified the accuracy, completeness or fairness of the statements contained or incorporated therein, and the limitations inherent in the examination made by us and the knowledge available to us are such that we are unable to assume, and we do not assume, any responsibility for such accuracy, completeness or fairness (except as otherwise specifically stated in paragraph (iv) above). Subject to the foregoing, we confirm to you that, on the basis of the information we gained in the course of performing the services referred to above, nothing came to our attention that caused us to believe that (i) the Preliminary Offering Circular, including the Incorporated Documents, considered together with the documents included as Schedule I hereto, considered as a whole at the Applicable Time, or (ii) the Offering Circular, including the Incorporated Documents, considered as a whole on December [_], and as of the date hereof, contained or contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. However, we express no opinion or belief as to the financial statements and other financial information contained or incorporated by reference in the Preliminary Offering Circular, the documents included as Schedule I hereto, the Offering Circular or the Incorporated Documents or omitted therefrom. Our opinions in paragraphs (i), (ii) and (iii) above as to the enforceability of the Indenture, the Securities and the Registration Rights Agreement are subject to: (i) public policy considerations, statutes or court decisions that may limit the rights of a party to obtain indemnification against its own gross negligence, willful misconduct or unlawful conduct; and (ii) the unenforceability under certain circumstances of broadly stated or vaguely stated waiver or waivers of rights granted by law where the waivers are against public policy or prohibited by law. We express no opinion as to the effect of subsequent issuances of securities of the Company to the extent that such issuances may result in the Company not having enough remaining authorized but unissued shares of Stock for the conversion of the Securities. We also advise you that, as a result of the conversion and adjustment provisions of the Securities, the Securities may become convertible into more shares of Stock than remain authorized but unissued. For purposes of the opinions expressed in paragraphs (v) and (vi), we have assumed that the Company will not in the future take any discretionary action (including a decision not to act) permitted by the Purchase Agreement, the Indenture or the Registration Rights Agreement that would cause the performance of the Purchase Agreement, the Registration Rights Agreement or the Indenture to violate any New York or federal statute, rule or regulation or constitute a violation or breach of or default under any of the Other Agreements II-4
or any order, judgments or decrees referred to in clauses (b) and (c) of paragraph (vi) or require an order, consent, permit or approval to be obtained from a New York or federal governmental authority. We express no opinion concerning federal or state securities laws or regulations (except with respect to federal securities laws and regulations for the opinions in paragraphs (viii) and (ix) above) or the gaming laws or regulations of any jurisdiction. The law covered by this opinion is limited to the present federal law of the United States and the present law of the State of New York. We express no opinion as to the laws of any other jurisdiction and no opinion regarding the statutes, administrative decisions, rules, regulations or requirements of any county, municipality, subdivision or local authority of any jurisdiction. This opinion is furnished by us as counsel for the Company and may be relied upon by you only in connection with the offer and sale of the Securities. It may not be used or relied upon by you for any other purpose or by any other person, nor may copies be delivered to any other person, without in each instance our prior written consent. This opinion is expressly limited to the matters set forth above and we render no opinion, whether by implication or otherwise, as to any other matters. We assume no obligation to update or supplement this opinion to reflect any facts or circumstances that arise after the date of this opinion and come to our attention or any future changes in laws. Respectfully submitted, O'MELVENY & MYERS LLP II-5
ANNEX III FORM OF OPINION OF DAVID D. JOHNSON December [__], 2006 [LEAD MANAGER] As Representative of the several Purchasers named in Schedule I hereto c/o [ADDRESS OF LEAD MANAGER] Ladies and Gentlemen: This opinion is being provided to you pursuant to Section 7(c) of that certain purchase agreement, dated December [____], 2006, by and between International Game Technology (the "Company") and the several purchasers named in Schedule I thereto, in connection with the offer and sale of an aggregate of $[_] principal amount of [____]% Convertible Debentures of the Company (the "Purchase Agreement"). Except as otherwise indicated, capitalized terms used in this opinion without definition will have the meanings given to such terms in the Purchase Agreement. I am the General Counsel of the Company and IGT, a Nevada corporation, and have made such investigations of fact and law, reviewed such corporate records of the Company and IGT and originals or copies identified to my satisfaction as true copies of such documents (including the Purchase Agreement, Registration Rights Agreement, the Securities and the Indenture), obtained such certificates of officers of the Company and public officials, and done such other things as I have deemed necessary for the purpose of this opinion. I have assumed the genuineness of all signatures (other than those of officers of the Company), the authenticity of all documents submitted to me as originals and the conformity with originals of all documents submitted to me as copies. To the extent the Company's obligations depend on the enforceability of the Purchase Agreement, Registration Rights Agreement or Indenture against the other parties to the Purchase Agreement, Registration Rights Agreement or Indenture, I have assumed that each of the Purchase Agreement, Registration Rights Agreement and Indenture is enforceable against the other parties thereto. On the basis of such examination, my reliance upon the assumptions in this opinion and my consideration of those questions of law I considered relevant, and subject to the limitations and qualifications in this opinion, I am of the opinion that: (i) each of the Company and IGT has been duly incorporated and is validly existing in good standing under the laws of the State of Nevada and has the corporate power and authority to own its properties and assets and to conduct its business as described in the Disclosure Package and the Offering Circular; (ii) the Company is qualified as a foreign corporation to do business in each jurisdiction in which it owns or leases substantial properties or in which the conduct of its business requires such qualification and is in good standing in each such jurisdiction, except to the extent the failure to so qualify or be in good standing would not, individually or in the aggregate, be reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect; III-1
(iii) the execution and delivery of the Purchase Agreement, the Indenture, the Securities and the Registration Rights Agreement have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of the Company and the Indenture, the Securities, the Registration Rights Agreement and the Purchase Agreement have been duly executed and delivered by the Company; (iv) the authorized capital stock of the Company consists of [_] shares of common stock; (v) the outstanding shares of capital stock of the Company and IGT have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of the Company or IGT, as the case may be, and are validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable; (vi) the shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the Securities (the "Shares") have been duly authorized and reserved for issuance by all necessary corporate action on the part of the Company and, upon conversion of the Securities and delivery of the Shares in accordance with the Indenture, the Shares will be validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable and shall not be subject to any preemptive rights under the Company's Articles of Incorporation, By-laws or the Nevada General Corporation Law; (vii) all outstanding shares of capital stock of IGT are owned of record by the Company free and clear of any perfected security interest and, to the knowledge of such counsel, after due inquiry, any other security interests, claims, liens or encumbrances; (viii) the Company's execution and delivery of, and performance of its obligations under, the Indenture, the Purchase Agreement and the Registration Rights Agreement, do not (a) violate the Company's Articles of Incorporation or By-laws, (b) violate, breach or result in a default under any material indenture, contract, lease mortgage, deed of trust, note agreement, loan agreement or other agreement, obligation, condition or instrument to which the Company or IGT is a party or bound or to which any of their respective properties is subject or (c) breach or otherwise violate any existing obligation of or restriction on the Company or IGT under any order, judgment or decree or any Nevada court or governmental authority or any existing applicable Nevada statute, rule or regulation to which the Company or IGT or any of their respective properties may be subject; (ix) to my knowledge here is no pending or threatened action, suit or proceeding by or before any court or governmental agency, authority or body or any arbitrator involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries or its or their property that is not described in the Disclosure Package, except in each case for such proceedings that are not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect; (x) to my knowledge, after inquiry of the Company's outside regulatory counsel in the States of Mississippi, Nevada, and New Jersey, and other than those arising under state securities laws as to which no opinion is expressed, no authorization, approval, consent or order of any Mississippi, Nevada or New Jersey governmental authority or agency is required in connection with the offering, issuance or sale of the Securities to the Purchasers or the other transactions contemplated by the Purchase Agreement, Registration Rights Agreement and the Indenture (including without limitation, the approval of Nevada gaming authorities with respect to a subsidiary guarantee of the Debentures by IGT), except such as have been obtained and are in full force and effect at the date hereof, and, to my knowledge III-2
after such inquiry, no such governmental authority or agency is investigating the Company or any related party, other than any such investigation that could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; (xi) the statements in the Disclosure Package and the Offering Circular under the caption "Description of Common Stock", insofar as they purport to summarize the provisions of the Articles of Incorporation and By-laws of the Company and certain provisions of the Nevada General Corporation Law, are accurate in all material respects; and (xii) the Company has all necessary authorizations, approvals, consents and permits from any governmental authority or agency required to conduct its business as described in the Disclosure Package and the Offering Circular, except to the extent the failure to have any such authorization, approval or consent or permit would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. I am a member of the bar of the State of Nevada and do not express any opinion as to laws other than those of the United States and the State of Nevada. My opinions in paragraph (x) with respect to matters under the laws of the States of Mississippi and New Jersey are based solely upon inquiries which have been made of the Company's outside regulatory counsel in such States. I express no opinion as to the laws of any other jurisdiction and, unless otherwise specified, no opinion regarding the statutes, administrative decisions, rules, regulations or requirements of any county, municipality, subdivision or local authority of any jurisdiction. This opinion is furnished by me as general counsel for the Company and may be relied upon by you only in connection with the offer and sale of the Securities. It may not be used or relied upon by you for any other purpose or by any other person, nor may copies be delivered to any other person, without in each instance our prior written consent. This opinion is expressly limited to the matters set forth above and I render no opinion, whether by implication or otherwise, as to any other matters. I assume no obligation to update or supplement this opinion to reflect any facts or circumstances that arise after the date of this opinion and come to my attention or any future changes in laws. Very truly yours, By: /s/ David D. Johnson ----------------------------------- David D. Johnson Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary III-3
ANNEX IV FORM OF COMFORT LETTER Pursuant to Section 7(d) of the Purchase Agreement, the accountants shall furnish letters to the Representative to the effect that: (i) They are an independent registered public accounting firm with respect to the Company and its subsidiaries within the meaning of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and the applicable published rules and regulations thereunder adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States); (ii) In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedules audited by us and included in the Disclosure Package and the Offering Circular comply as to form in all material respects with the applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the related published rules and regulations; (iii) The unaudited selected financial information with respect to the consolidated results of operations and financial position of the Company for the five most recent fiscal years included in the Disclosure Package and the Offering Circular agrees with the corresponding amounts (after restatements where applicable) in the audited consolidated financial statements for such five fiscal years; (iv) On the basis of limited procedures not constituting an audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, consisting of a reading of the unaudited financial statements and other information referred to below, a reading of the latest available interim financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries, inspection of the minute books of the Company and its subsidiaries since the date of the latest audited financial statements included in the Disclosure Package and the Offering Circular, inquiries of officials of the Company and its subsidiaries responsible for financial and accounting matters and such other inquiries and procedures as may be specified in such letter, nothing came to their attention that caused them to believe that: (A) any unaudited pro forma consolidated condensed financial statements included in the Disclosure Package and the Offering Circular do not comply as to form in all material respects with the applicable accounting requirements or the pro forma adjustments have not been properly applied to the historical amounts in the compilation of those statements; (B) as of a specified date not more than five days prior to the date of such letter, there have been any changes in the consolidated capital stock (other than issuances of capital stock upon exercise of options and stock appreciation rights, upon earn-outs of performance shares and upon conversions of convertible securities, in each case which were outstanding on the date of the latest financial statements included in the Disclosure Package and the Offering Circular), or any increase in the consolidated long-term debt of the Company and its subsidiaries, or any decreases in consolidated net current assets or stockholders' equity or other items specified by the Representative, or any increases in any items specified by the Representative, in each case as compared with amounts shown in the latest balance sheet included in the Disclosure Package and the Offering Circular except in each case for changes, increases or decreases which the Disclosure Package and the Offering Circular discloses have occurred or may occur or which are described in such letter; and IV-1
(C) for the period from the date of the latest financial statements included in the Disclosure Package and the Offering Circular to the specified date referred to in clause (B) there were any decreases in consolidated net revenues or operating profit or the total or per share amounts of consolidated net income or other items specified by the Representative, or any increases in any items specified by the Representative, in each case as compared with the comparable period of the preceding year and with any other period of corresponding length specified by the Representative, except in each case for decreases or increases which the Disclosure Package and the Offering Circular discloses have occurred or may occur or which are described in such letter; and (v) In addition to the examination referred to in their report(s) included in the Disclosure Package and the Offering Circular and the limited procedures, inspection of minute books, inquiries and other procedures referred to in paragraphs (iii) and (iv) above, they have carried out certain specified procedures, not constituting an audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, with respect to certain amounts, percentages and financial information specified by the Representative, which are derived from the general accounting records of the Company and its subsidiaries, which appear in the Disclosure Package and the Offering Circular, and have compared certain of such amounts, percentages and financial information with the accounting records of the Company and its subsidiaries and have found them to be in agreement. IV-2

 
Exhibit 99.1
RENO, NEVADA (December 20, 2006)  International Game Technology (NYSE: IGT) today announced the closing of its private placement of $900,000,000 2.60% Convertible Debentures due 2036 (the "Convertible Debentures"), which includes the exercise of the initial purchasers' over-allotment option to purchase $75,000,000 Convertible Debentures.
Banc of America Securities LLC acted as global coordinator for the offering and Bear, Stearns & Co. Inc., Deutsche Bank Securities, Goldman, Sachs & Co., Merrill Lynch & Co., UBS Investment Bank and Wachovia Securities served as joint book-running managers for the offering.
IGT also announced today that it had notified the trustee to send out redemption notices for IGT's previously announced call for redemption of its outstanding zero-coupon convertible debentures due January 29, 2033 issued in January and February of 2003 and in IGT's subsequent exchange offer in April 2006 (the "Existing Debentures"). Since December 13, 2006, Existing Debentures with an accreted value of approximately $112.7 million have been surrendered to IGT for conversion and will be converted into approximately 1.3 million shares of its common stock and approximately $112.7 million in cash.
The redemption date for the remaining outstanding Existing Debentures with an accreted value of approximately $499.7 million will be January 10, 2007. The redemption will be funded from the proceeds of the sale of the new Convertible Debentures. Assuming all of the Existing Debentures are tendered for redemption the aggregate total redemption price will be approximately $499.7 million in cash. In connection with the redemption, holders of remaining outstanding Existing Debentures may elect, instead of tendering their debentures for redemption, to convert their debentures and receive aggregate consideration comprised of shares of common stock of IGT and cash, under the terms of the applicable indentures. If all of the holders of the remaining Existing Debentures elect to convert their Existing Debentures, under the formula specified in the indentures and assuming a stock price of $45.68 per share (the closing price of the common stock on December 19, 2006) of IGT's common stock, IGT would be required to issue approximately 5.7 million shares of its common stock and pay the holders approximately $499.1 million in cash, upon conversion.
The redemption notice required by each indenture has been sent to the trustee. The redemption of the Existing Debentures and the payment of the redemption price will be in accordance with the terms specified in the applicable redemption notice and the redemption procedures of the trustee.
In connection with the offering of the Convertible Debentures and the redemption of the Existing Debentures, the Company has completed its previously announced repurchase of $225.4 million of its shares of common stock.
 
This notice does not constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy securities. Any offers of the securities will be made only by means of a private offering memorandum. The debentures and IGT common stock issuable upon the conversion of the debentures have not been registered under the Securities Act or the securities laws of any other jurisdiction and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from registration requirements.
About International Game Technology
International Game Technology is a global company specializing in the design, development, manufacturing, distribution and sales of computerized gaming machines and systems products. More information about International Game Technology can be found on its website at .
www.igt.com
Certain statements in this press release are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Forward looking statements may be identified by the words "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "project," "plan," "estimate," "will" or "intend" and similar expressions. The forward-looking statements contained herein reflect our current views with respect to future events and are based on our currently available financial, economic and competitive data and on current business plans. Actual results could vary materially depending on risks and uncertainties that may affect IGT's operations, markets, services, prices and other factors as discussed in our SEC filings. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: economic factors such as changes in interest rates, political instability, or currency exchange rate fluctuations; competitive factors such as changes or reductions in consumer demand, fraudulent use of our gaming products; and regulatory factors such as unfavorable changes in governmental regulations. Additional factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are discussed in our
Form 10-K
for the period ended September 30, 2006 under the caption "Forward-Looking Statements," under Item 1A, "Risk Factors" and under Item 7A, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk." We undertake no obligation to publicly update or review any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise, except as otherwise required by law.
Contact
Patrick Cavanaugh Executive Director, Investor Relations International Game Technology +1-866-296-4232 Investor_Relations@IGT.com


