FILE:IGT/IGT-8K-20070222125040.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
     On February 21, 2007, International Game Technology (the "Company") announced that Maureen T. Mullarkey, the Company's Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, will retire following the scheduled expiration of her employment contract in January 2008. The Company plans to undertake a search for Ms. Mullarkey's successor. A copy of the press release announcing Ms. Mullarkey's retirement is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
     In connection with Ms. Mullarkey's decision to retire, the Company and Ms. Mullarkey have entered into a Retirement Agreement, dated February 21, 2007. Under the terms of the Retirement Agreement, Ms. Mullarkey will remain in her current role as Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer until her successor has been selected and then will serve in a transition capacity through the remainder of the term of her employment agreement. Ms. Mullarkey will continue to receive her salary and other benefits through the term of her employment agreement as provided there under. However, Ms. Mullarkey's bonus opportunity with respect to the Company's fiscal year ending on or about September 30, 2007, and any period thereafter but prior to the January 22, 2008, shall be determined by the Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors in its sole discretion, and in each case without regard to services performed by Ms. Mullarkey after the date her successor is appointed and employed by the Company. Any bonus paid to Ms. Mullarkey will not be subject to deferral. The terms of Ms. Mullarkey's outstanding equity awards have not been modified by the Retirement Agreement and, accordingly, any portion of her stock options and restricted stock awards that have not vested as of the close of business on January 22, 2008 will be forfeited. This description of the Retirement Agreement is a summary and is qualified in its entirety by the terms of the Retirement Agreement, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 10.1
     (this "") is made and entered into this 21 day of February 2007 (the ""), by and between International Game Technology, a Nevada corporation (the "") and Maureen Mullarkey (the "").
THIS RETIREMENT AGREEMENT
Agreement
st
Effective Date
Company
Executive
     The Executive is currently employed by the Company as its Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer.
     The Executive and the Company are parties to an Employment Agreement dated as of January 12, 2001 and as subsequently amended by an Amended Employment Agreement dated as of January 27, 2003 (together, the "").
Employment Agreement
     The Executive desires to retire from employment with the Company on January 22, 2008, following the expiration of her existing employment contract. The Company desires Executive's continued service for a transition period following the selection and engagement of a successor Chief Financial Officer. Accordingly, the Company and the Executive each voluntarily enter into this Agreement to provide for that transition and the Executive's retirement from employment.
     , in consideration of the above recitals incorporated herein and the mutual covenants and promises contained herein and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby expressly acknowledged, the Company and the Executive agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
     1. . The Executive hereby irrevocably and voluntarily resigns her position as Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of the Company and as a member, manager, or director of, and from each and every other office and position with, the Company and each of its subsidiaries or affiliates effective as of the first to occur of (1) the date that a successor Chief Financial Officer is selected, appointed and actively employed by the Company, (2) the close of business on January 22, 2008, or (3) such other date as the parties may mutually agree upon (the applicable date, the ""). The Executive hereby irrevocably and voluntarily retires from employment with the Company and each of its subsidiaries and affiliates effective as of the close of business on January 22, 2008 (the "").
Retirement
CFO Transition Date
Retirement Date
     2. . For the period of time from the CFO Transition Date to the Retirement Date (the ""), the Executive shall continue to be employed by the Company but shall not be an officer of the Company. During the Transition Period, the Executive shall report to the Company's Chief Executive Officer and shall assist the Company's Chief Executive Officer and the Company's Chief Financial Officer on such matters as are within her expertise and experience with the Company.
Transition
Transition Period
     3. . The Executive's compensation pursuant to the Employment Agreement shall remain unchanged for the period of time through the end of the Transition Period, except as provided in this Section 3. The Executive's bonus opportunity with respect to
Compensation
 
the Company's fiscal year ending on or about September 30, 2007 and any period thereafter but prior to the Retirement Date shall be determined by the Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors in its sole discretion and in each case without regard to services performed by the Executive after the CFO Transition Date. Notwithstanding Section 3.3 of the Employment Agreement, no portion of the fiscal 2007 bonus, if any, or any other bonus, if any, earned hereunder for any period thereafter shall be treated as Deferred Bonus (as such term in used in the Employment Agreement). The Executive shall not, after the date of this Agreement, be entitled to any new grant of stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units, or other short- or long-term incentive awards. The Executive's outstanding stock options to acquire Company common stock and shares of restricted stock (collectively, the "Equity Awards") shall remain subject to their applicable terms and conditions. For purposes of clarity and without limiting the generality of the preceding sentence, the Equity Awards shall terminate on the Retirement Date to the extent they do not vest in accordance with their usual terms on or before that date and any then-vested options shall remain exercisable for the limited post-termination of employment period determined in accordance with the terms and conditions of such options.
     4. . The Executive waives any right or claim to reinstatement as an employee of the Company and each of its affiliates after the Retirement Date. The Executive shall have no further employment or contractual relationship with the Company and each of its subsidiaries and affiliates after the Retirement Date (except as to the contractual relationship that arises out of this Agreement, any existing Indemnity Agreement, any equity award agreement (including non-competition provisions contained therein) and any right to vested benefits under any written benefit plan or equity incentive plan of the Company). The Executive's retirement is a voluntary retirement by the Executive  the Executive shall not be entitled to severance pay or benefits pursuant to Section 7.5 of the Employment Agreement or any other severance plan, program or policy.
No Reinstatement; No Severance Benefits
     5. . For purposes of clarity and without limiting any other obligation the Executive may owe to the Company, Section 4 of the Employment Agreement (Confidential Information) shall continue in effect for the Transition Period and following the Retirement Date for as long as the Executive has any confidential information covered by such provision and Section 6.3 of the Employment Agreement (Non-Solicitation) shall continue in effect during the Transition Period and the 12-month period after the Retirement Date. For purposes of clarity, Section 6.1 of the Employment Agreement (Non-Competition) shall continue in effect for the Transition Period.
Restrictive Covenants
     6. .
Miscellaneous
          6.1 . This Agreement and all rights and obligations hereunder, including, without limitation, matters of construction, validity and performance, is made under and shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the internal laws of the State of Nevada, without regard to principles of conflict of laws.
Governing Law
          6.2 . No amendment or modification of this Agreement shall be deemed effective unless made in writing and signed by all of the parties hereto.
Amendments
 
          6.3 . No term or condition of this Agreement shall be deemed to have been waived, nor shall there be any estoppel to enforce any provisions of this Agreement, except by a statement in writing signed by the party against whom enforcement of the waiver or estoppel is sought. Any written waiver shall not be deemed a continuing waiver unless specifically stated, shall operate only as to the specific term or condition waived and shall not constitute a waiver of such term or condition for the future or as to any act other than that specifically waived.
No Waiver
          6.4 . To the extent any provision of this Agreement shall be invalid or unenforceable, it shall be considered deleted herefrom and the remainder of such provision and of this Agreement shall be unaffected and shall continue in full force and effect.
Severability
          6.5 . This Agreement shall not be assignable, in whole or in part, by either party without the written consent of the other party.
Assignment
          6.6 . The Executive agrees that it would be difficult to compensate the Company fully for damages for any violation of the provisions of this Agreement, including without limitation the provisions referenced in Section 5 above. Accordingly, the Executive specifically agrees that the Company shall be entitled to temporary and permanent injunctive relief to enforce the provisions of this Agreement and that such relief may be granted without the necessity of proving actual damages. This provision with respect to injunctive relief shall not, however, diminish the right of the Company to claim and recover damages in addition to injunctive relief.
Injunctive Relief
          6.7 . Any controversy or claim arising out of or relating to this Agreement or breach thereof, shall be settled by arbitration in the State of Nevada in accordance with the Voluntary Labor Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association, and judgment upon the award rendered by the arbitrator may be entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof. In reaching his or her decision, the arbitrator shall have no authority to change or modify any provision of this Agreement.
Arbitration
          6.8 . This Agreement, together with the Employment Agreement, embodies the entire agreement of the parties hereto respecting the matters within its scope. This Agreement, together with the Employment Agreement, supersedes all prior or contemporaneous agreements of the parties hereto and that directly or indirectly bear upon the subject matter hereof. Any negotiations, correspondence, agreements, proposals or understandings prior to the Effective Date relating to the subject matter hereof shall be deemed to have been merged into this Agreement and the Employment Agreement, and to the extent inconsistent with such agreements, such negotiations, correspondence, agreements, proposals, or understandings shall be deemed to be of no force or effect. There are no representations, warranties, or agreements, whether express or implied, or oral or written, with respect to the subject matter hereof, except as expressly set forth herein or in the Employment Agreement. This Agreement, together with the Employment Agreement, is an integrated agreement. This Agreement amends the Employment Agreement and, to the extent of any inconsistency between this Agreement and the Employment Agreement, this Agreement shall control.
Entire Agreement
 
     Any written agreement evidencing a stock option or other equity-based incentive previously granted by the Company to the Executive and any existing Indemnity Agreement is outside of the scope of the integration provisions of the preceding paragraph as to the terms and conditions of the award evidenced by such agreement.
     , the Executive and the Company have executed this Agreement as of the Effective Date first set forth above.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF

 
Exhibit 99.1
      IGT today announced that Maureen T. Mullarkey, the company's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, informed the Company that she plans to retire following the expiration of the term of her employment contract in January 2008. Ms. Mullarkey began her career at IGT in 1989, holding various positions within the Finance organization. In 1998, she was promoted to Chief Financial Officer.
RENO, Nev.,  February 21, 2007/PRNewswire-FirstCall/
     Ms. Mullarkey plans to remain in her current role as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer until her successor has been selected and retained, and after that to assist with a smooth transition. The Company plans to undertake a search for Ms. Mullarkey's successor.
     "Maureen has provided us with excellent financial leadership and guidance during critical periods of our growth and development as a company," said Chairman and CEO TJ Matthews. "We extend our thanks to her for her contributions to IGT's success during her service with the Company and wish her well in her retirement."
     "During my 18 years at IGT it has been a privilege to work with such a talented team of people. I will miss IGT a great deal, but I am also looking forward to pursuing personal interests following my retirement," said Ms. Mullarkey.
     International Game Technology () is a global company specializing in the design, development, manufacturing, distribution and sales of computerized gaming machines and systems products.
www.IGT.com


