FILE:IGT/IGT-8K-20081219151504.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
Item 5.02 (d)
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
International Game Technology (IGT) announced that David Roberson was elected to its board of directors on December 16, 2008.  The election will become effective upon the receipt of regulatory approvals from certain gaming authorities.  There are no arrangements or understandings between Mr. Roberson and any other persons pursuant to which he was selected as a director.  Mr. Roberson is expected to be considered for appointment to one or more committees of the IGT Board of Directors in the near future.
Mr. Roberson will receive compensation in accordance with IGT's standard compensation arrangements for non-executive directors, which are summarized in Exhibit 10.17 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for its fiscal year ended September 30, 2008 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 26, 2008.  In accordance with IGT's customary practice, IGT is entering into an indemnification agreement with Mr. Roberson, the form of which was attached as Exhibit 10.10 to IGT's Annual Report on Form 10-K for its fiscal year ended September 30, 1996 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 23, 1996.  
Item 7.01
Regulation FD Disclosure.
The full text of the IGT press release announcing the appointment of Mr. Roberson is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by this reference.
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)  
Exhibits.
99.1
Press Release, dated December 19, 2008, announcing David Roberson Appointed to IGT Board of Directors
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date: December 19, 2008

Press Release
Exhibit 99.1
 International Game Technology (NYSE:IGT) announced the appointment of David Roberson to serve as a member of its board of directors, effective upon obtaining applicable regulatory approval. The appointment was made by the company's board of directors during its quarterly meeting on December 16, 2008.
(Las Vegas, Nev.  December 19, 2008)
"We are pleased to have David join our distinguished board," said TJ Matthews, IGT chairman and CEO. "His former board affiliations and extensive leadership experience in the computer technology industry along with his legal background should serve our company well."
Roberson is the senior vice president and general manager of the Storage Works Division of HP.  He joined HP in 2007, and previously held the positions of president and CEO of Hitachi Data Systems Corporation. He worked in various management positions with Hitachi during his 26 years with the company including COO and CFO.
He has held nine board positions during his career and is a member of the State Bar of California. He received his law degree from Golden Gate University and received a bachelor's degree in social ecology from UC Irvine.
International Game Technology (www.IGT.com) is a global company specializing in the design, development, manufacturing, distribution and sales of computerized gaming machines and systems products.
Contact:
Patrick Cavanaugh Vice President, Corporate Finance and Investor Relations
1-866-296-4232 www.IGT.com
 IGT. All rights reserved.


