FILE:IGT/IGT-8K-20081230162615.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
Item 5.02(b) (c)
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
International Game Technology (IGT) announced that Patrick Cavanaugh, age 48, was appointed Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Principal Financial Officer, and Principal Accounting Officer on December 23, 2008.  The appointment will become effective upon the receipt of regulatory approvals from certain gaming authorities.  Mr. Cavanaugh will assume the duties of our interim Principal Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer, Daniel Siciliano, and be responsible for the direction of IGT's investor relations, finance, accounting, treasury, and tax functions.
Mr. Cavanaugh previously served in IGT's Corporate Finance and Investor Relations as vice president since 2007, executive director from 2005 to 2007, and director from 2004 to 2005.  From 2001 to 2004, he was the chief financial officer and treasurer of Acres Gaming, Inc., which was acquired by IGT in 2003.  Mr. Cavanaugh holds a Bachelor's degree in business administration with emphasis in accounting from Montana State University and is a member of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and the Nevada Society of Certified Public Accountants.
Mr. Cavanaugh has no family relationships with any IGT directors or executive officers and no reportable related party transactions under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.  In accordance with IGT's customary practice, IGT is entering into an indemnification agreement with Mr. Cavanaugh, the form of which was attached as Exhibit 10.10 to IGT's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1996, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 23, 1996.  
Item 7.01
Regulation FD Disclosure.
The full text of the IGT press release announcing the appointment of Mr. Cavanaugh is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by this reference.
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)  .
Exhibits
99.1
Press Release, dated December 30, 2008, announcing Patrick Cavanaugh Named CFO of IGT
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:  December 30, 2008

Exhibit 99.1
Patrick Cavanaugh Named CFO of IGT
 International Game Technology (NYSE:IGT) has announced the promotion of Patrick W. Cavanaugh to the position of Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.  The promotion will be effective upon receipt of any required regulatory approvals.   Cavanaugh was most recently IGT's Vice President of Corporate Finance and Investor Relations.  
(LAS VEGAS, NV  December 30, 2008)
"Pat brings to the table a unique combination of extensive gaming industry experience as a financial executive, familiarity with Wall Street, and intimate knowledge of IGT," said TJ Matthews, IGT Chairman and CEO.  "He has played an integral role in the financial management of the Company since the departure of the previous CFO in 2007, and I look forward to Pat's future contributions and leadership in his new role."
Cavanaugh, age 48, joined IGT in April 2004.  Prior to joining the Company, he was Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of Acres Gaming, Incorporated, a slot information systems company acquired by IGT in October 2003.  Cavanaugh also previously served as Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer for Oasis Technologies, Inc. and Casino Data Systems, both of which were focused on supplying the gaming industry with innovative systems solutions.
       Cavanaugh is a member of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and the Nevada Society of Certified Public Accountants.  He began his career with the international accounting firm of KPMG where he rose to the position of Senior Audit Manager.  He holds a B.S. in Business Administration with an emphasis in Accounting from Montana State University.
International Game Technology (www.IGT.com) is a global company specializing in the design, development, manufacturing, distribution and sales of computerized gaming machines and s
ystems products.
Contact:
Ed Rogich, VP Marketing: 702-669-8777


