FILE:IGT/IGT-8K-20080417074831.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
ITEM 2.02.  
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
International Game Technology announced results for its most recent quarter.  The full text of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
ITEM 9.01
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(d)       
Exhibits
99.1
Press Release dated April 17, 2008
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date: April 17, 2008

 News Release
INTERNATIONAL GAME TECHNOLOGY REPORTS SECOND QUARTER FISCAL YEAR 2008 RESULTS
 International Game Technology (NYSE: IGT) announced today operating results for the second quarter ended March 31, 2008.  Net income for the quarter was $68.4 million or $0.22 per diluted share versus $128.2 million or $0.38 per diluted share in the same quarter last year. For the six-month period ended March 31, 2008, net income was $182.1 million or $0.57 per diluted share compared to $249.2 million or $0.73 per diluted share in the same period last year.
(Reno, NV  April 17, 2008)
The second quarter of the current year was unfavorably impacted by a number of significant items including a steep decline in interest rates, technological obsolescence charges related to the transition toward our new cabinets and platforms, additional bad debt provisions and discrete tax items. Collectively, these items totaled $20.4 million after tax or $0.06 per diluted share.  On a comparative basis, the second quarter of the prior year was favorably impacted by gains from Gulf Coast hurricane property damage and business interruption insurance proceeds and the sale of a corporate aircraft, as well as favorable bad debt provisions collectively totaling $17.1 million after tax or $0.05 per diluted share.  A supplemental schedule of these items is included at the end of this release.
"IGT's second quarter results were challenged by the current market environment," said Chairman and CEO TJ Matthews.  "We remain focused on strategic initiatives which will maintain our standing as the leading worldwide provider of innovative gaming products and services. We continue to prepare for the introduction of the next generation of technological innovations and look forward to the market-driven expansion in domestic and international jurisdictions we believe will develop in the near future. Recent strategic accomplishments that will enhance IGT's long-term opportunities include our sb-related agreements with Harrahs and CityCenter, our cross-licensing agreement with WMS, our strategic alliances with Progressive Gaming, Games Media and The Global Draw, and our potential acquisition of Cyberview Technology, Inc.
Gaming Operations
Second quarter revenues and gross profit from gaming operations were $341.0 million and $183.9 million, respectively, compared to $341.1 million and $211.0 million for the same quarter last year. For the six months ended March 31, 2008, revenues and gross profit from gaming operations totaled $673.4 million and $383.4 million, respectively, compared to $666.0 million and $397.7 million in the same prior year period. Although we realized increased game placements, revenues were comparable to the prior year periods as a result of lower play levels largely attributable to recent economic conditions.  For the current quarter and year-to-date, gross margins on gaming operations were 54% and 57%, respectively, compared to 62% and 60% in the prior year.
  
Gaming operations gross profit and margins were impacted by the significant decline in interest rates during the quarter.  A 200 basis-point reduction in interest rates resulted in $12.3 million of additional jackpot expense for the quarter due to higher costs to fund jackpot liabilities. In addition, the current quarter also included $8.0 million of technological obsolescence charges for fixed assets related to our transition to new game cabinets and platforms.  In the prior year quarter, gross profit and gross margin were favorably impacted by a gain from Gulf Coast hurricane property insurance totaling $5.0 million.  
 IGT. All rights reserved.
As of March 31, 2008, our gaming operations installed base totaled 58,700, an increase of 3,900 units from the prior year quarter and down 100 units from the immediately preceding quarter. Year-over-year growth was primarily the result of expansion in Oklahoma, Mexico, Florida and Africa. The sequential quarter reduction primarily resulted from the transition of Class II products to for-sale Class III machines in Florida and California.
Product Sales
Worldwide product sales revenues generated second quarter gross profit of $126.6 million compared to $145.5 million in the prior year, primarily due to lower machine shipments across all markets.  Domestic shipments were low primarily due to minimal new or expansion opportunities during the quarter combined with the continued trough in North America replacement demand.  Internationally, lower shipments, primarily in the UK and Japan, were the result of slower market conditions.  Non-machine revenues (comprised of gaming systems, parts, service and other fees) totaled $87.1 million or 38% of total product sales versus $89.8 million or 33% in the comparable prior year quarter.
For the six-month period ended March 31, 2008, worldwide product sales generated gross profit of $293.8 million versus $310.8 million in the prior year.  Lower North America machine revenues were partially offset by stronger international revenues year-to-date, with notable increases in Europe, Australia, Asia, and Africa.  Non-machine revenues improved to $186.5 million or 34% of total product sales compared to $174.5 million or 30% of total product sales in the prior half-year period.
Operating Expenses and Other Income/Expense
Consolidated operating expenses totaled $183.9 million in the second quarter and $354.7 million year-to-date compared to $154.3 million and $321.0 million in the same prior year periods, respectively.  Operating expenses in the second quarter of the prior year were favorably impacted by gains from business interruption insurance totaling $12.0 million and the sale of a corporate aircraft totaling $5.8 million.  In addition to these items, current quarter operating expenses were higher primarily as a result of higher bad debt provisions and a greater investment in research and development. Other expense, net, in the second quarter was $8.8 million, compared to other income, net, of $2.3 million in the prior year quarter, primarily due to higher interest on increased borrowings and reduced investment-related interest income.  
 IGT. All rights reserved.
Cash Flows & Balance Sheet
In the first half of fiscal 2008, IGT generated $195.0 million in operating cash flow on net income of $182.1 million compared to $366.5 million in operating cash flow on net income of $249.2 million in the prior year period.  Lower operating cash flow was the result of lower net income, additional prepayments to secure long-term licensing rights, and changes within working capital.
Working capital increased to $718.4 million at March 31, 2008 compared to $595.5 million at September 30, 2007.  Cash equivalents and short-term investments (inclusive of restricted amounts) totaled $358.5 million at March 31, 2008 versus $400.7 million at September 30, 2007. Debt totaled $1.7 billion at March 31, 2008 compared to $1.5 billion at September 30, 2007.
Capital Deployment
On February 26, 2008, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of fourteen cents ($0.14) per share, payable on April 2, 2008 to shareholders of record on March 19, 2008.
During the second quarter, IGT repurchased 2.3 million shares at an aggregate cost of $95.8 million. Year-to-date, share repurchases totaled 5.8 million shares at an aggregate cost of $245.0 million. The remaining authorization under the Company's stock repurchase program totaled 27.4 million shares at March 31, 2008.
As previously announced on March 27, 2008, IGT will host a conference call regarding its Second Quarter Fiscal Year 2008 earnings release on Thursday, April 17, 2008 at 6:00 a.m. (Pacific Time).  The access numbers are as follows:
Domestic callers dial 888-455-9641, passcode IGT
International callers dial 517-308-9004, passcode IGT
The conference call will also be broadcast live over the Internet.  A link to the webcast is available at our website .  If you are unable to participate during the live webcast, the call will be archived until Friday, April 25, 2008 at http.
http://www.IGT.com/InvestorRelations
://www.IGT.com/InvestorRelations
Interested parties not having access to the Internet may listen to a taped replay of the entire conference call commencing at approximately 8:00 a.m. (Pacific Time) on Thursday, April 17, 2008. This replay will run through Friday, April 25, 2008.  The access numbers are as follows:
Domestic callers dial 866-396-4180
International callers dial 203-369-0506
In this release, we make some "forward looking" statements, which are not historical facts, but are forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These statements relate to analyses and other information based on forecasts of future results and estimates of amounts not yet determinable. These statements also relate to our future prospects and proposed new products, services, developments or business strategies. These statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as: anticipate; believe; could; estimate; expect; intend; may; plan; predict; project; forecast; on track; continue; and other similar terms and phrases including references to assumptions. These phrases and statements include, but are not limited to, the following:
We remain focused on strategic initiatives which will maintain our standing as the leading worldwide provider of innovative gaming products and services  
We continue to prepare for the introduction of the next generation of technological innovations and look forward to the market-driven expansion in domestic and international jurisdictions we believe will develop in the near future
 IGT. All rights reserved.
Recent strategic accomplishments that will enhance IGT's long-term opportunities include our sb-related agreements with Harrahs and CityCenter, our cross-licensing agreement with WMS, our strategic alliances with Progressive Gaming, Games Media and The Global Draw, and our potential acquisition of Cyberview Technology, Inc.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected or reflected in any of our forward-looking statements. Our future financial condition and results of operations, as well as any forward-looking statements, are subject to change and to inherent known and unknown risks and uncertainties. We do not intend, and undertake no obligation, to update our forward looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances. We urge you to carefully review the following discussion of the specific risks and uncertainties that affect our business. These include, but are not limited to:
Unfavorable changes to regulations or problems with obtaining or maintaining needed licenses or approvals
Decline in the popularity of IGT games or unfavorable changes in player and operator preferences or a decline in play levels
Decreases in interest rates, which in turn increases our costs to fund jackpots
Slow growth in the number of new casinos or the rate of replacement of existing gaming machines
Failure to successfully develop and manage frequent introductions of innovative products
Failure to attract, retain and motivate key employees may adversely affect our ability to compete
Failure or inability to protect our intellectual property
Claims of intellectual property infringement or invalidity
Outstanding debt obligations and significant investments or financing commitments which could adversely impact our liquidity
Risks related to international operations
Historical results achieved are not necessarily indicative of future prospects of IGT. More information on factors that could affect IGT's business and financial results are included in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and other public filings made with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
International Game Technology () is a global company specializing in the design, development, manufacturing, distribution and sales of computerized gaming machines and systems products.
www.IGT.com
Contact:  Patrick Cavanaugh
Vice President, Corporate Finance & Investor Relations
+1-866-296-4232
 IGT. All rights reserved.
 IGT. All rights reserved.
 IGT. All rights reserved.
 IGT. All rights reserved.
Adjusted EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, including asset charges, share-based compensation, and other income/expense, net) is a supplemental non-GAAP financial measure used by our management and commonly used by industry analysts to evaluate our financial performance. Adjusted EBITDA provides useful information to investors regarding our ability to service debt and is a commonly used financial analysis tool for measuring and comparing gaming companies in several areas of liquidity, operating performance, valuation and leverage. Adjusted EBITDA should not be construed as an alternative to operating income (as an indicator of our operating performance) or net cash from operations (as a measure of liquidity) as determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.  All companies do not calculate AdjusteIGT's presentation may not be comparable to those presented by other companies.
d EBITDA in the same manner and
 IGT. All rights reserved.
Free cash flow is a supplemental non-GAAP financial measure used by our management and commonly used by industry analysts to evaluate the discretionary amount of our net cash from operations.  Net cash from operations is reduced by amounts expended for capital expenditures and dividends paid.  Free cash flow should not be construed as an alternative to net cash from operations or other cash flow measurements determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.  All companies do not calculate free cash flow in the same manner and IGT's presentation may not be comparable to those presented by other companies.
 IGT. All rights reserved.


