FILE:IGT/IGT-8K-20090204145444.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 2.05
Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
On January 29, 2009, International Game Technology (IGT, we, our) committed to a plan, as part of ongoing efforts to achieve greater operational efficiencies in a difficult global economy, to further reduce its workforce by approximately 200 manufacturing-related positions.  We believe this restructuring effort will better align our supply chain capacity and resources to the demands of the marketplace.  Combined with our initial 8% workforce reduction announced in November 2008, total staff reductions in the current fiscal year represent just over 10% of our worldwide workforce.   
This reduction of 200 manufacturing-related positions is being accomplished through a combination of voluntary and involuntary employee separation arrangements.  We expect to recognize between $7 million and $9 million in non-recurring cash charges for severance and other one-time termination costs during the third quarter of fiscal 2009 in connection with this additional workforce reduction.
Item 7.01
Regulation FD Disclosure.
The full text of the IGT press release announcing additional workforce reductions is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by this reference.
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
Exhibits.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:  February 4, 2009

Exhibit 99.1
IGT Announces Additional Workforce Reductions
 International Game Technology (NYSE:IGT) announced to its employees today that it will reduce its workforce by approximately 200 manufacturing related positions as part of its ongoing effort to improve business efficiencies in a sagging global economy.
(Las Vegas, NV  January 29, 2009)
"We are focused on optimizing our margins so that our business is well-positioned to benefit from the future opportunities that will arise when economic conditions improve," said Pat Cavanaugh, Executive VP and CFO for IGT. "With that goal in mind, we will continue to look at all aspects of our business to improve efficiencies and reduce R&D and SG&A expenses as needed."
IGT recently completed an initial worldwide cost reduction effort that included an eight percent workforce reduction through early retirement buy-outs and involuntary separations. Including those announced today, total staff reductions in the current fiscal year represent just over ten percent of the total workforce worldwide, which remains at just over 5,000employees.
 "This effort is geared to better align IGT supply chain capacity and resources to the demands of the market," said Tony Ciorciari, Executive VP of Operations for IGT. "This restructuring effort is targeted to be complete by April."
 IGT's manufacturing functions are based mainly in Reno with some related activities in Las Vegas.
 "We have no plans to change existing charters for these facilities," said Ciorciari. "Reno is and will continue to be the main headquarters of our manufacturing function."
International Game Technology (www.IGT.com) is a global company specializing in the design, development, manufacturing, distribution and sales of computerized gaming machines and systems products.
 IGT. All rights reserved.


