FILE:IGT/IGT-8K-20090122075050.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 2.02.
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
International Game Technology announced results for its most recent quarter.  The full text of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
Exhibits
 
99.1
Press Release dated January 22, 2009
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date: January 22, 2009

Exhibit 99.1
 International Game Technology (NYSE: IGT) reported financial results for the first quarter ended December 31, 2008.
(Reno, NV  January 22, 2009)
Net income for the quarter was $65.7 million or $0.22 per diluted share compared to $113.7 million or $0.36 per diluted share in the same quarter last year.  Comparability for the quarter was unfavorably impacted by a number of significant items that total $20.4 million, after tax, or $0.07 per diluted share.  A supplemental schedule of these items is included at the end of this release.  
Comparability was also affected by an extra week in the current quarter due to the Company's 52/53-week fiscal year, where fiscal 2009 will contain 53 weeks versus the normal 52 weeks in fiscal 2008.  As a result, the current year quarter was 14 weeks in length compared to 13 weeks in the prior year quarter.  
"Our first quarter results reflect the on-going effects of difficult economic conditions worldwide that have impacted both gaming operators and casino patrons.  Although we expect to continue to face a challenging global market environment in the near-term, we remain focused on IGT's long term objectives.  During the quarter we filled key strategic roles, implemented cost rationalization initiatives and completed the upgrade of our entire line of machine products headlined by our innovative Multi- Layer Display (MLD) technology and REELdepth games, said Chairman and CEO TJ Matthews.
Gaming operations posted quarterly year-over-year revenue and gross profit declines of 6% and 19%, respectively.  These declines were the result of lower play levels largely attributable to unfavorable economic conditions combined with continued shifts in the installed base mix toward lower-yielding stand alone, lease and central determination games.  Gross margin was further impacted by the additional interest rate reductions during the quarter that contributed $17.2 million in additional jackpot-related expense due to higher costs to fund jackpot liabilities, as well as $3.5 million in fixed
asset charges related to technological obsolescence.  Excluding significant items from the comparable periods (see supplemental table), gross margin on gaming operations would have been 58% compared to 61% last year.  The extra week of operations during the quarter contributed approximately $22.4 million in revenue and $11.5 million in gross profit.
The installed base of recurring revenue games increased 1,200 units or 2% from last year and 400 units from the previous sequential quarter.   Growth in international and domestic lease operations markets was partially offset by reductions in Florida and California Class II operations as a result of the Native American operators transitioning to Class III for-sale gaming products.
Product sales revenue declined 8% and gross profit declined 14% for the quarter on a 22% reduction in worldwide machine shipments.  On a regional basis, North America revenues improved 29% on stronger machine shipments into new or expanding markets, partially offsetting international revenue declines on softer international demand.  International results were challenged by both the unfavorable global economic conditions and difficult comparisons to record results in the prior year.  Total gross margin on product sales was 50% compared to 53% in the prior year, primarily due to obsolescence charges and a less favorable product sales mix.
Operating Expenses, Other Expense and Taxes
Operating expenses increased $35.0 million over the prior year quarter and $1.4 million sequentially.  However, the current quarter included $17.4 million in restructuring charges, $11.3 million in bad debt provisions compared to a favorable provision in the prior year, and approximately $12.6 million in additional expenses associated with an extra week of operations.  Excluding these items, operating expenses decreased 6% from the prior year and 18% sequentially.
Other expense, net, totaled $19.8 million, up from $7.6 million in the prior year quarter.  The increase was mostly driven by higher interest on increased borrowings and investment write-downs.  
The tax rate for the quarter was 18.2% compared to 39.6% in the prior year, mostly due to the closure of the 2000 and 2001 IRS exams, retroactive R&D tax credits and other discrete tax items.  Excluding the discrete items, IGT's tax rate would have been approximately 38%.
Balance Sheet and Capital Deployment
For the quarter ended December 31, 2008, IGT generated $149.5 million in cash from operations on net income of $65.7 million compared to $120.2 million on net income of $113.7 million in the prior year.  
Working capital increased to $745.4 million compared to $733.4 million as of September 30, 2008.  Cash and equivalents (inclusive of restricted amounts) totaled $380.7 million and debt totaled $2.3 billion, with $1.1 billion of available capacity on the Company's $2.5 billion line of credit as of December 31, 2008.  
Earnings Conference Call
As announced on December 26, 2008, IGT will host a conference call to discuss First Quarter results at 6:00 a.m. Pacific Time today.  The access numbers are as follows:
Domestic callers dial 888-843-9209, passcode IGT
International callers dial 415-228-4953, passcode IGT
The conference call will also be broadcast live over the Internet.  A link to the webcast is available at our website .  Minimum requirements to listen to the broadcast include Windows Media Player and at least a 28.8Kbps connection to the Internet.  If you are unable to participate during the live webcast, the call will be archived until Friday, January 30, 2009 at .
http://www.IGT.com/InvestorRelations
http://www.IGT.com/InvestorRelations
Interested parties not having access to the Internet may listen to a taped replay of the entire conference call commencing at approximately 8:00 a.m. Pacific Time today.  This replay will run through Friday, January 30, 2009.  The access numbers are as follows:
Domestic callers dial 866-429-0570
International callers dial 203-369-0912
In this release, we make some "forward looking" statements, which are not historical facts, but are forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These statements relate to analyses and other information based on forecasts of future results and estimates of amounts not yet determinable.  These statements also relate to our future prospects and proposed new products, services, developments or business strategies.  These statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as: anticipate; believe; could; estimate; expect; intend; may; plan; predict; project; forecast; on track; continue; and other similar terms and phrases including references to assumptions.  These phrases and statements include, but are not limited to, the following:
we expect to continue to face a challenging global market environment in the near-term
Actual results could differ materially from those projected or reflected in any of our forward looking statements. Our future financial condition and results of operations, as well as any forward looking statements, are subject to change and to inherent known and unknown risks and uncertainties. We do not intend, and undertake no obligation, to update our forward looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances. We urge you to carefully review the following discussion of the specific risks and uncertainties that affect our business. These include, but are not limited to:
Unfavorable changes to regulations or problems with obtaining needed licenses or approvals
Decline in the popularity of IGT games or unfavorable changes in player and operator preferences or a decline in play levels, including play levels of recurring revenue games
Unfavorable economic conditions which may reduce product sales, the play levels of our participation games and our ability to collect outstanding receivables from our customers
Decreases in or continued low interest rates which in turn increases our costs to fund jackpots
Slow growth in the number of new casinos or the rate of replacement of existing gaming machines
Failure to successfully develop and manage frequent introductions of innovative products
Failure to attract, retain and motivate key employees may adversely affect our ability to compete
Failure or inability to protect our intellectual property
Claims of intellectual property infringement or invalidity
Outstanding debt obligations and significant investments or financing commitments which could adversely impact our liquidity
Risks related to international operations
Historical results achieved are not necessarily indicative of future prospects of IGT. More information on factors that could affect IGT's business and financial results are included in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and other public filings made with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
International Game Technology () is a global company specializing in the design, development, manufacturing, distribution and sales of computerized gaming machines and systems products.
www.IGT.com
Contact: Patrick Cavanaugh, Chief Financial Officer
+1-866-296-4232
Adjusted EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, including fixed asset charges, share-based compensation, restructuring charges, and other income/expense, net) is a supplemental non-GAAP financial measure used by our management and commonly used by industry analysts to evaluate our financial performance. Adjusted EBITDA provides useful information to investors regarding our ability to service debt and is a commonly used financial analysis tool for measuring and comparing gaming companies in several areas of liquidity, operating performance, valuation and leverage. Adjusted EBITDA should not be construed as an alternative to operating income (as an indicator of our operating performance) or net cash from operations (as a measure of liquidity) as determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. All companies do not calculate Adjusted EBITDA in the same manner and IGT' s presentation may not be comparable to those presented by other companies.
Free cash flow is a supplemental non-GAAP financial measure used by our management and commonly used by industry analysts to evaluate the discretionary amount of our net cash from operations. Net cash from operations is reduced by amounts expended for capital expenditures and dividends paid. Free cash flow should not be construed as an alternative to net cash from operations or other cash flow measurements determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. All companies do not calculate free cash flow in the same manner and IGT's presentation may not be comparable to those presented by other companies.


