FILE:IGT/IGT-8K-20091207171718.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
Item 5.02   Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
(e) On December 1, 2009, International Game Technology (the Company) entered into an Amended and Restated Employment Agreement (the Employment Agreement) with Thomas J. Matthews, a director and the former President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company.Pursuant to the Employment Agreement, Mr. Matthews will receive a salary of $65,000 and continued medical benefits.The Employment Agreement terminates upon the earlier of (i) the Companys 2011 annual shareholders meeting, or (ii) March 31, 2011.
   
 
A copy of the Employment Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1
 
Item 9.01   Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) 
   
Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
(this ) is dated as of December 1, 2009 (the ) and is by and between International Game Technology, a Nevada corporation (the ), and Thomas J. Matthews (the ).
THIS AMENDED AND RESTATED EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT
Agreement
Effective Date
Corporation
Executive
 
, the Executive is currently employed by the Corporationpursuant to that Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated as of March 20, 2009, between the Corporation and the Executive (the ); and
WHEREAS
 
Original Agreement
 
, the Corporation considers it important and in its best interest to foster the employment of key management personnel and desires to retain the services of the Executive on the terms and subject to the conditions in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS
 
, the Executive desires to continue employment by the Corporation to render services to the Corporation on the terms and subject to the conditions in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS
 
the Executive and the Corporation desire to amend and restate the Original Agreement, pursuant to Section 8.2 thereof, as set forth below.
WHEREAS,
 
, in consideration of the premises and the respective undertakings of the Corporation and the Executive set forth below, the Corporation and the Executive agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
 
           .  The Corporation hereby employs the Executive as an employee of the Corporation, and the Executive accepts such employment and agrees to perform services for the Corporation, for the period and upon the other terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement.  The Executive shall assist on such matters as are within his expertise and experience with the Corporation and perform such duties as the Corporation shall from time to time require.
1.
Employment
 
During the Term (as such term is defined below), the Executive shall not serve on the board of directors (or similar governing body) of any other business entity without the prior approval of the Board.  The Executive shall resign from any such board of directors (or similar governing body) on which he may serve (even if such service has been approved by the Board) if the Executives activities on such board (or other body) conflict or interfere with the performance of the Executives duties for the Corporation.
 
If for any reason the Executive is not re-elected as a director, such failure to re-elect the Executive will not constitute a breach of this Agreement.
 
           .  The  shall, unless sooner terminated as provided herein, commence on the Effective Date and end at the close of business on the earlier of (i) the date of the Corporations 2011 Annual Shareholder Meeting or (ii) March 31, 2011.
2.
Term
Term
 
           .
3.
Compensation
 
           .  As compensation in full for the services to be rendered by the Executive under this Agreement during the Term, the Corporation shall pay to the Executive a base salary () of Sixty-Five Thousand Dollars ($65,000).  Such Base Salary shall be in lieu of any and all other payments, reimbursements, and other fees to which the Executive would otherwise be entitled as a director of the Corporation, and shall be paid in accordance with the Corporations normal payroll procedures and policies.
3.1
Base Salary
Base Salary
excluding reimbursement for reasonable out-of-pocket expenses undertaken at the Corporations direction,
 
 
             As of December 1, 2009, all unvested Performance Shares granted to the Executive under the Corporations 2002 Stock Incentive Plan (a) pursuant to that Performance Share Award Agreement, dated September 29, 2006, and (b) on November 14, 2008, shall be cancelled, and all of Executives rights in and to any such unvested Performance Shares shall be terminated and of no further force or effect.
3.2
Cancellation of Performance-Based Awards.
 
           .  During the Term, the Executive shall also be entitled to participate in all employee benefit plans or programs of the Corporation to the extent that his position, title, tenure, salary, age, health and other qualifications make him eligible to participate in accordance with the terms of the applicable plans or programs.  The Corporation does not guarantee the adoption or continuance of any particular employee benefit plan or program during the Term, and the Executives participation in any such plan or program shall be subject to the provisions, rules and regulations applicable thereto and as amended from time to time.
3.3
Participation in Benefit Plans
 
           .  The Corporation may withhold from any compensation or other benefits payable under this Agreement, all federal, state, city or other taxes as shall be required to be withheld pursuant to any law or governmental regulation or ruling.
3.4
Withholding Taxes
 
           .  After the termination of the Executives employment with the Corporation (regardless of the reason for such termination), the Corporation shall continue to provide medical benefits to the Executive on the following basis:
3.5
Continuing Medical Benefits
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Corporation may, in its sole discretion and notwithstanding the foregoing, pay the Executive on a periodic basis an amount equal to the reasonable cost to obtain such benefits for the corresponding period in lieu of providing such benefits directly (the cost of such benefits to be determined before giving effect to any taxes that may result from the Corporation making such payment and such payment shall be subject to the tax withholding provisions of Section 3.4).  For the sake of clarity, the Corporation shall have no obligation to provide long or short-term disability benefits or insurance, life insurance, or any other type of benefits (other than the medical benefits expressly contemplated above) to the Executive following the termination of the Executives employment with the Corporation.  The Executive agrees to enroll in Medicare parts A and B as soon as he is eligible to do so.
 
2
 
           .  Except as provided below, the Executive shall not, during the Term or at any time thereafter, divulge, furnish or make accessible to anyone or use in any way (other than in the ordinary course of the business of the Corporation or any of its respective affiliates) any confidential or secret knowledge or information of the Corporation which the Executive has acquired or become acquainted with or will acquire or become acquainted with prior to the termination of the period of his employment by the Corporation (including employment by the Corporation or any affiliated or predecessor companies prior to the date of this Agreement), whether developed by himself or by others, concerning any trade secrets, confidential or secret designs, processes, formulae, plans, devices or material (whether or not patented or patentable) directly or indirectly useful in any aspect of the business of the Corporation, any customer or supplier lists of the Corporation, any confidential or secret development or research work of the Corporation, or any other confidential information or secret aspects of the business of the Corporation.  The Executive acknowledges that the above-described knowledge or information constitutes a unique and valuable asset of the Corporation and represents a substantial investment of time and expense by the Corporation, and that any disclosure or other use of such knowledge or information other than for the sole benefit of the Corporation and its affiliates would be wrongful and would cause irreparable harm to the Corporation.  Both during and after the Term, the Executive shall refrain from any acts or omissions that would reduce the value of such knowledge or information to the Corporation.  The foregoing obligations of confidentiality, however, shall not apply to any knowledge or information which is now published or which subsequently becomes generally publicly known, other than as a direct or indirect result of the breach of this Agreement by the Executive.  The foregoing obligations of confidentiality shall not, however, limit the Executives disclosure of information (1) to the extent necessary to comply with government disclosure requirements or other applicable laws, (2) pursuant to subpoena or order of any judicial, legislative, executive, regulatory or administrative body, or for the Executive to enforce the Executives rights under this Agreement, (3) to employees, advisors, counsel, financial advisors and other third parties as may be necessary and appropriate in connection with the proper performance and enforcement of this Agreement; and (4) pursuant to the Executives normal reporting procedures as an executive of a publicly traded company (e.g., pursuant to Sarbanes-Oxley requirements or otherwise).
4.
Confidential Information
 
           .  If, during the Term, the Executive is engaged in or associated with the planning or implementing of any project, program or venture involving the Corporation and a third party or parties, all rights with respect to such project, program or venture shall belong to the Corporation.  Except as approved by the Board, the Executive shall not be entitled to any interest in such project, program or venture or to any commission, finders fee or other compensation in connection therewith other than the salary to be paid to the Executive as provided in this Agreement.
5.
Ventures
 
3
 
           .
6.
Noncompetition Covenant
 
           .  The Executive agrees that during the Term of this Agreement and, for the twelve (12) months following the expiration of the Termof this Agreementor termination of this Agreement pursuant to Section 7, the Executive shall not, without the written consent of the Board, directly or indirectly, engage in competition with the Corporation in any manner or capacity (e.g., as an advisor, principal, agent, partner, officer, director, stockholder, employee, member of any association, or otherwise) in any phase of the business which the Corporation is conducting during the Term, including the design, development, manufacture, distribution, marketing, leasing, financing or selling of accessories, devices, or systems related to the products or services being sold by the Corporation; provided, however, that nothing herein shall prevent the Executive from investing as less than a one-half percent (0.5%) stockholder in the securities of any company listed on a national securities exchange or quoted on an automated quotation system if such ownership is held indirectly through a mutual fund or similar investment.
6.1
Agreement not to Compete
 
 
 
           .  The obligations of the Executive under Section 6.1 shall apply to any geographic area in which the Corporation has engaged in business during the Term.
6.2
Scope of Covenant
 
           .  The Executive agrees that during the Term and for a period of twelve (12) months thereafter, he will not, without the prior written approval of the Board, hire, solicit or endeavor to entice away from the Corporation or, following termination of the Executives employment, otherwise interfere with the relationship of the Corporation with any employee of the Corporation or one of its subsidiaries who earned annually $75,000 or more as an employee of the Corporation or one of its subsidiaries during the last twelve months of the Executives own employment by the Corporation, or any person or entity who was, within the then most recent prior 12-month period, a customer, supplier or contractor of the Corporation or any of its affiliates.
6.3
Non-Solicitation
 
           .
7.
Termination
 
           .  The Executives employment by the Corporation, and the Term, may be terminated at any time during the Term (a) by the Corporation if, within ten (10) days notice of material breach of any material term of this Agreement, Executive shall have failed to cure such breach or (b) by the Executive on no less than ten (10) days prior written notice.
7.1
Termination of Employment
 
           .  If the Executives employment by the Corporation is terminated during the Term for any reason by the Corporation, the Corporation shall have no further obligation to make or provide to the Executive, and the Executive shall have no further right to receive or obtain from the Corporation, any payments or benefits, except (i) the Corporation shall pay the Executive (or, in the event of his death, the Executives estate) the remaining balance of the Base Salary that would have been paid to the Executive had the Executives employment not been terminated by the Corporation, and (ii) benefits to be provided to the Executive pursuant to Section 3.5.
7.2
Benefits Upon Termination
 
4
 
           As a condition precedent to the Corporations obligation to pay the remainder of the Base Salary pursuant to Section 7.2, the Executive (or, in the event of his death, the Executives estate on behalf of the Executive) shall, upon or promptly following his last day of employment with the Corporation, provide the Corporation with a valid, executed, written Release (as such term is defined below) (in a form provided by the Corporation) and such release shall have not been revoked by the Executive pursuant to any revocation rights afforded by applicable law.  The Corporation shall have no obligation to make any payment to the Executive pursuant to Section 7.2 above unless and until the Release contemplated by this paragraph becomes irrevocable by the Executive in accordance with all applicable laws, rules and regulations.
7.3
Release.
 
 
As used herein,  shall mean a written release, discharge and covenant not to sue entered into by the Executive on behalf of himself, his descendants, dependents, heirs, executors, administrators, assigns, and successors, and each of them, of and in favor of the Corporation, its parent (if any), the Corporations subsidiaries and affiliates, past and present, and each of them, as well as its and their trustees, directors, officers, agents, attorneys, insurers, employees, stockholders, members, representatives, assigns, and successors, past and present, and each of them (the releasees), with respect to and from any and all claims, wages, demands, rights, liens, agreements, contracts, covenants, actions, suits, causes of action, obligations, debts, costs, expenses, attorneys fees, damages, judgments, orders and liabilities of whatever kind or nature in law, equity or otherwise, whether now known or unknown, suspected or unsuspected, and whether or not concealed or hidden, which he may then own or hold or he at any time theretofore owned or held or may in the future hold as against any or all of said releasees, arising out of or in any way connected with the Executives employment relationship with the Corporation and each of its subsidiaries with which the Executive has had such a relationship, or the termination of his employment or any other transactions, occurrences, acts or omissions or any loss, damage or injury whatever, known or unknown, suspected or unsuspected, resulting from any act or omission by or on the part of said releasees, or any of them, committed or omitted prior to the date of such release including, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, any claim under Section 1981 of the Civil Rights Act of 1866, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993, the California Fair Employment and Housing Act, the California Family Rights Act, any other claim under any other federal, state or local law or regulation, and any other claim for severance pay, bonus or incentive pay, sick leave, holiday pay, vacation pay, life insurance, health or medical insurance or any other fringe benefit, medical expenses, or disability (except that such release shall not constitute a release of any Corporation obligation, to the Executive that may be due to the Executive pursuant to Section 7.2(b) or (c), as applicable, upon the Corporations receipt of such release or any obligations referred to in the last paragraph of Section 7.2).  The Release shall also contain the Executives warrant that he has not theretofore assigned or transferred to any person or entity, other than the Corporation, any released matter or any part or portion thereof and that he will defend, indemnify and hold harmless the Corporation and the aforementioned releasees from and against any claim (including the payment of attorneys fees and costs actually incurred whether or not litigation is commenced) that is directly or indirectly based on or in connection with or arising out of any such assignment or transfer made, purported or claimed.
Release
 
5
 
The Executive agrees that the payments contemplated by Section 7.2 shall constitute the exclusive and sole remedy for any termination of his employment and the Executive covenants not to assert or pursue any other remedies, at law or in equity, with respect to any termination of employment.  The Corporation and Executive acknowledge and agree that there is no duty of the Executive to mitigate damages under this Agreement.  All amounts paid to the Executive pursuant to Section 7.2 shall be paid without regard to whether the Executive has taken or takes actions to mitigate damages.
 
The foregoing provisions of this Section 7.2 shall not affect: (1) the Executives receipt of benefits otherwise due terminated employees under group insurance coverage consistent with the terms of the applicable Corporation welfare benefit plan, (2) the Executives rights under the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act to continue participation in medical, dental, hospitalization and life insurance coverage, (3) the Executives receipt of benefits otherwise due in accordance with the terms of the Corporations Profit Sharing Plan (401(k) plan) (if any); (4) the Executives receipt of benefits otherwise due in accordance with the terms of the Corporations Executive Deferred Compensation Plan nonqualified deferred compensation plan) (if any); (5) any rights that the Executive may have under and with respect to a stock option or restricted stock award, to the extent that such award was granted before the date that the Executives employment by the Corporation terminates and to the extent expressly provided in the written agreement evidencing such award; or (6) the continuing medical benefit obligation to the Executive pursuant to Section 3.5.
 
           .  Upon or promptly following any termination of Executives employment with the Corporation, the Executive agrees to resign from (1) each and every board of directors (or similar body, as the case may be) of the Corporation and each of its affiliates on which the Executive may then serve (if any) and (2) each and every office of the Corporation and each of its affiliates that the Executive may then hold, and all positions that he may have previously held with the Corporation and any of its affiliates.
7.4
Resignation From Board
 
           .  Any termination of the Executives employment under this Agreement shall be communicated by written notice of termination from the terminating party to the other party.  The notice of termination shall indicate the specific provision(s) of this Agreement relied upon in effecting the termination.
7.5
Means and Effect of Termination
 
           .
8.
Miscellaneous
 
           .  This Agreement and all rights and obligations hereunder, including, without limitation, matters of construction, validity and performance, is made under and shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the internal laws of the State of Nevada, without regard to principles of conflict of laws.
8.1
Governing Law
 
           .  No amendment or modification of this Agreement shall be deemed effective unless made in writing and signed by all of the parties hereto.
8.2
Amendments
 
           .  No term or condition of this Agreement shall be deemed to have been waived, nor shall there be any estoppel to enforce any provisions of this Agreement, except by a statement in writing signed by the party against whom enforcement of the waiver or estoppel is sought.  Any written waiver shall not be deemed a continuing waiver unless specifically stated, shall operate only as to the specific term or condition waived and shall not constitute a waiver of such term or condition for the future or as to any act other than that specifically waived.
8.3
No Waiver
 
6
 
           .  To the extent any provision of this Agreement shall be invalid or unenforceable, it shall be considered deleted herefrom and the remainder of such provision and of this Agreement shall be unaffected and shall continue in full force and effect.  In furtherance and not in limitation of the foregoing, should the duration or geographical extent of, or business activities covered by, any provision of this Agreement be in excess of that which is valid and enforceable under applicable law, then such provision shall be construed to cover only that duration, extent or activities which may validly and enforceably he covered.  The Executive acknowledges the uncertainty of the law in this respect and expressly stipulates that this Agreement be given the construction which renders its provisions valid and enforceable to the maximum extent (not exceeding its express terms) possible under applicable law.
8.4
Severability
 
           .  This Agreement shall not be assignable, in whole or in part, by either party without the written consent of the other party.
8.5
Assignment
 
           .  Each party agrees that it would be difficult to compensate the non-breaching party fully for damages for any violation of any provision set forth in Section 4 or Section 6 hereof.  Accordingly, each party specifically agrees that the other party shall be entitled to temporary and permanent injunctive relief to enforce the provisions of Sections 4 and 6 of this Agreement and that such relief may be granted without the necessity of proving actual damages.  This provision with respect to injunctive relief shall not, however, diminish the right of the non-breaching party to claim and recover damages in addition to injunctive relief.
8.6
Injunctive Relief
 
           .  Any controversy or claim arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the Executives employment by the Corporation shall, except for claims for injunctive relief set out in paragraph 8.6 above, be settled by binding arbitration, with a single neutral arbitrator, in accordance with the rules of the American Arbitration Association relating to employment.  The proper venue for any such action is Washoe County, Nevada.  In any action to enforce this Agreement, the Executive and the Corporation each agree to accept service of process by mail at its address, as applicable, as set forth in Section 8.8 below (or at any different address of which the Executive has notified the Corporation or the Corporation has notified the Executive, as applicable, in writing).  In any action in which service is made pursuant to this paragraph, the Executive and the Corporation each waive any challenge to the personal jurisdiction of the American Arbitration Association.  Any judgment on the award rendered by the arbitrator may be entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof.  In reaching his or her decision, the arbitrator shall have no authority to change or modify any provision of this Agreement.
8.7
Arbitration
 
7
 
           .  All notices, requests, demands and other communications required or permitted under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given and made if (1) delivered by hand, (2) otherwise delivered against receipt therefor, or (3) sent by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested.  Any notice shall be duly addressed to the parties as follows:
8.8
Notices
 
 
Any party may alter the address to which communications or copies are to be sent by giving notice of such change of address in conformity with the foregoing provisions.  Any communication shall be effective when delivered by hand, when otherwise delivered against receipt therefor, or five (5) business days after being mailed in accordance with the foregoing.
 
           .  The section headings of, and titles of paragraphs and subparagraphs contained in, this Agreement are for the purpose of convenience only, and they neither form a part of this Agreement nor are they to be used in the construction or interpretation thereof.
8.9
Section Headings
 
           .  The provisions of Sections 3.4, 3.5, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 shall survive any termination of the Term.
8.10
Provisions that Survive Termination
 
           .  This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original as against any party whose signature appears thereon, and all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.  This Agreement shall become binding when one or more counterparts hereof, individually or taken together, shall bear the signatures of all of the parties reflected hereon as the signatories.  Photographic copies of such signed counterparts may be used in lieu of the originals for any purpose.
8.11
Counterparts
 
           .  This Agreement embodies the entire agreement of the parties hereto respecting the matters within its scope.  This Agreement supersedes all prior and contemporaneous agreements of the parties hereto that directly or indirectly bears upon the subject matter hereof (including, without limitation, the Original Agreement).  Any prior negotiations, correspondence, agreements, proposals or understandings relating to the subject matter hereof shall be deemed to have been merged into this Agreement, and to the extent inconsistent herewith, such negotiations, correspondence, agreements, proposals, or understandings shall be deemed to be of no force or effect.  There are no representations, warranties, or agreements, whether express or implied, or oral or written, with respect to the subject matter hereof, except as expressly set forth herein.
8.12
Entire Agreement
 
Notwithstanding anything in the foregoing paragraph to the contrary, the indemnification agreement previously entered into by and between the Corporation and the Executive is outside of the scope of the foregoing integration provisions and shall continue in effect in accordance with its terms.
 
8
 
, the Executive and the Corporation have executed this Agreement as of the date set forth in the first paragraph.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[Signature Page to Amended and Restated Employment Agreement]


