FILE:IGT/IGT-8K-20100611091516.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
   
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
1
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
(b)           International Game Technology (the Company) announced today that Paulus Karskens, the Companys President of International, and Anthony Ciorciari, the Companys Executive Vice President of Operations (together, the Executives), will be departing their respective positions with the Company on September 30, 2010.  Following his departure, Mr. Karskens will continue to serve as an Executive Advisor to the Company until March 31, 2011.  Mr. Ciorciari will also serve as an Executive Advisor to the Company through January 7, 2011.
 
(c)           The Company also announced today that it has appointed Eric Tom as its Chief Operating Officer.  Mr. Tom, age 52, has served as the Companys Executive Vice President of Sales and Marketing for North America since July 1, 2009.  Previously, Mr. Tom was Vice President of Strategic Channels, Corporate and Business Development of Force10 Networks, Chief Executive Officer of Broadband Interactive TV, and Vice President of Sales of Qwest Communications.  Mr. Tom will receive a base salary of $400,000 beginning June 14, 2010.
 
(e)           The Company has entered into an Executive Transition Agreement with Mr. Karskens, and an amendment to an Executive Transition Agreement with Mr. Ciorciari (the Transition Agreements).  Pursuant to the Transition Agreements, each Executive will receive the following severance benefits:
 
 
 
 
 
 
A copy of Mr. Karskenss Transition Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1.
 
Copies of Mr. Ciorciaris Transition Agreements are attached hereto as Exhibits 10.2 and 10.3.
 
2
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)           
Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
4
 
 
 
 
 
5
 
 

EXHIBIT 10.1
 
(this "") is dated as of June , 10 (the "") and is by and between the closed company with limited liability under Dutch law with corporate seat at Amsterdam and offices at (2131 HC) Hoofddorp, Bijlmermeerstraat 30, (the ""), and , born on 12 August 1952 at Amsterdam and residing at (3581 SV) Utrecht, Wolter Heukelslaan 70, (the "").
THIS TRANSITION AND TERMINATION AGREEMENT
Agreement
9
th
Effective Date
IGTEurope B.V.,
Company
Mr. Paulus
Johannes Cornelis Aloysius Karskens
Executive
 
, the Executive has been employed by in the position of Managing Director;
WHEREAS
the Company as of 15 November 1993
 
the Executive has been appointed statutary director of the Company by the Company's sole shareholder International Game Technology (the a Nevada corporation, as per 15 November 1993 in a resolution of 13 October 1993;
WHEREAS
("statutair bestuurder")
"
"),
Shareholder
 
the Shareholder has a change in the Company's management in view of new future developments and that it wishes to transition the international business, like to come to a termination agreement with the Executive, the terms to be taking into consideration the long and outstanding performance of the Executive;
WHEREAS,
informed the Executive that it wishes to make
for which reasons it would
of which
 
, the Company considers it important and its best interest to foster the transition of employment of key management personnel and desires to retain the services of the Executive to that effect on the terms and subject to the conditions in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS
 
, the Executive has expressed his willingness to continue his employment with the Company through March 31, 2011 and to render services to Shareholder on the terms and subject to the conditions in this Agreement;
WHEREAS
the Company and the
 
, in consideration premises the Executive set forth below, the Company and the Executive agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
of the
and the respective undertakings of the Company and
 
following terms have the following meanings when used in this Agreement.
1.           
Certain Defined Terms
.
The
 
(a)       "
Accrued Compensation" means, as of any date, (1) the unpaid amount, if any, of the Executive's previously earned base salary, (2) the unpaid amount, if any, of the bonus earned by the Executive for the year preceding year in which the Executive's employment is terminated, and (3) such additional payments or benefits, if any, earned by the Executive under and in accordance with any employee plan, program or arrangement of or with the Company or an Affiliate (other than this Agreement).
the
 
(b)       "
the voting, capital or profits
Affiliate" means an entity at least 50% of
interests of which are owned directly or indirectly by the Company or the Shareholder.
 
1
 
(c)      
"Cause" means the Executive's: (1) willful and material failure to perform the duties under the Executive's employment with the Company (other than any such failure due to the Executive's physical or mental illness), or the Executive's willful and material breach of the Executive's obligations to the Company or any Affiliate arising out of the Executive's employment, in each case following the Executive's receipt of written notice thereof from the Company; (2) engaging in willful and serious misconduct that has caused or is reasonably expected to result in material injury to the Company; (3) being convicted of. or entering a plea of guilty or to, a crime that constitutes a felony; (4) failure or inability to obtain or retain any governmental approval, license or authorization required to be obtained or retained by the Executive in any jurisdiction in which the Company or an Affiliate does or proposes to do business, which failure has or would reasonably be expected to have a material detrimental effect on the Executive's ability to perform the duties of the Executive's employment; or (5) embezzlement, fraud or misappropriation of the property or assets of the Company or an Affiliate. The Company, acting in its own discretion, will be responsible for determining whether particular conduct constitutes "Cause" for the purposes of this Agreement.
nolo contendre
 
(d)      
"Pro Rata Bonus" means the Executive's annual target bonus opportunity, expressed as a percentage of the Executive's base salary, for the fiscal year in which the Executive's employment terminates, multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days elapsed from the beginning of such fiscal year until the date the Executive's employment terminates, and the denominator of which is 365.
 
(e)      
"Release" shall mean a written release, discharge and covenant not to sue entered into by the Executive on behalf of himself, his descendants, dependents, heirs, executors, administrators, assigns, and successors, and each of them, of and in favor of the Company, its parent (if any), the Company's subsidiaries and affiliates, past and present, and each of them, as well as its and their trustees, directors, officers, agents, attorneys, insurers, employees, stockholders, members, representatives, assigns, and successors, past and present, and each of them (the "releasees"), with respect to and from any and all claims, wages, demands. rights, liens, agreements, contra cts, covenants, actions, suits, causes of action, obligations. debts, costs, expenses, attorneys' fees, damages, judgments, orders and liabilities of whatever kind or nature in or otherwise, whether now known or unknown, suspected or unsuspected, and whether or not concealed or hidden, which he may then own or hold or he at any time theretofore owned or held or may in the future hold as against any or all of said releasees, arising out of or in any way connected with the Executive's employment relationship with the Company and each of its subsidiaries with which the Executive has had such a relationship, or the termination of his employment or any other transactions, occurrences, acts or omissions or any loss, damage or injury whatever, known or unknown, suspected or unsuspected, resulting from any act or omission by or on the part of said releasees, or any of them, committed or omitted prior to the date of such r elease including, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, any claim under any federal, state or or regulation, and any other claim for severance pay, bonus or incentive pay, sick leave, holiday pay, vacation pay, life insurance, health or medical insurance or any other fringe benefit, medical expenses, or disability (except that such release shall not constitute a release of any Company obligation to the Executive that may be due to the Executive upon the Company's receipt of such release or any obligations referred to in paragraph 5). The Release shall also contain Executive's warrant that he has not theretofore assigned or transferred to any person or entity, other than the Company, any released matter or any part or portion thereof and that he will defend, indemnify and hold harmless the Company and the aforementione d releasees from and against any claim (including the payment of attorneys' fees and costs actually incurred whether or not litigation is commenced) that is directly or indirectly based on or in connection with or arising out of any such assignment or transfer made, purported or claimed.
law, equity
local law
the
 
2
 
 
(f)    "Shareholder" means International Game Technology, a Nevada
corporation, and any successor thereto.
 
2.           
The "Term" shall, unless sooner terminated as provided herein, commence on the Effective Date and end at the close of business on March 31, 2011.
Term.
 
3.           
The Company shall continue to employ the Executive in the position of Managing Director of the Company until the close of business on September 30, 2010, and the Executive accepts such employment for such period.
Employment during Term.
 
On October 1, 2010, the Executive will tender his written resignation as statutory director of the Company to the Shareholder. The Executive's employment by the Company will however continue to be in force for the consecutive duration of the Term. For the duration of the Term, Executive will be employed by the Company as an Executive Advisor.
 
Executive agrees to perform services for the Company, for the Term and upon the other terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement. Without otherwise limiting the role of the Executive, the Executive shall be responsible for:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Executive will devote his full business time and efforts to the extent required to the performance of the Executive's duties and responsibilities under this Agreement and to the business and affairs of Company, its subsidiaries and affiliates. The Executive may engage in personal, charitable, professional and investment activities to the extent such activities do not materially conflict or interfere with the Executive's duties and obligations under this Agreement or the Executive's ability to perform his duties and responsibilities under this Agreement. During the Term, the Executive shall not serve on the board of directors (or similar governing body) of any other business entity without the prior approval of the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Shareholder. The Executive shall resign from any such board of directors (or similar governing body) on which he may serve (even if such service has been approved by the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Shareholder) if the Executive's activities on such board (or other body) conflict or interfere with the performance of the Executive's duties for the Company.
 
3
 
4.           
Compensation.
 
As compensation in full for the services to be rendered by the
4.1   
Base Salary
.
Executive under this Agreement during the Term, the Company shall pay to the Executive a base salary at an annualized rate of Four Hundred Forty One Thousand Six Hundred Twenty Five Euros (441.625) per year. Such Base Salary shall be paid in accordance with the Company's normal payroll procedures and policies.
("
")
Base Salary
 
The Executive willcontinue to participate in the
4.2   
Bonus Opportunity.
 
 
Management Bonus Plan under the current conditions and corporate financial performance metrics for fiscal year 2010. The Executive's current bon us target for fiscal year 2010, is 75% of his base annual salary and his maximum bonus is 150% of his base annual salary.
 
During the Term, the Executive shall also be
4.3   
Participation in Benefit Plans
.
entitled to participate in all employee benefit plans or programs of the Company to the extent that his position, title, tenure, salary, age, health and other qualifications make him eligible to participate in accordance with the terms of the applic able plans or programs. The Company does not guarantee the adoption or continuance of any particular employee benefit plan or program during the Term, and the Executive's participation in any such plan or program shall be subject to the provisions, rules and regulations applicable thereto and as amended from time to time.
 
The Company may withhold from any compensation or
4.4   
Withholding Taxes
.
other benefits payable under this Agreement all taxes or social security contributions as shall be required to be withheld pursuant to any applicable law or governmental regulation or ruling.
 
5.            
  Subject to the provisions hereof, upon termination of the Executive's employment with the Company and its Affiliates, other than a termination for Cause, the Executive (or the Executive's beneficiary, as the case may be) will be entitled to receive the applicable severance payments and benefits (if any) described in this Section.
Severance.
 
(a)    The Executive (or the Executive's beneficiary, as the case may be) shall receive
the following payments and benefits:
 
Accrued Compensation;
 
Pro Rata Bonus to the extent that Executive successfully achieved his Executive Advisor MBOs, such Executive Advisor MBOs and the measurement thereof to be discussed and agreed upon between Executive and the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Shareholder. In theevent a Pro Rata Bonus is paid, it shall be payable in a single sum payment within 30 days following March 31, 2011;
 
 
4
 
 
An amount equal to 1.0 times the Executive's highest annual rate of base salary at any time
during the preceding 24 months, payable in a single sum payment on October 1, 2011 into the pension company (Ocior BY) of the Executive. Such payment will be made by the Company without any withholdings, provided the Executive can timely show adequate proof that the tax authorities have seen and approved of the underlying documentation of such payment as qualifying for the exemption of article 11 paragraph 1 sub e of the Wage tax Act 1964 and provided the payment into Ocior BV does not lead to any additional costs or risks for the Company; and
 
Accelerated vesting of outstanding equity incentive awards (including, without limitation, stock options and time-based restricted stock) based upon the additional vesting that would have been earned if the Executive's employment had continued for an additional year.
 
(b)    If the Executive's employment with the Company and its
Termination for Cause.
Affiliates terminates for Cause, then the Executive shall he entitled to receive any Accrued Compensation, subject to set off for amounts owed by the Executive to the Company or an Affiliate, and nothing more.
 
The Executive agrees that the payments contemplated by Section 5 shall constitute exclusive and sole remedy for any termination of his employment and the Executive covenants not to assert or pursue any other remedies, at law or in equity, with respect to any termination of employment. The Company and Executive acknowledge and agree that there is no duty of the Executive to mitigate damages under this Agreement. All amounts paid to the Executive pursuant to Section 5 shall be paid without regard to whether the Executive has taken or takes actions to mitigate damages.
the
 
6.           
Successors and Beneficiaries.
 
The Company shall require any
6.1   
Successors and Assigns of the Company
.
successor or assignee, whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise, to all or substantially all the business or assets of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole, expressly and unconditionally to assume and agree to perform or cause to be performed the Company's obligations under this Agreement. In any such event, the term "the Company," as used herein shall mean the Company, as defined in Section 1 hereof, and any such successor or assignee. The Executive acknowledges and agrees that this Agreement shall be fully enforceable by the Company's successor or assignee.
 
For the purposes hereof, the Executive's
6.2   
The Executive's Beneficiary.
 
a none, the Executive's estate.
beneficiary will be the person or persons designated as such in
written beneficiary designation
filed with the Company, which may be revoked or revised in the same manner at any time prior
to the Executive's death. In the absence of a properly filed written beneficiary designation or if
no designated beneficiary survives the Executive, the Executive's beneficiary hereunder will be deemed to be the Executive's surviving spouse, if any, or, if
 
5
 
 
7.
   
Except as provided below, the Executive shall not, during the Term, or at any time thereafter, divulge, furnish or make accessible to anyone or use in any way (other than in the ordinary course of the business of the Shareholder, the Company, or any of its respective affiliates) any confidential or secret knowledge or information of the Company which the Executive has acquired or become acquainted with or will acquire or become acquainted with prior to the termination of the period of his employment by the Company (including employment by the Company or any affiliated or predecessor companies prior to the date of this Agreement), whether developed by himself or by others, concerning any trade secrets, confidential or secret designs, processes, formulae, plans, devices or material (whether or not patented or patentable) directly or indirectly useful in any aspect of the business of the Company, any customer or supplier lists of the Company, any confidential or secret development or research work of the Company, or any other confidential information or secret aspects of the business of the Company. The Executive acknowledges that the above-described knowledge or information constitutes a unique and valuable asset of the Company and represents a substantial investment of time and expense by the Company, and that any disclosure or other use of such knowledge or information other than for the sole benefit of the Company and its affiliates would be wrongful and would cause irreparable harm to the Company. Both during and after the Term, the Executive shall refrain from any acts or omissions that would reduce the value such knowledge or information to the Company. The foregoing obligations of confidentiality, however, shall not apply to any knowledge or information which is now published or which subsequently becomes generally publicly known, other than as a direct or indirect result of the breach of this Agreement by the Executive. The foregoing obligations of confidentiality shall not, however, limit the Executive's disclosure of information (l) to the extent necessary to comply with government disclosure requirements or other applicable laws, (2) pursuant to subpoena or order of any judicial, legislative, executive, regulatory or administrative body, or for the Executive to enforce the Executive's rights under this Agreem ent, (3) to employees, advisors, counsel, financial advisors and other third parties as may be necessary and appropriate in connection with the proper performance and enforcement of this Agreement; and (4) pursuant to the Executive's normal reporting procedures as an executive of a publicly traded company (e.g., pursuant to Sarbanes-Oxley requirements or otherwise).
Confidential information.
of
 
8.           
If, during the Term, the Executive is engaged in or associated with the planning or implementing of any project, program or venture involving the Company and a third party or parties, all rights with respect to such project, program or venture shall belong to Company. Except as approved by the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Shareholder, the Execu tive shall not be entitled to any interest in such project, program or venture or to finder's fee or other compensation in connection therewith other than the salary to be paid to the Executive as provided in this Agreement.
Ventures.
the
any
commission,
 
9.           
Noncompetition Covenant
 
The Executive agrees that during the Term of this
9.1   
Agreement not to Compete
.
Agreement and, for the twelve (12) months following the Term, the Executive shall not, without the written consent of the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Shareholder, directly or indirectly, engage in competition with the Company or the Shareholder in any manner or capacity (e.g., as an advisor, principal, agent, partner, officer, director, stockholder, employee, member of any association, or otherwise) in any phase of the business which the Company or the Shareholder is conducting during the Term, including the design, development, manufacture, distribution, marketing, leasing, financing selling of accessories, devices, or systems related to the products or services being sold by the Company or the Shareholder; provided, however, that nothing herein shall prevent the Executive from investing as less than a one-half percent (0.5%) stockholder in the securities of any company listed on a national securities exchange or quoted on an automated quotation system if such ownership is held indirectly through a mutual fund or similar investment.
or
 
6
 
 
The obligations of the Executive under Section 9.1 shall
9.2   
Scope of Covenant.
 
apply to any geographic area in which the Company or the Shareholder has engaged in business during the Term.
 
The Executive agrees that during the Term and for a period of
9.3   
Non-Solicitation.
 
twelve (12) months after the Term, he will not, without the prior written approval of the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Shareholder, hire, solicit or endeavor to entice away from the Company or, following termination of the Ex ecutive's employment, otherwise interfere with the relationship of the Company with any employee of the Shareholder, the Company or one of its subsidiaries who earned annually $75,000 or more as an employee of the Company or one of its subsidiaries during the last twelve months of the Executive's own employment by the Company, or any person or entity who was, within the then most recent prior 12-month period, a customer, supplier or contractor of the Shareholder, the Company or any of its affiliates.
 
10.          
On or before September 30, 2010, the Executive agrees to resign from (1) each and every board of directors (or similar body, as the case may be) of the Company and each of its affiliates on which the Executive may then serve (if any) and (2) each and every office of the Company and each of its affiliates that the Executive may then h old, and all positions that he may have previously held with the Company and any of its affiliates.
Resignation From Board and Officer Positions.
 
11.          
Miscellaneous.
 
This Agreement shall be governed by laws of the Netherlands. Any dispute in relation to the Agreement shall be brought before the competent Dutch court.
11.1    Governing if and Competent Court.
 
the
 
No term or condition of this Agreement shall he deemed to have been waived, nor shall there be any estoppel to enforce any provisions of this Agreement, except by a statement in writing signed by the party against whom enforcement of the waiver or estoppel is sought. Any written waiver shall not be deemed a continuing waiver unless specifically stated, shall operate only as to the specific term or condition waived and shall not constitute a waiver of such term or condition for the future or as to any act other than that specifically waived.
11.2   
No Waiver
.
 
To the extent any provision of this Agreement shall be invalid or unenforceable, it shall be considered deleted herefrom and the remainder of such provision and of this Agreement shall be unaffected and shall continue in full force and effect. In furtherance and not in limitation of the foregoing, should the duration or geographical extent of or business activities covered by, any provis ion of Agreement be in excess of is valid and enforceable under applicable law, then such provision shall be construed to cover only that duration, extent or activities which may validly and enforceably be covered. The Executive acknowledges the uncertainty of the law in this respect and expressly stipulates that this Agreement be given the construction which renders its provisions valid and enforceable to the maximum extent (not exceeding its express terms) possible under applicable law.
11.3   
Severability.
 
this
that which
 
7
 
 
With the exception of the Executive's beneficiary designation, neither the Executive nor the Executive's beneficiary may pledge, transfer or assign in any way the right to receive payments or benefits hereunder, and any attempted pledge, transfer or assignment shall be void and of no force or effect.
11.4   
Assignment.
 
All notices. requests, demands communications required or permitted under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been and made if (1) delivered by hand, (2) otherwise delivered against receipt therefor, or (3) sent by registered or certified mail , postage prepaid, return receipt requested. Any notice shall be duly addressed to the parties as follows:
11.5   
Notices.
and other
duly given
 
 
Copy to:
IGT
6355 South Buffalo Drive
Las Vegas, Nevada 89113
Attn.: Robert C. Melendres, Esq.
 
Any party may alter the address to which communications or copies are to be sent by giving notice of such change of address in conformity with the foregoing provisions. Any communication shall be effective when delivered by hand, when otherwise delivered against receipt therefor, or five (5) business days after being mailed in accordance with the foregoing.
 
The section headings of, and titles of paragraphs and subparagraphs contained in. this Agreement are for the purpose of convenience only, and they neither form a part of this Agreement nor are they to be used in the construction or interpretation thereof.
11.6   
Section Headings.
 
 
of the Term.
11.7   
Provisions that Survive Termination.
 
The provisions of Sections 1, 4.4, 5, 7, 8, 9 and 11 shall survive any termination of the employment agreement and lapsing
 
This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original as against any party whose signature appears thereon, and all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument. This Agreement shall become binding when one or more counterparts hereof, individually or taken together, shall bear the signatures of all of the parties reflec ted hereon as the signatories. Photographic copies of such signed counterparts may be used in lieu of the originals for any purpose.
11.8   
Counterparts.
 
 
8
 
This Agreement embodies the entire agreement of the parties hereto respecting the within its scope. This Agreement supersedes all prior and contemporaneous agreements of the parties hereto that directly or indirectly bears upon the subject matter hereof (including, without limitation, the Indefinit e Term Agreement effective November 15, 1993). Any prior negotiations, correspondence, agreements, proposals or understandings relating to the subject matter hereof shall be deemed to have been merged into this Agreement, and to the extent inconsistent herewith, such negotiations, correspondence, agreements, proposals, or understandings shall be deemed to be of no force or effect. There are no representations, warranties, or agreements, whether express or implied, or oral or written, with respect to the subject matter hereof, except as expressly set forth herein.
11.9   
Entire Agreement.
 
matters
 
Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Company may condition severance payments or benefits otherwise payable under this Agreement upon the execution and delivery by the Executive (or the Executive's beneficiary) of a general Release in favor of the Shareholder, the Company, its Affiliates and their officers, directors and employees, in such form as the Company may specify ; provided, however, that no such Release will be required as a condition of the Executive's (or the beneficiary's) entitlement to Accrued Compensation.
11.10    
Release of Claims.
 
 
Any severance payments and benefits payable under this Agreement shall be subject to and conditioned upon the Executive's continuing compliance with any non- competition and non-disclosure obligations of the Executive to the Company and/or any Affiliate.
11.11    
Restoration.
 
 
Shareholder.
11.12    
Co-Signature Shareholder.
 
This Agreement is co-signed by the Shareholder as a
confirmation of the Shareholder's approval of the entering into this Agreement between the
Company and the Executive, as well as of the terms and conditions of this Agreement in as far as
these affect, or relate to, the
 
the Executive and the Company have executed this Agreement as of the date set forth in the first paragraph.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
 
and this Agreement is co-signed as per section 11.12:
 
INTERNATIONAL GAME TECHNOLOGY
 
9

EXHIBIT 10.2
 
FIRST AMENDMENT TO EXECUTIVE TRANSITION AGREEMENT
 
THIS FIRST AMENDMENT is made effective this 1 day of October 2010, by and between International Game Technology (the "Company") and Anthony Ciorciari (the "Executive").
st
 
WHEREAS, the Company and Executive entered into an Executive Transition Agreement (the "Transition Agreement") on October 23, 2009; and
 
WHEREAS, the parties desire to amend and add certain terms to the Transition Agreement.
 
The Company and the Executive agree to amend certain terms of the Transition Agreement.
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company and the Executive have executed this First Amendment as of the date set forth in this paragraph.
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 10.3
 
INTERNATIONAL GAME TECHNOLOGY
5
 
AGREEMENT made as of the 23rd day of October, 2009, by and between INTERNATIONAL GAME TECHNOLOGY (the "Company") and Anthony Ciorciari (the "Executive").
 
1.   
This Agreement provides payments and benefits to the Executive in the event of the involuntary termination of the Executive's employment with the Company or an Affiliate.
Background.
for certain
 
2.   
The following terms have the following meanings when used in this Agreement.
Certain Defined Terms.
 
(a)
 
"Accrued Compensation" means, as of any date, (1) the unpaid amount, if any, of the Executive's previously earned base salary, (2) the unpaid amount, if any, of the bonus earned by the Executive for the year preceding the year in which the Executive's employment is terminated, and (3) such additional payments or benefits, if any, earned by the Executive under and in accordance with any employee plan, program or arrangement of or with the Company or an Affiliate (other than this Agreement).
 
(b)
 
"Affiliate" means an entity at least 50% of the voting, capital or profits interests of which are owned directly or indirectly by the Company.
 
(c)
 
"Board" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
 
(d)
 
"Cause" means the Executive's: (1) the Company and its Affiliates (other than any such failure due to the Executive's physical or mental illness), or the Executive's willful and material breach of the Executive's obligations to the Company or any Affiliate arising out of the Executive's employment, in each case following the Executive's receipt of written notice thereof from the Company; (2) engaging in willful and serious misconduct that has caused or is reasonably expected to result in material injury to the Company; (3) being convicted of, or entering a plea of guilty or to, a crime that constitutes a felony; (4) failure or inability to obtain or retain any governmental approval, license or authorization required to be obtained or retained by the Executive in any jurisdiction in which the Company or an Affiliate does or proposes to do business, which failure has or would reasonably be expected to have a material detrimental effect on the Executive's ability to perform the duties of the Executive's employment; or (5) embezzlement, fraud or misappropriation of the property or assets of the Company or an Affiliate. The Board, acting in its own discretion, will be responsible for determining whether particular conduct constitutes "Cause" for the purposes of this Agreement.
willful and material failure to perform
the duties of the Executive's employment with
nolo contendre
 
(e)
 
"Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
 
(f)
 
"Company" means International Game Technology, a Nevada corporation, and any successor thereto
 
1
 
(g)
 
"Compensation Committee" means the Compensation Committee of the Board.
 
(h)
 
"Good Reason" means the occurrence of any of the following without the Executive's express written consent (1) a material reduction of the Executive's duties, position or responsibilities relative to the Executive's duties, position or responsibilities in effect immediately prior to such reduction; or (2) a material reduction by the Company of the Executive's rate of annual base salary or annual target bonus opportunity as in effect immediately prior to such reduction that is not based upon the Company's standard annual competitive market review; provided, however, that any such occurrence shall not give rise to Good Reason unless, within 90 days after such occurrence is first known (or first reasonably should have been known to exist) by the. Executive, the Executive furnishes written notice to the Company of the Executive's intention to terminate employment due to such occurrence and the Company shall have failed to reasonably cure the circumstances promptly (and in no event more than 30 days after) its receipt of such notice.
 
(i)
 
"Involuntary Termination" means a termination of the Executive's employment with the Company and its Affiliates under any of the following circumstances: (1) termination by the Company or an Affiliate without Cause; or (2) termination by the Executive for Good Reason.
 
(j)
 
"Pro Rata Bonus" means the Executive's armova target bonus opportunity, expressed as a percentage of the Executive's base salary, for the fiscal year in which the Executive's employment terminates, multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days elapsed from the beginning of such fiscal year until the date the Executive's employment terminates, and the denominator of which is 365.
-
 
3.    Subject to the provisions hereof, upon termination of the
Severance Protections.
Executive's employment with the Company and its Affiliates, the Executive (or the Executive's beneficiary, as the case may be) will be entitled to receive the applicable severance payments and benefits (if any) described in this Section.
 
(a)        In the event of an Involuntary
Involuntary Termination of Employment
Termination, the Executive (or the Executive's beneficiary, as the case may be) shall receive the following payments and benefits:
 
(i)
 
Accrued Compensation;
 
(ii)
 
Pro Rata. Bonus, payable in a single sum payment within 30 days following the Involuntary Termination;
 
(iii)
 
An amount equal to 1.0 times the Executive's highest annual rate of base salary at any time during the preceding 24 months, payable in lump sum and in accordance with the Company's normal payroll practice;
 
2
 
(iv)
 
Accelerated vesting of outstanding equity incentive awards (including, without limitation, stock options and time-based restricted stock) based upon the additional vesting that would have been earned if the Executive's employment had continued for an additional year; and
 
(v)
 
Company-paid COBRA group health care continuation coverage
until the earlier to occur of one year following termination of employment, the date you become eligible for medical coverage under another employer plan or, the date you become eligible for coverage under Medicare
 
(b)     
Termination other than Involuntary Termination.
If the Executive's
employment with Company and its Affiliates terminates other than due to an Involuntary Termination, then the Executive shall be entitled to receive any Accrued Compensation, subject to set off for amounts owed by the Executive to the Company or an Affiliate, and nothing more.
the
 
4.   
If the Executive is entitled to receive payments
Golden Parachute Tax Limitation.
and benefits under this Agreement and it when combined with the payments and benefits the Executive is entitled to receive under any other plan, program or arrangement of the Company or an Affiliate, the Executive would be subject to excise tax under Section 4999 of the Code or the Company would be denied a deduction under Section 280G of the Code, then the severance amounts otherwise payable to the Executive under this Agreement will be reduced by the minimum amount necessary to ensure that the Executive will not be subject to such excise tax and the Company will not be denied any such deduction.
 
5.   
Notwithstanding the provisions hereof, the post-
Effect of Other Agreements.
termination payment and benefit provisions of the Executive's written employment or other agreement with the Company or an Affiliate in force at the termination of the Executive's Employment (if any) will apply in lieu of the provisions hereof if and to the extent that, with respeet to the Executive's termination of Employment, the provisions of such employment or other agre,ement, would provide greater payments or benefits to the Executive (or to the Executive's covered dependents or beneficiaties).. If any termination or severance payments or benefits are made or provided to the Executive by the Company or any or its Affiliates pursuant to a written employment or other agreement with the Company or an Affiliate, such payments and benefits shall reduce the amount of the comparable payments and benefits payable hereunder. This Section is, intended to provide the Executive with the most favorable treatment and, at the same time, avoid duplication of payments or benefits, and it will be construed and interpreted accordingly.
 
6.   
Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the
Release of Claims,
Compensation Committee or the Board may condition severance payments or benefits otherwise payable under this Agreement upon the execution and delivery by the Executive (or the ExecntiVe's beneficiary) of a general release in favor of Company, its Affiliates and their officers, directors and employees, in such form as the Board or the: Compensation Committee may specify; provided, however, that no such release will be required as a condition of the Executives (or the beneficiary's) entitlement to Accrued Compensation. Any payment or benefit that is so conditioned may be deferred until the expiration of the seven day revocation period prescribed by the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, as amended, or any similar revocation period in effect on the effective date of the termination of the Executive's Employment
the
 
3
 
 
7.    Any severance payments and benefits payable under this Agreement
Restoration.
shall be subject to and conditioned upon the Executive's continuing compliance with any non- competition and non-disclosure obligations of the Executive to the Company and/or any Affiliate.
 
8.     The Executive's entitlement to payments or benefits
No Duty to Mitigate.
heretindet is not subject to mitigation or a duty to mitigate by the Executive.
 
9.     The Board or the Compensation Committee may amend this
Amendment.
Agreement, provided, however, that, no such action which would have the effect of reducing or diminishing the Executive's entitlements under this Agreement shall be effective without the express written consent of the Executive.
 
10.   
Successors and Beneficiaries.
 
           
(a)
 
The Company require any successor or assignee, whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise, to all or substantially all the business or assets of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole, expressly and unconditionally to assume and agree to perform or cause to be performed the Company's obligations under this Agreement In any such event, the term "the Company," as used herein shall mean the Company, as defined in Section 2 hereof, and any such successor or assignee. The Executive acknowledges and agrees that this Agreement shall be fully enforceable by the Company's successor or assignee.
Successors and Assigns of the Company.
shall
 
           
(b)
 
For the purposes hereof, the Executive's beneficiary will be the person or persons designated as such in a written beneficiary designation filed with the Company, which may be revoked or revised in the same manner at any time prior to the Executive's death. in the absence of a properly filed written beneficiary designation or if no designated beneficiary survives the Executive, the Executive's beneficiary hereunder will be deemed to be the Executive's if any, or, if none, the Executive's estate.
The Executives Beneficiary.
surviving spouse,
 
11.    With the exception of the Executive's beneficiary designation,
Nonassignability.
neither the Executive nor the Executive's beneficiary may pledge, transfer or assign in any way the right to receive payments or benefits hereunder, and any attempted pledge, transfer or assignment shall be void and of no force or effect.
 
12.    This Agreement shall not be deemed to constitute
Not a Contract of Employment.
a contract of employment between the Executive and the Company or any of its Affiliates. Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to give the Executive a right to be retained in the employ or other service of the Company or any of its Affiliates or to interfere with the right of the Company or any of its Affiliates to terminate the Executive's employment at any time.
 
4
 
13.    This Agreement shall be governed by
Governing Law: Arbitration of Disputes.
the laws of the State of Nevada, excluding its conflict of law rules. Any controversy or claim arising out of or relating to this Agreement shall be settled by binding arbitration, with a single neutral arbitrator, in accordance with the rules of the American Arbitration Association relating to employment The proper venue for any such action is Washoe County, Nevada. In any action to enforce this Agreement, the Executive and the Company each agree to accept service of process by mail. In any action in which service is made pursuant to this paragraph, the Executive and the Company each waive any challenge to the personal jurisdiction of the American Arbitration Association. Any judgment on the award rendered by the arbitrator may be entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof. In reaching a decision, the arbitrator shall have no authority to change or modify any provision of this Agreement.
 
14.   
Compliance With Section 409A of the Code.
Notwithstanding anything in this
Agreement to the contrary, no amount payable as severance which constitutes a "deferral of compensation" within the meaning of the Treasury Regulations issued pursuant to Section 409A of the Code (the "Section 409A Regulations") shall be paid unless and until Executive incurs a "separation from service" within the meaning of the Section 409A Regulations. Furthermore, to the extent that the Executive is a "specified employee" within the meaning of the Section 409A Regulations as of the date of the Executive's separation from service, no amount that constitutes a deferral of compensation which is payable on account of such separation from service shall be paid before the date (the "Delayed Payment Date") which is the first day of the seventh month after the date of the Executive's separation from service or, if earlier, the date of the Executive's death. All such amounts that would, but for this Section, become payable prior to the Delayed Payment Date will be accumulated and paid on the Delayed Payment Date. For purposes of Section 409A of the Code, the right to a series of installment payments under this Agreement shall be treated as a right to a series of separate payments.
 
15.    the Company and its Affiliates may withhold from any and all
Withholding.
amounts payable under this Ageement such federal, state and local taxes as may be eto be withheld pursuant to applicable law.
r
quired
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the date first above written.
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
- International Game Technology (NYSE: IGT) today appointed Eric Tom to Chief Operating Officer.  In his new role, Tom will focus on improving the operational efficiency and increasing the customer focus of the company, and he will continue to report to Patti Hart, IGT CEO.  Tom will have responsibility for marketing, sales, services, product management, and operations.  Tom was previously Executive Vice President of Sales and Marketing for North America having joined IGT in July 2009.
(Las Vegas, NV  June 11, 2010)
 
Eric has quickly emerged as a strong leader within IGT and he brings the right customer first approach to everything he does, said CEO Patti Hart.  I believe customers and shareholders alike will benefit as a result of the streamlining of IGTs operations under Erics leadership.
IGT also announces that Tony Ciorciari, Executive Vice President Global Manufacturing & Operations and Paulus Karksens, President IGT International, will retire in the first calendar quarter of 2011.  Ciorciari and Karskens will assume executive advisory roles until their retirement and will assist the company in ensuring a successful transition.
Tony and Paulus have made valuable and sustainable contributions to IGT.  I look forward to working with them during this critical transition period and appreciate their leadership and professionalism, said CEO Patti Hart.
International Game Technology (www.IGT.com) is a global company specializing in the design, development, manufacturing, distribution and sales of computerized gaming machines and systems products.


