FILE:IGT/IGT-8K-20100713181704.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
 
 
International Game Technology (the Company) announced that Vincent L. Sadusky was elected to its board of directors on July 12, 2010, effective immediately.  Concurrent with Mr. Saduskys election as a director, Mr. Sadusky was appointed to the Audit Committee and the Compensation Committee of the Company.  There are no arrangements or understandings between Mr. Sadusky and any other persons pursuant to which he was selected as a director.  Mr. Sadusky does not have any related person transactions with IGT reportable under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
 
Mr. Sadusky will receive compensation in accordance with the Companys standard compensation arrangements for non-executive directors, which are summarized in Exhibit 10.4 to the Companys Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for its fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2009 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 11, 2010.  In accordance with the Companys customary practice, the Company is entering into an indemnification agreement with Mr. Sadusky, the form of which was attached as Exhibit 10.10 to the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for its fiscal year ended September 30, 1996, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 23, 1996.
 
 
The full text of the press release announcing the election of Mr. Sadusky is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by this reference.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
INDEX TO EXHIBITS
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
News Release
 
 
Vincent L. Sadusky joins IGTs Board of Directors
 
 
- International Game Technology (NYSE: IGT) announced today that its Board of Directors elected Vincent L. Sadusky to serve as a director for the Company effective immediately.
(Las Vegas  July 13, 2010)
 
Sadusky is president and chief executive officer of LIN TV Corp. (LIN Media; NYSE: TVL), a local multimedia company headquartered in Providence, Rhode Island. He was appointed to this position in 2006 after serving as chief financial officer since 2004.
 
"We are pleased to have Vince join our board and look forward to his contributions," said Patti Hart, IGT's President and CEO. "He brings with him a wealth of knowledge and experience in the Media Industry and adds a new and important dimension to our board. Additionally, his tenure as a public company CEO will make him a valuable advisor to IGT's management team."
 
Prior to LIN TV Corp., Sadusky served as chief financial officer and treasurer of Telemundo Communications, Inc., the Hispanic broadcasting network and station group. During his 10-year tenure at Telemundo, he made significant contributions to the companys growth and success, including presiding over Telemundos IPO in 1994 and the networks merger with NBC in 2001. Prior to joining Telemundo, he performed attestation and consulting services for seven years with Ernst & Young, LLC, one of the worlds leading professional services organizations.
 
Sadusky currently serves on the board of directors for LIN TV Corp., as well as Maximum Service Television, Inc. (MSTV), Open Mobile Video Coalition (OMVC) and JVB Financial.
 
Sadusky received his MBA from New York Institute of Technology and a bachelors degree in accounting from Penn State University where he was a University Scholar.
 
 
About IGT
 
International Game Technology (NYSE: IGT) is a leader in the design, development and manufacture of gaming machines and systems products worldwide. More information about IGT is available at .
www.IGT.com
Contact:
 


