FILE:IGT/IGT-8K-20100121163806.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[  ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
International Game Technology announced results for its most recent quarter.  The full text of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)           Exhibits
 
99.1           Press Release dated January 21, 2010
 
2
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
INTERNATIONAL GAME TECHNOLOGY
Date: January 21, 2010
 
By:  
/s/ Patrick W. Cavanaugh
Patrick W. Cavanaugh
Executive Vice President,
Chief Financial Officer, and Treasurer
 
 
 
 
 
3

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
(Reno, NV  January 21, 2010)
International Game Technology (NYSE: IGT) announced today operating results for the first quarter ended December 31, 2009.  Net income for the quarter was$73.3 million or $0.25 per diluted share compared to $61.2 million or $0.21 per diluted share in the same quarter last yearComparability for the quarter was affected by a number of items included in a supplemental schedule at the end of this release.  The prior periods presented include the required retrospective application of new accounting standards adopted in the first quarter of fiscal 2010 for the separation of liability and equity elements of our convertible debt, which impacts, among other items, interest expense, earnings per share, long-term debt, and shareholders equity.
 
.  
 
Our first quarter results reflect measured progress in numerous aspects of our business, despite continued challenges in the broader marketplace, said CEO Patti Hart.  During the first quarter, historically the slowest of the year, we shipped more North American replacement units than the prior year quarter, went live with the first large-scale deployment of our sbX platform and achieved our highest operating margin in six quarters.
Consolidated Operations
 
Our consolidated revenues for the first quarter were $515.7 million, of which 54% was generated from gaming operations and 46% from product sales, compared to $601.6 million for the same quarter last year.  Consolidated gross profit and operating income for the quarter were $296.6 million and $140.3 million, respectively, compared to $305.9 million and $100.1 million, in the prior year quarter.  Revenue comparisons to last year were impacted by an extra week in the prior year quarter, which contributed $22.4 million to revenues and $11.5 million to gross profit in consolidated gaming operations, as well as lower play levels and fewer new openings.
 
International Game Technology Reports First Quarter 2010 Results
Page  2 of 14
 
 
Gaming Operations
 
First quarter revenues and gross profit from gaming operations totaled $277.3 million and $173.2 million, respectively, compared to $313.3 million and $161.4 million for the same quarter last year.Revenues decreased primarily due to lower play levels and continued shifts in installed base mix to include more lower-yielding lease machines, offset in part by the impact of the adoption of new revenue recognition guidance for certain software-enabled products and multi-element arrangements.  The additional week during the prior year quarter also accounted for a portion of the decline in revenues for the first quarter.  Gross profit increased on reduced jackpot expense, depreciation, royalties, and service labor costs.
 
 
For the current quarter, gross margins on gaming operations were 62%, compared to 52% for the same quarter last year.  Margins for this years quarter were positively impacted by reduced jackpot expense largely due to interest rate changes and lower depreciation.  The prior year quarter was impacted by additional jackpot expense resulting from unfavorable interest rate movements as well as added fixed asset charges.
 
As of December 31, 2009, IGTs gaming operations installed base totaled 62,200 units, an increase of 800 units from the immediately preceding quarter and an increase of 1,300 units over the prior year quarter.  Our installed base in both the domestic and international markets was slightly higher than the prior sequential quarter.  As of December 31, 2009, approximately 85% of our installed base was comprised of variable fee games that earn a percentage of machine play levels rather than a fixed daily fee.
 
International Game Technology Reports First Quarter 2010 Results
Page  3 of 14
 
Product Sales
Product sales revenues and gross profit in the first quarter declined 17% and 15%, respectively, while units shipped worldwide decreased 20% over the prior year quarter.  North America revenues decreased 37% for the quarter, largely driven by fewer new openings.  International revenues increased 41% for the quarter driven by revenues associated with Casino Rosario units shipped into Latin America during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 and improved sales in Europe.  Consolidated gross margin on product sales for the quarter was 52% compared to 50% in the prior year quarter, primarily due to reduced material costs and obsolescence, as well as an increased mix of higher margin products.
 
International Game Technology Reports First Quarter 2010 Results
Page  4 of 14
 
 
Deferred revenue decreased approximately $15.2 million during the quarter to $106.8 million as of December 31, 2009, due primarily to the completion of obligations under multi-element contracts.  Units shipped for the current and prior periods reflect all units shipped to customers and include units for which revenues have been deferred.  Equivalent units recognized represents units recognized in revenues during the periods under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and includes units for which revenues were previously deferred.  We have included in the table above a reconciliation of units shipped to units recognized in revenue for each period presented.
 
Operating Expenses and Other Income/Expense
 
First quarter operating expenses totaled $156.3 million, compared to $205.8 million in the prior year quarter.  Excluding restructuring costs and the extra week in the prior year quarter, operating expenses decreased 11% primarily due to our cost reduction efforts, reduced bad debt provisions and lower legal and compliance fees.
 
Other expense, net, in the first quarter totaled $28.2 million compared to $27.0 million in the prior year quarter.  The change was mostly due to increased borrowing costs on our recent refinancing, nearly offset by reduced investment write-downs and lower foreign exchange loss.  Interest expense increased by $9.3 million in the current quarter and $5.1 million in the prior year quarter due to additional convertible debt amortization, as required under new accounting guidance adopted at the beginning of fiscal 2010.
 
Cash Flows, Balance Sheet and Capital Deployment
 
For the quarter ended December 31, 2009, IGT generated$168.7 million in cash from operations on net income of $73.3 million compared to $149.5 million on net income of $61.2 million in the prior year period.
 
 
Working capital increased to $642.9 million at December 31, 2009 compared to $609.2 million at September 30, 2009.Cash equivalents and short-term investments (inclusive of restricted amounts) totaled $277.0 million andcontractualdebt obligations totaled $2.1 billion, with $1.1 billion of available capacity on our $1.8 billion line of credit as of December 31, 2009.
 
 
 
 
International Game Technology Reports First Quarter 2010 Results
Page  5 of 14
 
 
Our 3.25% convertible notes and warrants were excluded from diluted shares outstanding for the period ended December 31, 2009, because the conversion price and exercise price exceeded the average market price of our common stock.  The weighted average stock price during the first quarter was $19.71.
 
During the current quarter, we adopted new accounting standards requiring retrospective application for prior periods presented, related to the separation of liability and equity elements of convertible debt, as well as equity classification of noncontrolling interests.  The retrospective adjustments are outlined in the supplemental schedule at the end of this release.  The new accounting standard for convertible debt resulted in increased non-cash interest expense calculated using a rate for a similar non-convertible bond, resulting in reduced EPS.
 
Additionally, we adopted new accounting guidance during the quarter related to revenue recognition for certain software-enabled products and multi-element arrangements on a prospective basis.  The adoption of the new revenue recognition guidance for transactions in the first quarter of fiscal 2010 resulted in $10.4 million of revenues which would have been recognized in later periods under the prior guidance.  Approximately $6.9 million of this amount was accumulated lease fees that had not yet been recognized pending the execution of the final contract during the current quarter.
 
Earnings Conference Call
 
As previously announced on December 23, 2009, IGT will host a conference call regarding its First Quarter Fiscal Year 2010 earnings release on Thursday, January 21, 2010 at 2:00 p.m. (Pacific Time).  The access numbers are as follows:
 
Domestic callers dial 888-843-9209, passcode IGT
International callers dial 415-228-4953, passcode IGT
 
The conference call will also be broadcast live over the Internet.  A link to the webcast is available at our website .  If you are unable to participate during the live webcast, the call will be archived until Friday, January 29, 2010 at .
http://www.IGT.com/InvestorRelations
http://www.IGT.com/InvestorRelations
 
International Game Technology Reports First Quarter 2010 Results
Page  6 of 14
 
 
Interested parties not having access to the Internet may listen to a taped replay of the entire conference call commencing at approximately 4:00 p.m. (Pacific Time) on Thursday, January 21, 2010.  This replay will run through Friday, January 29, 2010.  The access numbers are as follows:
 
Domestic callers dial 800-925-2982
International callers dial 203-369-3962
 
In this release, we make some forward looking statements, which are not historical facts, but are forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These statements relate to analyses and other information based on forecasts of future results and estimates of amounts not yet determinable.  These statements also relate to our future prospects and proposed new products, services, developments or business strategies.  These statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as: anticipate; believe; could; estimate; expect; intend; may; plan; predict; project; forecast; on track; continue; and other similar terms and phrases including references to assumptions.  These phrases and statements include, but are not limited to, the following:
 
 
Actual results could differ materially from those projected or reflected in any of our forward looking statements. Our future financial condition and results of operations, as well as any forward looking statements, are subject to change and to inherent known and unknown risks and uncertainties. We do not intend, and undertake no obligation, to update our forward looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances. We urge you to carefully review the following discussion of the specific risks and uncertainties that affect our business. These include, but are not limited to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Historical results achieved are not necessarily indicative of future prospects of IGT. More information on factors that could affect IGT's business and financial results are included in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and other public filings made with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
International Game Technology Reports First Quarter 2010 Results
Page  7 of 14
 
 
International Game Technology () is a global company specializing in the design, development, manufacturing, distribution and sales of computerized gaming machines and systems products.
www.IGT.com
 
Contact: Patrick W. Cavanaugh, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of IGT, +1-866-296-4232
 
International Game Technology Reports First Quarter 2010 Results
Page  8 of 14
 
 
 
 
International Game Technology Reports First Quarter 2010 Results
Page  9 of 14
 
 
 
International Game Technology Reports First Quarter 2010 Results
Page  10 of 14
 
 
 
International Game Technology Reports First Quarter 2010 Results
Page  11 of 14
 
 
 
International Game Technology Reports First Quarter 2010 Results
Page  12 of 14
 
 
Unaudited Supplemental Data (continued)
Retrospective Application of New Accounting Standards Adopted At the Beginning of Fiscal 2010
 
 
 
International Game Technology Reports First Quarter 2010 Results
Page  13 of 14
 
 
Unaudited Supplemental Data (continued)
 
 
Adjusted EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, including other income/expense, net, and other charges as noted in the table above ) is a supplemental non-GAAP financial measure used by our management and commonly used by industry analysts to evaluate our financial performance.  Adjusted EBITDA provides useful information to investors regarding our ability to service debt and is a commonly used financial analysis tool for measuring and comparing gaming companies in several areas of liquidity, operating performance, valuation and leverage.  Adjusted EBITDA should not be construed as an alternative to operating income (as an indicator of our operating performance) or net cash from operations (as a measure of liquidity) as determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.  All companies do not calculate Adjusted EBITDA in the same manner and IGT's presentation may not be comparable to those presented by other companies.
 
 
Free cash flow is a supplemental non-GAAP financial measure used by our management and commonly used by industry analysts to evaluate the discretionary amount of our net cash from operations.  Net cash from operations is reduced by amounts expended for capital expenditures and dividends paid.  Free cash flow should not be construed as an alternative to net cash from operations or other cash flow measurements determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.  All companies do not calculate free cash flow in the same manner and IGT's presentation may not be comparable to those presented by other companies.
 
International Game Technology Reports First Quarter 2010 Results
Page  14 of 14
 
 
Unaudited Supplemental Data (continued)
Impact of Share Price on Diluted Share Count Used in Calculating Earnings Per Share from
$850.0 Million 3.25% Convertible Notes Issued May 11, 2009, Purchased Bond Hedges, and Sold Warrants
 
The table above demonstrates the estimated potential impact on the diluted share count used in calculating diluted earnings per share for IGTs 3.25% convertible notes and the related purchased note hedges and separate sold warrant transactions assuming certain stock price levels. The convertible notes and sold warrants were excluded from our diluted shares outstanding for the period ended December 31, 2009, because the conversion price and exercise price exceeded the average market price of our common stock.
 
GAAP dilution is calculated per GAAP requirements by reference to the amount by which our stock price exceeds the initial $19.97 conversion price of the convertible notes plus dilution from the sold warrants to the extent our stock price exceeds the warrants exercise price of $30.14 and excludes the impact of the purchased note hedges which have an exercise price of $19.97, because the convertible note hedges are anti-dilutive.
(1)
 
Pro Forma dilution represents the estimated potential economic dilution including the anti-dilutive impact of the purchased note hedges.
(2)
 
The table above is for illustrative purposes only; IGT is unable to predict its future stock price and IGTs stock could trade below or above the closing price assumptions in the table.
 


