FILE:IGT/IGT-8K-20100112131451.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 240.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 5.02(d)                      Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
International Game Technology (IGT) announced that Paget L. Alves was elected to its board of directors on January7, 2010.  Concurrent with his election as director, Mr. Alves was appointed to the Audit Committee and the Compensation Committee.  The election will become effective upon the receipt of regulatory approvals from certain gaming authorities.  There are no arrangements or understandings between Mr. Alves and any other persons pursuant to which he was selected as a director.
 
Mr. Alves will receive compensation in accordance with IGTs standard compensation arrangements for non-executive directors, which are summarized in Exhibit 10.1 to the Companys Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for its fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2009 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 13, 2009.  In accordance with IGTs customary practice, IGT is entering into an indemnification agreement with Mr. Alves, the form of which was attached as Exhibit 10.10 to IGTs Annual Report on Form 10-K for its fiscal year ended September 30, 1996, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 23, 1996.
 
Item 7.01                      Regulation FD Disclosure.
The full text of the IGT press release announcing the appointment of Mr. Alves is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by this reference.
Item 9.01                      Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)           Exhibits.
Exhibit
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
-- International Game Technology (NYSE: IGT) announced today that its board of directors elected Paget L. Alves to serve as a director for the company, pending applicable regulatory approval.
(
LAS VEGAS, Nev.  January 12, 2010)
 
Alves, 55, is the President of the Business Markets Group (BMG) for Sprint Nextel, and is responsible for Sprints sales and marketing to all enterprise and public sector customers. Alves also oversees the development of strategic alliances for Sprint.
 
"Paget Alves brings more than 20 years of technology company experience to IGT. His direct experience in driving industry level change through evolutionary technology and market strategy is a welcome addition to the IGT board, said Patti Hart, IGT President and CEO.
 
Prior to his current position, Alves was the president of sales and distribution for Sprint Nextel. During his tenure with Sprint, he served in a number of senior executive roles for the company. Alves also served as president & CEO of PointOne Telecommunications, Inc., President & COO of Centennial Communications and executive vice president and COO of Murata Business Systems. He began his career as an attorney with IBM.
 
International Game Technology (IGT.com) is a global company specializing in the design, development, manufacturing, distribution and sales of computerized gaming machines and systems products.
 
Contact:
Patrick W. Cavanaugh, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer
1-866-296-4232


