FILE:IGT/IGT-8K-20100930130315.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
o
 Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
International Game Technology (the Company) announced that Janice Chaffin and Greg Creed were elected to the Companys board of directors on September 29 , 2010, effective immediately.  Concurrent with Ms. Chaffins election as a director, Ms. Chaffin was appointed to the Audit and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees.  Concurrent with Mr. Creeds election as a director, Mr. Creed was appointed to the Compensation and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees.  There are no arrangements or understandings between either Ms. Chaffin or Mr. Creed and any other persons pursuant to which they were selected as a director.  There are no transactions between either Ms. Chaffin or Mr. Cr eed with the Company that would require disclosure under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
 
Ms. Chaffin and Mr. Creed will receive compensation in accordance with the Companys standard non-employee director compensation practices, which are summarized in Exhibit 10.6 to the Companys Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for its fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2010 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 12, 2010.  In accordance with the Companys customary practice, the Company is entering into an indemnification agreement with each of Ms. Chaffin and Mr. Creed, the form of which was attached as Exhibit 10.10 to the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for its fiscal year ended September 30, 1996, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 23, 1996.
 
The full text of the press releases announcing the election of Ms. Chaffin and Mr. Creed are furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and 99.2, respectively, to this report.
 
 
 
2
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Janice Chaffin
Joins IGTs Board of Directors
 
- International Game Technology (NYSE: IGT) announced today the election of Janice Chaffin to the Companys Board of Directors.
(Las Vegas  Sept. 29, 2010)
 
Chaffin is group president for Symantec Corporations Consumer Business Unit, and has held the position since 2007.
 
It is a pleasure to welcome such an accomplished business leader to our board, said Patti Hart, IGT President and CEO. Janices deep knowledge and understanding of managing engineering, sales, marketing, strategy and business development teams will be an asset to the IGT Board and compliments the cross-functional team environment at IGT. Her global expertise in marketing products to the consumer will help IGT in numerous key objectives as we explore and expand new ways to engage with both our operators and players.
 
Prior to her current position, Chaffin fulfilled management roles at Symantec, including executive vice president and chief marketing officer from 2006 to 2007; and senior vice president and chief marketing officer from 2003 to 2006. From 1981 to 2003, Chaffin held a number of marketing and business management positions at Hewlett Packard Company including vice president enterprise group marketing and solutions.
 
"I'm delighted to serve on the IGT Board of Directors," said Janice Chaffin, Symantec Corporations Consumer Business Units Group President. "I look forward to offering my perspective to help guide IGTs strategic direction, a company that shares Symantecs commitment to delivering the industrys best customer experience with world-class products."
 
Chaffin graduated summa cum laude from the University of California, San Diego, and earned a masters in business administration from the University of California, Los Angeles.
 
About IGT
International Game Technology (NYSE: IGT) is a leader in the design, development and manufacture of gaming machines and systems products worldwide. More information about IGT is available at .
www.IGT.com
Contact:

Exhibit 99.2
 
Greg Creed Joins IGTs Board of Directors
 
- International Game Technology (NYSE: IGT) announced today the election of Greg Creed to the Companys Board of Directors.
(Las Vegas  Sept. 29, 2010)
 
Creed is president and chief concept officer for Taco Bell Corp., a subsidiary of Yum! Brands, Inc. He has held this position since 2006.
 
With more than 30 years of experience in marketing and operations, we welcome Greg as an accomplished marketer to our board, said Patti Hart, IGT President and CEO. His expertise in branding and marketing initiatives with internationally recognized products will help drive our global transformation as a market-led company. Gregs insights as an innovative marketer at YUM! Brands will contribute to the success of IGT.
 
Prior to his current position, Creeds previous responsibilities within the Yum! Brands organization have included chief operating officer, Yum! Brands, Inc., from 2005 to 2006; chief marketing officer, Taco Bell Corp., from 2001 to 2005; and chief marketing officer, Yum! Restaurants International, from 1994 to 2001. From 1978 to 1994, he served in key senior management positions in sales and marketing at Unilever including category director of Lever Bros.
 
I am pleased to be a member of the IGT Board of Directors," said Greg Creed, President and Chief Concept Officer for Taco Bell Corporation. "The IGT team is immensely talented and I look forward to sharing my insight and knowledge as IGT continues to build upon its industry-leading position in delivering the best gaming and systems products in the market.
 
Creed earned a bachelors degree in business with a major in marketing from the Queensland University of Technology.
 
 
About IGT
International Game Technology (NYSE: IGT) is a leader in the design, development and manufacture of gaming machines and systems products worldwide. More information about IGT is available at .
www.IGT.com
Contact:


