FILE:IGT/IGT-8K-20100701124434.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01  Other Events
 
On June 30, 2010, International Game Technology (the Company) announced that Richard Schneider, the Companys Senior Vice President, Network Systems, is departing the Company to seek other opportunities.   Mr. Schneider joined IGT in 2003 when the Company acquired Acres Gaming, Inc.
 
Chris Satchell, the Companys Chief Technology Officer, will assume responsibility for the Company's Research and Development efforts, which were previously under Mr. Schneider.
 
The full text of a press release related to the foregoing is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
 
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
INDEX TO EXHIBITS
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
IGT Announces Senior Leadership Changes
- International Game Technology (NYSE: IGT) announced today that Rich Schneider, senior vice president of Network Systems, will leave effective immediately to seek an opportunity outside the Company. A search for his replacement is underway.
(Las Vegas  June 30, 2010)
 
"Rich has accomplished a great deal over the past seven years since joining IGT with the most recent example being the flawless execution of IGT's sbX at ARIA at CityCenter in Las Vegas," said Eric Tom, IGT chief operating officer. "Additionally, Rich has brought tremendous stability to IGT Advantage casino management system in its current versions. In the past year, IGT has aggressively upgraded 65 percent of its Advantage customer base to its updated, market-leading platform version. International adoption of sbX continues, as well, with more than 13 installs worldwide and more on the way. We thank Rich for his many contributions to the Company and to our customers.
 
Schneider, 52, joined IGT In 2003 when the Company acquired Acres Gaming, Inc. where he served as president and chief operating officer and other management positions from 1997 to 2003.
 
IGT also announced today that Chris Satchell, CTO, has expanded his responsibilities to include the leadership of Research and Development for the Company. As chief technology officer and executive vice president of Research and Development, Satchell will help lead the Companys effort to continue to develop ground-breaking and innovative products for the gaming industry.
About IGT
 
International Game Technology (NYSE: IGT) is a leader in the design, development and manufacture of gaming machines and systems products worldwide. More information about IGT is available at .
www.IGT.com
Contact:
 


