FILE:IGT/IGT-8K-20110712160302.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 240.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
 
 
(b)         Upon the effectiveness of the appointment of Eric A. Berg as President of International Game Technology (the Company), Patti S. Hart, who has been serving as the Companys President and Chief Executive Officer since April 2009, will cease serving as President of the Company and will continue to serve as Chief Executive Officer of the Company.
 
(c)         On July 6, 2011, the Company announced the appointment of Eric A. Berg, age 48, to serve as its President, effective July 18, 2011, subject to obtaining regulatory approvals.  Mr. Berg will report to the Companys Chief Executive Officer.
 
Mr. Berg served most recently as Chief Executive Officer of SunGard Availability Services, a business unit of SunGard Corporation, from October 2007 to February 2010 and as Senior Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer of NCR Corporation from July 2003 to October 2007.  Mr. Berg holds a bachelor of science degree in industrial engineering from the University of Illinois and a master in business administration from Harvard University.
 
Mr. Berg will receive an annual base salary of $450,000, as well as a signing bonus of $300,000.  Mr. Berg will also be eligible to receive an annual target incentive bonus equal to 100% of his base salary, up to a maximum of 200% of his base salary, based on the Companys financial performance and other criteria to be determined by the Compensation Committee of the Board.  For fiscal 2011, Mr. Berg will receive a guaranteed pro-rated incentive bonus equal to 100% of his base salary for the period from July 18, 2011 through October 1, 2011.  Mr. Berg will also receive the Companys standard executive relocation package and a stipend of $10,000 per month for a period of 12 months.
 
Upon commencement of his employment, Mr. Berg will receive an initial grant of (i) 36,365 restricted stock units (RSUs), which will vest in equal installments on the first, second, third and fourth anniversaries of his employment with the Company and (ii) options to purchase 112,200 shares of the Companys common stock, which will vest in equal installments on the first, second, third and fourth anniversaries of his employment with the Company.
 
The Company will enter into its standard forms of Indemnification Agreement and Executive Transition Agreement with Mr. Berg.
 
There are no family relationships between Mr. Berg and any director or executive officer of the Company, and he has no direct or indirect material interest in any transaction required to be disclosed pursuant to Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
 
 
On July 6, 2011, the Company issued a press release announcing Mr. Bergs appointment as President.
 
A copy of the press release is furnished with this Form 8-K and attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.  Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(d)           Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
International Game Technology Names Eric Berg President
 
 International Game Technology (NYSE: IGT) CEO Patti S. Hart announced today that she has hired Eric A. Berg to fill the position of President, effective July 18, 2011, subject to obtaining regulatory approvals.  Berg comes to IGT from SunGard Availability Services, a $1.5 billion revenue business unit of SunGard Corporation, where he was CEO responsible for driving profitable growth, building a world-class team, and developing and executing a multi-year strategic plan to position the organization for future success across every major line of business.
(LAS VEGAS  July 6, 2011)
As we continue to transform our organization, improve our internal processes and move to a more distributed, global business model, I felt it was essential to add additional expertise, leadership, and capabilities to IGT, said Hart.  Erics strategic insight, operational intensity, and global leadership are perfectly suited to help IGT navigate the next chapter of our business.
The new position will have direct responsibility for driving IGTs enterprise-wide globalization efforts, leading domestic and international land-based revenue growth agendas, and managing all global operations inclusive of sales, products, services, marketing, and manufacturing.
With over 25 years of experience driving improved operating results in Fortune 500 companies in a broad range of industries, he joins IGT with a tremendous background having run global business operations for SunGard, NCR, Goodyear, and domestically for PepsiCo.  Eric holds his degree in Industrial Engineering from the University of Illinois, with a Masters in Business Administration from Harvard.
About IGT
.
International Game Technology (NYSE: IGT) is a global leader in the design, development and manufacture of gaming machines and systems products, as well as online and mobile gaming solutions for regulated markets.  More information about IGT is available at
www.IGT.com
 
or follow IGT on Twitter at
@IGTNews
or Facebook at
www.facebook.com/IGT
 
 
 
 
 
Contact:
Matt Moyer
Vice President, Investor Relations of IGT
+1 866-296-4232


