FILE:IGT/IGT-8K-20110505071531.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
1
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On May 5, 2011, International Game Technology (the Company), through a wholly-owned subsidiary, launched a recommended cash offer (the Offer) to acquire Entraction Holding AB (Entraction), a public limited liability company incorporated under the laws of Sweden.  The cash offer was launched pursuant to a press release issued on May 5, 2011 (the Launch Release).  A copy of the Launch Release is furnished with this Form 8-K and attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
On May 5, 2011, the Company also issued a separate press release announcing that the Company launched the Offer to acquire Entraction.  A copy of the press release is furnished with this Form 8-K and attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2.
Each of Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2 shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)         Exhibits
             
 
 
2
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
             
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
This press release may not be distributed, directly or indirectly, into or in Australia, Japan, Canada, South Africa or New Zealand. The Offer is not being made to (and acceptances will not be accepted from) persons in those countries or elsewhere where their participation requires further documentation, filings or other measures in addition to those required by Swedish law.
 
 
NEWS RELEASE
 
Stockholm May, 2011
5
 
 
IGT launches a recommended cash offer of SEK
67.56 per share in Entraction
 
International Game Technology (NYSE: IGT) (IGT)  a global leader in the design, development and manufacture of gaming machines and systems products, as well as online and mobile gaming solutions for regulated gaming markets  hereby announces a recommended cash offer to the shareholders in Entraction Holding AB (Entraction or the Company) to acquire all A shares and B shares in Entraction at a price of SEK 67.56 per share (the Offer), through its wholly-owned Swedish subsidiary Goldcup 6663 AB, under proposed name change to Eagle One AB (Eagle One). The B shares in Entraction are listed on NASDAQ OMX First North Premier Stockholm (First North).
1
The addition of Entraction advances IGTs position in legalized Interactive gaming markets, said Patti Hart, President and CEO of IGT. It strengthens our interactive portfolio by adding poker, bingo, casino, and sports betting. This combination will drive enhanced value for our global customers and partners. We are also thrilled to welcome the Entraction team as the newest members of the IGT family.
The Board of Directors of Entraction has thoroughly evaluated IGTs offer and has unanimously resolved to recommend the shareholders to accept the offer. said Brje Fors, Chairman of the Board of Entraction.
2
This transaction represents a fantastic opportunity for our employees, customers, and shareholders alike said Peter strm, President and CEO of Entraction. Entraction will be able to utilize IGTs global scale and distribution to advance our short and long term objectives in exciting, new ways and we look forward to joining the IGT team.
 
1
 
Goldcup 6663 AB is Swedish limited liability company, with company registration number 556850-8856.
a newly incorporated
2
 
Henrik Kvick, who holds approximately 14.9 per cent of the shares and 11.3 per cent of the votes in Entraction, has on certain conditions undertaken to accept the Offer. Since such undertaking, Henrik Kvick has not participated in the Board of Directors evaluation of the Offer or decisions concerning the Offer
 
 
 
IGT launches cash offer of SEK 67.56 per share in Entraction
 
Summary:
Background and reasons for the Offer
IGT is a global leader in the design, development and manufacture of gaming machines and systems products, as well as online and mobile gaming solutions for regulated gaming markets. IGT had sales of USD 1,987 million in fiscal year 2010 and an operating profit of USD 433 million.
Established in 2000, Entraction operates one of the worlds largest, legal online poker networks and has quickly grown into one of the leading suppliers of online gaming products and services. Entractions scalable, robust business to business delivery platform contains over 4 million registered players, in partnership with over 60 operators. Additionally, Entraction provides a comprehensive suite of services needed to operate a successful gaming site such as content management, customer support, payment solutions, fraud protection and security.
The successful acquisition of Entraction will enhance IGTs ability to grow its position within the rapidly growing Interactive gaming space. The combination is anticipated to provide Entraction with the global scale and reach to partner with gaming operators and land based casinos around the world.
IGT recognizes the competence and experience that Entraction will bring to the company. IGT also recognizes commitment to excellence and cutting edge business-to-business solutions that Entraction delivers to its partners and intends to protect, invest in and grow Entractions business in meaningful ways.
 
3 The offered price is subject to adjustment should Entraction pay dividend or make any other value transfer prior to the settlement of the Offer and will accordingly be reduced by the amount per share of any such dividend or value transfer.
4 Henrik Kvick, who holds approximately 14.9 per cent of the shares and 11.3 per cent of the votes in Entraction, has on certain conditions undertaken to accept the Offer. Since such undertaking, Henrik Kvick has not participated in the Board of Directors evaluation of the Offer or decisions concerning the Offer.
 
 
2
 
IGT launches cash offer of SEK 67.56 per share in Entraction
 
Transaction and consideration
Eagle One, a wholly-owned Swedish subsidiary of IGT, offers SEK 67.56 in cash per class A and class B share in Entraction. The offered price is subject to adjustment should Entraction pay any dividend or make any other value transfer prior to settlement of the Offer and will accordingly be reduced by the amount per share of any such dividend or value transfer.
No commission will be charged in connection with the Offer.
Compared to Entractions volume-weighted average share price on First North during the last three months until May 4, 2011 of approximately SEK 42.85, the Offer represents a premium of approximately 57.7 per cent. Compared to the last closing price of SEK 50.50 per share on First North on May 4, 2011, being the last day of trading prior to the announcement of the Offer, the Offer represents a premium of approximately 33.8 per cent.
The total value of the Offer amounts to SEK 700 million.
IGTs and Eagle Ones holding in Entraction
Neither IGT nor Eagle One currently owns or controls any shares in Entraction and has not acquired any shares in the Company during the last six months prior to announcement of the Offer.
IGT may engage in purchases, or enter into arrangements to purchase, shares of Entraction during the acceptance period. Any purchases made or arranged shall be in accordance with Swedish law and disclosed in accordance with applicable rules.
Recommendation from the Board of Entraction
Entractions Board of Directors has on
May 4,
 2011 unanimously (without the participation of Henrik Kvick due to conflict of interest) decided to recommend Entractions shareholders to accept the Offer.
Undertakings and support for the Offer
The main shareholder in Entraction, Henrik Kvick, holding 1,542,258 shares corresponding to approximately 14.9 per cent of the total number of shares and 11.3 per cent of the total number of votes in Entraction, has undertaken to accept the Offer and tender his shares to Eagle One in the Offer. This undertaking is conditional upon that no other party announces a competing offer regarding acquisition of shares in Entraction at a price per share that is at least 10 per cent higher than the price per share under the Offer which Eagle One decides not to match (i.e. offer a price that at least corresponds to the price in the competing offer) within five business days. Further, one additional shareholder, who, directly or through affiliates, holds 164,204 shares corresponding to approximately 1.6 per cent of the total number of shares and 1.2 per cent of the total number of votes in Entraction, has undertaken to accept the Offer and tender his shares to Eagle One in the Offer. This undertaking is conditional upon that no other party announces a competing offer regarding acquisition of shares in Entraction at a price per share that is higher than the price per share under the Offer which Eagle One decides not to match (i.e. offer a price that at least corresponds to the price in the competing offer) within five business days. In addition, three shareholders holding 484,181 shares corresponding to approximately 4.7 per cent of the total number of shares and 3.5 per cent of the total number of votes have expressed their support for the Offer.
 
 
3
 
IGT launches cash offer of SEK 67.56 per share in Entraction
 
Transaction agreement with Entraction
On
May 2011, Eagle One and Entraction entered into a Transaction Agreement. The Transaction Agreement includes, amongst other things, the following key terms and conditions:
4,
 
 
 
 
The Transaction Agreement will in its entirety be set out in the offer document.
 
Conditions to the Offer
Completion of the Offer is conditional upon:
 
 
 
4
 
IGT launches cash offer of SEK 67.56 per share in Entraction
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Eagle One reserves the right to withdraw the Offer in the event that it is clear that any of the above conditions are not fulfilled or cannot be fulfilled. However, with regard to conditions II-VII, such withdrawal will only be made provided that the non-fulfilment of such condition is of material importance to Eagle Ones acquisition of Entraction.
 
reserves the right to waive, in whole or in part, one or more of the conditions above in accordance with applicable laws and regulations, including, with respect to condition I above, to complete the Offer at a lower level of acceptance.
Eagle One
Employees in Entraction
IGT recognizes the value of Entractions management team and employees. IGT also recognizes the commitment to excellence and cutting edge business-to-business solutions that Entraction delivers to its partners. After completion of the Offer, IGT intends to protect, grow and invest in Entractions business by welcoming their workforce with as little disruption and impact as possible.
The financing of the Offer
The Offer is not subject to any financing condition. The Offer will be financed by IGT with existing cash on hand. As of March 31, 2011 IGT had approximately USD 373 million in cash on hand.
Due Diligence
IGT has, in connection with the preparation for the Offer, conducted a limited, confirmatory due diligence and, in connection therewith, met with the management of the Company. During the due diligence IGT has, among other things, reviewed certain agreements and certain financial information. Entraction has informed IGT thatduring this process, no information has been disclosed to IGT that has not previously been disclosed and that can reasonably be expected to affect the share price of Entraction, with the exception of the draft interim results for the period January-March 2011 that was released prior to the publication of the Offer and this offer announcement.
The Board of
 
 
 
5
 
IGT launches cash offer of SEK 67.56 per share in Entraction
 
Preliminary timetable
Eagle One reserves the right to extend the acceptance period for the Offer, as well as to postpone the date of settlement. The acquisition of Entraction requires clearance from the relevant competition and other regulatory authorities. The necessary clearances are expected to be obtained around the end of the acceptance period.
 
Compulsory acquisition and delisting
As soon as possible following s acquisition of shares representing more than 90 per cent of the total number of shares in Entraction, intends to initiate a compulsory acquisition procedure regarding the remaining shares in Entraction. In connection hereto, intends to act to have the Entraction B shares delisted fromFirst North.
Eagle One
Eagle One
Eagle One
 
 
Applicable law and disputes
Swedish law, the , the Swedish Securities Councils rulings regarding interpretation and application of the Takeover Rules, are applicable to the Offer.
Takeover Rules
(including its rulings with respect to NASDAQ OMX Stockholm ABs rules regarding public offers on the stock market and the rules on public offers issued by the
Swedish Industry and Commerce Stock Exchange Committee
)
 
IGT has in a confidentiality agreement dated March 2011, and Eagle One has in the Transaction Agreement, undertaken towards Entraction to comply with the Takeover Rules. The Offer is made pursuant to the Takeover Rules. Any dispute relating to, or arising in connection with, the Offer shall be settled exclusively by Swedish courts, with the city court of Stockholm as the court of first instance.
15,
The Offer is not being made (nor will any acceptance from shareholders or from others on behalf of shareholders) in any jurisdiction in which the making of the Offer or the acceptance of the Offer would not be made in compliance with current the laws and regulations of such jurisdiction or where the completion or acceptance of the Offer requires further documentation, filings or other measures in addition to those required under Swedish law, except where there is an applicable exemption. The Offer will not be submitted to the review or registration procedures of any regulator outside of Sweden. The Offer is being made in the United States in reliance on the Tier 1 exemption from certain requirements of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and is governed by disclosure and other regulations and procedures of a non-U.S. country that are different from those of the United States. The Offer is not being made, directly or indirectly, by use of mail or any other means or instrumentality (including, without limitation, facsimile transmission, e-mail, telex, telephone and the Internet) in or into Australia, Japan, Canada, South Africa or New Zealand and the Offer cannot be accepted in or from Australia, Japan, Canada, South Africa or New Zealand. As a result, this announcement, the offer document, the acceptance form and other documentation relating to the Offer will not, and may not, be sent by mail or in any other way be distributed, forwarded or transmitted to, from or within Australia, Japan, Canada, South Africa or New Zealand. IGT will not pay any consideration pursuant to the Offer to, or accept acceptance forms from Australia, Japan, Canada, South Africa or New Zealand.
 
 
6
 
IGT launches cash offer of SEK 67.56 per share in Entraction
 
Advisors
SEB Enskilda is acting as IGTs financial advisor, Mannheimer Swartling is acting as legal advisor as to Swedish law and Sidley Austin is acting as legal adviser as to US law in connection with the Offer.
The information in this press release was submitted for publication on 2011 at 07.00 (CET).
May 5,
For more information, please contact:
Matt Moyer
Vice President, Investor Relations
IGT
Tel: +1 866-296-4232
 
7
 
IGT launches cash offer of SEK 67.56 per share in Entraction
 
Eagle One and IGT in brief
Eagle One is a Swedish limited liability company, wholly-owned by IGT. Eagle Ones company registration number is 556850-8856 and its registered office is in the municipality of Stockholm. Eagle One has never conducted any business and at present does not conduct any business and its sole purpose is to make the Offer and take all actions to finance and complete the Offer and subsequently operate as parent company of Entraction.
IGT (NYSE: IGT) is a global leader in the design, development and manufacture of gaming machines and systems products, as well as online and mobile gaming solutions for regulated markets.
IGT is currently regulated in over 350 jurisdictions and has approximately 4,900 employees.
In Fiscal Year 2010, IGT reported revenues of USD 1,987 million, operating profit of USD 433 million, and is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE).
More information about IGT is available at or follow IGT on Twitter at or Facebook at .
www.IGT.com
@IGTNews
www.facebook.com/IGT
Information regarding the offer is available on http://info.igt.com/.
 
Entraction in brief
Entraction is one of the world's foremost suppliers of products and services to companies wishing to offer online gaming. Entraction is an independent supplier and operates one of the worlds largest poker networks.
Entractions portfolio of products and services includes everything from online poker, betting, casino and bingo software to website design, back office and support. By providing both stand alone poker and turnkey gaming solutions, Entraction caters to virtually any operator in todays market.
The Company has customers in throughout Europe. The continuing operations of Entraction have approximately 100 employees.
The turnover for the continuing operations of Entraction amounted to approximately SEK 341 million in 2010 and the operating profit amounted to SEK 20.2 million. The Entraction share is listed on NASDAQ OMX First North Premier Stockholm.
                      For more information visit www.Entraction.com
 
 
8
 
IGT launches cash offer of SEK 67.56 per share in Entraction
 
 
Forward-looking statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties concerning the proposed Offer, including the expected benefits of the acquisition to IGT and IGTs strategic and operational expectations for its interactive gaming business. Actual events or results may differ materially from those described in this press release due to a number of risks and uncertainties, including, among others, the possibility that the Offer might not close or that the closing may be delayed, IGTs integration of Entraction, its products, technologies and employees may experience difficulties, and the anticipated benefits of the Offer to IGT and its customers might not be realized. More information about potential factors that could affect IGTs business and financial results is included in IGTs filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including under the captions Risk Factors and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in IGTs Annual Report on Form 10-K for its 2010 fiscal year and its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for its fiscal quarter ended Dec. 31, 2010, and available on the SEC website at www.sec.gov and on the investor relations section of IGTs website at www.IGT.com. All information provided in this release is as of May 5, 2011, and IGT does not intend, and undertakes no duty, to update this information.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
International Game Technology launches tender offer to acquire
Entraction for approximately $115 Million
 
 International Game Technology (NYSE: IGT) has launched a cash offer to purchase all outstanding shares of Entraction Holding AB (NASDAQ OMX: ENT B) at a price equivalent to approximately $11.11 per share, or a total consideration of approximately $115 million.  The of Directors has recommended the offer to its shareholders.
(LAS VEGAS  May 5, 2011)
Entraction Board
Established in 2000 and based in Stockholm, Sweden, Entraction operates one of the worlds largest, legal online poker networks and has quickly grown into one of the leading suppliers of online gaming products and services.  Entractions scalable, robust business to business delivery platform contains over 4 million registered players, in partnership with over 60 operators. Additionally, Entraction provides a comprehensive suite of services needed to operate a successful gaming site such as content management, payment solutions, and fraud protection.
The successful acquisition of Entraction will enhance IGTs ability to grow its position within the rapidly growing Interactive gaming space.  The combination is anticipated to provide Entraction with the global scale and reach to partner with gaming operators and land based casinos around the world. Subsequent to the closure of the transaction, Peter Astrom, Chief Executive Officer and President of Entraction, will continue to lead Entraction reporting directly to Patti Hart, Chief Executive Officer and President of IGT.
This transaction represents a fantastic opportunity for our employees, customers, and shareholders alike
said Peter Astrom, President and CEO of Entraction. Entraction will be able to utilize IGTs global scale and distribution to advance our short and long term objectives in exciting, new ways and we look forward to joining the IGT team.
 
 
 
 
 
 
The addition of Entraction advances IGTs position in legalized Interactive gaming markets, said Patti Hart, President and CEO of IGT.  It strengthens our interactive portfolio by adding
poker, bingo, casino, and sports betting.  
This combination will drive enhanced value for our global customers and partners.   We are also thrilled to welcome the Entraction team as the newest members of the IGT family.
IGT expects to fund the transaction from available cash on its balance sheet.  
The tender offer is projected to close within IGTs current fiscal year and
is subject to conditions customary for Swedish public companies as well as certain regulatory approvals.
Conference Call Information
International Game Technology (NYSE IGT) will host a conference call regarding its tender offer for Entraction on Thursday, May 5, 2011 at 5:00 a.m. PT.  The access numbers are as follows:
Domestic callers dial 800-369-1722, passcode IGT
International callers dial 1-517-308-9092, passcode IGT
The conference call will also be broadcast live over the Internet.  A link to the webcast is available at our website .  If you are unable to participate during the live webcast, the call will be archived until Thursday, May 12, 2011 also at .
http://www.IGT.com/InvestorRelations
http://www.IGT.com/InvestorRelations
Interested parties who cant participate at the time of the call may listen to a taped replay of the entire conference call commencing at approximately 7:00 a.m. PT on Thursday, May 5, 2011.  This replay will run through Thursday, May 12, 2011.  The access numbers are as follows:
Domestic callers dial 866-361-4757
International callers dial 1-203-369-0183
About Entraction
Entraction (NASDAQ OMX: ENT B) offers complete software systems for online gaming and operates one of the largest open poker networks in the world. Entraction offers partners software for poker, sports betting, casino and bingo, as well as peripheral services, such as web design, gaming licenses, operation, payment solutions, promotional tools and 24-hour end-user support.
 
 
2
 
 
About IGT
.
International Game Technology (NYSE: IGT) is a global leader in the design, development and manufacture of gaming machines and systems products, as well as online and mobile gaming solutions for regulated markets. More information about IGT is available at
www.IGT.com
 
or follow IGT on Twitter at
@IGTNews
or Facebook at
www.facebook.com/IGT
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
This press release contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties concerning the proposed transaction, including the expected benefits of the acquisition to IGT IGTs strategic and operational expectations for its interactive gaming business.  Actual events or results may differ materially from those described in this press release due to a number of risks and uncertainties, including, among others, the possibility that the transaction might not close or that the closing may be delayed, IGTs integration of Entraction, its products, technologies and employees may experience difficulties, and the anticipated benefits of the transaction to IGT and its customers might not be realized.  More information about potential factors that could affect IGTs business and financial results is included in IGTs filings with the SEC, including under the captions Risk Factors and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in IGTs Annual Report on Form 10-K for its 2010 fiscal year and its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for its fiscal quarter ended Dec. 31, 2010, and available on the SEC website at www.sec.gov and on the investor relations section of IGTs website at www.IGT.com.  All information provided in this release is as of May 5, 2011, and IGT does not intend, and undertakes no duty, to update this information.
and
Contact:
Matt Moyer
Vice President, Investor Relations of IGT
+1 866-296-4232


