FILE:IGT/IGT-8K-20110427060213.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On April 26, 2011, International Game Technology (the Company) issued a press release announcing that on April 26, 2011, the Company and Scientific Games Corporation ("Scientific Games") entered into a definitive agreement whereby the Company will sell the Barcrest Group to Scientific Games.
A copy of the press release is furnished with this Form 8-K and attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)         Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
International Game Technology Enters Into a Definitive Agreement to Sell the Barcrest Group to Scientific Games Corporation
(LAS VEGAS  April
26
, 2011)
International Game Technology (NYSE: IGT) and Scientific Games Corporation (NASDAQ: SGMS) have entered into a definitive agreement whereby IGT will sell the Barcrest Group to Scientific Games for a net cash consideration of approximately $54 million. IGT may also receive an additional $3 million in cash subject to certain post-closing adjustments. In total, including a receivables collection arrangement, the enterprise value of the transaction could reach approximately $66 million. This transaction is expected to close during the second half of IGTs fiscal year 2011.
 
Barcrest has a 40-year history of developing extremely innovative gaming products and content for the United Kingdom and markets in other European countries. We believe the combination of their exceptional games with Global Draws and Games Medias state-of-the-art delivery network offers the best of both worlds to our customers, Barcrests existing customers, and the end consumer alike, said Lorne Weil, Chairman and CEO of Scientific Games.
 
This transaction is a true win for all, that allows Scientific Games and Barcrest to leverage comparable synergies, while allowing IGT to have greater focus on our other lines of business, said Patti Hart, President and CEO of IGT. Scientific Games is an ideal new home for Barcrest and provides a strategic alignment between both companies core objectives.  This agreement is a responsible decision that benefits each groups customers and employees, while also serving the interests of our shareholders.
 
This transaction is subject to U.K. competition approvals and certain other usual and customary closing conditions.
 
 
 
 
 
 
About Scientific Games
Scientific Games Corporation is a global leader in providing customized, end-to-end gaming solutions to lottery and gaming organizations worldwide. Scientific Games' integrated array of products and services include instant lottery games, lottery gaming systems, terminals and services, and internet applications, as well as server-based interactive gaming machines and associated gaming control systems. For more information, please visit the Scientific Games website at .
www.scientificgames.com
About IGT
International Game Technology (NYSE: IGT) is a global leader in the design, development and manufacture of gaming machines and systems products, as well as online and mobile gaming solutions for regulated markets. More information about IGT is available at  or follow IGT on Twitter at or Facebook at .
www.IGT.com
@IGTNews
www.facebook.com/IGT
Cautionary Note
This press release contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties concerning the proposed transaction. Actual events or results may differ materially from those described in this press release due to a number of risks and uncertainties. The potential risks and uncertainties include, among others, the possibility that the transaction might not close or that the closing may be delayed. More information about potential factors that could affect IGTs business and financial results is included in IGTs filings with the SEC available at the SECs website at www.sec.gov and on the investor relations section of IGTs website at www.IGT.com. All information provided in this release is as of April 26, 2011, and IGT does not intend, and undertakes no duty, to update this information.
Contact:
Matt Moyer
Vice President, Investor Relations of IGT
+1 866-296-4232


