FILE:IGT/IGT-8K-20121012162332.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
___________
 
___________
 
___________
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 240.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b)           On October 8, 2012, Christopher J. Satchell notified International Game Technology (the Company) that he is resigning as Chief Technology Officer and Executive Vice President of Research & Development of the Company, effective October 19, 2012.
 
 
A copy of the press release referencing Mr. Satchells resignation is furnished with this Form 8-K and attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.  Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit Index
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
International Game Technology promotes Darrell Rodriguez to Chief Creative Officer
 International Game Technology (NYSE: IGT) CEO Patti S. Hart announced today that she has named Darrell Rodriguez to the newly created position of Chief Creative Officer, effective immediately.  Rodriguez has served as IGTs Senior Vice President Global Game Studios since October 2010.  The alignment of the companys creative resources under Rodriguezs leadership demonstrates IGTs continued commitment to delivering integrated, dynamic content and solutions for casino operators and players around the globe.
(LAS VEGAS  October 12, 2012)
Darrell brings an impressive history of creativity, strategic vision, and best-in-class content expertise that will continue to provide the foundation of our products and services, said Patti Hart, CEO of IGT.  He has provided the necessary leadership for our content development efforts and is well equipped to further our pursuit of creating and providing the most innovative game content for all of our customers and partners.
In addition to his previous responsibilities, Rodriguez will direct IGTs worldwide creative agenda inclusive of IGTs third party game developers, publishers platform, and content creation strategy.  With over 15 years of gaming and entertainment experience spanning The Walt Disney Company, Electronic Arts, Lucas Arts and IGT, Rodriguez brings a unique understanding of how to proficiently leverage industry-leading content across all platforms in ways that will benefit all IGT stakeholders.
Separately, Chris Satchell, IGTs CTO and EVP R&D, has announced that he will be departing the company on October 19, 2012.  Chris has helped to drive meaningful progress with our technical strategy and product development.  We would like to thank Chris for his contributions to IGT and we wish him well in all of his future endeavors, said Hart.
 
 
 
 
 
About IGT
International Game Technology (NYSE: IGT) is a global leader in the design, development and manufacture of gaming machines and systems products, as well as online and mobile gaming solutions for regulated markets. More information about IGT is available at  or follow IGT on Twitter at or Facebook at .
www.IGT.com
@IGTNews
www.facebook.com/IGT
Contact:
Matt Moyer
Vice President, Investor Relations of IGT
+1 866-296-4232


