FILE:IGT/IGT-8K-20120112180303.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
______
 
______
 
______
 
______
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 12, 2012, International Game Technology (the Company) entered into a Unit Purchase Agreement (the Purchase Agreement) with Double Down Interactive LLC (DDI), the Sellers party thereto (the Sellers) and Gregory Enell, as Sellers Agent (the Sellers Agent), pursuant to which the Company agreed to acquire all of the outstanding equity interests of DDI (the Acquisition).
 
Subject to the terms and conditions of the Purchase Agreement, the Company will pay an aggregate purchase price consisting of: (i) $200 million to be paid to the Sellers and holders of vested unit appreciation rights of DDI (the UAR Holders) on the date of completion of the Acquisition (the Closing Date), less any amounts required to repay outstanding indebtedness and unpaid transaction expenses of DDI as of the Closing Date, and  subject to a customary working capital adjustment, (ii) $25 million to be deposited into an escrow account on the Closing Date, which amount will be released to the Sellers and UAR Holders on December 31, 2012, (iii) $25 million (the Holdback Amount) to be deposited into an escrow account on the eighteen-month anniversary of the Closing Date, less any amounts retained by the Company to satisfy any claims for indemnification under the Purchase Agreement as described below, which amount will be released from the escrow account to the Sellers and UAR Holders on the second anniversary of the Closing Date, and (iv) up to $165 million of additional consideration (the Earn-Out Payments) that may become payable to the Sellers and UAR Holders based upon the future financial performance of DDI, including (x) up to $45 million with respect to DDIs financial performance in 2012, (y) up to $60 million with respect to DDIs financial performance in 2013, and (z) up to $60 million with respect to DDIs financial performance in 2014.  Each Earn-Out Payment, if any, is payable following the determination of DDIs financial performance for the applicable year.
 
In connection with the Acquisition, the Company has agreed to cause DDI to adopt a Senior Management Retention Plan and an Employee Retention Plan, which provide for payment of up to a total of $85 million to senior managers and employees of DDI based on the continued employment of such persons by DDI during the two-year period commencing on the Closing Date.
 
The Company, DDI and the Sellers have made customary representations and warranties in the Purchase Agreement.  Additionally, DDI has made certain covenants, including (i) to conduct its business in the ordinary course during the period between the execution of the Purchase Agreement and the Closing Date, and (ii) to not solicit, negotiate or accept any proposal relating to a possible alternative business combination.  The Sellers have made certain covenants, including an agreement to not engage in any business competitive with the business of DDI for four years following the Closing Date.  The Company has also made certain covenants, including agreements relating to the operation of the business of the Company and DDI during the three-year earn-out period.
 
The Sellers have agreed, subject to certain exceptions and limitations, to indemnify the Company for certain damages, including damages it may incur related to breaches of DDI's and the Sellers representations and warranties in the Purchase Agreement if the amount of damages covered by each such claim exceeds $50,000, and the aggregate amount of damages covered by such claims exceeds $1 million.  The foregoing right to indemnification is also subject to a $250,000 deductible and a cap equal to the Holdback Amount plus 10% of any Earn-Out Payments.  The Sellers have also agreed to indemnify the Company for damages incurred relating to: (i) breaches of DDI's, the Sellers and the Sellers Agents covenants and obligations under the Purchase Agreement, (ii) certain claims asserted by current or former securityholders of DDI and (iii) certain pre-closing liabilities of DDI, which are not subject to the thresholds, deductible and cap described above.  Under the terms of the Purchase Agreement, the Company will be entitled to set-off any indemnification claims it may have against payment of the Holdback Amount and any Earn-Out Payments.
 
 
2
 
 
Completion of the Acquisition is subject to customary closing conditions, including expiration or termination of the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act (HSR).  The HSR waiting period is scheduled to expire at 11:59 p.m. EST on January 17, 2012.  The Purchase Agreement provides for certain termination rights for the Company and DDI, including the right of either to terminate the Purchase Agreement under certain circumstances if the Acquisition has not been completed on or prior to February 10, 2012.
 
 
On January 12, 2012, the Company issued a press release announcing its entry into the Purchase Agreement.
 
A copy of the press release is furnished with this Form 8-K and attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.  Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act.
 
 
(d)           
Exhibits
 
 
3
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
5

Exhibit 99.1
 
     
International Game Technology to Acquire Social Gaming Company Double Down Interactive
 
 International Game Technology (NYSE: IGT), the global leader in the design, development and manufacture of gaming machines and systems products, as well as online and mobile gaming solutions for regulated markets, has reached a definitive agreement to acquire Double Down Interactive LLC  a leading online social gaming company and developer of the popular DoubleDown Casino found on Facebook.
(LAS VEGAS  January 12, 2012)
Launched in April 2010, the DoubleDown Casino is the worlds largest virtual casino and one of the top 4 social media games in 2011 as rated by Facebook.  According to AppData.com, DoubleDown Casino currently has 4.7 million monthly active users, up from 3.3 million in October 2011. With a broad and expanding portfolio, Double Down offers blackjack, slots, slot tournaments, video poker, and roulette to social gamers all around the world.
The total consideration includes $250 million in cash, $85 million in retention payments over the next two years and up to $165 million in cash payable over the next three years subject to Double Down meeting certain financial performance targets.  IGT expects to fund the transaction from cash on hand.
The addition of Double Down provides IGT instant size and scale in the fast growing world of casino-style social gaming and is expected to broaden IGTs popular gaming titles beyond the physical casino to Facebook, the worlds largest social network with over 800 million global users.  This powerful distribution model is anticipated to provide IGT an opportunity to entertain players with consistent, ubiquitous, thrilling gaming experiences across multiple platforms.
Double Down and IGT share complementary cultures focused on innovation and creativity.  Both companies are committed to providing unrivaled quality, service and entertainment to millions of players, said Greg Enell, CEO of Double Down.  Leveraging IGTs Research and Development, global reach, and best-in-class content will provide our loyal player base with an even more robust experience and is expected to augment Double Downs growth trajectory.
 
 
 IGT. All rights reserved.
 
 
 
 
As technological innovations increasingly influence consumer behavior, social dynamics are quickly transforming entertainment and gaming experiences everywhere, said Patti Hart, CEO of IGT.  The addition of Double Down launches IGT into a leadership position in social gaming, extends our global reach through new mediums, and leverages our unmatched expertise in game development.  We intend to drive meaningful value from this rapidly growing distribution platform that reaches a new, but complementary, demographic of gamers.
The transaction is estimated to be accretive to IGTs fiscal 2012 adjusted earnings and is projected to close within the second quarter of its current fiscal year.  Greg Enell will continue to lead Double Down and the companys operations will remain in Seattle, WA after the acquisition is complete.  Through the integration, IGT will operate Double Down with the appropriate level of independence needed to continue to foster exceptional growth.
Completion of the transaction is subject to customary closing conditions including, but not limited to, the expiration or termination of the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act.  The final purchase price is subject to certain post-closing adjustments.
Conference Call Information
IGT will host a conference call regarding its acquisition of Double Down on Friday, Jan. 13, 2012, at 5:00 a.m. PST. The access numbers are as follows:
Domestic callers dial 888-606-7043, pass-code IGT
International callers dial 1-212-547-0361, pass-code IGT
 
 
The conference call also will be broadcast live over the Internet. A link to the webcast is available at the IGT website: http://www.IGT.com/InvestorRelations. If interested parties are unable to participate during the live webcast, the call will be archived until Friday, Jan. 27, 2012 also at http://www.IGT.com/InvestorRelations.
 
 
 
 IGT. All rights reserved.
 
2
 
 
 
Interested parties who cannot participate at the time of the call may listen to a taped replay of the entire conference call commencing at approximately 7:00 a.m. PST on Friday, Jan. 13, 2012. This replay will run through Friday, Jan. 27, 2012.  The access numbers are as follows:
Domestic callers dial 888-568-0521
International callers dial 1-402-998-1495
About Double Down Interactive
Double Down Interactive is the leading casual games developer of "fun to play" casino experiences on the Internet. With veterans from top online game companies, the team is committed to providing consumers an online social casino experience that is unrivaled by anything else available. Anyone can play at the DoubleDown Casino by visiting http://apps.facebook.com/doubledowncasino/ or www.doubledowncasino.com. Double Down Interactive is based in Seattle, Washington.
About IGT
.
International Game Technology (NYSE: IGT) is a global leader in the design, development and manufacture of gaming machines and systems products, as well as online and mobile gaming solutions for regulated markets. More information about IGT is available at
www.IGT.com
 
or follow IGT on Twitter at
@IGTNews
or Facebook at
www.facebook.com/IGT
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
This press release contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties concerning the proposed acquisition of Double Down Interactive, including the expected benefits of the acquisition to IGT and IGT's strategic, financial and operational expectations for its business, including the Double Down business following the closing of the acquisition. Actual events or results may differ materially from those described in this press release due to a number of risks and uncertainties, including, among others, the possibility that the transaction might not close or that the closing may be delayed, IGT's integration of Double Down, its products, technologies and employees may experience difficulties, and the anticipated benefits of the transaction to IGT and its customers might not be realized. More information about potential factors that could affect IGT's business and financial results is included in IGT's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including under the captions "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in IGT's Annual Report on Form 10-K for its 2011 fiscal year, and available on the SEC website at www.sec.gov and on the investor relations section of IGT's website at www.IGT.com. All information provided in this release is as of January 12, 2012 and IGT does not intend, and undertakes no duty, to update this information.
 
 
 
 IGT. All rights reserved.
 
3
 
 
 
Contact:
Matt Moyer
Vice President, Investor Relations of IGT
+1 775-448-1581
Contact:
Staci Alonso
Vice President, Marketing of IGT
+1 775-448-1581
 
 
 
 
 IGT. All rights reserved.
 
4


