FILE:IGT/IGT-8K-20120614083350.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On June 13, 2012, International Game Technology (the Company) entered into an accelerated stock buyback agreement (the ASB Agreement) with Goldman, Sachs & Co. (Goldman Sachs).  Pursuant to the ASB Agreement, the Company will repurchase approximately $400 million of its common stock from Goldman Sachs.  The total number of shares that will be repurchased will be determined based on the daily volume weighted average market price of the Companys common stock (VWAP) over a period of approximately three to six months, less a discount.  The ASB Agreement also includes a cap that establishes a minimum number of shares to be delivered to the Company by Goldman Sachs.  Initially, Goldman Sachs has agreed to deliver approximately 21 million shares of the Companys common stock to the Company on or before July 6, 2012, and may be obligated to deliver additional shares following the completion of an initial hedge period and/or upon final settlement.
 
The ASB Agreement also includes other terms customary for similar agreements of this type, including terms that allow Goldman Sachs to make adjustments to the economic terms of the transaction (such as the discount to VWAP and/or the minimum number of shares to be delivered) and/or terminate the transaction following the occurrence of certain specified events, including major corporate transactions involving the Company.
 
The Company will pay an initial purchase price of $400 million to Goldman Sachs on June 19, 2012.  The Company expects to fund the payment using $120 million of cash on hand and $280 million of borrowings under the Companys revolving credit facility.
 
Goldman Sachs and its affiliates have performed, and may in the future perform, various commercial banking, investment banking and other financial advisory services for the Company and its subsidiaries for which they have received, and will receive, customary fees and expenses.
 
 
On June 14, 2012, the Company issued a press release announcing that its Board of Directors has authorized a new share repurchase program of up to $1 billion of the Companys outstanding common stock.  The new $1 billion share repurchase authorization will replace the Companys previously announced $500 million authorization.  The accelerated stock buyback referenced above in Item 1.01 of this Form 8-K will be conducted as the first part of the Companys new $1 billion share repurchase authorization.  Other share repurchases may be made from time to time in the open market, including through Rule 10b5-1 trading plans, or in privately negotiated transactions.  The timing and amount of such other share repurchases will be determined based on market conditions, the trading price of the Companys common stock, applicable legal requirements, and other factors.  This program does not obligate the Company to acquire any particular amount of common stock or to acquire shares within any particular timetable and the program may be suspended at any time at the Companys discretion.
 
A copy of the press release regarding the Companys entrance into the ASB Agreement and the share repurchase program is furnished with this Form 8-K and attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
IGT Announces New $1 billion Share Repurchase Authorization and $400 million Accelerated Stock Buyback
 (NYSE: IGT), a global leader in driving technology innovations in the gaming industry, today announced that its Board of Directors has authorized a new share repurchase program of up to $1 billion of the Companys outstanding common stock.
(LAS VEGAS - June 14, 2012)
International Game Technology
Additionally, the Company has entered into an accelerated stock buyback agreement with Goldman, Sachs & Co., under which it will repurchase approximately $400 million of its common stock.  The accelerated stock buyback will be conducted as the first part of the Companys new $1 billion share repurchase authorization.  The remaining $600 million is currently anticipated to be utilized over the next 3 to 4 years.
These actions demonstrate the Board of Directors confidence and IGTs continued dedication to responsible capital deployment.  Over the past 10 years, IGT has returned over $4 billion in cash to shareholders in share repurchases and dividends.
IGT will fund the accelerated stock buyback using cash on hand and borrowings from the Companys revolving credit facility.  The new $1 billion share repurchase authorization will replace the companys previously announced $500 million authorization.
Under the terms of the agreement, IGT will pay Goldman Sachs $400 million on June 19 and will receive initial deliveries of approximately 21 million shares, representing a substantial majority of the shares expected to be retired over the course of the accelerated stock buyback.  The total number of shares ultimately repurchased under the agreement will be determined based on the daily volume-weighted average share price of IGTs common stock during the repurchase period less a discount, and subject to a cap provision that will establish a minimum number of shares repurchased. IGT is filing a Current Report on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission describing the accelerated stock buyback agreement in more detail.
 
 
 
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
This press release contains statements based on current expectations regarding the Companys future repurchases of its common stock that do not relate to historical or current facts, but are forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Actual events or results may differ materially from those described in this press release due to a number of risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, the Companys available capital resources, the Companys expected future financial and operational performance, and anticipated increased revenue yields and operating margin if general economic conditions improve, which may cause the Company not to make share repurchases as currently anticipated or to commence or suspend such repurchases from time to time without prior notice.  More information about potential factors that could affect IGTs business and financial results is included in IGTs filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including under the captions Risk Factors and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in IGTs Annual Report on Form 10-K for its 2011 fiscal year and its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for its fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2012, and is available on the SEC website at www.sec.gov and on the investor relations section of IGTs website at www.IGT.com.  All information provided in this release is as of June 14, 2012, and IGT does not intend, and undertakes no duty, to update this information.
About IGT
International Game Technology (NYSE: IGT) is a global leader in the design, development and manufacture of gaming machines and systems products, as well as online and mobile gaming solutions for regulated markets. More information about IGT is available at or follow IGT on Twitter at or Facebook at .
www.IGT.com
@IGTNews
www.facebook.com/IGT
Contact:
Matt Moyer
IGT Vice President of Investor Relations
+1 866-296-4232
 


