FILE:IGT/IGT-8K-20120424163049.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
United States
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[  ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
International Game Technology announced results for its most recent quarter.  The full text of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)          Exhibits
 
99.1           Press Release dated April 24, 2012
 
 
2
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
INTERNATIONAL GAME TECHNOLOGY
Date: April 24, 2012
 
By:  
                                                                                               
/s/ John
Vandemore
 
John Vandemore
Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer
3

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
International Game Technology Reports Second Quarter Fiscal Year 2012 Results
Second Quarter Summary and Highlights (compared to last years second quarter)
 International Game Technology (NYSE: IGT) today reported operating results for the fiscal second quarter ended March 31, 2012.
(LAS VEGAS  Apr. 24, 2012)
As expected, our financial results are strengthening as we move through the fiscal year  evidenced by our growth in both revenues and earnings in our second quarter, said Patti Hart, CEO of IGT. Every aspect of our business is providing a meaningful contribution to our strong financial performance.  Its gratifying to see the effort of our employees and the proficiency of our strategic investments generating returns for our shareholders.
Consolidated Results
 
 
Adjusted operating income, adjusted income from continuing operations, adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations and free cash flow are non-GAAP financial measures.  Reconciliations between GAAP and non-GAAP measures are provided at the end of this release.
 
 
 
 
 
 
International Game Technology Reports 2012 Second Quarter Results
Page 2 of 14
 
Gaming Operations
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
International Game Technology Reports 2012 Second Quarter Results
Page 3 of 14
 
Product Sales
 
 
Operating Expenses and Other Income/Expense
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
International Game Technology Reports 2012 Second Quarter Results
Page 4 of 14
 
Cash Flows, Balance Sheet and Capital Deployment
 
 
References to per share amounts in this release are based on diluted shares of common stock, unless otherwise specified.
Outlook
Based on current expectations and the operating results for the second quarter of fiscal 2012, the company is raising its fiscal year 2012 guidance for adjusted earnings from continuing operations to $0.98 to $1.04 per share.
 
 
 
 
 
 
International Game Technology Reports 2012 Second Quarter Results
Page 5 of 14
 
Earnings Conference Call
As previously announced on Apr. 10, 2012, IGT will host a conference call to discuss its Second Quarter Fiscal Year 2012 earnings results on Tuesday, Apr. 24, 2012, at 2:00 p.m. PDT. The access numbers are as follows:
Domestic callers dial +1 888-829-8676, passcode IGT
International callers dial +1 773-756-4709, passcode IGT
The conference call will also be broadcast live over the Internet. A link to the webcast is available at the IGT website: .  The call will be archived until Thursday, May 3, 2012 at for those interested parties that are unable to participate during the live webcast.
http://www.IGT.com/InvestorRelations
http://www.IGT.com/InvestorRelations
,
A taped replay of the conference call will be available beginning at approximately 4:00 p.m. PDT on Tuesday, Apr. 24, 2012. This replay will run through Thursday, May 3, 2012.  The access numbers are as follows:
Domestic callers dial +1 866-382-4784
International callers dial +1 203-369-0363
Q2 FY 2012 Excel file
Q2 FY 2012 PDF of this press release
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
This press release contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties.  These statements include our expected future financial and operational performance (including our guidance for fiscal year 2012) and our strategic and operational plans.  Actual results may differ materially from the results predicted, and reported results should not be considered an indication of future performance.  The potential risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ from the results predicted include, among others, general economic conditions and changes in economic conditions affecting the gaming industry; difficulties or delays in obtaining or maintaining necessary licenses or approvals; slow growth in the number of new gaming jurisdictions or new casinos or the rate of replacement of existing gaming machines; changes in operator or player preferences for our products; our ability to compete in the gaming industry with new or existing competitors; changes in laws or regulations affecting our business; our ability to develop and introduce new products and their acceptance by our customers; risks related to our international operations; our ability to protect our intellectual property; adverse results of litigation, including intellectual property infringement claims; risks related to business combinations, investments in intellectual property and the integration of acquisitions and the additional risks and uncertainties included under the captions Risk Factors and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2011 filed with the SEC on November 30, 2011 and our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for our fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2011 filed with the SEC on February 8, 2012, and available on the SEC website at www.sec.gov and on the investor relations section of our website at www.IGT.com.  Additional information will also be set forth in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for our fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2012, which we expect to file with the SEC in the second quarter of calendar 2012.  All information provided in this release is as of April 24, 2012, and IGT undertakes no duty to update this information.
 
 
 
 
 
International Game Technology Reports 2012 Second Quarter Results
Page 6 of 14
 
About IGT
International Game Technology (NYSE: IGT) is a global leader in the design, development and manufacture of gaming machines and systems products, as well as online and mobile gaming solutions for regulated markets. More information about IGT is available at  or follow IGT on Twitter at or Facebook at .
www.IGT.com
@IGTNews
www.facebook.com/IGT
Contact:
Matt Moyer
Vice President, Investor Relations of IGT
+1 866-296-4232
 
 
 
 
 
International Game Technology Reports 2012 Second Quarter Results
Page 7 of 14
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (Unaudited and Condensed)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
International Game Technology Reports 2012 Second Quarter Results
Page 8 of 14
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (Unaudited and Condensed)
 
 
 
 
 
 
International Game Technology Reports 2012 Second Quarter Results
Page 9 of 14
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOW (Unaudited and Condensed)
 
 
 
 
 
 
International Game Technology Reports 2012 Second Quarter Results
Page 10 of 14
 
SUPPLEMENTAL DATA (Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 
 
International Game Technology Reports 2012 Second Quarter Results
Page 11 of 14
 
Reconciliations of GAAP to Non-GAAP Measures
(In millions, except EPS)
 
 
 
Adjusted income from continuing operations and adjusted EPS from continuing operations are supplemental non-GAAP financial measures commonly used by management and industry analysts to evaluate our financial performance.  Adjusted income from continuing operations should not be construed as an alternative to income from continuing operations, and Adjusted EPS from continuing operations should not be construed as an alternative to EPS from continuing operations, as indicators of our operating performance determined in accordance with GAAP (generally accepted accounting principles).  All companies do not calculate Adjusted income from continuing operations or Adjusted EPS from continuing operations in the same manner, and IGT's presentation may not be comparable to that of other companies.
 
 
 
 
 
 
International Game Technology Reports 2012 Second Quarter Results
Page 12 of 14
 
 
 
Adjusted operating income, Adjusted operating margin, and Adjusted operating expenses are supplemental non-GAAP financial measures commonly used by management and industry analysts to evaluate our financial and operating performance.  Adjusted operating margin is a measure of adjusted operating income as a percentage of total revenues. Adjusted operating income, adjusted operating margin, and adjusted operating expenses, should not be construed as alternatives to operating income, operating margin, and operating expenses, respectively, as indicators of operating performance determined in accordance with GAAP (generally accepted accounting principles).  All companies do not calculate adjusted operating income, adjusted operating margin, and adjusted operating expenses in the same manner and IGT's presentation may not be comparable to that of other companies.
 
 
 
 
 
 
International Game Technology Reports 2012 Second Quarter Results
Page 13 of 14
 
 
Adjusted EBITDA (income from continuing operations before interest and other non-operating income/expense-net, income tax provision, depreciation and amortization, and other charges noted in the reconciliation) is a supplemental non-GAAP financial measure commonly used by our management and industry analysts to evaluate our financial performance.  Adjusted EBITDA provides useful information to investors regarding our ability to service debt and is a commonly used financial analysis tool for measuring and comparing gaming companies in several areas of liquidity, operating performance, valuation and leverage.  Adjusted EBITDA should not be construed as an alternative to operating income (as an indicator of our operating performance) or net cash from operations (as a measure of liquidity) determined in accordance with GAAP (generally accepted accounting principles).  All companies do not calculate Adjusted EBITDA in the same manner, and IGT's presentation may not be comparable to that of other companies.
 
 
 
 
Free cash flow is a supplemental non-GAAP financial measure commonly used by our management and industry analysts to evaluate the discretionary amount of operating cash flows.  Free cash flow should not be construed as an alternative to net operating cash flows or other cash flow measurements determined in accordance with GAAP (generally accepted accounting principles).  All companies do not calculate free cash flow in the same manner, and IGT's presentation may not be comparable to that of other companies.
 
 
 
 
 
 
International Game Technology Reports 2012 Second Quarter Results
Page 14 of 14
 
Guidance for Adjusted Earnings from Continuing Operations for Fiscal 2012
 
 
Adjusted EPS from continuing operations for the fiscal year is a supplemental non-GAAP financial measure commonly used by management and industry analysts to evaluate our financial performance.  Adjusted EPS from continuing operations should not be construed as an alternative to EPS from continuing operations, as an indicator of our operating performance determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.  All companies do not calculate adjusted EPS from continuing operations in the same manner, and IGT's presentation may not be comparable to that of other companies. This guidance is as of April 24, 2012, and IGT undertakes no duty to update this guidance.


