FILE:IGT/IGT-8K-20120209171519.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
______
 
______
 
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
______
 
 
______
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
(b)           On February 9, 2012, International Game Technology (the Company) announced that Patrick W. Cavanaugh, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, will be departing the Company on February 10, 2012.  Mr. Cavanaugh will receive the severance benefits set forth in Section 3(a) of his Executive Transition Agreement, dated as of October 23, 2009.
(c)           On February 9, 2012, the Company announced the appointment of John Vandemore as Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, effective February 13, 2012, subject to obtaining regulatory approvals. Since  2007, Mr. Vandemore, age 38, has served as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Walt Disney Imagineering, a division of The Walt Disney Company, an entertainment company. From 2005 until 2007, Mr. Vandemore served as the Vice President and Director, Operations Planning & Analysis of The Walt Disney Company.  Mr. Vandemore earned a Bachelor of Business Administration in Accountancy from the University of Notre Dame and a Masters in Business Administration from the J.J. Kellogg Graduate School of Management at Northwestern University.
Mr. Vandemore will receive an annual base salary of $350,000, as well as a signing bonus of $150,000.  Mr. Vandemore will be eligible to receive an annual incentive bonus under the Companys incentive bonus plan with a target amount of 100% of his annual base salary. The actual amount of the annual incentive bonus will be based upon the Companys financial performance and other criteria determined by the Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors.  For fiscal 2012, Mr. Vandemore will be eligible to receive a bonus equal to 100% of his base salary for the full fiscal year without proration.  Mr. Vandemore will also receive the Companys standard executive relocation package.
Upon commencement of his employment, Mr. Vandemore will receive an initial grant of 42,194 time-based restricted stock units, which will vest in equal installments on the first, second, third and fourth anniversaries of his employment with the Company. Additionally, Mr. Vandemore will receive an annual equity grant with a target value of $1,050,000, with 80% of the award consisting of time-based restricted stock units and 20% consisting of performance-based restricted stock units.
The Company will enter into its standard forms of Indemnification Agreement and Executive Transition Agreement with Mr. Vandemore. Mr. Vandemore will also be eligible to participate in the benefit programs generally available to senior executives of the Company, including health insurance, life and disability insurance, 401(k) plan participation, Employee Stock Purchase Plan and the Companys profit sharing plan.
There are no family relationships between Mr. Vandemore and any director, executive officer, or any person nominated or chosen by the Company to become a director or executive officer. No information is required to be disclosed with respect to Mr. Vandemore pursuant to Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K. 
(e)           The information included in Item 5.02(c) is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
On February 9, 2012, the Company issued a press release announcing the departure of Patrick W. Cavanaugh as the Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of the Company and the appointment of Mr. Vandemore as the Companys Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer.  A copy of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.  Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act.
 
(d)           
Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
International Game Technology hires John Vandemore as Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer
 International Game Technology (NYSE: IGT) CEO Patti S. Hart announced today John Vandemore is joining the Company as Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, effective February 13, 2012, subject to obtaining regulatory approvals.  Vandemore comes to IGT from The Walt Disney Company, where he most recently served as Chief Financial Officer of Walt Disney Imagineering  the world-class creative arm of Disneys theme parks business  responsible for overseeing multi-billion dollar investments in global theme park, resort, and cruise line development projects.
(LAS VEGAS  February 9, 2012)
We are pleased to be adding Johns financial experience, strategic leadership and energy to IGT, said Patti Hart, CEO of IGT.  As we continue to lead and transform the gaming industry, John brings an impressive background in global financial planning and operational excellence that will benefit all of IGTs stakeholders.
John replaces Pat Cavanaugh, IGTs CFO and Treasurer for the past 3 years, who will be departing the company on February 10, 2012.  We would like to thank Pat for his years of dedication to IGT and for his support as we managed IGT through a significant amount of change.  We wish him well in his future endeavors, said Hart.
Vandemore will have direct responsibility for overseeing IGTs internal and external financial reporting, leading IGTs global financial planning and analysis, and managing all worldwide finance operations inclusive of investor relations, tax, accounting, treasury, credit, and audit.
With over 17 years of financial experience, he joins IGT with a diverse background spanning executive roles at The Walt Disney Company, AlixPartners, Goldman Sachs, and PricewaterhouseCoopers.  After graduating from the University of Notre Dame with a degree in Business Administration, Vandemore went on to earn his MBA from the Kellogg Graduate School of Management at Northwestern University.
 
 
About IGT
 
International Game Technology (NYSE: IGT) is a global leader in the design, development and manufacture of gaming machines and systems products, as well as online and mobile gaming solutions for regulated markets. More information about IGT is available at  or follow IGT on Twitter at or Facebook at .
www.IGT.com
@IGTNews
www.facebook.com/IGT
Contact:
Matt Moyer
Vice President, Investor Relations of IGT
+1 866-296-4232


