Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and our consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto.34 Years Ended Dec 31,2011 Dec 31,2010 Dec 26,2009 Dec 27,2008 Dec 29,2007 (In thousands, except per share amounts)Statement of Operations: Net sales $2,766,207 $2,563,515 $2,066,200 $1,246,301 $503,976Cost of sales 1,794,456 1,378,669 1,021,618 567,908 252,573Gross profit 971,751 1,184,846 1,044,582 678,393 251,403Research and development 140,523 94,797 78,161 33,517 15,107Selling, general and administrative 412,541 321,704 272,898 174,039 82,248Production start up 33,620 19,442 13,908 32,498 16,867Goodwill impairment 393,365 Restructuring 60,366 Operating (loss) income (68,664) 748,903 679,615 438,339 137,181Foreign currency gain (loss) 995 (3,468) 5,207 5,722 1,881Interest income 13,391 14,375 9,735 21,158 20,413Interest expense, net (100) (6) (5,258) (509) (2,294)Other income (expense), net 665 2,273 (2,985) (934) (1,219)Income tax (benefit) expense (14,220) 97,876 46,176 115,446 (2,392)Net (loss) income $(39,493) $664,201 $640,138 $348,330 $158,354Net (loss) income per share data: Basic net (loss) income per share: Net (loss) income per share $(0.46) $7.82 $7.67 $4.34 $2.12Weighted average shares 86,067 84,891 83,500 80,178 74,701Diluted net (loss) income per share: Net (loss) income per share $(0.46) $7.68 $7.53 $4.24 $2.03Weighted average shares 86,067 86,491 85,044 82,124 77,971Cash dividends declared per common share $ $ $ $ $ Years Ended Dec 31,2011 Dec 31,2010 Dec 26,2009 Dec 27,2008 Dec 29,2007 (In thousands)Cash Flow Data: Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities $(33,463) $705,492 $675,193 $463,067 $205,951Net cash used in investing activities (676,457) (742,085) (701,690) (308,441) (547,250)Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 571,218 150,451 (22,021) 177,549 430,42135 Years Ended Dec 31,2011 Dec 31,2010 Dec 26,2009 Dec 27,2008 Dec 29,2007 (In thousands)Balance Sheet Data: Cash and cash equivalents $605,619 $765,689 $664,499 $716,218 $404,264Marketable securities, current and noncurrent 182,338 348,160 449,844 105,601 265,399Accounts receivable, net 310,568 305,537 226,826 61,703 18,165Inventories, current and noncurrent 536,618 238,591 174,516 121,554 40,204Property, plant and equipment, net 1,815,958 1,430,789 988,782 842,622 430,104Project assets, current and noncurrent 374,881 320,140 132,496 Deferred tax assets, current and noncurrent 381,418 259,624 152,194 71,247 55,701Total assets 5,777,614 4,380,403 3,349,512 2,114,502 1,371,312Total debt 663,648 237,391 174,958 198,470 108,165Accrued solar module collection and recycling liability 167,378 132,951 92,799 35,238 13,079Total liabilities 2,133,751 925,458 696,725 601,460 274,045Total stockholders equity 3,643,863 3,454,945 2,652,787 1,513,042 1,097,267Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsThe following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. In addition to historical consolidated financial information, the following discussion and analysis contains forward looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions as described under the Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements, that appears earlier in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated by these forward looking statements as a result of many factors, including those discussed under Item 1A: Risk Factors, and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K.OverviewWe manufacture and sell solar modules with an advanced thin film semiconductor technology, and we design, construct, and sell photovoltaic (PV) solar power systems.In furtherance of our goal of delivering the lowest cost of solar electricity and achieving price parity with conventional fossil fuel based peak electricity generation, we are continually focused on reducing PV solar system costs in four primary areas: module manufacturing, balance of systems (BoS) costs (consisting of the costs of the components of a solar power system other than the solar modules, such as inverters, mounting hardware, grid interconnection equipment, wiring and other devices, and installation labor costs), project development costs, and the cost of capital. First, with respect to our module manufacturing costs, our advanced technology has allowed us to reduce our average module manufacturing costs to the lowest in the world for modules produced on a commercial scale, based on publicly available information. In 2011, our total average manufacturing costs were $0.75 per watt, which we believe is less than those of traditional crystalline silicon solar module manufacturers. By continuing to improve conversion efficiency and production line throughput, lower material costs, and drive volume scale to further decrease overhead costs, we believe that we can further reduce our manufacturing costs per watt and maintain our cost advantage over traditional crystalline silicon solar module manufacturers. Second, with respect to our BoS costs, by continuing to improve conversion efficiency, leverage volume procurement around standardized hardware platforms, and accelerate installation times, we believe we can continue to make reductions in BoS costs, which represent over half of all of the costs associated with a typical utility scale PV solar power system. Third, with respect to our project development costs, we seek optimal site locations in an effort to minimize transmission and permitting costs, and to accelerate lead times to electricity generation. Finally, with respect to our cost of capital, by continuing to strengthen our financial position, demonstrate the financial viability and operational performance of our utility scale PV solar power plants, and increase our PV solar power system operating experience, we believe we can continue to lower the cost of capital associated with our PV solar power systems, thereby further enhancing the economic viability of our projects and lowering the cost of electricity generated by PV solar power systems that incorporate our modules and technology.We believe that combining our reliable, low cost module manufacturing capability with our systems business enables us to 36more rapidly reduce the price of solar electricity, accelerate the adoption of our technology in utility scale PV solar power systems, identify and remove constraints on the successful migration to sustainable solar markets around the world, and further our mission to create enduring value by enabling a world powered by clean, affordable solar electricity. We operate our business in two segments. Our components segment designs, manufactures, and sells solar modules primarily to solar project developers and system integrators. Through our systems segment, we have the capability to provide a complete PV solar power system, using our solar modules, for utility scale or large commercial systems. Providing a complete PV solar power system includes project development, engineering, procurement, and construction (EPC), operating and maintenance (O&M) services and monitoring and diagnostics (M&D) services, when applicable, and facilitating project finance, when required. We view the sale of solar modules from the components segment as the core driver of our profitability, return on net assets, and cash throughput. We view our systems segment as an enabler to drive module throughput for our components business with the objective of achieving break even results before income taxes for our systems segment. See also Note 24. Segment and Geographical Information, to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K.Market OverviewThe solar industry experienced a challenging environment in 2011. The year was categorized by intense pricing competition, bankruptcies of several solar companies, many solar companies with little or no operating income, and toward the end of the year, announcements of manufacturing shut downs or slow downs. At December 31, 2011, the global PV industry consisted of more than 150 manufacturers of solar modules and cells. In the aggregate, these manufactuers have installed production capacity that significantly exceeded global demand in 2011. As a result, industry average module pricing declined significantly as competitors reduced prices to sell through inventories in Europe and elsewhere. We believe this structural imbalance between supply and demand (i.e., where production capacity significantly exceeds current global demand) may continue for the foreseeable future, and we expect it will continue to put pressure on pricing and our results of operations in 2012. In light of such market realities, we have begun to execute our Long Term Strategic Plan under which we are focusing on our competitive strengths, notably providing utility scale PV generation solutions to sustainable geographic markets that have an immediate need for mass scale PV electricity.In addressing overall growing global demand for PV solar electricity, we have developed a differentiated, fully integrated systems business that can provide a low cost turn key utility scale PV system solution for system owners and low cost electricity to utility end users. Our fully integrated systems business has enabled us to increase module throughput, drive cost reduction across the value chain, identify and break constraints to sustainable markets, and deliver the most compelling solutions to our customers and end users. With our fully integrated systems business, we believe we are in a position to expand our business in transition markets and eventually economically sustainable markets (in which support programs are minimal), which are expected to develop in areas with abundant solar resources and sizable electricity demand. We are committed to continually lowering the cost of solar electricity, and in the long term, we plan to compete on an economic basis with conventional fossil fuel based peaking power generation. The major European governments continue to seek to balance subsidy costs with their commitment to the EU directives goal of a 20% share of energy from renewable sources in the EU by 2020. Governments in Germany, France, and Italy continue to evaluate changes to their FiT structures, market caps, and or tender processes. In many instances, such proposed FiT structures would particularly impact the competitiveness of our core offering of large scale free field PV systems and modules to be installed in such systems. For instance, the German government recently proposed significant and accelerated FiT reductions for projects up to 10 MW and an elimination of FiTs for projects over 10 MW. The resulting market uncertainties, together with increased European financing environment constraints, have contributed to demand pauses and increased customer difficulties in 2011, which, in conjunction with increased industry wide manufacturing capacity, have contributed to excess industry channel inventories. In 2011, industry average module pricing declined significantly as competitors reduced prices to sell through inventories in Europe and elsewhere in light of these factors. Lower industry module pricing, while currently challenging for solar manufacturers, in particular those with high cost structures, is expected to continue to contribute to global market diversification and volume elasticity. Over time, declining average selling prices are consistent with the erosion of one of the primary historical constraints to widespread solar market penetration, namely its overall affordability. In the near term, however, in light of continually evolving FiT structures in our core European markets and increased industry wide manufacturing capacity, it is uncertain whether growing demand from other countries and markets could absorb industry wide module supply without further inventory build up and or price reductions, which could adversely affect our results of operations. If competitors reduce module pricing to levels below their manufacturing costs, or are able to operate at minimal or negative operating margins for sustained periods of time, our results of operations could be further adversely affected. We continue to mitigate this uncertainty in part by executing on and building our North American utility scale systems pipeline as a buffer against demand fluctuations in Europe and elsewhere; by accelerating our thin film module efficiency improvements and cost reduction roadmaps to increase our competitive advantage, profitability and capital efficiency; by adjusting our production plans and capacity utilization to match expected demand, and by 37continuing the development of other geographic markets, including those in India, Australia, the Middle East, South America, and China.The development of market demand outside of the European Union continued during 2011, in part aided by demand elasticity resulting from declining industry average selling prices, which make solar power more affordable to new markets. In India, we entered into a 100 MW direct current (DC) module supply agreement (the largest PV module supply agreement in India to date) with one of Indias leading power generation companies. In Australia, we were contracted to provide our modules, EPC, and O&M services for Australias first utility scale solar power project, a 10 MW alternating current (AC) solar farm that will help power the Southern Seawater Desalination Plant in Western Australia.In North America, we have continued to execute on our utility scale systems pipeline. We made substantial construction progress on the 290 MW AC Agua Caliente project in Arizona during 2011, the financial impact of which is reflected below under Results of Operations. On September 30, 2011, we announced the sales and construction plans for what will be two of the worlds largest solar PV facilities, both in California. The two projects sold in the third quarter are the 550 MW AC Desert Sunlight Solar Farm, located west of Blythe, California, and the 230 MW AC Antelope Valley Solar Ranch One project, located just north of Los Angeles, California. In January 2012, we announced completion of the sale of the 550 MW AC Topaz Solar Farm, located in San Luis Obispo County, California.In the PV module segment, we continue to face intense competition from manufacturers of crystalline silicon solar modules and other types of solar modules and PV systems. Solar module manufacturers compete with one another in several product performance attributes, including reliability and module cost per watt, and, with respect to solar power systems, return on equity (ROE) and levelized cost of electricity (LCOE), meaning the net present value of total life cycle costs of the solar power project divided by the quantity of energy which is expected to be produced over the systems life. The ability to expand manufacturing capacity quickly is another source of differentiation among solar module manufacturers, and certain of our competitors may have a faster response time to capacity expansion than we do and or an ability to expand capacity in finer increments than we can. We are the lowest cost PV module manufacturer in the solar industry for modules produced on a commercial scale, based on publicly available information, and our average manufacturing cost per watt declined from $0.77 during 2010 to $0.75 during 2011. This cost advantage is reflected in the price at which we sell our modules or fully integrated systems and enables our systems to compete favorably in respect of their ROE or LCOE. Our cost competitiveness is based in large part on our proprietary technology (which enables conversion efficiency improvements and enables us to produce a module in less than 2.5 hours using a continuous and highly automated industrial manufacturing process, as opposed to a batch process), our scale, and our operational excellence. In addition, our modules use approximately 1 2% of the amount of semiconductor material (i.e., silicon) that is used to manufacture traditional crystalline silicon solar modules. The cost of polysilicon is a significant driver of the manufacturing cost of crystalline silicon solar modules, and the timing and rate of change in the cost of silicon feedstock and polysilicon could lead to changes in solar module pricing levels. Polysilicon costs declined in 2011, contributing to a decline in our manufacturing cost advantage over crystalline silicon module manufacturers. Although we are not a crystalline silicon module manufacturer, we estimate, based on industry research and public disclosures of our competitors, that a $10 per Kg increase or decrease in the price of polysilicon could increase or decrease, respectively, our competitors manufacturing cost per watt by approximately $0.05 to $0.08 over time. Given the lower conversion efficiency of our modules compared to crystalline silicon modules, there may be higher BoS costs associated with systems using our modules. Thus, to compete effectively on the basis of LCOE, our modules need to maintain a certain cost advantage per watt compared to crystalline silicon based modules. During 2011, we reduced our manufacturing cost per watt by 3% from our cost per watt in 2010 and continued to reduce BoS costs associated with systems using our modules. While our modules currently enjoy competitive advantages in these product performance attributes, there can be no guarantee that these advantages will continue to exist in the future to the same extent or at all. Any declines in the competitiveness of our products could result in additional margin compression, further declines in the average selling prices of our solar modules, erosion in our market share for modules, decreases in the rate of revenue growth, and or declines in overall revenues. We have taken, and continue to take, various actions to mitigate the potential impact resulting from competitive pressures, including adjusting our pricing policies as necessary in core market segments to drive module volumes, accelerating progress along our module and BoS cost reduction roadmaps, and focusing our research and development on increasing the conversion efficiency of our solar modules. As we expand our systems business into transition and sustainable markets, we can offer value beyond the PV module, reduce our exposure to module only competition, provide differentiated offerings to minimize the impact of solar module commoditization, and provide comprehensive utility scale PV systems solutions that significantly reduce solar electricity costs. Thus, our systems business allows us to play a more active role than many of our competitors in managing the demand for our solar modules. Finally, we seek to form and develop strong partner relationships with our customers and continue to develop our range of offerings, including EPC capabilities and O&M or M&D services, in order to enhance the competitiveness of systems using our solar modules.Long Term Strategic Plan38 In December 2011 we announced a long term strategic plan ("Long Term Strategic Plan" or "LTSP") with a goal to transition to primarily sustainable opportunities by the end of 2014. In executing the LTSP we will focus on providing solar PV generation solutions to sustainable geographic markets that we believe have a compelling need for mass scale PV electricity, including new markets throughout the Americas, Asia, the Middle East, and Africa. As part of our LTSP, we expect to focus on opportunities in which our solar PV generation solutions will compete directly with fossil fuel offerings on a levelized cost of energy basis and decrease our focus on rooftop solar. Execution of the LTSP will entail a reallocation of resources around the globe, in particular dedicating resources to regions such as Latin America, Asia, the Middle East, and Africa where we have not traditionally conducted significant business to date. We will evaluate and manage closely the appropriate level of resources required as we transition into and penetrate these specific markets. We intend to dedicate significant capital and human resources to reduce the total installed cost of solar PV generation, to optimize the design and logistics around our solar PV generation solutions, and to ensure that our solutions integrate well into the overall electricity ecosystem of the specific region.Manufacturing Capacity As of December 31, 2011, we operated 36 production lines with an annual global manufacturing capacity of approximately 2.4 GW at our manufacturing plants in Perrysburg, Ohio, Frankfurt/Oder, Germany, and Kulim, Malaysia. In order to better align production with expected market demand, we expect to produce between approximately 1.5 GW to 1.8 GW of solar modules in 2012, reflecting a manufacturing capacity utilization rate of approximately 60% to 70%, compared to an expected manufacturing capacity of approximately 2.5 GW at the end of 2012. We expect to adjust such production plans in the future to match the then current expected market demand. We plan to idle half of our production capacity in our Frankfurt/Oder manufacturing facility for a period of time beginning in March 2012. We also plan to strategically idle additional production capacity to implement upgraded process technologies across existing manufacturing lines as part of our accelerated conversion efficiency improvement initiatives. We plan to take the Kulim production lines down on a rolling schedule for maintenance and equipment upgrades during 2012. The balancing of our production capabilities with market demand is a core component of our manufacturing capacity expansion strategy and our Long Term Strategic Plan. To that end in February 2012 we decided not to proceed with our previously announced 4 line plant in Vietnam. See Note 4. Restructuring and Acquisitions, to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. We have also postponed the commissioning of our previously announced 4 line plant in Mesa, Arizona and the construction of our previously announced 2 line plant in France until such time as global supply and demand dynamics support the additional manufacturing capacity in such geographic areas.2008 2009 Manufacturing Excursion During the period from June 2008 to June 2009, a manufacturing excursion occurred whereby certain modules manufactured during that time period may experience premature power loss once installed in the field. The root cause of the manufacturing excursion was identified and addressed in June 2009. Beginning in 2009, we initiated a voluntary remediation program beyond our standard limited warranty pursuant to which we made commitments to customers with systems containing modules manufactured during the relevant period that we would cover certain costs of remediation efforts. These remediation efforts included module removal, replacement and logistical services and additional compensation payments to customers under certain circumstances. Our best estimate for costs of our voluntary remediation program, as of and in each fiscal period in question, has been based on evaluation and consideration of the then currently available information, including the estimated number of affected modules in the field, historical experience related to our voluntary remediation efforts, customer provided data related to potentially affected systems and the estimated costs of performing the logistical services covered under our remediation program. As part of our voluntary remediation program, we have worked with our customers to identify systems that are potentially affected by modules manufactured during the relevant period. Although we have been able to identify potentially affected systems, the logistics costs of identifying, testing and replacing individual affected modules within a site once they have been installed renders searching for and replacing individual affected modules impracticable for us when we are not the owner or operator of the site. In many cases we elected to remediate our customers sites such that their overall site performance matched the customers expectations, and in doing so we determined that it was more efficient to either replace all modules within a site, for certain smaller sites below a size threshold, or, for larger sites, to identify groups, or strings, of modules that are underperforming, and replace the entire group or string with new modules. The additional information provided from sites that we have already remediated and modules we have removed and tested, permits us to identify the expected total number of modules necessary to remediate sites with potentially affected modules to match customers expectations, and to refine the cost estimates for our voluntary remediation program. As we have continued remediation efforts under our voluntary remediation program, we have learned that, in light of the impracticality of identifying and replacing individual affected models, in order to remediate the energy loss impact at a system level, we are required to remove and replace several modules in the aggregate, including modules that might not have been affected by the manufacturing excursion. Removed modules are returned to us and are further tested to determine if the module can be resold or whether the module requires recycling under our solar module collection and recycling program.39In the fourth quarter of 2011, we accrued additional expenses in excess of standard product warranty liability relating to our voluntary remediation program. A principal driver behind such additional accrual was our greater understanding as of year end, obtained through the processing of thousands of claims as described below, of the number of modules not affected in the manufacturing excursion that needed to be removed (and subsequently replaced) in order for us to be able to identify and remedy the number of modules actually affected by the manufacturing excursion. For additional information regarding accrued expenses in excess of standard product warranty liability relating to our voluntary remediation program, see Note 8. Consolidated Balance Sheet Details, to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Our voluntary remediation program, and the related manufacturing excursion, also resulted in changes in estimates to our product warranty liability. For additional information regarding these changes, see Note 16. Commitments and Contingencies, to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K.In response to our communications to customers regarding our intent to undertake a voluntary remediation program, we received more than five thousand customer claims, which covered an installed base greater than our entire production output during the June 2008 June 2009 timeframe. In our processing of these claims to date, we have determined that we will take remediation actions in accordance with our voluntary remediation program with respect to approximately 1,100 of such claims, approximately an additional 200 claims could, pending receipt of additional information, qualify for remediation, and the balance of approximately 4,000 claims have been or will be rejected as they did not meet the criteria for participation in our voluntary remediation program (including claims containing insufficient data necessary to evaluate them). We have expensed $215.7 million total to date for the estimated costs of remediating systems affected by modules manufactured during the relevant period, including $145.6 million for remediation expenses beyond our limited warranty obligations and $70.1 million in product warranty expense reflecting the net increase in the expected number of replacement modules required in connection with our remediation efforts, as described in more detail under Results of Operations Fiscal Years Ended December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 Cost of Sales and Results of Operations Fiscal Years Ended December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 Selling, General and Administrative. In addition to those customers with systems containing modules affected by the manufacturing excursion that we have already identified, we are working with a number of additional customers who have made claims and may have affected modules. We are in the process of gathering information to complete our analysis of these remaining claims. Based upon our experience to date with our remediation approach, together with the data currently available, we estimate that, if we ultimately remediate these systems under our current remediation program, we could incur additional costs of up to approximately $44 million. This includes approximately $24 million beyond our limited warranty obligations in connection with these claims, including the costs of actual remediation and the costs of additional compensation payments to customers under certain circumstances, and approximately $20 million related to additional product warranty liability. Module Installation in Non Temperate ClimatesWe believe our PV modules are potentially subject to increased failure rates in hot climates. This assumption is based on technical literature, data that we have developed internally including through accelerated life testing, our analysis of modules returned under warranty, and our analysis of performance data from systems that we monitor under O&M agreements. Processes that are accelerated by higher ambient temperatures include stress corrosion cracking in glass, polymer creepage and impurity diffusion processes. For more information about risks related to thin film module product performance, please see Item 1A: Thin film technology has a short history, and our thin film technology and solar modules and systems may perform below expectations; problems with product quality or performance may cause us to incur significant and or unexpected warranty and related expenses, damage our market reputation, and prevent us from maintaining or increasing our market share. First Solar has an extensive deployment history in temperate climates, such as Europe. Our deployed volume into hot climates, such as the southwestern United States, is mostly recent. We have increased our warranty reserve by $37.8 million to reflect our exposure to this shift in the mix of geographic regions where our modules are installed. As we execute on our Long Term Strategic Plan, we expect to install higher volumes in non temperate climates as part of our utility scale offerings in Asia, the Middle East, Africa, Australia and the southwestern United States. Accordingly, we will continue to review our warranty reserve in the future to reflect actual installations in such non temperate climates and adjust such reserve as appropriate. For additional information regarding changes in estimates to our product warranty liability see Note 16. Commitments and Contingencies, to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K.Financial Operations OverviewThe following describes certain line items in our statement of operations and some of the factors that affect our operating results.40Net SalesComponents BusinessDuring 2011, the majority of our net sales were generated from the sale of solar modules. We generally price and sell our solar modules per watt of power. During 2011, we sold the majority of our solar modules to solar power system project developers, system integrators, and operators headquartered in Germany, France, India, Italy, and the United States, which either resell our solar modules to end users or integrate them into power plants that they own, operate, or sell.As of December 31, 2011, we had supply contracts for the sale of solar modules with thirteen solar power system project developers and system integrators headquartered within the European Union expiring at the end of 2012 (Supply Contracts). Our sales prices under the Supply Contracts are primarily denominated in euros, exposing us to risks from currency exchange rate fluctuations. During the year ended December 31, 2011, 78% of our components business net sales were denominated in euros and were subject to fluctuations in the exchange rate between the euro and U.S. dollar. In the past, we have amended pricing, volume, and other terms in our Supply Contracts on a prospective basis in order to remain competitive, and we may decide in the future to further amend these contracts in order to address the highly competitive environment for solar modules. Effective September 30, 2011, the rebate program where we provided certain of our customers a price rebate for solar modules purchased from us, ended. We have begun early stage discussions with our customers under current Supply Contracts regarding replacement contracts for periods covering 2013 and beyond, but such replacement contracts are not expected to be long term in nature. For additional information regarding the rebate program, see Note 8. Consolidated Balance Sheet Details, to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K.We also enter into one time module sales agreements with customers for specific projects. Under our customer contracts, we transfer title and risk of loss to the customer and recognize revenue upon shipment. Our customers do not have extended payment terms or rights of return under these contracts. During 2011, the principal third party customers of our components business were EDF EN Development and Belectric. During 2011, each of these two customers individually accounted for more than 10% of our components segments net sales. Each of our other customers individually accounted for less than 10% of our net sales during 2011. Systems BusinessThrough our fully integrated systems business, we provide a complete solar power system solution using our solar modules, which may include project development, EPC services, O&M services, when applicable, and project finance, when required. Net sales from our systems segment may include the following types of transactions:Transaction DescriptionEngineer and Procure (EP) Contract Design for a customer of a solar electricity generation system that uses our solar modules; includes the procurement of all BoS components from third party suppliers. Engineer, Procure, and Construct (EPC) Contract Design and construction for a customer of a turn key solar electricity generation system that uses our solar modules; includes the procurement of all BoS components from third party suppliers. Sale of Project Assets Sale of project assets to a customer at various stages of development. This generally includes a single project consisting of costs incurred for permits, land or land rights, and or power off take agreements. Operating and Maintenance (O&M) Agreement Typically a fixed price long term services agreement.Net sales from our systems segment are impacted by numerous factors, including the magnitude and effectiveness of renewable portfolio standards, economic incentives, the competitiveness of our systems offering in comparison to our competitors solar systems and other forms of electricity generation and other PV system demand drivers.41During 2011, the majority of our systems business sales were generated in North America. Net sales from our systems business during 2010 resulted primarily from revenue recognition for utility scale solar power projects in North America and Europe. During 2009, net sales from our systems business resulted primarily from the sale of two utility scale solar power systems in the fourth fiscal quarter to utilities in the United States and Canada. We recognize revenue for arrangements entered into by the systems business generally using two revenue recognition models, following the guidance in ASC 605, Accounting for Long term Construction Contracts or, for arrangements which include land or land rights, ASC 360, Accounting for Sales of Real Estate. For construction contracts that do not include land or land rights and thus are accounted for under ASC 605, we use the percentage of completion method using actual costs incurred over total estimated costs to complete a project (including module costs) as our basic accounting policy, unless we cannot make reasonably dependable estimates of the costs to complete the contract, in which case we would use the completed contract method. We periodically revise our contract cost and profit estimates and we immediately recognize any losses that we identify on such contracts. Incurred costs include all direct materials, costs for solar modules, labor, subcontractor costs, and those indirect costs related to contract performance, such as indirect labor, supplies, and tools. We recognize direct material costs and costs for solar modules as incurred costs when the direct materials and solar modules have been installed. When construction contracts or other agreements specify that title to direct materials and solar modules transfers to the customer before installation has been performed, we defer revenue and associated costs and recognize revenue once those materials are installed and have met all other revenue recognition requirements. We consider direct materials to be installed when they are permanently attached or fitted to the solar power systems as required by engineering designs. For arrangements recognized under ASC 360, typically when we have gained control of land or land rights, we record the sale as revenue using one of the following revenue recognition methods, based upon the substance and the terms and conditions of such arrangements:We apply the percentage of completion method to certain arrangements covered under ASC 360, when the sale has been consummated, when we have transferred the usual risks and rewards of ownership to the buyer, the initial or continuing investment criteria have been met, we have the ability to estimate our costs and progress toward completion, and other revenue recognition criteria have been met. Depending on the value of the initial and continuing payment commitment by the buyer, we may align our revenue recognition and release of project assets to cost of sales with the receipt of payment from the buyer for sales arrangements accounted for under ASC 360. We record revenue for certain other arrangements covered under ASC 360 after construction of a project is complete, we have transferred the usual risks and rewards of ownership to the buyer, and we have received payment from the buyer.The below tables summarize, as of February 28, 2012, our 2.7 GW AC utility systems advanced project pipeline. As of December 31, 2011, for such pipeline, we have recognized revenue with respect to the equivalent of approximately180 MW AC. Such amount refers to the total cumulative revenue recognized with respect to projects in our pipeline, divided by total contracted revenue for such projects multiplied by the total MW AC for such projects. 42Projects Sold/Under Contract(includes uncompleted sold projects, projects under contracts for sale subject to conditions precedent, EPC contracts, and partner developed contracts) Project/LocationProject Size in MW AC (1)Power Purchase Agreement (PPA)Third Party Owner/PurchaserTopaz, California550PG&EMidAmericanSunlight, California550PG&E / SCENextEra/GEAgua Caliente, Arizona290PG&ENRG / MidAmericanAV Solar Ranch One, California230PG&EExelonCopper Mountain 2, Nevada150PG&ESempra (2)Imperial Energy Center South, California130SDG&ETenaska (2)Alpine, California66PG&ENRG (2)St. Clair, Ontario, Canada40OPA (4)NextEraWalpole, Ontario, Canada20OPA (4)GE/PlutonicBelmont, Ontario, Canada20OPA (4)GE/PlutonicMount St. Marys, Maryland16UOG (3)ConstellationAmherstburg 1, Ontario, Canada10OPA (4)GE/PlutonicGreenough River, Australia10WA WaterVerve/GE (2)Total2,082 Projects Permitted Not SoldProject/LocationProject Size in MW AC (1)Power Purchase Agreement (PPA)Silver State North, Nevada50NV EnergyTotal50 Projects in Development with Executed PPAProject/LocationProject Size in MW AC (1)Power Purchase Agreement (PPA)Stateline, California300SCESilver State South, Nevada250SCETotal550 Key:(1)The volume of modules installed in MW DC (direct current) will be higher than the MW AC size pursuant to a DC AC ratio ranging from 1.2 1.4. Such ratio varies across different projects due to various system design factors.(2)EPC contract or partner developed project(3)UOG Utility Owned Generation(4)OPA Ontario Power Authority RESOP programCost of SalesComponents BusinessOur cost of sales includes the cost of raw materials and components for manufacturing solar modules, such as tempered back glass, transparent conductive oxide coated front glass, cadmium telluride, laminate, connector assemblies, laminate edge seal, and other items. Our cost of sales also includes direct labor for the manufacturing of solar modules and manufacturing overhead such as engineering, equipment maintenance, environmental health and safety, quality and production control, and procurement costs. Cost of sales also includes depreciation of manufacturing plant and equipment and facility related expenses. In addition, we accrue warranty and solar module collection and recycling costs to our cost of sales.Overall, we expect our cost of sales per watt to continue to decrease over the next several years due to an increase in sellable 43watts per solar module, an increase in unit output per production line, and more efficient absorption of fixed costs driven by economies of scale. This expected decrease in cost per watt would be partially offset during periods in which we underutilize manufacturing capacity.Systems BusinessWithin our systems business, project related costs include standard EPC costs (consisting primarily of BoS costs for inverters, electrical and mounting hardware, project management and engineering costs, and installation labor costs), site specific costs, and development costs (including transmission upgrade costs, interconnection fees, and permitting costs). As further described in Note 24. Segment and Geographical Information, to our consolidated financial statements included within this Annual Report on Form 10 K, at the time when all revenue recognition criteria are met, we include the sale of our solar modules manufactured by our components business and used by our systems business (excluding inter company profit) as net sales of our components business. Therefore, the related cost of sales are also included within our components business at that time.Deferred project costs represent (i) costs that we capitalize for arrangements that we account for as real estate transactions after we have entered into a definitive sales arrangement, but before we have met all criteria to recognize the sale as revenue, (ii) recoverable pre contract costs that we capitalize for arrangements accounted for as long term construction contracts prior to entering into a definitive sales agreement, or (iii) costs that we capitalize for arrangements accounted for as long term construction contracts after we have signed a definitive sales agreement, but before all revenue recognition criteria have been met. As of December 31, 2011, deferred project costs capitalized on our balance sheet were $320.4 million, of which, $197.7 million was classified as current and $122.7 million was classified as noncurrent. As of December 31, 2010, our deferred project costs were $14.4 million, all of which was classified as current.Gross ProfitGross profit is affected by numerous factors, including our module average selling prices, foreign exchange rates, the existence and effectiveness of subsidies and other economic incentives, competitive pressures, market demand, market mix, our manufacturing costs, BoS costs, project development costs, the effective utilization of our production facilities, and the ramp of production on new plants due to a reduced ability to absorb fixed costs until full production volumes are reached. Gross profit is also subject to competitive pressures, most notably pressures resulting from declines in industry average selling prices. Gross profit margin is also affected by the mix of net sales generated by our components and systems businesses. Our systems business generally operates at a lower gross profit margin due to the pass through nature of certain BoS components procured from third parties. Gross profit for our systems business excludes the sales and cost of sales for solar modules, which we include in the gross profit of our components business.Research and DevelopmentResearch and development expense consists primarily of salaries and personnel related costs, the cost of products, materials, and outside services used in our process, and product research and development activities. We acquire equipment for general use in further process developments and record the depreciation of this equipment as research and development expense. Currently, the majority of our research and development expenses are attributable to our components segment.See Note 4. Restructuring and Acquisitions, to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. We maintain a number of programs and activities to improve our technology and processes in order to enhance the performance and reduce the costs of our solar modules and PV systems using our modules. Selling, General and AdministrativeSelling, general and administrative expense consists primarily of salaries and other personnel related costs, professional fees, insurance costs, travel expenses, and other selling expenses. We expect selling expenses to increase in the near term in order to support the planned growth of our business as we expand our sales and marketing efforts. Over time, we expect selling, general and administrative expense to decline as a percentage of net sales as our net sales increase. Our systems business has certain of its own dedicated administrative key functions, such as accounting, legal, finance, project finance, human resources, procurement, and marketing. Costs for such functions are recorded and included within selling, general and administrative costs for our systems segment. Our corporate key functions consist primarily of company wide corporate tax, corporate treasury, corporate accounting/finance, corporate legal, investor relations, corporate communications, and executive 44management functions. Based primarily on the significant growth of the systems business, we have concluded the corporate functions benefit both the components and systems segments. We allocate corporate costs to the components or systems segment as part of selling, general and administrative costs, based upon the estimated benefits to each segment from the corporate functions.Production Start UpProduction start up expense consists primarily of salaries and personnel related costs and the cost of operating a production line before it has been qualified for full production, including the cost of raw materials for solar modules run through the production line during the qualification phase. It also includes all expenses related to the selection of a new site and the related legal and regulatory costs, and the costs to maintain our plant replication program, to the extent we cannot capitalize these expenditures. We incurred production start up expense of $13.9 million during the year ended December 26, 2009 related to plant four of our Malaysian manufacturing center and our Ohio plant expansion. We incurred production start up expense of $19.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2010 related to our eight line Malaysian, four line German, one line Ohio, and two line France manufacturing expansions, including legal, regulatory, and personnel costs. Production start up expense for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $33.6 million related to our eight line Malaysian, four line German, two line France, four line Vietnam and four line Arizona manufacturing expansions, including legal, regulatory, and personnel costs. In general, we expect production start up expense per production line to be higher when we build an entirely new manufacturing facility compared with the addition of new production lines at an existing manufacturing facility, primarily due to the additional infrastructure investment required when building an entirely new facility. Production start up expense is attributable to our components segment. The balancing of our production capabilities with market demand is a core component of our manufacturing capacity expansion strategy and our Long Term Strategic Plan. To that end in February 2012 we decided not to proceed with our previously announced 4 line plant in Vietnam. See Note 4. Restructuring and Acquisitions, to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. We have also postponed the commissioning of our previously announced 4 line plant in Mesa, Arizona and the construction of our previously announced 2 line plant in France until such time as global supply and demand dynamics support the additional manufacturing capacity in those geographic areas.Goodwill ImpairmentDuring the fourth quarter of 2011, we determined that goodwill related to our components segment was impaired and recorded expense of $393.4 million.RestructuringIn December 2011, executive management approved a set of restructuring initiatives intended to accelerate operating cost reductions and improve overall operating efficiency. In connection with these restructuring initiatives, we incurred total charges of $60.4 million in the fourth quarter of 2011 and we expect to incur an additional $1.6 million in 2012 related to such restructuring initiatives. These charges consisted primarily of (i) $53.6 million of asset impairment and related charges due to a significant reduction in certain research and development activities that had been focused on an alternative PV product, and (ii) $6.8 million in severance benefits to terminated employees as described below, most of which is expected to be paid out by the end of 2012. We are refocusing our research and development center in Santa Clara, California on the development of advanced CdTe PV technologies, compared to a broader research and development effort up until now. We eliminated 101 positions company wide as part of the restructuring initiatives. In February 2012, executive management completed an evaluation of and approved a set of manufacturing capacity and other initiatives primarily intended to adjust our previously planned manufacturing capacity expansions and global manufacturing footprint. The primary goal of these initiatives is to better align production capacity and geographic location of such capacity with expected geographic market requirements and demand. In connection with these initiatives, we expect to incur total charges to operating expense of up to $135 million during the first half of 2012 and up to $140 million in total by the time such initiatives are complete, which is expected to be by the end of 2012. These expected charges consist primarily of (i) between $60 million to $100 million of asset impairment and related charges due to our decision in February 2012 not to proceed with our 4 line manufacturing plant under construction in Vietnam (carrying value of $134.4 million as of December 31, 2011), (ii) between $20 million and $30 million of asset impairment and related charges due to our decision in February 2012 to cease the use of certain manufacturing machinery and equipment intended for use in the production of certain components of our solar modules (carrying value of $28.5 million as of December 31, 2011), and (iii) between $5 million to $10 million of asset impairment and related charges primarily due to our decision in February 2012 to cease use of certain other long lived assets (carrying value of $7.2 million as of December 31, 2011).Based upon expected future market demand and our focus on providing utility scale PV generation solutions primarily to 45sustainable geographic markets, we have decided not to proceed with our previously announced 4 line plant in Vietnam. We expect to actively market the plant for sale after all necessary construction has been completed, which is currently expected to occur in the first half of 2012. Once certain criteria are met including the completion of all necessary construction activities and active marketing of the Vietnam plant, we expect to meet the held for sale criteria, at which time we expect to record an impairment charge based primarily upon the then current fair value of the Vietnam plant. Foreign Currency Gain (Loss)Foreign currency gain (loss) consists of gains and losses resulting from holding assets and liabilities and conducting transactions denominated in currencies other than our functional currencies.Interest IncomeInterest income is earned on our cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, and restricted cash and investments. Interest income also includes interest received from notes receivable and interest collected for late customer payments.Interest Expense, NetInterest expense, net of amounts capitalized, is incurred on various debt financings. We capitalize interest expense into our property, plant and equipment, project assets, and deferred project costs when such costs qualify for interest capitalization.Income Tax Expense Income taxes are imposed on our income by taxing authorities in the various jurisdictions in which we operate, principally the United States, Germany, and Malaysia. The statutory federal corporate income tax rate in the United States is 35.0%, while the tax rates in Germany and Malaysia are approximately 28.5% and 25.0%, respectively. In Malaysia, we have been granted a long term tax holiday, scheduled to expire in 2027, pursuant to which substantially all of our income earned in Malaysia is exempt from income tax.Critical Accounting EstimatesIn preparing our financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP), we make estimates and assumptions about future events that affect the amounts of reported assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, as well as the disclosure of contingent liabilities in our financial statements and the related notes thereto. Some of our accounting policies require the application of significant judgment by management in the selection of the appropriate assumptions for making these estimates. By their nature, these judgments are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty. We base our judgments and estimates on our historical experience, our forecasts, and other available information, as appropriate. Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, to our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2011 included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K.Our critical accounting estimates, which require the most significant management estimates and judgment in determining amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K, are as follows:Revenue Recognition Percentage of Completion Method. We recognize revenue for arrangements entered into by the systems business generally using two revenue recognition models, following the guidance in ASC 605, Accounting for Long term Construction Contracts or, for arrangements which include land or land rights, ASC 360, Accounting for Sales of Real Estate. We use the percentage of completion method using actual costs incurred over total estimated costs to complete a project (including module costs) for our construction contracts that do not include land or land rights and thus are accounted for under ASC 605, as our basic accounting policy, unless we cannot make reasonably dependable estimates of the costs to complete the contract, in which case we would use the completed contract method. We periodically revise our contract cost and profit estimates and we immediately recognize any losses that we identify on such contracts. Such estimates include significant judgment. Incurred costs include all direct materials, costs for solar modules, labor, subcontractor costs, and those indirect costs related to contract performance, such as indirect labor, supplies, and tools. We recognize direct material costs and costs for solar modules as incurred costs when the direct materials and solar modules have been installed. When construction contracts or other agreements specify that title to direct materials and solar modules transfers to the customer before installation has been performed, we defer revenue and associated costs and recognize revenue once those materials are installed and have met all other revenue recognition requirements. We consider direct materials to be installed when they are permanently attached or fitted to the solar power systems as required by engineering designs. 46We also apply the percentage of completion method to certain arrangements covered under ASC 360, when the sale has been consummated, when we have transferred the usual risks and rewards of ownership to the buyer, the initial or continuing investment criteria have been met, we have the ability to estimate our costs and progress toward completion, and other revenue recognition criteria have been met. Such estimates include significant judgment. Depending on the value of the initial and continuing payment commitment by the buyer, we may align our revenue recognition and release of project assets to cost of sales with the receipt of payment from the buyer for sales arrangements accounted for under ASC 360. Accrued Solar Module Collection and Recycling Liability. At the time of sale, we recognize an expense for the estimated fair value of our future obligation for collecting and recycling the solar modules that we have sold when they have reached the end of their useful lives. We base our estimate of the fair value of our collection and recycling obligations on the present value of the expected probability weighted future cost of collecting and recycling the solar modules, which includes the cost of packaging the solar modules for transport, the cost of freight from the solar module installation sites to a recycling center, the material, labor, and capital costs of the recycling process, and an estimated third party profit margin and return on risk for collection and recycling services. We base this estimate on our experience collecting and recycling our solar modules and on our expectations about future developments in recycling technologies and processes, about economic conditions at the time the solar modules will be collected and recycled, and about the expected timing of when our solar modules will be returned for recycling. In the periods between the time of our sales and our settlement of the collection and recycling obligations, we accrete the carrying amount of the associated liability by applying the discount rate used for its initial measurement. During the fourth quarter of 2011, we completed an annual cost study and updated our estimates for the expected future recycling costs. As a result, we adjusted our module collection and recycling liability accordingly. At December 31, 2011, our estimate of the fair value of our liability for collecting and recycling solar modules was $167.4 million. A 10% decrease in our estimate of the future cost of collecting and recycling a solar module would reduce this estimated liability by $16.7 million, to $150.7 million; a 10% increase in our estimate of the future cost of collecting and recycling a solar module would increase this estimated liability by $16.7 million, to $184.1 million.Product Warranties and Manufacturing Excursion. We have historically provided a limited warranty against defects in materials and workmanship under normal use and service conditions for 5 years following delivery to the owners of our solar modules. For solar module sales made subsequent to September 30, 2011, we have increased the limited warranty we provide against defects in materials and workmanship under normal use and service conditions from 5 years to 10 years.We also warrant to the owners of our solar modules that solar modules installed in accordance with agreed upon specifications will produce at least 90% of their power output rating during the first 10 years following their installation and at least 80% of their power output rating during the following 15 years. In resolving claims under both the defects and power output warranties, we have the option of either repairing or replacing the covered solar module or, under the power output warranty, providing additional solar modules to remedy the power shortfall. For modules sold after September 30, 2011, we also have the option to make a payment for the then current market module price to resolve claims. Our warranties are automatically transferred from the original purchasers of our solar modules to subsequent purchasers upon resale. When we recognize revenue for module sales, we accrue a liability for the estimated future costs of meeting our limited warranty obligations for those modules. We make and revise this estimate based on the number of our solar modules under warranty at customer locations, our historical experience with warranty claims, our monitoring of field installation sites, our in house testing of and the expected future performance of our solar modules, and our estimated per module replacement cost. Such estimates have changed, and may in the future change, based primarily upon additional information received from completed voluntary remediation efforts at certain sites and from the evaluation of information available after completion of the analysis on certain outstanding claims. Such additional information provides further understanding of, and additional data regarding, the number of replacement modules expected to be required in connection with our voluntary remediation efforts.We must also make an estimate for the cost of the remediation program described further in 2008 2009 Manufacturing Excursion. Our estimates for the remediation program have changed, and may in the future change, significantly in light of our ongoing remediation efforts and our continued analysis of remaining claims. In the fourth quarter of 2011, we processed approximately 40% of the claims related to the manufacturing excursion that we received. In light of the additional data we gained from processed claims, as well as experience from our remediation efforts, our estimates have been subject to change. Our estimate for such remediation costs is based on evaluation and consideration of currently available information, including the estimated number of affected modules in the field, historical experience related to our remediation efforts, customer provided data related to potentially affected systems, the estimated costs of performing the removal, replacement and logistical services, and the post sale expenses covered under our remediation program. Accounting for Income Taxes. We are subject to the income tax laws of the United States, and its states and municipalities and those of the foreign jurisdictions in which we have significant business operations. These tax laws are complex and subject 47to different interpretations by the taxpayer and the relevant governmental taxing authorities. We must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these inherently complex tax laws when determining our provision for income taxes and must also make estimates about when in the future certain items affect taxable income in the various tax jurisdictions. Disputes over interpretations of the tax laws may be settled with the taxing authority upon examination or audit. We regularly assess the likelihood of assessments in each of the taxing jurisdictions resulting from current and subsequent years examinations, and we record tax liabilities as appropriate. We establish liabilities for potential additional taxes that may arise out of tax audits in accordance with FASB Accounting Standards Codification Topic (ASC) 740, Income Taxes. Once established, we adjust the liabilities when additional information becomes available or when an event occurs requiring an adjustment. Significant judgment is required in making these estimates and the actual cost of a legal claim, tax assessment, or regulatory fine or penalty may ultimately be materially different from our recorded liabilities, if any. In preparing our consolidated financial statements, we calculate our income tax expense based on our interpretation of the tax laws in the various jurisdictions where we conduct business. This requires us to estimate our current tax obligations and the realizability of uncertain tax positions and to assess temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax bases of assets and liabilities. These temporary differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, the net current amount of which we show as a component of current assets or current liabilities and the net noncurrent amount of which we show as other assets or other liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet.We must also assess the likelihood that each of our deferred tax assets will be realized. To the extent we believe that realization of any of our deferred tax assets is not more likely than not, we establish a valuation allowance. When we establish a valuation allowance or increase this allowance in a reporting period, we generally record a corresponding tax expense in our consolidated statement of operations. Conversely, to the extent circumstances indicate that a valuation allowance is no longer necessary, that portion of the valuation allowance is reversed, which generally reduces our overall income tax expense.We also consider the earnings of our foreign subsidiaries and determine whether such amounts are indefinitely reinvested outside the United States. We have concluded that, except for the earnings of our Canadian subsidiary and with respect to previously taxed income, all such accumulated earnings are currently indefinitely reinvested. Accordingly, no additional taxes have been accrued that might be incurred if such amounts were repatriated to the United States. If our intention to indefinitely reinvest the earnings of our foreign subsidiaries changes, additional taxes may be required to be accrued. See Note 20. Income Taxes, to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for additional information.Long Lived Asset Impairment. We are required to assess the recoverability of the carrying value of long lived assets when an indicator of impairment has been identified. We review our long lived assets each quarter to assess whether impairment indicators are present. We must exercise judgment in assessing whether an event of impairment has occurred.For purposes of recognition and measurement of an impairment loss, a long lived asset or assets is grouped with other assets and liabilities at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities. We must exercise judgment in assessing the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities. For long lived assets, when impairment indicators are present, we compare undiscounted future cash flows, including the eventual disposition of the asset group at market value, to the asset groups carrying value to determine if the asset group is recoverable. This assessment requires the exercise of judgment in assessing the future use of and projected value to be derived from the assets to be held and used. Assessments also consider changes in asset group utilization, including the temporary idling of capacity and the expected timing of placing this capacity back into production. For an asset group that fails the test of recoverability described above, the estimated fair value of long lived assets may be determined using an income approach, market approach, cost approach, or a combination of one or more of these approaches as appropriate for the particular asset group being reviewed. All of these approaches start with the forecast of expected future net cash flows including the eventual disposition at market value of long lived assets. If there is an impairment, a loss is recorded to reflect the difference between the asset groups fair value and carrying value. This may require judgment in estimating future cash flows and relevant discount rates and residual values applied in the income approach used in estimating the current fair value of the impaired assets to be held and used.Our estimates are based upon our historical experience, our commercial relationships, and available information about future trends. We believe fair value assessments are most sensitive to market changes and the corresponding impact on volume and average selling prices and that these are more subjective than manufacturing cost and other assumptions. We believe our current 48assumptions and estimates are reasonable and appropriate.Goodwill. Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price of acquired businesses over the estimated fair value assigned to the individual assets acquired and liabilities assumed. We do not amortize goodwill, but instead are required to test goodwill for impairment at least annually in the fourth quarter and, if necessary, we would record any impairment in accordance with ASC 350, Intangibles Goodwill and Other. We will perform an impairment test between scheduled annual tests if facts and circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit that has goodwill is less than its carrying value. We may first make a qualitative assessment of whether it is more likely than not that a reporting units fair value is less than its carrying value to determine whether it is necessary to perform the two step goodwill impairment test. The qualitative impairment test includes considering various factors including macroeconomic conditions, industry and market conditions, cost factors, a sustained share price or market capitalization decrease, and any reporting unit specific events. If it is determined through the qualitative assessment that a reporting units fair value is more likely than not greater than its carrying value, the two step impairment test is not required. If the qualitative assessment indicates it is more likely than not that a reporting units fair value is not greater than its carrying value, we must perform the two step impairment test. We may also elect to proceed directly to the two step impairment test without considering such qualitative factors. The first step in a two step impairment test is the comparison of the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. Our two reporting units are the components and systems reporting units, which are the same as our reportable segments as described in Note 24. Segment and Geographical Information, to our consolidated financial statements. In accordance with the authoritative guidance over fair value measurements, we define the fair value of a reporting unit as the price that would be received to sell the unit as a whole in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. We primarily use the income approach methodology of valuation, which includes the discounted cash flow method, and the market approach methodology of valuation, which considers values of comparable businesses to estimate the fair values of our reporting units. We do not believe that a cost approach is relevant to measuring the fair values of our reporting units. Significant management judgment is required when estimating the fair value of our reporting units including the forecasting of future operating results, the discount rates and expected future growth rates that we use in the discounted cash flow method of valuation, and in the selection of comparable businesses that we use in the market approach. If the estimated fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value assigned to that unit, goodwill is not impaired and no further analysis is required. If the carrying value assigned to a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value in the first step, then we are required to perform the second step of the impairment test. In this step, we assign the fair value of the reporting unit calculated in step one to all of the assets and liabilities of that reporting unit, as if a market participant just acquired the reporting unit in a business combination. The excess of the fair value of the reporting unit determined in the first step of the impairment test over the total amount assigned to the assets and liabilities in the second step of the impairment test represents the implied fair value of goodwill. If the carrying value of a reporting units goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of goodwill, we would record an impairment loss equal to the difference. If there is no such excess then all goodwill for a reporting unit is considered impaired. During the fourth quarter of 2011, we determined through a two step goodwill impairment test that the $393.4 million in goodwill for our components reporting unit was fully impaired as discussed further in Note 5. Goodwill and Intangible Assets to our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2011 included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K.Results of OperationsThe following table sets forth our consolidated statements of operations as a percentage of net sales for the years ended December 31, 2011, December 31, 2010, and December 26, 2009:49 Years Ended December 31, 2011 December 31, 2010 December 26, 2009Net sales 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 %Cost of sales 64.9 % 53.8 % 49.4 %Gross profit 35.1 % 46.2 % 50.6 %Research and development 5.1 % 3.7 % 3.8 %Selling, general and administrative 14.9 % 12.5 % 13.2 %Production start up 1.2 % 0.8 % 0.7 %Goodwill impairment 14.2 % % %Restructuring 2.2 % % %Operating (loss) income (2.5)% 29.2 % 32.9 %Foreign currency gain (loss) % (0.1)% 0.3 %Interest income 0.5 % 0.6 % 0.5 %Interest expense, net % % (0.3)%Other income (expense), net % 0.1 % (0.1)%Income tax (benefit) expense (0.5)% 3.8 % 2.2 %Net (loss) income (1.4)% 26.0 % 31.1 %Fiscal Years Ended December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 Net Sales Years Ended Year Over(Dollars in thousands) 2011 2010 Year ChangeNet sales $2,766,207 $2,563,515 $202,692 8%The 8% increase in net sales for 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to an 85% increase in net sales by our systems business and a 7% increase in the volume in watts of solar modules sold, partially offset by a 10% decrease in our module average selling price (ASP).The 10% decline in our module ASP was attributable to a 15% decrease of our non systems module ASP due to competitive pressures and geographic mix, partially offset by a 5% increase of our systems module ASP driven primarily by the mix of systems projects. Net sales for our systems business increased by $320.0 million during 2011 compared to 2010, primarily due to an increase in the number and size of the various utility scale solar power systems under construction by us in 2011.Cost of Sales Years Ended Year Over(Dollars in thousands) 2011 2010 Year ChangeCost of sales $1,794,456 $1,378,669 $415,787 30%% of net sales 64.9% 53.8% The increase in cost of sales was primarily due to increases of $218.9 million in BoS and other construction costs from an increase in the number and size of the various utility scale solar power systems under construction by us in 2011, $71.2 million in personnel and other manufacturing costs related to the increase in volume of modules sold, $31.6 million of expense from voluntary remediation efforts for module removal, replacement and logistical services related to the manufacturing excursion discussed in 2008 2009 Manufacturing Excursion above, $70.1 million of expense due to an increase in the expected number of replacement modules required for such remediation efforts, $37.8 million for an increase in the expected number of warranty claims primarily related to potential module performance in certain climates, as described in Module Installation in Non Temperate Climates above, and $13.8 million for certain inventory write downs, primarily related to refurbished modules returned under the voluntary remediation efforts, as a result of ASP declines during the fourth quarter of 2011. These increases were partially offset by continuous cost reductions in our manufacturing operations. 50We expensed $99.7 million total to date in connection with our voluntary remediation efforts for module removal, replacement and logistical services related to the manufacturing excursion and $70.1 million in warranty expense accruals related to an increase in the expected number of required replacement modules in connection with our remediation efforts. Such amounts include $132.3 million of expense in 2011 and $94.0 million in expenses in the fourth quarter of 2011, reflecting our most recent best estimate for these remediation efforts. See Note 8. Consolidated Balance Sheet Details, and Note 16. Commitments and Contingencies, to our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2011 included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K.Our average manufacturing cost per watt declined by $0.02 per watt, or 3%, from $0.77 in 2010 to $0.75 in 2011 and included $0.01 of non cash stock based compensation. Gross Profit Years Ended Year Over(Dollars in thousands) 2011 2010 Year ChangeGross profit $971,751 $1,184,846 $(213,095) (18)%% of net sales 35.1% 46.2% Gross profit as a percentage of net sales decreased by 11.1 percentage points in 2011 compared with 2010. This decrease was attributable to the following: a 6.1 percentage point reduction due to a decline in our module ASP, a 1.5 percentage point reduction relating to voluntary remediation efforts for affected module removal, replacement and logistical services related to the manufacturing excursion discussed in Item 7: 2008 2009 Manufacturing Excursion in this Annual Report on Form 10 K, a 3.3 percentage point reduction due to an increase in the expected number of required replacement modules for such excursion related remediation efforts, a 1.8 percentage point reduction due to an increase in expected warranty claims for potential module performance in certain climates, and a 0.6 percentage point reduction due to inventory write downs. These decreases were partially offset by a 1.9 percentage point increase attributable to continued manufacturing scale and reductions in our manufacturing cost per watt, a 0.2 percentage point increase due to segment mix between our components and systems businesses, and a 0.1 percentage point increase due to the weakening of the euro against the U.S. dollar exchange rate. We expect that gross profit will continue to be impacted in future periods by the product mix between our components and systems businesses. Research and Development Years Ended Year Over(Dollars in thousands) 2011 2010 Year ChangeResearch and development $140,523 $94,797 $45,726 48%% of net sales 5.1% 3.7% The increase in research and development expense was primarily due to a $19.3 million increase in personnel related expenses (including a $4.5 million increase in share based compensation expense) resulting from hiring for increased investment in various research and development projects, a $25.6 million increase in testing and qualification material cost, and a $2.3 million increase in facilities and utilities expenses. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in other expenses of $1.5 million. During 2011 we continued the development of our solar module technology by increasing the conversion efficiency of our modules by approximately 5% compared to 2010 from 11.3% to 11.9%.Selling, General and Administrative Years Ended Year Over(Dollars in thousands) 2011 2010 Year ChangeSelling, general and administrative $412,541 $321,704 $90,837 28%% of net sales 14.9% 12.5% The increase in selling, general and administrative expense was primarily due to $34.8 million in estimated compensation payments to customers, under certain circumstances, for power lost prior to the remediation of the customers system under our voluntary remediation program discussed above in "2008 2009 Manufacturing Excursion, a $15.2 million increase in infrastructure spending partially related to the implementation of a new ERP system, $14.5 million increase in salaries and personnel related expenses (including a $1.5 million increase in share based compensation expense), a $10.5 million allowance for doubtful accounts concerning the collectability of past due accounts receivable for a certain customer, an $8.6 million increase in expenses related to the development of systems projects and new markets, and a $7.3 million increase in expenses related to professional fees, facilities, and other operating expenses.51We expensed $45.9 million total to date for compensation payments to customers for power lost prior to the remediation of the customers system under our voluntary remediation program discussed above in "2008 2009 Manufacturing Excursion. Such amounts include $40.3 million of expense in 2011 and $31.8 million in expenses in the fourth quarter of 2011, reflecting our most recent best estimate. Production Start Up Years Ended Year Over(Dollars in thousands) 2011 2010 Year ChangeProduction start up $33,620 $19,442 $14,178 73%% of net sales 1.2% 0.8% During 2011, we incurred $33.6 million of production start up expenses primarily due to manufacturing expansion activity in Germany, Malaysia, Vietnam, France, and Arizona, including legal, regulatory and personnel costs, compared with $19.4 million of production start up expenses for manufacturing expansion activity in Malaysia, France, Ohio, and Germany during 2010. Production start up expenses are comprised of the cost of labor and material and depreciation expense to run and qualify the production lines, related facility expenses, management of our replication process, and legal and regulatory costs.Goodwill impairment Years Ended Year Over(Dollars in thousands) 2011 2010 Year ChangeGoodwill impairment $393,365 $ $393,365 100%% of net sales 14.2% % As of December 31, 2010, the $393.4 million in goodwill related to our components reporting unit primarily represented goodwill originally allocated from the acquisitions of OptiSolar in 2009 and NextLight in 2010. The allocation of substantially all the goodwill from these acquisitions to our components reporting unit represented the expected synergies, economies of scale and vertical integration our components business would realize from using our solar modules in the project pipelines obtained from these acquisitions. The goodwill allocation to our components business was consistent with our historical view that the systems business functioned as an enabler for the components business to drive module throughput. Once goodwill has been assigned to a reporting unit, for accounting purposes, the goodwill is no longer associated with the underlying acquisitions that the goodwill originated from.We determined the implied fair value of goodwill in the components reporting unit to be zero as of December 31, 2011. As a result, we impaired all of the goodwill in the components reporting unit and recorded $393.4 million of impairment expense.See Note 5. Goodwill and Intangible Assets, to our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2011 included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K.Restructuring Years Ended Year Over(Dollars in thousands) 2011 2010 Year ChangeRestructuring $60,366 $ $60,366 100%% of net sales 2.2% % During 2011, we incurred $60.4 million of restructuring expenses due to charges relating to a series of initiatives to accelerate operating cost reductions and improve overall operating efficiency. See Note 4. Restructuring and Acquisitions, to our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2011 included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K.Foreign currency gain (loss) Years Ended Year Over(Dollars in thousands) 2011 2010 Year ChangeForeign currency gain (loss) $995 $(3,468) $4,463 (129)%52Foreign exchange gain increased during 2011 compared with 2010 primarily due to a decrease in our foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities in 2011. Interest Income Years Ended Year Over(Dollars in thousands) 2011 2010 Year ChangeInterest income $13,391 $14,375 $(984) (7)%Interest income decreased during 2011 compared with 2010 primarily as a result of interest received from notes receivable and penalties for late customer payments during 2010, partially offset by interest received on long term investments during 2011.Interest Expense, Net Years Ended Year Over(Dollars in thousands) 2011 2010 Year ChangeInterest expense, net $(100) $(6) $(94) 1,567%Interest expense, net of amounts capitalized, remained consistent during 2011 compared with 2010, as a result of substantially all interest expense being capitalized during both periods. See Note 8. Consolidated Balance Sheet Details, to our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2011 included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K.Other Income (Expense), Net Years Ended Year Over(Dollars in thousands) 2011 2010 Year ChangeOther income (expense), net $665 $2,273 $(1,608) (71)%Other income, net, decreased during 2011 compared with 2010, primarily as a result of a realized gain associated with the sale of our equity investment in a related party in 2010 and changes in fair value of certain foreign exchange contracts in 2011, partially offset by realized gains on the sale of fixed income investments in 2011.Income Tax (Benefit) Expense Years Ended Year Over(Dollars in thousands) 2011 2010 Year ChangeIncome tax (benefit) expense $(14,220) $97,876 $(112,096) (115)%Effective tax rate (26.5)% 12.8% Income tax (benefit) expense decreased by $112.1 million during 2011 compared with 2010. The reduction in income tax expense in 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily attributable to the reduction in pre tax profits during such periods and a greater percentage of profits earned in lower tax jurisdictions, offset by an increase in tax expense related to the impairment of non deductible goodwill. See Note 20. Income Taxes, to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for additional information.Fiscal Years Ended December 31, 2010 and December 26, 2009 Net Sales Years Ended Year Over(Dollars in thousands) 2010 2009 Year ChangeNet sales $2,563,515 $2,066,200 $497,315 24%The increase in net sales was primarily driven by strong demand from German customers in advance of further FiT reductions, an increase in revenue from our systems business, and an increase in production volume, resulting in a 28% increase in megawatts sold during 2010 compared with 2009. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in our module ASP. The increase in megawatts sold was attributable to the full production ramp of our four plant Malaysian manufacturing center in 2009, full 53production ramp of our Perrysburg, Ohio expansion in 2010, continued improvements to our manufacturing process and line throughput, and growth in our systems business. In addition, we increased the average conversion efficiency of our modules by approximately 3% during 2010 compared with 2009. Our module ASP, excluding the impact of systems segment break even reporting, decreased by approximately 10% during 2010 compared with 2009. The decline in our module average selling price was attributable to the following: a 5% decrease due to market price declines driven by FiT reductions in Europe, a 5% decrease due to annual contractual agreements, and a 2% decrease due to the weakening of the euro against the U.S. dollar exchange rate, partially offset by a 2% increase due to a shift in customer mix. Revenue recognized by our systems business during 2010 was $378.4 million and resulted primarily from the sale of utility scale solar power systems in Europe and North America and from percentage of completion revenue recognition for utility scale solar power systems in North America. During 2010 and 2009, 46% and 65%, respectively, of our net sales resulted from solar module sales to customers headquartered in Germany.Cost of Sales Years Ended Year Over(Dollars in thousands) 2010 2009 Year ChangeCost of sales $1,378,669 $1,021,618 $357,051 35%% of net sales 53.8% 49.4% The increase in cost of sales was due to higher sales volumes, including an increase in the completion and sale of utility scale solar power projects by our systems business, the full production ramp of our first four plants at our Malaysian manufacturing center in 2009, and the full production ramp of our Perrysburg, Ohio expansion in 2010. The increased production and sales volumes in our components business and increased volume sold through our systems business had the following effects: a $225.4 million increase in direct material expense, a $79.2 million increase in manufacturing overhead costs, an $18.0 million increase in sales freight, a $18.2 million increase in warranty expense, and a $16.3 million net increase in other costs. The $79.2 million increase in manufacturing overhead costs for 2010 was due to a $32.9 million increase in salaries and personnel related expenses (including a $10.8 million increase in share based compensation expense), a $17.0 million increase in depreciation and equipment expenses, a $2.0 million increase in facility related expenses, and a $27.3 million increase in incremental systems costs. Each of these manufacturing overhead cost increases primarily resulted from increased production capacity resulting from the full ramp of our Malaysian manufacturing center, expansion of our Perrysburg, Ohio plant, and ramp of our systems business. The net increase in other costs for 2010 includes $23.7 million related to an increase in estimated expenses for certain module replacement efforts beyond normal warranty related to the manufacturing excursion described above under "2008 2009 Manufacturing Excursion." Accordingly, we accrued additional expenses of $30.8 million in 2010 and $37.9 million in total to date to cover the replacement of the anticipated affected module population in the field. Such amounts include $8.5 million in expenses accrued during the fourth fiscal quarter of 2010, reflecting updated best estimates of the total replacement costs, based on our field data and execution to date of the module replacement program. Our average manufacturing cost per watt declined by $0.10 per watt, or 11%, from $0.87 in 2009 to $0.77 in 2010 and included $0.02 of non cash stock based compensation. Gross Profit Years Ended Year Over(Dollars in thousands) 2010 2009 Year ChangeGross profit $1,184,846 $1,044,582 $140,264 13%% of net sales 46.2% 50.6% Gross profit as a percentage of net sales decreased by 4.4 percentage points in 2010 compared with 2009. This decrease was attributable to the following: a 4.0 percentage point reduction due to a decline in our module ASP, a 3.9 percentage point reduction due to segment mix between our components and systems businesses, a 1.1 percentage point reduction relating to the manufacturing excursion discussed above under 2008 2009 Manufacturing Excursion, and a 0.6 percentage point reduction due to the weakening of the euro against the U.S. dollar exchange rate, partially offset by a 5.2 percentage point margin improvement attributable to continued manufacturing scale and reductions in our manufacturing cost per watt. We expect that gross profit will be impacted in future periods by the volatility of the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the euro and product mix between our components and systems businesses.54Research and Development Years Ended Year Over(Dollars in thousands) 2010 2009 Year ChangeResearch and development $94,797 $78,161 $16,636 21%% of net sales 3.7% 3.8% The increase in research and development expense was due to a $10.6 million increase in personnel related expenses (including a $2.2 million increase in share based compensation expense) resulting from increased headcount devoted to working on various projects to increase the efficiency of our modules at converting sunlight into electricity, and a $9.6 million increase in depreciation, testing, and qualification material costs, partially offset by a $3.6 million decrease in other expenses. During 2010, we continued the development of solar modules with increased efficiencies at converting sunlight into electricity and increased the conversion efficiency of our modules by approximately 3% compared with 2009.Selling, General and Administrative Years Ended Year Over(Dollars in thousands) 2010 2009 Year ChangeSelling, general and administrative $321,704 $272,898 $48,806 18%% of net sales 12.5% 13.2% The increase in selling, general and administrative expense was due to a $2.7 million increase in salaries and personnel related expenses due to growth (after giving effect to a $2.5 million decrease in share based compensation expense due to one time charges associated with our executive management team in 2009), a $17.6 million increase in expenses related to our systems business, a $14.8 million increase in facility and depreciation expenses, a $6.3 million increase in professional fees and expenses associated with the implementation of a new ERP system, and a $7.4 million increase in other expenses. Selling, general and administrative expense also included $5.3 million of other operating expenses related to impairment charges of certain project assets.Production Start Up Years Ended Year Over(Dollars in thousands) 2010 2009 Year ChangeProduction start up $19,442 $13,908 $5,534 40%% of net sales 0.8% 0.7% During 2010, we incurred $19.4 million of production start up expenses for our eight line Malaysian, four line German, one line Perrysburg, Ohio, and two line Blanquefort, France manufacturing expansions, including legal, regulatory, and personnel costs, compared with $13.9 million of production start up expenses for our Malaysian and Perrysburg, Ohio manufacturing expansions during 2009. Production start up expenses are composed of the cost of labor and material and depreciation expense to run and qualify the production lines, related facility expenses, management of our replication process, and legal and regulatory costs. Foreign Currency Gain (Loss) Years Ended Year Over(Dollars in thousands) 2010 2009 Year ChangeForeign currency gain (loss) $(3,468) $5,207 $(8,675) (167)%Foreign exchange gain decreased during 2010 compared with 2009 due to an increase in our foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities and volatility of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies, in particular the euro. Interest Income Years Ended Year Over(Dollars in thousands) 2010 2009 Year ChangeInterest income $14,375 $9,735 $4,640 48%55Interest income increased during 2010 compared with 2009 primarily as a result of an increase in the average interest bearing cash and investment balances year over year and interest earned from notes receivable.Interest Expense, Net Years Ended Year Over(Dollars in thousands) 2010 2009 Year ChangeInterest expense, net $(6) $(5,258) $5,252 (100)%Interest expense, net of amounts capitalized, decreased during 2010 compared with 2009, primarily as a result of higher amounts of interest expense capitalized during 2010. In addition, interest expense, net for 2009 included a $2.4 million expense related to the termination of the interest rate swaps for our German debt facility. We fully repaid this facility on June 30, 2009.Other Income (Expense), Net Years Ended Year Over(Dollars in thousands) 2010 2009 Year ChangeOther income (expense), net $2,273 $(2,985) $5,258 (176)%Other income during 2010 primarily resulted from a realized gain associated with the sale of our equity investment in a related party, partially offset by other expenses. Other expense during 2009 primarily resulted from nonrecurring expenses associated with our credit default swaps.Income Tax (Benefit) Expense Years Ended Year Over(Dollars in thousands) 2010 2009 Year ChangeIncome tax expense $97,876 $46,176 $51,700 112%Effective tax rate 12.8% 6.7% Income tax expense increased by $51.7 million during 2010 compared with 2009. Of this increase, $13.8 million related to a one time non cash tax charge in connection with our decision to repatriate approximately $300 million of earnings from certain of our foreign subsidiaries prior to January 1, 2011, when recently enacted U.S. international tax legislation became effective. In addition, $11.5 million related to a one time tax benefit recorded in 2009 in connection with the pull forward of the Malaysian tax holiday from 2008. Substantially all of the remainder of the increase related to a $75.8 million increase in pre tax income and a greater percentage of profits earned in higher tax jurisdictions. See Note 20. Income Taxes, to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for additional information.Business Segment Review Years Ended Year/Year Years Ended Year/Year(Dollars in thousands)2011 2010 % Change 2010 2009 % ChangeNet sales Components$2,067,887 $2,185,165 (5)% $2,185,165 $1,965,437 11%Systems698,320 378,350 85 % 378,350 100,763 275%Total$2,766,207 $2,563,515 8 % $2,563,515 $2,066,200 24% (Loss) income before income taxes (Segment profit) Components$(53,713) $762,077 (107)% $762,077 $686,314 11%Systems Total$(53,713) $762,077 (107)% $762,077 $686,314 11%Our Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM), consisting of certain members of senior executive staff, has viewed the manufacturing and sale of solar modules from the components segment as the core driver of our resource allocation, profitability, and cash throughput. All sales or service offerings from our systems segment are for PV solar power systems that use our solar modules, which are designed and manufactured by our components segment. As a result, we have viewed our systems segment 56as an enabler to drive module throughput. Our systems segment enables solar module throughput by developing state of the art construction techniques and process management to reduce the installed cost of our PV systems and, accordingly, this business was not intended to generate profits that are independent of the underlying solar modules sold with such systems segment service offerings. Therefore, for the fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, our CODM viewed the primary objective of our systems segment to be achieving break even results before income taxes. We include all sales of our solar modules manufactured by our components segment and installed in projects sold by our systems segment in net sales of our components business. See Note 24. Segment and Geographical Information, to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K.Components Segment Years Ended Year/Year Years Ended Year/Year(Dollars in thousands)2011 2010 % Change 2010 2009 % ChangeNet sales$2,067,887 $2,185,165 (5)% $2,185,165 $1,965,437 11%Cost of sales$1,275,436 $1,078,536 18 % $1,078,536 $928,039 16%(Loss) income before income taxes (Segment profit)$(53,713) $762,077 (107)% $762,077 $686,314 11%Components segment net sales decreased by 5% during 2011 compared with 2010, primarily due to lower ASP due to competitive pressure. Our module ASP, excluding the impact of systems segment break even reporting, decreased by approximately 10% during 2011 compared with 2010. The decline in our module ASP was attributable to a 15% decrease of our non systems module ASP due to competitive pressures and geographic mix. The decrease was partially offset by a 5% increase of our systems module ASP driven primarily by the mix of systems projects recognized in revenue. The effect of our segment reporting adjustments, to achieve break even results before income taxes for our systems segment, decreased the module average selling price by an additional 1%. Components segment net sales increased by 11% during 2010 compared with 2009, primarily driven by price elasticity that resulted in strong demand for our solar modules as prices declined, increased net sales attributable to modules installed in utility scale solar power systems for which we have recognized revenue, an increase in production volume as a result of bringing additional manufacturing lines into full production, and continued improvements to our manufacturing process. Components segment cost of sales increased by 18% during 2011 compared with 2010, and by 16% during 2010 compared with 2009, primarily due to higher production and sales volumes. In addition, cost of sales increased in 2011 compared to 2010 due to increased expense from voluntary remediation efforts related to the manufacturing excursion costs discussed above under "2008 2009 Manufacturing Excursion."Components segment profit decreased by 107% during 2011 compared with 2010, primarily due to goodwill impairment, lower average selling price, and higher costs resulting from the manufacturing excursion and related remediation program discussed above under "2008 2009 Manufacturing Excursion, partially offset by an increase in the MW volume of solar modules sold. Components segment profit increased by 11% during 2010 compared with 2009, primarily due to an increase in the MW volume of solar modules sold, reductions in our manufacturing cost per watt, and by increased throughput, partially offset by a decline in our module average selling price and certain manufacturing excursion and warranty related expenses. Systems Segment Years Ended Year/Year Years Ended Year/Year(Dollars in thousands)2011 2010 % Change 2010 2009 % ChangeNet sales$698,320 $378,350 85% $378,350 $100,763 275%Cost of sales$519,020 $300,133 73% $300,133 $93,579 221%(Loss) income before income taxes (Segment profit)$ $ $ $ Systems segment net sales increased from $378.4 million during 2010 to $698.3 million during 2011, reflecting primarily the completion and sale of, or percentage of completion revenue recognition for, various utility scale solar power systems in North America. 57Systems segment net sales increased from $100.8 million during 2009 to $378.4 million during 2010, reflecting primarily the sale of, or percentage of completion recognition for, various utility scale solar power systems in North America and Europe. Systems segment cost of sales increased from $300.1 million in 2010 to $519.0 million in 2011, and from $93.6 million in 2009 to $300.1 million in 2010, primarily due to the increase in construction activities for various utility scale solar power projects in North America during these periods.Systems segment profit was zero for 2011, 2010, and 2009. As noted above, we operate our systems segment with the objective to achieve break even results before income taxes. See Note 24. Segment and Geographical Information, to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for more information.Product Revenue The following table sets forth the total amounts of solar modules and solar power systems revenue recognized for the years ended December 31, 2011, December 31, 2010, and December 26, 2009. For the purposes of the following table, (a) solar module revenue is composed of total revenues from the sale of solar modules to third parties, and (b) solar power systems revenue is composed of total revenues from the sale of complete solar power systems and related services including the solar modules installed in the solar power systems.(Dollars in thousands) 2011 2010 2009Solar module revenue $1,523,695 $1,986,746 $1,903,765Solar power system revenue 1,242,512 576,769 162,435Net sales $2,766,207 $2,563,515 $2,066,200Liquidity and Capital ResourcesWe believe that our current cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, cash flows from operating activities, revolving credit facility, and access to the capital markets will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs for at least the next 12 months. We intend to continue to carefully execute our Long Term Strategic Plan and manage credit and market risk. However, if our financial results or operating plans change from our current assumptions, we may not have sufficient resources to support the execution of our Long Term Strategic Plan. Cash generated from operations is our primary source of operating liquidity and we believe that internally generated cash flows combined with our existing cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and availability under our revolving credit facility are sufficient to support day to day business operations. Our treasury department monitors the efficiency of our balance sheet to ensure we have adequate liquidity, both domestically and internationally, to support the execution of our Long Term Strategic Plan. As of December 31, 2011, we had $788.0 million in cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, compared with $1,113.8 million as of December 31, 2010. As of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, $638.9 million and $684.0 million, respectively, of our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities were held by foreign subsidiaries and are generally based in euros and U.S. dollar denominated holdings. We utilize a variety of tax planning and financing strategies in an effort to ensure that our worldwide cash is available in the locations in which it is needed.We intend to maintain appropriate debt levels based upon cash flow expectations, the overall cost of capital, and cash requirements for operations, capital expenditures and discretionary strategic spending. We believe that when necessary, we will have adequate access to capital markets, although our ability to raise capital on terms commercially acceptable to us could be constrained if there is insufficient investor interest due to industry wide or company specific concerns. We have an active shelf registration statement filed with the SEC for the issuance of debt or equity securities if needed.Our expanding systems business required increased liquidity in 2011 and is expected to continue to have significant liquidity requirements in the future. Solar power project development cycles, which span the time between the identification of a site location to the commercial operation of a PV power plant, vary substantially and can take many years to mature. As a result of these long project cycles, we may need to make significant up front investments of resources in advance of the receipt of any cash flows from the sale of or payments for such systems projects. These amounts include payment of interconnection and other deposits (some of which are non refundable), posting of letters of credit, and incurring engineering, permitting, legal, and other expenses. Additionally, we may have to use our working capital or the availability under our revolving credit facility to finance the construction of our systems projects, if such projects cannot be sold before construction begins. Depending upon the size and 58number of projects that we are developing and self financing the construction of, the systems business may require significant liquidity. For example, we may have to substantially complete the construction of a systems project before such project is sold. We have historically financed these up front investments for project development and when necessary, construction, primarily using working capital. In the future, we may also engage in one or more debt or equity financings. Such financings could result in increased expenses or dilution to our existing stockholders. If we are unable to obtain debt or equity financing on reasonable terms, we may be unable to execute our Long Term Strategic Plan. The following significant developments in 2011 have impacted or are expected to impact our liquidity: On May 18, 2011, in connection with the plant expansion at our German manufacturing center, FSM GmbH, our indirect wholly owned subsidiary, entered into a credit facility agreement (German Facility Agreement), which consisted of the following balances as of December 31, 2011(in thousands): BorrowingsOutstanding AvailabilityInterest Rate Maturity Denomination Original Capacity December 31, 2011 December 31, 2011EURIBOR plus 1.35% 2019 EUR 124,500 107,923 16,577See also Note 15. Debt, and Note 7. Restricted Cash and Investments, to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for further information about this facility.On June 30, 2011, in connection with the plant expansion at our Malaysian manufacturing center, FS Malaysia, our indirect wholly owned subsidiary, entered into a credit facility agreement (Malaysian Ringgit Facility Agreement), which consisted of the following at December 31, 2011 (in thousands): BorrowingsOutstanding AvailabilityInterest Rate Maturity Denomination Original Capacity December 31, 2011 December 31, 2011KLIBOR plus 2.00% 2018 MYR RM465,000 RM465,000 RMSee also Note 15. Debt, to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for further information about this facility.On August 3, 2011, in connection with the plant expansion at our Malaysian manufacturing center, FS Malaysia, our indirect wholly owned subsidiary, entered into a credit facility agreement (Malaysian Euro Facility Agreement), which consisted of the following at December 31, 2011 (in thousands): BorrowingsOutstanding AvailabilityInterest Rate Maturity Denomination Original Capacity December 31, 2011 December 31, 2011EURIBOR plus 1.00% 2018 EUR 60,000 52,046 See also Note 15. Debt, to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for further information about this facility.During 2011, we made significant capital expenditures related to the construction of manufacturing plants in Vietnam and Mesa, Arizona including expenditures for machinery and equipment for eight manufacturing lines. In February 2012 we decided to not proceed with our previously announced 4 line plant in Vietnam. See Note 4. Restructuring and Acquisitions, to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. We have also postponed the commissioning of our previously announced 4 line plant in Mesa, Arizona until global supply and demand dynamics support the additional manufacturing capacity. We expect to continue to make any necessary capital expenditures for these locations during 2012 to continue any necessary construction and to acquire the underlying machinery and equipment. Taking into account our expected restructuring and impairment charges, and potential additional future charges as we seek to align our manufacturing production with market demand, we could in the future incur significant additional restructuring costs (including potentially the repayment of debt facilities and other amounts, the payment of severance 59to terminated employees, and other costs) that could substantially reduce our liquidity position to the point where we need to pursue additional sources of financing, assuming such sources are available to us. During 2011, the amount of unbilled A/R increased to $533.4 million and represents revenues recognized on the construction of systems projects in advance of billing the customer under the terms of the underlying construction contracts. Such unbilled A/R represents construction we have funded with working capital and such amounts are expected to be billed and collected from customers during 2012. The unprecedented disruption in the credit markets that began in 2008 and the current instability in the Euro Zone have had a significant adverse impact on a number of financial institutions. The ongoing sovereign debt crisis in Europe and its impact on the balance sheets and lending practices of European banks in particular could negatively impact our access to, and cost of, capital, and therefore could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and competitive position. It could also similarly affect our customers and therefore limit the sales of our modules and demand for our systems business as well. As of December 31, 2011, our liquidity and investments have not been materially adversely impacted by the current credit environment and we believe that they will not be materially adversely impacted in the near future. We will continue to closely monitor our liquidity and the credit markets. However, we cannot predict with any certainty the impact to us of any further disruption in the credit environment. Cash FlowsThe following table summarizes the key cash flow metrics for the years ended December 31, 2011, December 31, 2010, and December 26, 2009 (in thousands): Years Ended 2011 2010 2009Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities $(33,463) $705,492 $675,193Net cash used in investing activities (676,457) (742,085) (701,690)Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 571,218 150,451 (22,021)Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (21,368) (12,668) (3,201)Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents $(160,070) $101,190 $(51,719)Operating ActivitiesCash used by operating activities was $33.5 million during 2011, compared with cash provided by operating activities of $705.5 million during 2010 and $675.2 million during 2009. The decrease in operating cash flows during 2011 was primarily due to the difference between net cash received from customers and net cash paid to suppliers being significantly less than in 2010 and 2009. This disparity was primarily the result of an increase in accounts receivable, unbilled, which represents revenue that has been recognized in advance of billing the customer. This is common for construction contracts. Although such construction work did not result in cash received from customers, the underlying cost of construction activities resulted in cash paid to suppliers creating a timing difference for cash flows from operating activities. Accounts receivable, unbilled as of December 31, 2011 is expected to be billed and collected within the next 12 months. Another significant driver of the decrease was the increase from 2010 in inventories and BoS parts, which resulted in an increase in cash paid to suppliers, but as such inventories and BoS parts were not yet sold, there was no corresponding cash received from customers. The remaining decrease in cash provided by operating activities was the result of net differences in excess tax benefits from share based compensation arrangements, income taxes paid, interest received and interest paid in 2011 compared to 2010 and 2009. Investing ActivitiesCash used in investing activities was $676.5 million during 2011, compared with $742.1 million during 2010 and $701.7 million during 2009. The decrease in cash used in investing activities was primarily the result of less acquisition activity in 2011 compared to 2010, and a larger net inflow from sales, maturities, and purchases of marketable securities in 2011 than in 2010 and 2009. Those increases were primarily offset by more capital expenditures during 2011 compared to 2010 and 2009 due to completion of two new plants in Malaysia, completion of expansions in Frankfurt/Oder Germany and Perrysburg, Ohio, and construction of new plants in Vietnam and Mesa, Arizona. During 2011, we made significant capital expenditures related to the construction of manufacturing plants in Vietnam and Mesa, Arizona including expenditures for machinery and equipment for eight manufacturing lines. The balancing of our production capabilities with market demand is a core component of our manufacturing capacity expansion strategy and our Long Term Strategic 60Plan. As discussed above, we will not construct our previously announced 4 line plant in Vietnam, and have indefinitely postponed the commissioning of our previously announced 4 line plant in Mesa, Arizona and the construction of our previously announced 2 line plant in France until global supply and demand dynamics support the additional manufacturing capacity. Although the timing for production from these plants is uncertain, we expect to continue to make any necessary capital expenditures for these capacity expansions during 2012 to continue construction and to acquire the underlying machinery and equipment. Financing ActivitiesCash provided by financing activities was $571.2 million during 2011 compared with cash provided by financing activities of $150.5 million during 2010 and cash used in financing of $22.0 million during 2009.Cash provided by financing activities resulted primarily from proceeds of $370.1 million from borrowings on our Malaysian Ringgit Facility Agreement, German Facility Agreement, and Malaysian Euro Facility along with $100.0 million of net proceeds from drawdowns on our Revolving Credit Facility. Additionally, we recorded excess tax benefits from share based compensation arrangements of $110.8 million and received cash from employee stock option exercises of $8.3 million. We used $33.8 million of cash for the repayment of long term debt. Cash provided by financing activities during 2010 resulted primarily from proceeds received from draw downs on our revolving credit facility of $100.0 million, excess tax benefits from share based compensation arrangements of $69.4 million as described below, and by cash received from employee stock option exercises of $9.4 million, partially offset by the repayment of long term debt of $27.9 million. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we realized $69.4 million of excess tax benefits related to share based compensation arrangements from the utilization of net operating loss carryforwards comprised of excess tax deductions primarily as a result of our decision to repatriate approximately $300 million of earnings from certain of our foreign subsidiaries. Cash used in financing activities during 2009 resulted primarily from the repayment of long term debt of $78.2 million, partially offset by draw downs on our prior Malaysian facility agreement, net of issuance costs, of $44.7 million related to the equipment export financing agreement for our Malaysian manufacturing center. Proceeds from the issuance of employee stock options during 2009 were $6.0 million. Excess tax benefits from share based compensation arrangements during 2009 were $4.9 million.Contractual ObligationsThe following table presents our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2011, which consists of legal commitments requiring us to make fixed or determinable cash payments. We purchase raw materials for inventory, services, and manufacturing equipment from a variety of vendors. We also enter into construction contracts for the construction of new or expansion of existing manufacturing plants. During the normal course of business, in order to manage manufacturing lead times and help assure adequate supply, we enter into agreements with suppliers that either allow us to procure goods and services when we choose or that establish purchase requirements. Payments Due by Year Contractual Obligations Total Less Than1 Year 1 3Years 3 5Years More Than5 Years (In thousands)Long term debt obligations $667,544 $46,368 $160,412 $335,359 $125,405Interest payments (1) 71,764 19,651 32,226 15,130 4,757Capital lease obligations 2,839 492 1,016 908 423Operating lease obligations 95,184 13,113 27,329 24,748 29,994Purchase obligations (2) 1,516,527 407,154 319,373 283,753 506,247Recycling obligations 167,378 167,378Other obligations (3) $20,817 $5,560 $10,578 $4,189 $490Total $2,542,053 $492,338 $550,934 $664,087 $834,694(1)Includes estimated cash interest to be paid over the remaining terms of the debt. Interest payments are based on fixed and floating rates in effect at December 31, 2011 and include the effect of interest rate swap agreements and cross currency swap agreements.61(2)Purchase obligations are agreements to purchase goods or services that are non cancellable, enforceable and legally binding on us and that specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased, fixed minimum, or variable price provisions, and the approximate timing of transactions.(3)Includes expected letter of credit fees, unused capacity fees for our revolving credit facility, and a debt surety (guarantee) fee for our German Facility Agreement.In addition to the amounts shown in the table above, we have recorded $82.9 million of unrecognized tax benefits as liabilities in accordance with ASC 740, Income Taxes, and we are uncertain as to if or when such amounts may be settled.Debt and Credit SourcesAs of December 31, 2011, we had $667.5 million in outstanding long term debt, excluding amounts related to capital leases, and $196.7 million in outstanding letters of credit and bank guarantees. Our long term debt consisted of the following at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 (in thousands):Type December 31, 2011 December 31, 2010Revolving Credit Facility $200,000 $100,000German Facility Agreement 140,085 Malaysian Ringgit Facility Agreement 146,725 Malaysian Euro Facility Agreement 67,556 Malaysian Facility Agreement 102,008 130,018Director of Development of the State of Ohio 6,337 8,112France Facility Agreement 4,833 Capital lease obligations 2,440 1,736 669,984 239,866Less unamortized discount (6,336) (2,475)Total long term debt 663,648 237,391Less current portion (44,505) (26,587)Noncurrent portion $619,143 $210,804At December 31, 2011, future principal payments on our long term debt were due as follows (in thousands):2012 $46,3682013 80,1872014 80,2252015 279,1372016 56,222Thereafter 125,405Total long term debt future principal payments $667,544The available capacity under our long term debt facilities was primarily related to our Revolving Credit Facility which had $251.3 million in available capacity at December 31, 2011. We believe that when necessary, we will have adequate access to capital markets, but there may be circumstances in the future related to macroeconomic conditions or factors specific to us that could limit, or increase the cost of, capital from such markets. We have an active shelf registration statement filed with the SEC for the issuance of debt or equity securities. We were in compliance with all debt covenants at December 31, 2011, and expect to remain in compliance with these covenants for at least the next twelve months. See Note 15. Debt, to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for further information about our long term debt facilities. Capital Expenditures62We expect to spend up to $425 million for capital expenditures during 2012, including expenditures for machinery and equipment which we believe will increase our solar module efficiencies and the necessary expenditures to continue certain construction activities and to acquire the underlying machinery and equipment for our manufacturing plants in Vietnam and Mesa, Arizona. A majority of our capital expenditures for 2012 will be incurred in foreign currencies and are therefore subject to fluctuations in currency exchange rates.Off Balance Sheet ArrangementsWe had no off balance sheet arrangements as of December 31, 2011.Recent Accounting PronouncementsSee Note 3. Recent Accounting Pronouncements, to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for a summary of recent accounting pronouncements.Item 7A: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market RiskForeign Currency Exchange RiskOur primary foreign currency exposures are cash flow exposure, transaction exposure, and earnings translation exposure.Cash Flow Exposure: We expect our subsidiaries to have material future cash flows, including revenues and expenses, that will be denominated in currencies other than the components functional currency. Our primary cash flow exposures are cash received from customers and cash paid to suppliers and associates. Changes in the exchange rates between our components functional currencies and the other currencies in which they transact will cause fluctuations in the cash flows we expect to receive or pay when these cash flows are realized or settled. Accordingly, we enter into foreign exchange forward or cross currency swap contracts to hedge the value of a portion of these forecasted cash flows. These foreign exchange forward and cross currency swap contracts qualified as cash flow hedges in accordance with ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging, and we designated them as such. We initially report the effective portion of the derivatives gain or loss in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), and subsequently reclassify amounts into earnings when the underlying hedged transaction is settled. Most of our German plants operating expenses are denominated in euros, creating natural hedges against the currency risk in our net sales. During the first half of 2011, we purchased foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge a portion of the exchange risk on forecasted cash flows denominated in euros. Our operations in Malaysia pay a portion of their operating expenses, such as associate wages and utilities, in Malaysian ringgit, exposing us to foreign currency exchange risk for those expenses.For additional details on our hedging instruments and activities, refer to Note 9. Derivative Financial Instruments, to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K.Our international operations accounted for 55%, 87%, and 93% of our net sales during the years ended December 31, 2011, December 31, 2010, and December 26, 2009, respectively, of which 78%, 84%, and 92% of these international sales, respectively, were denominated in euros. As a result, we have exposure to foreign currency exchange risk with respect to our net sales. Fluctuations in exchange rates, particularly in the U.S. dollar to euro exchange rate and U.S. dollar to Malaysian ringgit, affect our gross and net profit margins and could result in foreign exchange and operating losses. In the past, most of our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk has related to currency gains and losses between the time we sign and settle our sales contracts denominated in euros. For example, our Supply Contracts obligate us to deliver solar modules at a fixed price in euros per watt and do not adjust for fluctuations in the U.S. dollar to euro exchange rate. For the years ended December 31, 2011, December 31, 2010, and December 26, 2009, a 10% change in the euro exchange rates would have impacted our net euro sales by $123.7 million, $184.6 million, and $177.7 million, respectively, excluding the effect of our hedging activities. Our net sales denominated in euros are expected to continue to decline and therefore our foreign currency exchange risk associated with the euro is expected to also decline.Transaction Exposure: Many components of our business have assets and liabilities (primarily receivables, investments, accounts payable, debt, and solar module collection and recycling liabilities) that are denominated in currencies other than the components functional currency. Changes in the exchange rates between our components functional currencies and the other currencies in which these assets and liabilities are denominated can create fluctuations in our reported consolidated financial 63position, results of operations, and cash flows. We may enter into foreign exchange forward contracts or other derivative instruments to economically hedge assets and liabilities against the short term effects of currency exchange rate fluctuations. The gains and losses on these derivative instruments will offset all or part of the transaction gains and losses that we recognize in earnings on the related foreign currency assets and liabilities. These contracts typically have maturities of less than three months. For additional details on our economic hedging instruments and activities, refer to Note 9. Derivative Financial Instruments, to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K.If the U.S. dollar would have weakened by 10% against the euro, Malaysian ringgit, Japanese yen, Canadian dollar, and Australian dollar, the impact on our income before income taxes during the year ended December 31, 2011 would have been $0.5 million (favorable). If the U.S. dollar would have weakened by 10% against the euro, Malaysian ringgit, Japanese yen, and Canadian dollar the impact on our income before income taxes during the years ended December 31, 2010 and December 26, 2009 would have been $6.6 million (unfavorable) and $0.5 million (favorable), respectively.Earnings Translation Exposure: Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates create volatility in our reported results of operations because we are required to translate the financial statements of our subsidiaries that do not have a U.S. dollar functional currency. We may decide to purchase forward exchange contracts or other instruments to offset this impact from currency fluctuations. These contracts would be marked to market on a monthly basis and any unrealized gain or loss would be recorded in earnings. We do not hedge translation exposure at this time, but may do so in the future.In the past, currency exchange rate fluctuations have had an impact on our business and results of operations. For example, currency exchange rate fluctuations negatively impacted our cash flows by $21.4 million, $12.7 million, and $3.2 million in the years ended December 31, 2011, December 31, 2010, and December 26, 2009, respectively. Although we cannot predict the impact of future currency exchange rate fluctuations on our business or results of operations, we believe that we will continue to have risk associated with currency exchange rate fluctuations in the future. We will continue to evaluate actions we can take to use derivatives to help mitigate this risk.Interest Rate RiskOur primary interest rate risks are our outstanding variable rate debt, our solar power system sales prices from the effect of interest rates on our customers financing of such solar power systems, and our investments in debt securities.Variable Rate Debt Exposure: We are exposed to interest rate risk because our Revolving Credit Facility, German Facility Agreement, Malaysian Ringgit Facility Agreement, Malaysian Euro Facility Agreement, and the floating rate portion of our Malaysian Facility Agreement have variable interest rates, exposing us to variability in interest expense and cash flows. We use interest rate swap contracts and cross currency swap contracts to mitigate our exposure to interest rate fluctuations associated with a portion of our variable rate debt instruments. We have interest rate swap contracts in place to mitigate the interest rate risk for a portion our German Facility Agreement and the floating rate portion of our Malaysian Facility Agreement. We also have a cross currency swap contract in place to mitigate the interest rate risk of our Malaysian Ringgit Facility Agreement. For additional details on our hedging instruments and activities, refer to Note 9. Derivative Financial Instruments, to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. An increase in the Euro Interbank Offered Rate (EURIBOR) would impact our cost of borrowing under the unhedged portion of our German Facility Agreement and our entire Malaysian Euro Facility Agreement, and an increase in the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) would impact our cost of borrowing under our Revolving Credit Facility. If EURIBOR increased or decreased by 100 basis points, our interest cost for the year ended December 31, 2011 would have increased or decreased $0.6 million, respectively. If LIBOR increased or decreased by 100 basis points, our interest cost for the year ended December 31, 2011 would have increased or decreased $1.0 million, respectively. Effect on Customers Financing of Solar Power Systems: We are exposed to interest rate risk because many of our systems business customers depend on debt and equity financing to purchase a solar power system from us. Although the useful life of a solar power system is considered to be approximately 25 years, end users of our solar power systems must pay the entire cost of the solar power system by the time such system is completed. As a result, many of our customers rely on debt financing to fund their up front capital expenditures. An increase in interest rates could make it difficult for our end users to secure the financing necessary to purchase a system. This could lower demand or the price we can charge for our solar power systems and reduce our net sales. In addition, we believe that a significant percentage of our end users install solar power systems as an investment, funding the initial capital expenditure through a combination of equity and debt. An increase in interest rates could lower an investors return on investment in a system or make alternative investments more attractive relative to solar power systems, which, in each 64case, could cause these end users to seek alternative investments that promise higher returns.Investments in Debt Securities Exposure: We invest in debt securities, which exposes us to interest rate risk. The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal and provide liquidity on demand, while at the same time maximizing the income we receive from our investments without significantly increasing risk. Some of the securities in which we invest may be subject to market risk. This means that a change in prevailing interest rates may cause the market value of the investment to fluctuate. For example, if we hold a security that was issued with an interest rate fixed at the then prevailing rate and the prevailing interest rate later rises, the market value of our investment may decline. As of December 31, 2011, our marketable securities earned a pre tax yield of 0.48%, with a weighted average maturity of 11 months. If interest rates were to instantaneously increase (decrease) by 100 basis points, the market value of our total investment portfolio could decrease (increase) by $1.9 million. The direct risk to us associated with fluctuating interest rates is limited to our investment portfolio and we do not believe that a 10% change in interest rates would have a significant impact on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. As of December 31, 2011, all of our marketable securities were in commercial paper, corporate debt securities, federal and foreign agency debt, foreign government obligations, supranational debt, and U.S. government obligations.As of December 31, 2011, our restricted investments earned a pre tax yield of 5.85%, with a weighted average maturity of approximately 20 years. If interest rates were to instantaneously increase (decrease) by 100 basis points, the market value of our total restricted investment portfolio could decrease (increase) by $34.7 million. The direct risk to us associated with fluctuating interest rates is limited to our restricted investment portfolio. Given that our restricted investment portfolio is intended to pre fund our estimated solar module collection and recycling costs, and given the expected holding period of these investments, we believe it is unlikely that a 10% change in interest rates would have a significant impact on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. As of December 31, 2011, all of our restricted investments were in foreign and U.S. government obligations.Commodity and Component RiskWe are exposed to price risks for the raw materials, components, and energy costs used in the manufacture and transportation of our solar modules and BoS parts used in solar power systems. Also, some of our raw materials and components are sourced from a limited number of suppliers or a single supplier. We endeavor to qualify multiple suppliers using a robust qualification process. In some cases, we also enter into long term supply contracts for raw materials and components. As a result, we remain exposed to price changes in the raw materials and components used in our solar modules. In addition, a failure by a key supplier could disrupt our supply chain which could result in higher prices and or a disruption in our manufacturing process. We may be unable to pass along changes in the cost of the raw materials and components for our products and systems to our customers, and may be in default of our delivery obligations if we experience a manufacturing disruption.Credit RiskWe have certain financial and derivative instruments that subject us to credit risk. These consist primarily of cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, restricted investments, trade accounts receivable, interest rate swap contracts, cross currency swap contracts, and foreign exchange forward contracts. We are exposed to credit losses in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties to our financial and derivative instruments. We place cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, restricted investments, interest rate swap contracts, cross currency contracts, and foreign exchange forward contracts with various high quality financial institutions and limit the amount of credit risk from any one counterparty. We continuously evaluate the credit standing of our counterparty financial institutions.In addition, we have certain investments in debt securities related to countries in the Eurozone. These investments are for debt securities of countries with a lower likelihood of experiencing significant economic, fiscal, and or political strains such that default or severe decreases in fair value would occur. However, such risk cannot be eliminated and is reflected in the current fair value of the investments as of December 31, 2011.
 
Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsThe following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. In addition to historical consolidated financial information, the following discussion and analysis contains forward looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions as described under the Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements, that appears earlier in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated by these forward looking statements as a result of many factors, including those discussed under Item 1A: Risk Factors, and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K.OverviewWe manufacture and sell solar modules with an advanced thin film semiconductor technology, and we design, construct, and sell photovoltaic (PV) solar power systems.In furtherance of our goal of delivering the lowest cost of solar electricity and achieving price parity with conventional fossil fuel based peak electricity generation, we are continually focused on reducing PV solar system costs in four primary areas: module manufacturing, balance of systems (BoS) costs (consisting of the costs of the components of a solar power system other than the solar modules, such as inverters, mounting hardware, grid interconnection equipment, wiring and other devices, and installation labor costs), project development costs, and the cost of capital. First, with respect to our module manufacturing costs, our advanced technology has allowed us to reduce our average module manufacturing costs to the lowest in the world for modules produced on a commercial scale, based on publicly available information. In 2011, our total average manufacturing costs were $0.75 per watt, which we believe is less than those of traditional crystalline silicon solar module manufacturers. By continuing to improve conversion efficiency and production line throughput, lower material costs, and drive volume scale to further decrease overhead costs, we believe that we can further reduce our manufacturing costs per watt and maintain our cost advantage over traditional crystalline silicon solar module manufacturers. Second, with respect to our BoS costs, by continuing to improve conversion efficiency, leverage volume procurement around standardized hardware platforms, and accelerate installation times, we believe we can continue to make reductions in BoS costs, which represent over half of all of the costs associated with a typical utility scale PV solar power system. Third, with respect to our project development costs, we seek optimal site locations in an effort to minimize transmission and permitting costs, and to accelerate lead times to electricity generation. Finally, with respect to our cost of capital, by continuing to strengthen our financial position, demonstrate the financial viability and operational performance of our utility scale PV solar power plants, and increase our PV solar power system operating experience, we believe we can continue to lower the cost of capital associated with our PV solar power systems, thereby further enhancing the economic viability of our projects and lowering the cost of electricity generated by PV solar power systems that incorporate our modules and technology.We believe that combining our reliable, low cost module manufacturing capability with our systems business enables us to 36more rapidly reduce the price of solar electricity, accelerate the adoption of our technology in utility scale PV solar power systems, identify and remove constraints on the successful migration to sustainable solar markets around the world, and further our mission to create enduring value by enabling a world powered by clean, affordable solar electricity. We operate our business in two segments. Our components segment designs, manufactures, and sells solar modules primarily to solar project developers and system integrators. Through our systems segment, we have the capability to provide a complete PV solar power system, using our solar modules, for utility scale or large commercial systems. Providing a complete PV solar power system includes project development, engineering, procurement, and construction (EPC), operating and maintenance (O&M) services and monitoring and diagnostics (M&D) services, when applicable, and facilitating project finance, when required. We view the sale of solar modules from the components segment as the core driver of our profitability, return on net assets, and cash throughput. We view our systems segment as an enabler to drive module throughput for our components business with the objective of achieving break even results before income taxes for our systems segment. See also Note 24. Segment and Geographical Information, to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K.Market OverviewThe solar industry experienced a challenging environment in 2011. The year was categorized by intense pricing competition, bankruptcies of several solar companies, many solar companies with little or no operating income, and toward the end of the year, announcements of manufacturing shut downs or slow downs. At December 31, 2011, the global PV industry consisted of more than 150 manufacturers of solar modules and cells. In the aggregate, these manufactuers have installed production capacity that significantly exceeded global demand in 2011. As a result, industry average module pricing declined significantly as competitors reduced prices to sell through inventories in Europe and elsewhere. We believe this structural imbalance between supply and demand (i.e., where production capacity significantly exceeds current global demand) may continue for the foreseeable future, and we expect it will continue to put pressure on pricing and our results of operations in 2012. In light of such market realities, we have begun to execute our Long Term Strategic Plan under which we are focusing on our competitive strengths, notably providing utility scale PV generation solutions to sustainable geographic markets that have an immediate need for mass scale PV electricity.In addressing overall growing global demand for PV solar electricity, we have developed a differentiated, fully integrated systems business that can provide a low cost turn key utility scale PV system solution for system owners and low cost electricity to utility end users. Our fully integrated systems business has enabled us to increase module throughput, drive cost reduction across the value chain, identify and break constraints to sustainable markets, and deliver the most compelling solutions to our customers and end users. With our fully integrated systems business, we believe we are in a position to expand our business in transition markets and eventually economically sustainable markets (in which support programs are minimal), which are expected to develop in areas with abundant solar resources and sizable electricity demand. We are committed to continually lowering the cost of solar electricity, and in the long term, we plan to compete on an economic basis with conventional fossil fuel based peaking power generation. The major European governments continue to seek to balance subsidy costs with their commitment to the EU directives goal of a 20% share of energy from renewable sources in the EU by 2020. Governments in Germany, France, and Italy continue to evaluate changes to their FiT structures, market caps, and or tender processes. In many instances, such proposed FiT structures would particularly impact the competitiveness of our core offering of large scale free field PV systems and modules to be installed in such systems. For instance, the German government recently proposed significant and accelerated FiT reductions for projects up to 10 MW and an elimination of FiTs for projects over 10 MW. The resulting market uncertainties, together with increased European financing environment constraints, have contributed to demand pauses and increased customer difficulties in 2011, which, in conjunction with increased industry wide manufacturing capacity, have contributed to excess industry channel inventories. In 2011, industry average module pricing declined significantly as competitors reduced prices to sell through inventories in Europe and elsewhere in light of these factors. Lower industry module pricing, while currently challenging for solar manufacturers, in particular those with high cost structures, is expected to continue to contribute to global market diversification and volume elasticity. Over time, declining average selling prices are consistent with the erosion of one of the primary historical constraints to widespread solar market penetration, namely its overall affordability. In the near term, however, in light of continually evolving FiT structures in our core European markets and increased industry wide manufacturing capacity, it is uncertain whether growing demand from other countries and markets could absorb industry wide module supply without further inventory build up and or price reductions, which could adversely affect our results of operations. If competitors reduce module pricing to levels below their manufacturing costs, or are able to operate at minimal or negative operating margins for sustained periods of time, our results of operations could be further adversely affected. We continue to mitigate this uncertainty in part by executing on and building our North American utility scale systems pipeline as a buffer against demand fluctuations in Europe and elsewhere; by accelerating our thin film module efficiency improvements and cost reduction roadmaps to increase our competitive advantage, profitability and capital efficiency; by adjusting our production plans and capacity utilization to match expected demand, and by 37continuing the development of other geographic markets, including those in India, Australia, the Middle East, South America, and China.The development of market demand outside of the European Union continued during 2011, in part aided by demand elasticity resulting from declining industry average selling prices, which make solar power more affordable to new markets. In India, we entered into a 100 MW direct current (DC) module supply agreement (the largest PV module supply agreement in India to date) with one of Indias leading power generation companies. In Australia, we were contracted to provide our modules, EPC, and O&M services for Australias first utility scale solar power project, a 10 MW alternating current (AC) solar farm that will help power the Southern Seawater Desalination Plant in Western Australia.In North America, we have continued to execute on our utility scale systems pipeline. We made substantial construction progress on the 290 MW AC Agua Caliente project in Arizona during 2011, the financial impact of which is reflected below under Results of Operations. On September 30, 2011, we announced the sales and construction plans for what will be two of the worlds largest solar PV facilities, both in California. The two projects sold in the third quarter are the 550 MW AC Desert Sunlight Solar Farm, located west of Blythe, California, and the 230 MW AC Antelope Valley Solar Ranch One project, located just north of Los Angeles, California. In January 2012, we announced completion of the sale of the 550 MW AC Topaz Solar Farm, located in San Luis Obispo County, California.In the PV module segment, we continue to face intense competition from manufacturers of crystalline silicon solar modules and other types of solar modules and PV systems. Solar module manufacturers compete with one another in several product performance attributes, including reliability and module cost per watt, and, with respect to solar power systems, return on equity (ROE) and levelized cost of electricity (LCOE), meaning the net present value of total life cycle costs of the solar power project divided by the quantity of energy which is expected to be produced over the systems life. The ability to expand manufacturing capacity quickly is another source of differentiation among solar module manufacturers, and certain of our competitors may have a faster response time to capacity expansion than we do and or an ability to expand capacity in finer increments than we can. We are the lowest cost PV module manufacturer in the solar industry for modules produced on a commercial scale, based on publicly available information, and our average manufacturing cost per watt declined from $0.77 during 2010 to $0.75 during 2011. This cost advantage is reflected in the price at which we sell our modules or fully integrated systems and enables our systems to compete favorably in respect of their ROE or LCOE. Our cost competitiveness is based in large part on our proprietary technology (which enables conversion efficiency improvements and enables us to produce a module in less than 2.5 hours using a continuous and highly automated industrial manufacturing process, as opposed to a batch process), our scale, and our operational excellence. In addition, our modules use approximately 1 2% of the amount of semiconductor material (i.e., silicon) that is used to manufacture traditional crystalline silicon solar modules. The cost of polysilicon is a significant driver of the manufacturing cost of crystalline silicon solar modules, and the timing and rate of change in the cost of silicon feedstock and polysilicon could lead to changes in solar module pricing levels. Polysilicon costs declined in 2011, contributing to a decline in our manufacturing cost advantage over crystalline silicon module manufacturers. Although we are not a crystalline silicon module manufacturer, we estimate, based on industry research and public disclosures of our competitors, that a $10 per Kg increase or decrease in the price of polysilicon could increase or decrease, respectively, our competitors manufacturing cost per watt by approximately $0.05 to $0.08 over time. Given the lower conversion efficiency of our modules compared to crystalline silicon modules, there may be higher BoS costs associated with systems using our modules. Thus, to compete effectively on the basis of LCOE, our modules need to maintain a certain cost advantage per watt compared to crystalline silicon based modules. During 2011, we reduced our manufacturing cost per watt by 3% from our cost per watt in 2010 and continued to reduce BoS costs associated with systems using our modules. While our modules currently enjoy competitive advantages in these product performance attributes, there can be no guarantee that these advantages will continue to exist in the future to the same extent or at all. Any declines in the competitiveness of our products could result in additional margin compression, further declines in the average selling prices of our solar modules, erosion in our market share for modules, decreases in the rate of revenue growth, and or declines in overall revenues. We have taken, and continue to take, various actions to mitigate the potential impact resulting from competitive pressures, including adjusting our pricing policies as necessary in core market segments to drive module volumes, accelerating progress along our module and BoS cost reduction roadmaps, and focusing our research and development on increasing the conversion efficiency of our solar modules. As we expand our systems business into transition and sustainable markets, we can offer value beyond the PV module, reduce our exposure to module only competition, provide differentiated offerings to minimize the impact of solar module commoditization, and provide comprehensive utility scale PV systems solutions that significantly reduce solar electricity costs. Thus, our systems business allows us to play a more active role than many of our competitors in managing the demand for our solar modules. Finally, we seek to form and develop strong partner relationships with our customers and continue to develop our range of offerings, including EPC capabilities and O&M or M&D services, in order to enhance the competitiveness of systems using our solar modules.Long Term Strategic Plan38 In December 2011 we announced a long term strategic plan ("Long Term Strategic Plan" or "LTSP") with a goal to transition to primarily sustainable opportunities by the end of 2014. In executing the LTSP we will focus on providing solar PV generation solutions to sustainable geographic markets that we believe have a compelling need for mass scale PV electricity, including new markets throughout the Americas, Asia, the Middle East, and Africa. As part of our LTSP, we expect to focus on opportunities in which our solar PV generation solutions will compete directly with fossil fuel offerings on a levelized cost of energy basis and decrease our focus on rooftop solar. Execution of the LTSP will entail a reallocation of resources around the globe, in particular dedicating resources to regions such as Latin America, Asia, the Middle East, and Africa where we have not traditionally conducted significant business to date. We will evaluate and manage closely the appropriate level of resources required as we transition into and penetrate these specific markets. We intend to dedicate significant capital and human resources to reduce the total installed cost of solar PV generation, to optimize the design and logistics around our solar PV generation solutions, and to ensure that our solutions integrate well into the overall electricity ecosystem of the specific region.Manufacturing Capacity As of December 31, 2011, we operated 36 production lines with an annual global manufacturing capacity of approximately 2.4 GW at our manufacturing plants in Perrysburg, Ohio, Frankfurt/Oder, Germany, and Kulim, Malaysia. In order to better align production with expected market demand, we expect to produce between approximately 1.5 GW to 1.8 GW of solar modules in 2012, reflecting a manufacturing capacity utilization rate of approximately 60% to 70%, compared to an expected manufacturing capacity of approximately 2.5 GW at the end of 2012. We expect to adjust such production plans in the future to match the then current expected market demand. We plan to idle half of our production capacity in our Frankfurt/Oder manufacturing facility for a period of time beginning in March 2012. We also plan to strategically idle additional production capacity to implement upgraded process technologies across existing manufacturing lines as part of our accelerated conversion efficiency improvement initiatives. We plan to take the Kulim production lines down on a rolling schedule for maintenance and equipment upgrades during 2012. The balancing of our production capabilities with market demand is a core component of our manufacturing capacity expansion strategy and our Long Term Strategic Plan. To that end in February 2012 we decided not to proceed with our previously announced 4 line plant in Vietnam. See Note 4. Restructuring and Acquisitions, to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. We have also postponed the commissioning of our previously announced 4 line plant in Mesa, Arizona and the construction of our previously announced 2 line plant in France until such time as global supply and demand dynamics support the additional manufacturing capacity in such geographic areas.2008 2009 Manufacturing Excursion During the period from June 2008 to June 2009, a manufacturing excursion occurred whereby certain modules manufactured during that time period may experience premature power loss once installed in the field. The root cause of the manufacturing excursion was identified and addressed in June 2009. Beginning in 2009, we initiated a voluntary remediation program beyond our standard limited warranty pursuant to which we made commitments to customers with systems containing modules manufactured during the relevant period that we would cover certain costs of remediation efforts. These remediation efforts included module removal, replacement and logistical services and additional compensation payments to customers under certain circumstances. Our best estimate for costs of our voluntary remediation program, as of and in each fiscal period in question, has been based on evaluation and consideration of the then currently available information, including the estimated number of affected modules in the field, historical experience related to our voluntary remediation efforts, customer provided data related to potentially affected systems and the estimated costs of performing the logistical services covered under our remediation program. As part of our voluntary remediation program, we have worked with our customers to identify systems that are potentially affected by modules manufactured during the relevant period. Although we have been able to identify potentially affected systems, the logistics costs of identifying, testing and replacing individual affected modules within a site once they have been installed renders searching for and replacing individual affected modules impracticable for us when we are not the owner or operator of the site. In many cases we elected to remediate our customers sites such that their overall site performance matched the customers expectations, and in doing so we determined that it was more efficient to either replace all modules within a site, for certain smaller sites below a size threshold, or, for larger sites, to identify groups, or strings, of modules that are underperforming, and replace the entire group or string with new modules. The additional information provided from sites that we have already remediated and modules we have removed and tested, permits us to identify the expected total number of modules necessary to remediate sites with potentially affected modules to match customers expectations, and to refine the cost estimates for our voluntary remediation program. As we have continued remediation efforts under our voluntary remediation program, we have learned that, in light of the impracticality of identifying and replacing individual affected models, in order to remediate the energy loss impact at a system level, we are required to remove and replace several modules in the aggregate, including modules that might not have been affected by the manufacturing excursion. Removed modules are returned to us and are further tested to determine if the module can be resold or whether the module requires recycling under our solar module collection and recycling program.39In the fourth quarter of 2011, we accrued additional expenses in excess of standard product warranty liability relating to our voluntary remediation program. A principal driver behind such additional accrual was our greater understanding as of year end, obtained through the processing of thousands of claims as described below, of the number of modules not affected in the manufacturing excursion that needed to be removed (and subsequently replaced) in order for us to be able to identify and remedy the number of modules actually affected by the manufacturing excursion. For additional information regarding accrued expenses in excess of standard product warranty liability relating to our voluntary remediation program, see Note 8. Consolidated Balance Sheet Details, to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Our voluntary remediation program, and the related manufacturing excursion, also resulted in changes in estimates to our product warranty liability. For additional information regarding these changes, see Note 16. Commitments and Contingencies, to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K.In response to our communications to customers regarding our intent to undertake a voluntary remediation program, we received more than five thousand customer claims, which covered an installed base greater than our entire production output during the June 2008 June 2009 timeframe. In our processing of these claims to date, we have determined that we will take remediation actions in accordance with our voluntary remediation program with respect to approximately 1,100 of such claims, approximately an additional 200 claims could, pending receipt of additional information, qualify for remediation, and the balance of approximately 4,000 claims have been or will be rejected as they did not meet the criteria for participation in our voluntary remediation program (including claims containing insufficient data necessary to evaluate them). We have expensed $215.7 million total to date for the estimated costs of remediating systems affected by modules manufactured during the relevant period, including $145.6 million for remediation expenses beyond our limited warranty obligations and $70.1 million in product warranty expense reflecting the net increase in the expected number of replacement modules required in connection with our remediation efforts, as described in more detail under Results of Operations Fiscal Years Ended December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 Cost of Sales and Results of Operations Fiscal Years Ended December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 Selling, General and Administrative. In addition to those customers with systems containing modules affected by the manufacturing excursion that we have already identified, we are working with a number of additional customers who have made claims and may have affected modules. We are in the process of gathering information to complete our analysis of these remaining claims. Based upon our experience to date with our remediation approach, together with the data currently available, we estimate that, if we ultimately remediate these systems under our current remediation program, we could incur additional costs of up to approximately $44 million. This includes approximately $24 million beyond our limited warranty obligations in connection with these claims, including the costs of actual remediation and the costs of additional compensation payments to customers under certain circumstances, and approximately $20 million related to additional product warranty liability. Module Installation in Non Temperate ClimatesWe believe our PV modules are potentially subject to increased failure rates in hot climates. This assumption is based on technical literature, data that we have developed internally including through accelerated life testing, our analysis of modules returned under warranty, and our analysis of performance data from systems that we monitor under O&M agreements. Processes that are accelerated by higher ambient temperatures include stress corrosion cracking in glass, polymer creepage and impurity diffusion processes. For more information about risks related to thin film module product performance, please see Item 1A: Thin film technology has a short history, and our thin film technology and solar modules and systems may perform below expectations; problems with product quality or performance may cause us to incur significant and or unexpected warranty and related expenses, damage our market reputation, and prevent us from maintaining or increasing our market share. First Solar has an extensive deployment history in temperate climates, such as Europe. Our deployed volume into hot climates, such as the southwestern United States, is mostly recent. We have increased our warranty reserve by $37.8 million to reflect our exposure to this shift in the mix of geographic regions where our modules are installed. As we execute on our Long Term Strategic Plan, we expect to install higher volumes in non temperate climates as part of our utility scale offerings in Asia, the Middle East, Africa, Australia and the southwestern United States. Accordingly, we will continue to review our warranty reserve in the future to reflect actual installations in such non temperate climates and adjust such reserve as appropriate. For additional information regarding changes in estimates to our product warranty liability see Note 16. Commitments and Contingencies, to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K.Financial Operations OverviewThe following describes certain line items in our statement of operations and some of the factors that affect our operating results.40Net SalesComponents BusinessDuring 2011, the majority of our net sales were generated from the sale of solar modules. We generally price and sell our solar modules per watt of power. During 2011, we sold the majority of our solar modules to solar power system project developers, system integrators, and operators headquartered in Germany, France, India, Italy, and the United States, which either resell our solar modules to end users or integrate them into power plants that they own, operate, or sell.As of December 31, 2011, we had supply contracts for the sale of solar modules with thirteen solar power system project developers and system integrators headquartered within the European Union expiring at the end of 2012 (Supply Contracts). Our sales prices under the Supply Contracts are primarily denominated in euros, exposing us to risks from currency exchange rate fluctuations. During the year ended December 31, 2011, 78% of our components business net sales were denominated in euros and were subject to fluctuations in the exchange rate between the euro and U.S. dollar. In the past, we have amended pricing, volume, and other terms in our Supply Contracts on a prospective basis in order to remain competitive, and we may decide in the future to further amend these contracts in order to address the highly competitive environment for solar modules. Effective September 30, 2011, the rebate program where we provided certain of our customers a price rebate for solar modules purchased from us, ended. We have begun early stage discussions with our customers under current Supply Contracts regarding replacement contracts for periods covering 2013 and beyond, but such replacement contracts are not expected to be long term in nature. For additional information regarding the rebate program, see Note 8. Consolidated Balance Sheet Details, to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K.We also enter into one time module sales agreements with customers for specific projects. Under our customer contracts, we transfer title and risk of loss to the customer and recognize revenue upon shipment. Our customers do not have extended payment terms or rights of return under these contracts. During 2011, the principal third party customers of our components business were EDF EN Development and Belectric. During 2011, each of these two customers individually accounted for more than 10% of our components segments net sales. Each of our other customers individually accounted for less than 10% of our net sales during 2011. Systems BusinessThrough our fully integrated systems business, we provide a complete solar power system solution using our solar modules, which may include project development, EPC services, O&M services, when applicable, and project finance, when required. Net sales from our systems segment may include the following types of transactions:Transaction DescriptionEngineer and Procure (EP) Contract Design for a customer of a solar electricity generation system that uses our solar modules; includes the procurement of all BoS components from third party suppliers. Engineer, Procure, and Construct (EPC) Contract Design and construction for a customer of a turn key solar electricity generation system that uses our solar modules; includes the procurement of all BoS components from third party suppliers. Sale of Project Assets Sale of project assets to a customer at various stages of development. This generally includes a single project consisting of costs incurred for permits, land or land rights, and or power off take agreements. Operating and Maintenance (O&M) Agreement Typically a fixed price long term services agreement.Net sales from our systems segment are impacted by numerous factors, including the magnitude and effectiveness of renewable portfolio standards, economic incentives, the competitiveness of our systems offering in comparison to our competitors solar systems and other forms of electricity generation and other PV system demand drivers.41During 2011, the majority of our systems business sales were generated in North America. Net sales from our systems business during 2010 resulted primarily from revenue recognition for utility scale solar power projects in North America and Europe. During 2009, net sales from our systems business resulted primarily from the sale of two utility scale solar power systems in the fourth fiscal quarter to utilities in the United States and Canada. We recognize revenue for arrangements entered into by the systems business generally using two revenue recognition models, following the guidance in ASC 605, Accounting for Long term Construction Contracts or, for arrangements which include land or land rights, ASC 360, Accounting for Sales of Real Estate. For construction contracts that do not include land or land rights and thus are accounted for under ASC 605, we use the percentage of completion method using actual costs incurred over total estimated costs to complete a project (including module costs) as our basic accounting policy, unless we cannot make reasonably dependable estimates of the costs to complete the contract, in which case we would use the completed contract method. We periodically revise our contract cost and profit estimates and we immediately recognize any losses that we identify on such contracts. Incurred costs include all direct materials, costs for solar modules, labor, subcontractor costs, and those indirect costs related to contract performance, such as indirect labor, supplies, and tools. We recognize direct material costs and costs for solar modules as incurred costs when the direct materials and solar modules have been installed. When construction contracts or other agreements specify that title to direct materials and solar modules transfers to the customer before installation has been performed, we defer revenue and associated costs and recognize revenue once those materials are installed and have met all other revenue recognition requirements. We consider direct materials to be installed when they are permanently attached or fitted to the solar power systems as required by engineering designs. For arrangements recognized under ASC 360, typically when we have gained control of land or land rights, we record the sale as revenue using one of the following revenue recognition methods, based upon the substance and the terms and conditions of such arrangements:We apply the percentage of completion method to certain arrangements covered under ASC 360, when the sale has been consummated, when we have transferred the usual risks and rewards of ownership to the buyer, the initial or continuing investment criteria have been met, we have the ability to estimate our costs and progress toward completion, and other revenue recognition criteria have been met. Depending on the value of the initial and continuing payment commitment by the buyer, we may align our revenue recognition and release of project assets to cost of sales with the receipt of payment from the buyer for sales arrangements accounted for under ASC 360. We record revenue for certain other arrangements covered under ASC 360 after construction of a project is complete, we have transferred the usual risks and rewards of ownership to the buyer, and we have received payment from the buyer.The below tables summarize, as of February 28, 2012, our 2.7 GW AC utility systems advanced project pipeline. As of December 31, 2011, for such pipeline, we have recognized revenue with respect to the equivalent of approximately180 MW AC. Such amount refers to the total cumulative revenue recognized with respect to projects in our pipeline, divided by total contracted revenue for such projects multiplied by the total MW AC for such projects. 42Projects Sold/Under Contract(includes uncompleted sold projects, projects under contracts for sale subject to conditions precedent, EPC contracts, and partner developed contracts) Project/LocationProject Size in MW AC (1)Power Purchase Agreement (PPA)Third Party Owner/PurchaserTopaz, California550PG&EMidAmericanSunlight, California550PG&E / SCENextEra/GEAgua Caliente, Arizona290PG&ENRG / MidAmericanAV Solar Ranch One, California230PG&EExelonCopper Mountain 2, Nevada150PG&ESempra (2)Imperial Energy Center South, California130SDG&ETenaska (2)Alpine, California66PG&ENRG (2)St. Clair, Ontario, Canada40OPA (4)NextEraWalpole, Ontario, Canada20OPA (4)GE/PlutonicBelmont, Ontario, Canada20OPA (4)GE/PlutonicMount St. Marys, Maryland16UOG (3)ConstellationAmherstburg 1, Ontario, Canada10OPA (4)GE/PlutonicGreenough River, Australia10WA WaterVerve/GE (2)Total2,082 Projects Permitted Not SoldProject/LocationProject Size in MW AC (1)Power Purchase Agreement (PPA)Silver State North, Nevada50NV EnergyTotal50 Projects in Development with Executed PPAProject/LocationProject Size in MW AC (1)Power Purchase Agreement (PPA)Stateline, California300SCESilver State South, Nevada250SCETotal550 Key:(1)The volume of modules installed in MW DC (direct current) will be higher than the MW AC size pursuant to a DC AC ratio ranging from 1.2 1.4. Such ratio varies across different projects due to various system design factors.(2)EPC contract or partner developed project(3)UOG Utility Owned Generation(4)OPA Ontario Power Authority RESOP programCost of SalesComponents BusinessOur cost of sales includes the cost of raw materials and components for manufacturing solar modules, such as tempered back glass, transparent conductive oxide coated front glass, cadmium telluride, laminate, connector assemblies, laminate edge seal, and other items. Our cost of sales also includes direct labor for the manufacturing of solar modules and manufacturing overhead such as engineering, equipment maintenance, environmental health and safety, quality and production control, and procurement costs. Cost of sales also includes depreciation of manufacturing plant and equipment and facility related expenses. In addition, we accrue warranty and solar module collection and recycling costs to our cost of sales.Overall, we expect our cost of sales per watt to continue to decrease over the next several years due to an increase in sellable 43watts per solar module, an increase in unit output per production line, and more efficient absorption of fixed costs driven by economies of scale. This expected decrease in cost per watt would be partially offset during periods in which we underutilize manufacturing capacity.Systems BusinessWithin our systems business, project related costs include standard EPC costs (consisting primarily of BoS costs for inverters, electrical and mounting hardware, project management and engineering costs, and installation labor costs), site specific costs, and development costs (including transmission upgrade costs, interconnection fees, and permitting costs). As further described in Note 24. Segment and Geographical Information, to our consolidated financial statements included within this Annual Report on Form 10 K, at the time when all revenue recognition criteria are met, we include the sale of our solar modules manufactured by our components business and used by our systems business (excluding inter company profit) as net sales of our components business. Therefore, the related cost of sales are also included within our components business at that time.Deferred project costs represent (i) costs that we capitalize for arrangements that we account for as real estate transactions after we have entered into a definitive sales arrangement, but before we have met all criteria to recognize the sale as revenue, (ii) recoverable pre contract costs that we capitalize for arrangements accounted for as long term construction contracts prior to entering into a definitive sales agreement, or (iii) costs that we capitalize for arrangements accounted for as long term construction contracts after we have signed a definitive sales agreement, but before all revenue recognition criteria have been met. As of December 31, 2011, deferred project costs capitalized on our balance sheet were $320.4 million, of which, $197.7 million was classified as current and $122.7 million was classified as noncurrent. As of December 31, 2010, our deferred project costs were $14.4 million, all of which was classified as current.Gross ProfitGross profit is affected by numerous factors, including our module average selling prices, foreign exchange rates, the existence and effectiveness of subsidies and other economic incentives, competitive pressures, market demand, market mix, our manufacturing costs, BoS costs, project development costs, the effective utilization of our production facilities, and the ramp of production on new plants due to a reduced ability to absorb fixed costs until full production volumes are reached. Gross profit is also subject to competitive pressures, most notably pressures resulting from declines in industry average selling prices. Gross profit margin is also affected by the mix of net sales generated by our components and systems businesses. Our systems business generally operates at a lower gross profit margin due to the pass through nature of certain BoS components procured from third parties. Gross profit for our systems business excludes the sales and cost of sales for solar modules, which we include in the gross profit of our components business.Research and DevelopmentResearch and development expense consists primarily of salaries and personnel related costs, the cost of products, materials, and outside services used in our process, and product research and development activities. We acquire equipment for general use in further process developments and record the depreciation of this equipment as research and development expense. Currently, the majority of our research and development expenses are attributable to our components segment.See Note 4. Restructuring and Acquisitions, to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. We maintain a number of programs and activities to improve our technology and processes in order to enhance the performance and reduce the costs of our solar modules and PV systems using our modules. Selling, General and AdministrativeSelling, general and administrative expense consists primarily of salaries and other personnel related costs, professional fees, insurance costs, travel expenses, and other selling expenses. We expect selling expenses to increase in the near term in order to support the planned growth of our business as we expand our sales and marketing efforts. Over time, we expect selling, general and administrative expense to decline as a percentage of net sales as our net sales increase. Our systems business has certain of its own dedicated administrative key functions, such as accounting, legal, finance, project finance, human resources, procurement, and marketing. Costs for such functions are recorded and included within selling, general and administrative costs for our systems segment. Our corporate key functions consist primarily of company wide corporate tax, corporate treasury, corporate accounting/finance, corporate legal, investor relations, corporate communications, and executive 44management functions. Based primarily on the significant growth of the systems business, we have concluded the corporate functions benefit both the components and systems segments. We allocate corporate costs to the components or systems segment as part of selling, general and administrative costs, based upon the estimated benefits to each segment from the corporate functions.Production Start UpProduction start up expense consists primarily of salaries and personnel related costs and the cost of operating a production line before it has been qualified for full production, including the cost of raw materials for solar modules run through the production line during the qualification phase. It also includes all expenses related to the selection of a new site and the related legal and regulatory costs, and the costs to maintain our plant replication program, to the extent we cannot capitalize these expenditures. We incurred production start up expense of $13.9 million during the year ended December 26, 2009 related to plant four of our Malaysian manufacturing center and our Ohio plant expansion. We incurred production start up expense of $19.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2010 related to our eight line Malaysian, four line German, one line Ohio, and two line France manufacturing expansions, including legal, regulatory, and personnel costs. Production start up expense for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $33.6 million related to our eight line Malaysian, four line German, two line France, four line Vietnam and four line Arizona manufacturing expansions, including legal, regulatory, and personnel costs. In general, we expect production start up expense per production line to be higher when we build an entirely new manufacturing facility compared with the addition of new production lines at an existing manufacturing facility, primarily due to the additional infrastructure investment required when building an entirely new facility. Production start up expense is attributable to our components segment. The balancing of our production capabilities with market demand is a core component of our manufacturing capacity expansion strategy and our Long Term Strategic Plan. To that end in February 2012 we decided not to proceed with our previously announced 4 line plant in Vietnam. See Note 4. Restructuring and Acquisitions, to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. We have also postponed the commissioning of our previously announced 4 line plant in Mesa, Arizona and the construction of our previously announced 2 line plant in France until such time as global supply and demand dynamics support the additional manufacturing capacity in those geographic areas.Goodwill ImpairmentDuring the fourth quarter of 2011, we determined that goodwill related to our components segment was impaired and recorded expense of $393.4 million.RestructuringIn December 2011, executive management approved a set of restructuring initiatives intended to accelerate operating cost reductions and improve overall operating efficiency. In connection with these restructuring initiatives, we incurred total charges of $60.4 million in the fourth quarter of 2011 and we expect to incur an additional $1.6 million in 2012 related to such restructuring initiatives. These charges consisted primarily of (i) $53.6 million of asset impairment and related charges due to a significant reduction in certain research and development activities that had been focused on an alternative PV product, and (ii) $6.8 million in severance benefits to terminated employees as described below, most of which is expected to be paid out by the end of 2012. We are refocusing our research and development center in Santa Clara, California on the development of advanced CdTe PV technologies, compared to a broader research and development effort up until now. We eliminated 101 positions company wide as part of the restructuring initiatives. In February 2012, executive management completed an evaluation of and approved a set of manufacturing capacity and other initiatives primarily intended to adjust our previously planned manufacturing capacity expansions and global manufacturing footprint. The primary goal of these initiatives is to better align production capacity and geographic location of such capacity with expected geographic market requirements and demand. In connection with these initiatives, we expect to incur total charges to operating expense of up to $135 million during the first half of 2012 and up to $140 million in total by the time such initiatives are complete, which is expected to be by the end of 2012. These expected charges consist primarily of (i) between $60 million to $100 million of asset impairment and related charges due to our decision in February 2012 not to proceed with our 4 line manufacturing plant under construction in Vietnam (carrying value of $134.4 million as of December 31, 2011), (ii) between $20 million and $30 million of asset impairment and related charges due to our decision in February 2012 to cease the use of certain manufacturing machinery and equipment intended for use in the production of certain components of our solar modules (carrying value of $28.5 million as of December 31, 2011), and (iii) between $5 million to $10 million of asset impairment and related charges primarily due to our decision in February 2012 to cease use of certain other long lived assets (carrying value of $7.2 million as of December 31, 2011).Based upon expected future market demand and our focus on providing utility scale PV generation solutions primarily to 45sustainable geographic markets, we have decided not to proceed with our previously announced 4 line plant in Vietnam. We expect to actively market the plant for sale after all necessary construction has been completed, which is currently expected to occur in the first half of 2012. Once certain criteria are met including the completion of all necessary construction activities and active marketing of the Vietnam plant, we expect to meet the held for sale criteria, at which time we expect to record an impairment charge based primarily upon the then current fair value of the Vietnam plant. Foreign Currency Gain (Loss)Foreign currency gain (loss) consists of gains and losses resulting from holding assets and liabilities and conducting transactions denominated in currencies other than our functional currencies.Interest IncomeInterest income is earned on our cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, and restricted cash and investments. Interest income also includes interest received from notes receivable and interest collected for late customer payments.Interest Expense, NetInterest expense, net of amounts capitalized, is incurred on various debt financings. We capitalize interest expense into our property, plant and equipment, project assets, and deferred project costs when such costs qualify for interest capitalization.Income Tax Expense Income taxes are imposed on our income by taxing authorities in the various jurisdictions in which we operate, principally the United States, Germany, and Malaysia. The statutory federal corporate income tax rate in the United States is 35.0%, while the tax rates in Germany and Malaysia are approximately 28.5% and 25.0%, respectively. In Malaysia, we have been granted a long term tax holiday, scheduled to expire in 2027, pursuant to which substantially all of our income earned in Malaysia is exempt from income tax.Critical Accounting EstimatesIn preparing our financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP), we make estimates and assumptions about future events that affect the amounts of reported assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, as well as the disclosure of contingent liabilities in our financial statements and the related notes thereto. Some of our accounting policies require the application of significant judgment by management in the selection of the appropriate assumptions for making these estimates. By their nature, these judgments are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty. We base our judgments and estimates on our historical experience, our forecasts, and other available information, as appropriate. Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, to our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2011 included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K.Our critical accounting estimates, which require the most significant management estimates and judgment in determining amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K, are as follows:Revenue Recognition Percentage of Completion Method. We recognize revenue for arrangements entered into by the systems business generally using two revenue recognition models, following the guidance in ASC 605, Accounting for Long term Construction Contracts or, for arrangements which include land or land rights, ASC 360, Accounting for Sales of Real Estate. We use the percentage of completion method using actual costs incurred over total estimated costs to complete a project (including module costs) for our construction contracts that do not include land or land rights and thus are accounted for under ASC 605, as our basic accounting policy, unless we cannot make reasonably dependable estimates of the costs to complete the contract, in which case we would use the completed contract method. We periodically revise our contract cost and profit estimates and we immediately recognize any losses that we identify on such contracts. Such estimates include significant judgment. Incurred costs include all direct materials, costs for solar modules, labor, subcontractor costs, and those indirect costs related to contract performance, such as indirect labor, supplies, and tools. We recognize direct material costs and costs for solar modules as incurred costs when the direct materials and solar modules have been installed. When construction contracts or other agreements specify that title to direct materials and solar modules transfers to the customer before installation has been performed, we defer revenue and associated costs and recognize revenue once those materials are installed and have met all other revenue recognition requirements. We consider direct materials to be installed when they are permanently attached or fitted to the solar power systems as required by engineering designs. 46We also apply the percentage of completion method to certain arrangements covered under ASC 360, when the sale has been consummated, when we have transferred the usual risks and rewards of ownership to the buyer, the initial or continuing investment criteria have been met, we have the ability to estimate our costs and progress toward completion, and other revenue recognition criteria have been met. Such estimates include significant judgment. Depending on the value of the initial and continuing payment commitment by the buyer, we may align our revenue recognition and release of project assets to cost of sales with the receipt of payment from the buyer for sales arrangements accounted for under ASC 360. Accrued Solar Module Collection and Recycling Liability. At the time of sale, we recognize an expense for the estimated fair value of our future obligation for collecting and recycling the solar modules that we have sold when they have reached the end of their useful lives. We base our estimate of the fair value of our collection and recycling obligations on the present value of the expected probability weighted future cost of collecting and recycling the solar modules, which includes the cost of packaging the solar modules for transport, the cost of freight from the solar module installation sites to a recycling center, the material, labor, and capital costs of the recycling process, and an estimated third party profit margin and return on risk for collection and recycling services. We base this estimate on our experience collecting and recycling our solar modules and on our expectations about future developments in recycling technologies and processes, about economic conditions at the time the solar modules will be collected and recycled, and about the expected timing of when our solar modules will be returned for recycling. In the periods between the time of our sales and our settlement of the collection and recycling obligations, we accrete the carrying amount of the associated liability by applying the discount rate used for its initial measurement. During the fourth quarter of 2011, we completed an annual cost study and updated our estimates for the expected future recycling costs. As a result, we adjusted our module collection and recycling liability accordingly. At December 31, 2011, our estimate of the fair value of our liability for collecting and recycling solar modules was $167.4 million. A 10% decrease in our estimate of the future cost of collecting and recycling a solar module would reduce this estimated liability by $16.7 million, to $150.7 million; a 10% increase in our estimate of the future cost of collecting and recycling a solar module would increase this estimated liability by $16.7 million, to $184.1 million.Product Warranties and Manufacturing Excursion. We have historically provided a limited warranty against defects in materials and workmanship under normal use and service conditions for 5 years following delivery to the owners of our solar modules. For solar module sales made subsequent to September 30, 2011, we have increased the limited warranty we provide against defects in materials and workmanship under normal use and service conditions from 5 years to 10 years.We also warrant to the owners of our solar modules that solar modules installed in accordance with agreed upon specifications will produce at least 90% of their power output rating during the first 10 years following their installation and at least 80% of their power output rating during the following 15 years. In resolving claims under both the defects and power output warranties, we have the option of either repairing or replacing the covered solar module or, under the power output warranty, providing additional solar modules to remedy the power shortfall. For modules sold after September 30, 2011, we also have the option to make a payment for the then current market module price to resolve claims. Our warranties are automatically transferred from the original purchasers of our solar modules to subsequent purchasers upon resale. When we recognize revenue for module sales, we accrue a liability for the estimated future costs of meeting our limited warranty obligations for those modules. We make and revise this estimate based on the number of our solar modules under warranty at customer locations, our historical experience with warranty claims, our monitoring of field installation sites, our in house testing of and the expected future performance of our solar modules, and our estimated per module replacement cost. Such estimates have changed, and may in the future change, based primarily upon additional information received from completed voluntary remediation efforts at certain sites and from the evaluation of information available after completion of the analysis on certain outstanding claims. Such additional information provides further understanding of, and additional data regarding, the number of replacement modules expected to be required in connection with our voluntary remediation efforts.We must also make an estimate for the cost of the remediation program described further in 2008 2009 Manufacturing Excursion. Our estimates for the remediation program have changed, and may in the future change, significantly in light of our ongoing remediation efforts and our continued analysis of remaining claims. In the fourth quarter of 2011, we processed approximately 40% of the claims related to the manufacturing excursion that we received. In light of the additional data we gained from processed claims, as well as experience from our remediation efforts, our estimates have been subject to change. Our estimate for such remediation costs is based on evaluation and consideration of currently available information, including the estimated number of affected modules in the field, historical experience related to our remediation efforts, customer provided data related to potentially affected systems, the estimated costs of performing the removal, replacement and logistical services, and the post sale expenses covered under our remediation program. Accounting for Income Taxes. We are subject to the income tax laws of the United States, and its states and municipalities and those of the foreign jurisdictions in which we have significant business operations. These tax laws are complex and subject 47to different interpretations by the taxpayer and the relevant governmental taxing authorities. We must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these inherently complex tax laws when determining our provision for income taxes and must also make estimates about when in the future certain items affect taxable income in the various tax jurisdictions. Disputes over interpretations of the tax laws may be settled with the taxing authority upon examination or audit. We regularly assess the likelihood of assessments in each of the taxing jurisdictions resulting from current and subsequent years examinations, and we record tax liabilities as appropriate. We establish liabilities for potential additional taxes that may arise out of tax audits in accordance with FASB Accounting Standards Codification Topic (ASC) 740, Income Taxes. Once established, we adjust the liabilities when additional information becomes available or when an event occurs requiring an adjustment. Significant judgment is required in making these estimates and the actual cost of a legal claim, tax assessment, or regulatory fine or penalty may ultimately be materially different from our recorded liabilities, if any. In preparing our consolidated financial statements, we calculate our income tax expense based on our interpretation of the tax laws in the various jurisdictions where we conduct business. This requires us to estimate our current tax obligations and the realizability of uncertain tax positions and to assess temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax bases of assets and liabilities. These temporary differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, the net current amount of which we show as a component of current assets or current liabilities and the net noncurrent amount of which we show as other assets or other liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet.We must also assess the likelihood that each of our deferred tax assets will be realized. To the extent we believe that realization of any of our deferred tax assets is not more likely than not, we establish a valuation allowance. When we establish a valuation allowance or increase this allowance in a reporting period, we generally record a corresponding tax expense in our consolidated statement of operations. Conversely, to the extent circumstances indicate that a valuation allowance is no longer necessary, that portion of the valuation allowance is reversed, which generally reduces our overall income tax expense.We also consider the earnings of our foreign subsidiaries and determine whether such amounts are indefinitely reinvested outside the United States. We have concluded that, except for the earnings of our Canadian subsidiary and with respect to previously taxed income, all such accumulated earnings are currently indefinitely reinvested. Accordingly, no additional taxes have been accrued that might be incurred if such amounts were repatriated to the United States. If our intention to indefinitely reinvest the earnings of our foreign subsidiaries changes, additional taxes may be required to be accrued. See Note 20. Income Taxes, to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for additional information.Long Lived Asset Impairment. We are required to assess the recoverability of the carrying value of long lived assets when an indicator of impairment has been identified. We review our long lived assets each quarter to assess whether impairment indicators are present. We must exercise judgment in assessing whether an event of impairment has occurred.For purposes of recognition and measurement of an impairment loss, a long lived asset or assets is grouped with other assets and liabilities at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities. We must exercise judgment in assessing the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities. For long lived assets, when impairment indicators are present, we compare undiscounted future cash flows, including the eventual disposition of the asset group at market value, to the asset groups carrying value to determine if the asset group is recoverable. This assessment requires the exercise of judgment in assessing the future use of and projected value to be derived from the assets to be held and used. Assessments also consider changes in asset group utilization, including the temporary idling of capacity and the expected timing of placing this capacity back into production. For an asset group that fails the test of recoverability described above, the estimated fair value of long lived assets may be determined using an income approach, market approach, cost approach, or a combination of one or more of these approaches as appropriate for the particular asset group being reviewed. All of these approaches start with the forecast of expected future net cash flows including the eventual disposition at market value of long lived assets. If there is an impairment, a loss is recorded to reflect the difference between the asset groups fair value and carrying value. This may require judgment in estimating future cash flows and relevant discount rates and residual values applied in the income approach used in estimating the current fair value of the impaired assets to be held and used.Our estimates are based upon our historical experience, our commercial relationships, and available information about future trends. We believe fair value assessments are most sensitive to market changes and the corresponding impact on volume and average selling prices and that these are more subjective than manufacturing cost and other assumptions. We believe our current 48assumptions and estimates are reasonable and appropriate.Goodwill. Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price of acquired businesses over the estimated fair value assigned to the individual assets acquired and liabilities assumed. We do not amortize goodwill, but instead are required to test goodwill for impairment at least annually in the fourth quarter and, if necessary, we would record any impairment in accordance with ASC 350, Intangibles Goodwill and Other. We will perform an impairment test between scheduled annual tests if facts and circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit that has goodwill is less than its carrying value. We may first make a qualitative assessment of whether it is more likely than not that a reporting units fair value is less than its carrying value to determine whether it is necessary to perform the two step goodwill impairment test. The qualitative impairment test includes considering various factors including macroeconomic conditions, industry and market conditions, cost factors, a sustained share price or market capitalization decrease, and any reporting unit specific events. If it is determined through the qualitative assessment that a reporting units fair value is more likely than not greater than its carrying value, the two step impairment test is not required. If the qualitative assessment indicates it is more likely than not that a reporting units fair value is not greater than its carrying value, we must perform the two step impairment test. We may also elect to proceed directly to the two step impairment test without considering such qualitative factors. The first step in a two step impairment test is the comparison of the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. Our two reporting units are the components and systems reporting units, which are the same as our reportable segments as described in Note 24. Segment and Geographical Information, to our consolidated financial statements. In accordance with the authoritative guidance over fair value measurements, we define the fair value of a reporting unit as the price that would be received to sell the unit as a whole in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. We primarily use the income approach methodology of valuation, which includes the discounted cash flow method, and the market approach methodology of valuation, which considers values of comparable businesses to estimate the fair values of our reporting units. We do not believe that a cost approach is relevant to measuring the fair values of our reporting units. Significant management judgment is required when estimating the fair value of our reporting units including the forecasting of future operating results, the discount rates and expected future growth rates that we use in the discounted cash flow method of valuation, and in the selection of comparable businesses that we use in the market approach. If the estimated fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value assigned to that unit, goodwill is not impaired and no further analysis is required. If the carrying value assigned to a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value in the first step, then we are required to perform the second step of the impairment test. In this step, we assign the fair value of the reporting unit calculated in step one to all of the assets and liabilities of that reporting unit, as if a market participant just acquired the reporting unit in a business combination. The excess of the fair value of the reporting unit determined in the first step of the impairment test over the total amount assigned to the assets and liabilities in the second step of the impairment test represents the implied fair value of goodwill. If the carrying value of a reporting units goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of goodwill, we would record an impairment loss equal to the difference. If there is no such excess then all goodwill for a reporting unit is considered impaired. During the fourth quarter of 2011, we determined through a two step goodwill impairment test that the $393.4 million in goodwill for our components reporting unit was fully impaired as discussed further in Note 5. Goodwill and Intangible Assets to our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2011 included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K.Results of OperationsThe following table sets forth our consolidated statements of operations as a percentage of net sales for the years ended December 31, 2011, December 31, 2010, and December 26, 2009:49 Years Ended December 31, 2011 December 31, 2010 December 26, 2009Net sales 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 %Cost of sales 64.9 % 53.8 % 49.4 %Gross profit 35.1 % 46.2 % 50.6 %Research and development 5.1 % 3.7 % 3.8 %Selling, general and administrative 14.9 % 12.5 % 13.2 %Production start up 1.2 % 0.8 % 0.7 %Goodwill impairment 14.2 % % %Restructuring 2.2 % % %Operating (loss) income (2.5)% 29.2 % 32.9 %Foreign currency gain (loss) % (0.1)% 0.3 %Interest income 0.5 % 0.6 % 0.5 %Interest expense, net % % (0.3)%Other income (expense), net % 0.1 % (0.1)%Income tax (benefit) expense (0.5)% 3.8 % 2.2 %Net (loss) income (1.4)% 26.0 % 31.1 %Fiscal Years Ended December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 Net Sales Years Ended Year Over(Dollars in thousands) 2011 2010 Year ChangeNet sales $2,766,207 $2,563,515 $202,692 8%The 8% increase in net sales for 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to an 85% increase in net sales by our systems business and a 7% increase in the volume in watts of solar modules sold, partially offset by a 10% decrease in our module average selling price (ASP).The 10% decline in our module ASP was attributable to a 15% decrease of our non systems module ASP due to competitive pressures and geographic mix, partially offset by a 5% increase of our systems module ASP driven primarily by the mix of systems projects. Net sales for our systems business increased by $320.0 million during 2011 compared to 2010, primarily due to an increase in the number and size of the various utility scale solar power systems under construction by us in 2011.Cost of Sales Years Ended Year Over(Dollars in thousands) 2011 2010 Year ChangeCost of sales $1,794,456 $1,378,669 $415,787 30%% of net sales 64.9% 53.8% The increase in cost of sales was primarily due to increases of $218.9 million in BoS and other construction costs from an increase in the number and size of the various utility scale solar power systems under construction by us in 2011, $71.2 million in personnel and other manufacturing costs related to the increase in volume of modules sold, $31.6 million of expense from voluntary remediation efforts for module removal, replacement and logistical services related to the manufacturing excursion discussed in 2008 2009 Manufacturing Excursion above, $70.1 million of expense due to an increase in the expected number of replacement modules required for such remediation efforts, $37.8 million for an increase in the expected number of warranty claims primarily related to potential module performance in certain climates, as described in Module Installation in Non Temperate Climates above, and $13.8 million for certain inventory write downs, primarily related to refurbished modules returned under the voluntary remediation efforts, as a result of ASP declines during the fourth quarter of 2011. These increases were partially offset by continuous cost reductions in our manufacturing operations. 50We expensed $99.7 million total to date in connection with our voluntary remediation efforts for module removal, replacement and logistical services related to the manufacturing excursion and $70.1 million in warranty expense accruals related to an increase in the expected number of required replacement modules in connection with our remediation efforts. Such amounts include $132.3 million of expense in 2011 and $94.0 million in expenses in the fourth quarter of 2011, reflecting our most recent best estimate for these remediation efforts. See Note 8. Consolidated Balance Sheet Details, and Note 16. Commitments and Contingencies, to our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2011 included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K.Our average manufacturing cost per watt declined by $0.02 per watt, or 3%, from $0.77 in 2010 to $0.75 in 2011 and included $0.01 of non cash stock based compensation. Gross Profit Years Ended Year Over(Dollars in thousands) 2011 2010 Year ChangeGross profit $971,751 $1,184,846 $(213,095) (18)%% of net sales 35.1% 46.2% Gross profit as a percentage of net sales decreased by 11.1 percentage points in 2011 compared with 2010. This decrease was attributable to the following: a 6.1 percentage point reduction due to a decline in our module ASP, a 1.5 percentage point reduction relating to voluntary remediation efforts for affected module removal, replacement and logistical services related to the manufacturing excursion discussed in Item 7: 2008 2009 Manufacturing Excursion in this Annual Report on Form 10 K, a 3.3 percentage point reduction due to an increase in the expected number of required replacement modules for such excursion related remediation efforts, a 1.8 percentage point reduction due to an increase in expected warranty claims for potential module performance in certain climates, and a 0.6 percentage point reduction due to inventory write downs. These decreases were partially offset by a 1.9 percentage point increase attributable to continued manufacturing scale and reductions in our manufacturing cost per watt, a 0.2 percentage point increase due to segment mix between our components and systems businesses, and a 0.1 percentage point increase due to the weakening of the euro against the U.S. dollar exchange rate. We expect that gross profit will continue to be impacted in future periods by the product mix between our components and systems businesses. Research and Development Years Ended Year Over(Dollars in thousands) 2011 2010 Year ChangeResearch and development $140,523 $94,797 $45,726 48%% of net sales 5.1% 3.7% The increase in research and development expense was primarily due to a $19.3 million increase in personnel related expenses (including a $4.5 million increase in share based compensation expense) resulting from hiring for increased investment in various research and development projects, a $25.6 million increase in testing and qualification material cost, and a $2.3 million increase in facilities and utilities expenses. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in other expenses of $1.5 million. During 2011 we continued the development of our solar module technology by increasing the conversion efficiency of our modules by approximately 5% compared to 2010 from 11.3% to 11.9%.Selling, General and Administrative Years Ended Year Over(Dollars in thousands) 2011 2010 Year ChangeSelling, general and administrative $412,541 $321,704 $90,837 28%% of net sales 14.9% 12.5% The increase in selling, general and administrative expense was primarily due to $34.8 million in estimated compensation payments to customers, under certain circumstances, for power lost prior to the remediation of the customers system under our voluntary remediation program discussed above in "2008 2009 Manufacturing Excursion, a $15.2 million increase in infrastructure spending partially related to the implementation of a new ERP system, $14.5 million increase in salaries and personnel related expenses (including a $1.5 million increase in share based compensation expense), a $10.5 million allowance for doubtful accounts concerning the collectability of past due accounts receivable for a certain customer, an $8.6 million increase in expenses related to the development of systems projects and new markets, and a $7.3 million increase in expenses related to professional fees, facilities, and other operating expenses.51We expensed $45.9 million total to date for compensation payments to customers for power lost prior to the remediation of the customers system under our voluntary remediation program discussed above in "2008 2009 Manufacturing Excursion. Such amounts include $40.3 million of expense in 2011 and $31.8 million in expenses in the fourth quarter of 2011, reflecting our most recent best estimate. Production Start Up Years Ended Year Over(Dollars in thousands) 2011 2010 Year ChangeProduction start up $33,620 $19,442 $14,178 73%% of net sales 1.2% 0.8% During 2011, we incurred $33.6 million of production start up expenses primarily due to manufacturing expansion activity in Germany, Malaysia, Vietnam, France, and Arizona, including legal, regulatory and personnel costs, compared with $19.4 million of production start up expenses for manufacturing expansion activity in Malaysia, France, Ohio, and Germany during 2010. Production start up expenses are comprised of the cost of labor and material and depreciation expense to run and qualify the production lines, related facility expenses, management of our replication process, and legal and regulatory costs.Goodwill impairment Years Ended Year Over(Dollars in thousands) 2011 2010 Year ChangeGoodwill impairment $393,365 $ $393,365 100%% of net sales 14.2% % As of December 31, 2010, the $393.4 million in goodwill related to our components reporting unit primarily represented goodwill originally allocated from the acquisitions of OptiSolar in 2009 and NextLight in 2010. The allocation of substantially all the goodwill from these acquisitions to our components reporting unit represented the expected synergies, economies of scale and vertical integration our components business would realize from using our solar modules in the project pipelines obtained from these acquisitions. The goodwill allocation to our components business was consistent with our historical view that the systems business functioned as an enabler for the components business to drive module throughput. Once goodwill has been assigned to a reporting unit, for accounting purposes, the goodwill is no longer associated with the underlying acquisitions that the goodwill originated from.We determined the implied fair value of goodwill in the components reporting unit to be zero as of December 31, 2011. As a result, we impaired all of the goodwill in the components reporting unit and recorded $393.4 million of impairment expense.See Note 5. Goodwill and Intangible Assets, to our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2011 included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K.Restructuring Years Ended Year Over(Dollars in thousands) 2011 2010 Year ChangeRestructuring $60,366 $ $60,366 100%% of net sales 2.2% % During 2011, we incurred $60.4 million of restructuring expenses due to charges relating to a series of initiatives to accelerate operating cost reductions and improve overall operating efficiency. See Note 4. Restructuring and Acquisitions, to our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2011 included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K.Foreign currency gain (loss) Years Ended Year Over(Dollars in thousands) 2011 2010 Year ChangeForeign currency gain (loss) $995 $(3,468) $4,463 (129)%52Foreign exchange gain increased during 2011 compared with 2010 primarily due to a decrease in our foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities in 2011. Interest Income Years Ended Year Over(Dollars in thousands) 2011 2010 Year ChangeInterest income $13,391 $14,375 $(984) (7)%Interest income decreased during 2011 compared with 2010 primarily as a result of interest received from notes receivable and penalties for late customer payments during 2010, partially offset by interest received on long term investments during 2011.Interest Expense, Net Years Ended Year Over(Dollars in thousands) 2011 2010 Year ChangeInterest expense, net $(100) $(6) $(94) 1,567%Interest expense, net of amounts capitalized, remained consistent during 2011 compared with 2010, as a result of substantially all interest expense being capitalized during both periods. See Note 8. Consolidated Balance Sheet Details, to our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2011 included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K.Other Income (Expense), Net Years Ended Year Over(Dollars in thousands) 2011 2010 Year ChangeOther income (expense), net $665 $2,273 $(1,608) (71)%Other income, net, decreased during 2011 compared with 2010, primarily as a result of a realized gain associated with the sale of our equity investment in a related party in 2010 and changes in fair value of certain foreign exchange contracts in 2011, partially offset by realized gains on the sale of fixed income investments in 2011.Income Tax (Benefit) Expense Years Ended Year Over(Dollars in thousands) 2011 2010 Year ChangeIncome tax (benefit) expense $(14,220) $97,876 $(112,096) (115)%Effective tax rate (26.5)% 12.8% Income tax (benefit) expense decreased by $112.1 million during 2011 compared with 2010. The reduction in income tax expense in 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily attributable to the reduction in pre tax profits during such periods and a greater percentage of profits earned in lower tax jurisdictions, offset by an increase in tax expense related to the impairment of non deductible goodwill. See Note 20. Income Taxes, to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for additional information.Fiscal Years Ended December 31, 2010 and December 26, 2009 Net Sales Years Ended Year Over(Dollars in thousands) 2010 2009 Year ChangeNet sales $2,563,515 $2,066,200 $497,315 24%The increase in net sales was primarily driven by strong demand from German customers in advance of further FiT reductions, an increase in revenue from our systems business, and an increase in production volume, resulting in a 28% increase in megawatts sold during 2010 compared with 2009. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in our module ASP. The increase in megawatts sold was attributable to the full production ramp of our four plant Malaysian manufacturing center in 2009, full 53production ramp of our Perrysburg, Ohio expansion in 2010, continued improvements to our manufacturing process and line throughput, and growth in our systems business. In addition, we increased the average conversion efficiency of our modules by approximately 3% during 2010 compared with 2009. Our module ASP, excluding the impact of systems segment break even reporting, decreased by approximately 10% during 2010 compared with 2009. The decline in our module average selling price was attributable to the following: a 5% decrease due to market price declines driven by FiT reductions in Europe, a 5% decrease due to annual contractual agreements, and a 2% decrease due to the weakening of the euro against the U.S. dollar exchange rate, partially offset by a 2% increase due to a shift in customer mix. Revenue recognized by our systems business during 2010 was $378.4 million and resulted primarily from the sale of utility scale solar power systems in Europe and North America and from percentage of completion revenue recognition for utility scale solar power systems in North America. During 2010 and 2009, 46% and 65%, respectively, of our net sales resulted from solar module sales to customers headquartered in Germany.Cost of Sales Years Ended Year Over(Dollars in thousands) 2010 2009 Year ChangeCost of sales $1,378,669 $1,021,618 $357,051 35%% of net sales 53.8% 49.4% The increase in cost of sales was due to higher sales volumes, including an increase in the completion and sale of utility scale solar power projects by our systems business, the full production ramp of our first four plants at our Malaysian manufacturing center in 2009, and the full production ramp of our Perrysburg, Ohio expansion in 2010. The increased production and sales volumes in our components business and increased volume sold through our systems business had the following effects: a $225.4 million increase in direct material expense, a $79.2 million increase in manufacturing overhead costs, an $18.0 million increase in sales freight, a $18.2 million increase in warranty expense, and a $16.3 million net increase in other costs. The $79.2 million increase in manufacturing overhead costs for 2010 was due to a $32.9 million increase in salaries and personnel related expenses (including a $10.8 million increase in share based compensation expense), a $17.0 million increase in depreciation and equipment expenses, a $2.0 million increase in facility related expenses, and a $27.3 million increase in incremental systems costs. Each of these manufacturing overhead cost increases primarily resulted from increased production capacity resulting from the full ramp of our Malaysian manufacturing center, expansion of our Perrysburg, Ohio plant, and ramp of our systems business. The net increase in other costs for 2010 includes $23.7 million related to an increase in estimated expenses for certain module replacement efforts beyond normal warranty related to the manufacturing excursion described above under "2008 2009 Manufacturing Excursion." Accordingly, we accrued additional expenses of $30.8 million in 2010 and $37.9 million in total to date to cover the replacement of the anticipated affected module population in the field. Such amounts include $8.5 million in expenses accrued during the fourth fiscal quarter of 2010, reflecting updated best estimates of the total replacement costs, based on our field data and execution to date of the module replacement program. Our average manufacturing cost per watt declined by $0.10 per watt, or 11%, from $0.87 in 2009 to $0.77 in 2010 and included $0.02 of non cash stock based compensation. Gross Profit Years Ended Year Over(Dollars in thousands) 2010 2009 Year ChangeGross profit $1,184,846 $1,044,582 $140,264 13%% of net sales 46.2% 50.6% Gross profit as a percentage of net sales decreased by 4.4 percentage points in 2010 compared with 2009. This decrease was attributable to the following: a 4.0 percentage point reduction due to a decline in our module ASP, a 3.9 percentage point reduction due to segment mix between our components and systems businesses, a 1.1 percentage point reduction relating to the manufacturing excursion discussed above under 2008 2009 Manufacturing Excursion, and a 0.6 percentage point reduction due to the weakening of the euro against the U.S. dollar exchange rate, partially offset by a 5.2 percentage point margin improvement attributable to continued manufacturing scale and reductions in our manufacturing cost per watt. We expect that gross profit will be impacted in future periods by the volatility of the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the euro and product mix between our components and systems businesses.54Research and Development Years Ended Year Over(Dollars in thousands) 2010 2009 Year ChangeResearch and development $94,797 $78,161 $16,636 21%% of net sales 3.7% 3.8% The increase in research and development expense was due to a $10.6 million increase in personnel related expenses (including a $2.2 million increase in share based compensation expense) resulting from increased headcount devoted to working on various projects to increase the efficiency of our modules at converting sunlight into electricity, and a $9.6 million increase in depreciation, testing, and qualification material costs, partially offset by a $3.6 million decrease in other expenses. During 2010, we continued the development of solar modules with increased efficiencies at converting sunlight into electricity and increased the conversion efficiency of our modules by approximately 3% compared with 2009.Selling, General and Administrative Years Ended Year Over(Dollars in thousands) 2010 2009 Year ChangeSelling, general and administrative $321,704 $272,898 $48,806 18%% of net sales 12.5% 13.2% The increase in selling, general and administrative expense was due to a $2.7 million increase in salaries and personnel related expenses due to growth (after giving effect to a $2.5 million decrease in share based compensation expense due to one time charges associated with our executive management team in 2009), a $17.6 million increase in expenses related to our systems business, a $14.8 million increase in facility and depreciation expenses, a $6.3 million increase in professional fees and expenses associated with the implementation of a new ERP system, and a $7.4 million increase in other expenses. Selling, general and administrative expense also included $5.3 million of other operating expenses related to impairment charges of certain project assets.Production Start Up Years Ended Year Over(Dollars in thousands) 2010 2009 Year ChangeProduction start up $19,442 $13,908 $5,534 40%% of net sales 0.8% 0.7% During 2010, we incurred $19.4 million of production start up expenses for our eight line Malaysian, four line German, one line Perrysburg, Ohio, and two line Blanquefort, France manufacturing expansions, including legal, regulatory, and personnel costs, compared with $13.9 million of production start up expenses for our Malaysian and Perrysburg, Ohio manufacturing expansions during 2009. Production start up expenses are composed of the cost of labor and material and depreciation expense to run and qualify the production lines, related facility expenses, management of our replication process, and legal and regulatory costs. Foreign Currency Gain (Loss) Years Ended Year Over(Dollars in thousands) 2010 2009 Year ChangeForeign currency gain (loss) $(3,468) $5,207 $(8,675) (167)%Foreign exchange gain decreased during 2010 compared with 2009 due to an increase in our foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities and volatility of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies, in particular the euro. Interest Income Years Ended Year Over(Dollars in thousands) 2010 2009 Year ChangeInterest income $14,375 $9,735 $4,640 48%55Interest income increased during 2010 compared with 2009 primarily as a result of an increase in the average interest bearing cash and investment balances year over year and interest earned from notes receivable.Interest Expense, Net Years Ended Year Over(Dollars in thousands) 2010 2009 Year ChangeInterest expense, net $(6) $(5,258) $5,252 (100)%Interest expense, net of amounts capitalized, decreased during 2010 compared with 2009, primarily as a result of higher amounts of interest expense capitalized during 2010. In addition, interest expense, net for 2009 included a $2.4 million expense related to the termination of the interest rate swaps for our German debt facility. We fully repaid this facility on June 30, 2009.Other Income (Expense), Net Years Ended Year Over(Dollars in thousands) 2010 2009 Year ChangeOther income (expense), net $2,273 $(2,985) $5,258 (176)%Other income during 2010 primarily resulted from a realized gain associated with the sale of our equity investment in a related party, partially offset by other expenses. Other expense during 2009 primarily resulted from nonrecurring expenses associated with our credit default swaps.Income Tax (Benefit) Expense Years Ended Year Over(Dollars in thousands) 2010 2009 Year ChangeIncome tax expense $97,876 $46,176 $51,700 112%Effective tax rate 12.8% 6.7% Income tax expense increased by $51.7 million during 2010 compared with 2009. Of this increase, $13.8 million related to a one time non cash tax charge in connection with our decision to repatriate approximately $300 million of earnings from certain of our foreign subsidiaries prior to January 1, 2011, when recently enacted U.S. international tax legislation became effective. In addition, $11.5 million related to a one time tax benefit recorded in 2009 in connection with the pull forward of the Malaysian tax holiday from 2008. Substantially all of the remainder of the increase related to a $75.8 million increase in pre tax income and a greater percentage of profits earned in higher tax jurisdictions. See Note 20. Income Taxes, to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for additional information.Business Segment Review Years Ended Year/Year Years Ended Year/Year(Dollars in thousands)2011 2010 % Change 2010 2009 % ChangeNet sales Components$2,067,887 $2,185,165 (5)% $2,185,165 $1,965,437 11%Systems698,320 378,350 85 % 378,350 100,763 275%Total$2,766,207 $2,563,515 8 % $2,563,515 $2,066,200 24% (Loss) income before income taxes (Segment profit) Components$(53,713) $762,077 (107)% $762,077 $686,314 11%Systems Total$(53,713) $762,077 (107)% $762,077 $686,314 11%Our Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM), consisting of certain members of senior executive staff, has viewed the manufacturing and sale of solar modules from the components segment as the core driver of our resource allocation, profitability, and cash throughput. All sales or service offerings from our systems segment are for PV solar power systems that use our solar modules, which are designed and manufactured by our components segment. As a result, we have viewed our systems segment 56as an enabler to drive module throughput. Our systems segment enables solar module throughput by developing state of the art construction techniques and process management to reduce the installed cost of our PV systems and, accordingly, this business was not intended to generate profits that are independent of the underlying solar modules sold with such systems segment service offerings. Therefore, for the fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, our CODM viewed the primary objective of our systems segment to be achieving break even results before income taxes. We include all sales of our solar modules manufactured by our components segment and installed in projects sold by our systems segment in net sales of our components business. See Note 24. Segment and Geographical Information, to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K.Components Segment Years Ended Year/Year Years Ended Year/Year(Dollars in thousands)2011 2010 % Change 2010 2009 % ChangeNet sales$2,067,887 $2,185,165 (5)% $2,185,165 $1,965,437 11%Cost of sales$1,275,436 $1,078,536 18 % $1,078,536 $928,039 16%(Loss) income before income taxes (Segment profit)$(53,713) $762,077 (107)% $762,077 $686,314 11%Components segment net sales decreased by 5% during 2011 compared with 2010, primarily due to lower ASP due to competitive pressure. Our module ASP, excluding the impact of systems segment break even reporting, decreased by approximately 10% during 2011 compared with 2010. The decline in our module ASP was attributable to a 15% decrease of our non systems module ASP due to competitive pressures and geographic mix. The decrease was partially offset by a 5% increase of our systems module ASP driven primarily by the mix of systems projects recognized in revenue. The effect of our segment reporting adjustments, to achieve break even results before income taxes for our systems segment, decreased the module average selling price by an additional 1%. Components segment net sales increased by 11% during 2010 compared with 2009, primarily driven by price elasticity that resulted in strong demand for our solar modules as prices declined, increased net sales attributable to modules installed in utility scale solar power systems for which we have recognized revenue, an increase in production volume as a result of bringing additional manufacturing lines into full production, and continued improvements to our manufacturing process. Components segment cost of sales increased by 18% during 2011 compared with 2010, and by 16% during 2010 compared with 2009, primarily due to higher production and sales volumes. In addition, cost of sales increased in 2011 compared to 2010 due to increased expense from voluntary remediation efforts related to the manufacturing excursion costs discussed above under "2008 2009 Manufacturing Excursion."Components segment profit decreased by 107% during 2011 compared with 2010, primarily due to goodwill impairment, lower average selling price, and higher costs resulting from the manufacturing excursion and related remediation program discussed above under "2008 2009 Manufacturing Excursion, partially offset by an increase in the MW volume of solar modules sold. Components segment profit increased by 11% during 2010 compared with 2009, primarily due to an increase in the MW volume of solar modules sold, reductions in our manufacturing cost per watt, and by increased throughput, partially offset by a decline in our module average selling price and certain manufacturing excursion and warranty related expenses. Systems Segment Years Ended Year/Year Years Ended Year/Year(Dollars in thousands)2011 2010 % Change 2010 2009 % ChangeNet sales$698,320 $378,350 85% $378,350 $100,763 275%Cost of sales$519,020 $300,133 73% $300,133 $93,579 221%(Loss) income before income taxes (Segment profit)$ $ $ $ Systems segment net sales increased from $378.4 million during 2010 to $698.3 million during 2011, reflecting primarily the completion and sale of, or percentage of completion revenue recognition for, various utility scale solar power systems in North America. 57Systems segment net sales increased from $100.8 million during 2009 to $378.4 million during 2010, reflecting primarily the sale of, or percentage of completion recognition for, various utility scale solar power systems in North America and Europe. Systems segment cost of sales increased from $300.1 million in 2010 to $519.0 million in 2011, and from $93.6 million in 2009 to $300.1 million in 2010, primarily due to the increase in construction activities for various utility scale solar power projects in North America during these periods.Systems segment profit was zero for 2011, 2010, and 2009. As noted above, we operate our systems segment with the objective to achieve break even results before income taxes. See Note 24. Segment and Geographical Information, to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for more information.Product Revenue The following table sets forth the total amounts of solar modules and solar power systems revenue recognized for the years ended December 31, 2011, December 31, 2010, and December 26, 2009. For the purposes of the following table, (a) solar module revenue is composed of total revenues from the sale of solar modules to third parties, and (b) solar power systems revenue is composed of total revenues from the sale of complete solar power systems and related services including the solar modules installed in the solar power systems.(Dollars in thousands) 2011 2010 2009Solar module revenue $1,523,695 $1,986,746 $1,903,765Solar power system revenue 1,242,512 576,769 162,435Net sales $2,766,207 $2,563,515 $2,066,200Liquidity and Capital ResourcesWe believe that our current cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, cash flows from operating activities, revolving credit facility, and access to the capital markets will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs for at least the next 12 months. We intend to continue to carefully execute our Long Term Strategic Plan and manage credit and market risk. However, if our financial results or operating plans change from our current assumptions, we may not have sufficient resources to support the execution of our Long Term Strategic Plan. Cash generated from operations is our primary source of operating liquidity and we believe that internally generated cash flows combined with our existing cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and availability under our revolving credit facility are sufficient to support day to day business operations. Our treasury department monitors the efficiency of our balance sheet to ensure we have adequate liquidity, both domestically and internationally, to support the execution of our Long Term Strategic Plan. As of December 31, 2011, we had $788.0 million in cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, compared with $1,113.8 million as of December 31, 2010. As of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, $638.9 million and $684.0 million, respectively, of our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities were held by foreign subsidiaries and are generally based in euros and U.S. dollar denominated holdings. We utilize a variety of tax planning and financing strategies in an effort to ensure that our worldwide cash is available in the locations in which it is needed.We intend to maintain appropriate debt levels based upon cash flow expectations, the overall cost of capital, and cash requirements for operations, capital expenditures and discretionary strategic spending. We believe that when necessary, we will have adequate access to capital markets, although our ability to raise capital on terms commercially acceptable to us could be constrained if there is insufficient investor interest due to industry wide or company specific concerns. We have an active shelf registration statement filed with the SEC for the issuance of debt or equity securities if needed.Our expanding systems business required increased liquidity in 2011 and is expected to continue to have significant liquidity requirements in the future. Solar power project development cycles, which span the time between the identification of a site location to the commercial operation of a PV power plant, vary substantially and can take many years to mature. As a result of these long project cycles, we may need to make significant up front investments of resources in advance of the receipt of any cash flows from the sale of or payments for such systems projects. These amounts include payment of interconnection and other deposits (some of which are non refundable), posting of letters of credit, and incurring engineering, permitting, legal, and other expenses. Additionally, we may have to use our working capital or the availability under our revolving credit facility to finance the construction of our systems projects, if such projects cannot be sold before construction begins. Depending upon the size and 58number of projects that we are developing and self financing the construction of, the systems business may require significant liquidity. For example, we may have to substantially complete the construction of a systems project before such project is sold. We have historically financed these up front investments for project development and when necessary, construction, primarily using working capital. In the future, we may also engage in one or more debt or equity financings. Such financings could result in increased expenses or dilution to our existing stockholders. If we are unable to obtain debt or equity financing on reasonable terms, we may be unable to execute our Long Term Strategic Plan. The following significant developments in 2011 have impacted or are expected to impact our liquidity: On May 18, 2011, in connection with the plant expansion at our German manufacturing center, FSM GmbH, our indirect wholly owned subsidiary, entered into a credit facility agreement (German Facility Agreement), which consisted of the following balances as of December 31, 2011(in thousands): BorrowingsOutstanding AvailabilityInterest Rate Maturity Denomination Original Capacity December 31, 2011 December 31, 2011EURIBOR plus 1.35% 2019 EUR 124,500 107,923 16,577See also Note 15. Debt, and Note 7. Restricted Cash and Investments, to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for further information about this facility.On June 30, 2011, in connection with the plant expansion at our Malaysian manufacturing center, FS Malaysia, our indirect wholly owned subsidiary, entered into a credit facility agreement (Malaysian Ringgit Facility Agreement), which consisted of the following at December 31, 2011 (in thousands): BorrowingsOutstanding AvailabilityInterest Rate Maturity Denomination Original Capacity December 31, 2011 December 31, 2011KLIBOR plus 2.00% 2018 MYR RM465,000 RM465,000 RMSee also Note 15. Debt, to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for further information about this facility.On August 3, 2011, in connection with the plant expansion at our Malaysian manufacturing center, FS Malaysia, our indirect wholly owned subsidiary, entered into a credit facility agreement (Malaysian Euro Facility Agreement), which consisted of the following at December 31, 2011 (in thousands): BorrowingsOutstanding AvailabilityInterest Rate Maturity Denomination Original Capacity December 31, 2011 December 31, 2011EURIBOR plus 1.00% 2018 EUR 60,000 52,046 See also Note 15. Debt, to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for further information about this facility.During 2011, we made significant capital expenditures related to the construction of manufacturing plants in Vietnam and Mesa, Arizona including expenditures for machinery and equipment for eight manufacturing lines. In February 2012 we decided to not proceed with our previously announced 4 line plant in Vietnam. See Note 4. Restructuring and Acquisitions, to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. We have also postponed the commissioning of our previously announced 4 line plant in Mesa, Arizona until global supply and demand dynamics support the additional manufacturing capacity. We expect to continue to make any necessary capital expenditures for these locations during 2012 to continue any necessary construction and to acquire the underlying machinery and equipment. Taking into account our expected restructuring and impairment charges, and potential additional future charges as we seek to align our manufacturing production with market demand, we could in the future incur significant additional restructuring costs (including potentially the repayment of debt facilities and other amounts, the payment of severance 59to terminated employees, and other costs) that could substantially reduce our liquidity position to the point where we need to pursue additional sources of financing, assuming such sources are available to us. During 2011, the amount of unbilled A/R increased to $533.4 million and represents revenues recognized on the construction of systems projects in advance of billing the customer under the terms of the underlying construction contracts. Such unbilled A/R represents construction we have funded with working capital and such amounts are expected to be billed and collected from customers during 2012. The unprecedented disruption in the credit markets that began in 2008 and the current instability in the Euro Zone have had a significant adverse impact on a number of financial institutions. The ongoing sovereign debt crisis in Europe and its impact on the balance sheets and lending practices of European banks in particular could negatively impact our access to, and cost of, capital, and therefore could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and competitive position. It could also similarly affect our customers and therefore limit the sales of our modules and demand for our systems business as well. As of December 31, 2011, our liquidity and investments have not been materially adversely impacted by the current credit environment and we believe that they will not be materially adversely impacted in the near future. We will continue to closely monitor our liquidity and the credit markets. However, we cannot predict with any certainty the impact to us of any further disruption in the credit environment. Cash FlowsThe following table summarizes the key cash flow metrics for the years ended December 31, 2011, December 31, 2010, and December 26, 2009 (in thousands): Years Ended 2011 2010 2009Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities $(33,463) $705,492 $675,193Net cash used in investing activities (676,457) (742,085) (701,690)Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 571,218 150,451 (22,021)Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (21,368) (12,668) (3,201)Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents $(160,070) $101,190 $(51,719)Operating ActivitiesCash used by operating activities was $33.5 million during 2011, compared with cash provided by operating activities of $705.5 million during 2010 and $675.2 million during 2009. The decrease in operating cash flows during 2011 was primarily due to the difference between net cash received from customers and net cash paid to suppliers being significantly less than in 2010 and 2009. This disparity was primarily the result of an increase in accounts receivable, unbilled, which represents revenue that has been recognized in advance of billing the customer. This is common for construction contracts. Although such construction work did not result in cash received from customers, the underlying cost of construction activities resulted in cash paid to suppliers creating a timing difference for cash flows from operating activities. Accounts receivable, unbilled as of December 31, 2011 is expected to be billed and collected within the next 12 months. Another significant driver of the decrease was the increase from 2010 in inventories and BoS parts, which resulted in an increase in cash paid to suppliers, but as such inventories and BoS parts were not yet sold, there was no corresponding cash received from customers. The remaining decrease in cash provided by operating activities was the result of net differences in excess tax benefits from share based compensation arrangements, income taxes paid, interest received and interest paid in 2011 compared to 2010 and 2009. Investing ActivitiesCash used in investing activities was $676.5 million during 2011, compared with $742.1 million during 2010 and $701.7 million during 2009. The decrease in cash used in investing activities was primarily the result of less acquisition activity in 2011 compared to 2010, and a larger net inflow from sales, maturities, and purchases of marketable securities in 2011 than in 2010 and 2009. Those increases were primarily offset by more capital expenditures during 2011 compared to 2010 and 2009 due to completion of two new plants in Malaysia, completion of expansions in Frankfurt/Oder Germany and Perrysburg, Ohio, and construction of new plants in Vietnam and Mesa, Arizona. During 2011, we made significant capital expenditures related to the construction of manufacturing plants in Vietnam and Mesa, Arizona including expenditures for machinery and equipment for eight manufacturing lines. The balancing of our production capabilities with market demand is a core component of our manufacturing capacity expansion strategy and our Long Term Strategic 60Plan. As discussed above, we will not construct our previously announced 4 line plant in Vietnam, and have indefinitely postponed the commissioning of our previously announced 4 line plant in Mesa, Arizona and the construction of our previously announced 2 line plant in France until global supply and demand dynamics support the additional manufacturing capacity. Although the timing for production from these plants is uncertain, we expect to continue to make any necessary capital expenditures for these capacity expansions during 2012 to continue construction and to acquire the underlying machinery and equipment. Financing ActivitiesCash provided by financing activities was $571.2 million during 2011 compared with cash provided by financing activities of $150.5 million during 2010 and cash used in financing of $22.0 million during 2009.Cash provided by financing activities resulted primarily from proceeds of $370.1 million from borrowings on our Malaysian Ringgit Facility Agreement, German Facility Agreement, and Malaysian Euro Facility along with $100.0 million of net proceeds from drawdowns on our Revolving Credit Facility. Additionally, we recorded excess tax benefits from share based compensation arrangements of $110.8 million and received cash from employee stock option exercises of $8.3 million. We used $33.8 million of cash for the repayment of long term debt. Cash provided by financing activities during 2010 resulted primarily from proceeds received from draw downs on our revolving credit facility of $100.0 million, excess tax benefits from share based compensation arrangements of $69.4 million as described below, and by cash received from employee stock option exercises of $9.4 million, partially offset by the repayment of long term debt of $27.9 million. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we realized $69.4 million of excess tax benefits related to share based compensation arrangements from the utilization of net operating loss carryforwards comprised of excess tax deductions primarily as a result of our decision to repatriate approximately $300 million of earnings from certain of our foreign subsidiaries. Cash used in financing activities during 2009 resulted primarily from the repayment of long term debt of $78.2 million, partially offset by draw downs on our prior Malaysian facility agreement, net of issuance costs, of $44.7 million related to the equipment export financing agreement for our Malaysian manufacturing center. Proceeds from the issuance of employee stock options during 2009 were $6.0 million. Excess tax benefits from share based compensation arrangements during 2009 were $4.9 million.Contractual ObligationsThe following table presents our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2011, which consists of legal commitments requiring us to make fixed or determinable cash payments. We purchase raw materials for inventory, services, and manufacturing equipment from a variety of vendors. We also enter into construction contracts for the construction of new or expansion of existing manufacturing plants. During the normal course of business, in order to manage manufacturing lead times and help assure adequate supply, we enter into agreements with suppliers that either allow us to procure goods and services when we choose or that establish purchase requirements. Payments Due by Year Contractual Obligations Total Less Than1 Year 1 3Years 3 5Years More Than5 Years (In thousands)Long term debt obligations $667,544 $46,368 $160,412 $335,359 $125,405Interest payments (1) 71,764 19,651 32,226 15,130 4,757Capital lease obligations 2,839 492 1,016 908 423Operating lease obligations 95,184 13,113 27,329 24,748 29,994Purchase obligations (2) 1,516,527 407,154 319,373 283,753 506,247Recycling obligations 167,378 167,378Other obligations (3) $20,817 $5,560 $10,578 $4,189 $490Total $2,542,053 $492,338 $550,934 $664,087 $834,694(1)Includes estimated cash interest to be paid over the remaining terms of the debt. Interest payments are based on fixed and floating rates in effect at December 31, 2011 and include the effect of interest rate swap agreements and cross currency swap agreements.61(2)Purchase obligations are agreements to purchase goods or services that are non cancellable, enforceable and legally binding on us and that specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased, fixed minimum, or variable price provisions, and the approximate timing of transactions.(3)Includes expected letter of credit fees, unused capacity fees for our revolving credit facility, and a debt surety (guarantee) fee for our German Facility Agreement.In addition to the amounts shown in the table above, we have recorded $82.9 million of unrecognized tax benefits as liabilities in accordance with ASC 740, Income Taxes, and we are uncertain as to if or when such amounts may be settled.Debt and Credit SourcesAs of December 31, 2011, we had $667.5 million in outstanding long term debt, excluding amounts related to capital leases, and $196.7 million in outstanding letters of credit and bank guarantees. Our long term debt consisted of the following at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 (in thousands):Type December 31, 2011 December 31, 2010Revolving Credit Facility $200,000 $100,000German Facility Agreement 140,085 Malaysian Ringgit Facility Agreement 146,725 Malaysian Euro Facility Agreement 67,556 Malaysian Facility Agreement 102,008 130,018Director of Development of the State of Ohio 6,337 8,112France Facility Agreement 4,833 Capital lease obligations 2,440 1,736 669,984 239,866Less unamortized discount (6,336) (2,475)Total long term debt 663,648 237,391Less current portion (44,505) (26,587)Noncurrent portion $619,143 $210,804At December 31, 2011, future principal payments on our long term debt were due as follows (in thousands):2012 $46,3682013 80,1872014 80,2252015 279,1372016 56,222Thereafter 125,405Total long term debt future principal payments $667,544The available capacity under our long term debt facilities was primarily related to our Revolving Credit Facility which had $251.3 million in available capacity at December 31, 2011. We believe that when necessary, we will have adequate access to capital markets, but there may be circumstances in the future related to macroeconomic conditions or factors specific to us that could limit, or increase the cost of, capital from such markets. We have an active shelf registration statement filed with the SEC for the issuance of debt or equity securities. We were in compliance with all debt covenants at December 31, 2011, and expect to remain in compliance with these covenants for at least the next twelve months. See Note 15. Debt, to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for further information about our long term debt facilities. Capital Expenditures62We expect to spend up to $425 million for capital expenditures during 2012, including expenditures for machinery and equipment which we believe will increase our solar module efficiencies and the necessary expenditures to continue certain construction activities and to acquire the underlying machinery and equipment for our manufacturing plants in Vietnam and Mesa, Arizona. A majority of our capital expenditures for 2012 will be incurred in foreign currencies and are therefore subject to fluctuations in currency exchange rates.Off Balance Sheet ArrangementsWe had no off balance sheet arrangements as of December 31, 2011.Recent Accounting PronouncementsSee Note 3. Recent Accounting Pronouncements, to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for a summary of recent accounting pronouncements.Item 7A: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market RiskForeign Currency Exchange RiskOur primary foreign currency exposures are cash flow exposure, transaction exposure, and earnings translation exposure.Cash Flow Exposure: We expect our subsidiaries to have material future cash flows, including revenues and expenses, that will be denominated in currencies other than the components functional currency. Our primary cash flow exposures are cash received from customers and cash paid to suppliers and associates. Changes in the exchange rates between our components functional currencies and the other currencies in which they transact will cause fluctuations in the cash flows we expect to receive or pay when these cash flows are realized or settled. Accordingly, we enter into foreign exchange forward or cross currency swap contracts to hedge the value of a portion of these forecasted cash flows. These foreign exchange forward and cross currency swap contracts qualified as cash flow hedges in accordance with ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging, and we designated them as such. We initially report the effective portion of the derivatives gain or loss in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), and subsequently reclassify amounts into earnings when the underlying hedged transaction is settled. Most of our German plants operating expenses are denominated in euros, creating natural hedges against the currency risk in our net sales. During the first half of 2011, we purchased foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge a portion of the exchange risk on forecasted cash flows denominated in euros. Our operations in Malaysia pay a portion of their operating expenses, such as associate wages and utilities, in Malaysian ringgit, exposing us to foreign currency exchange risk for those expenses.For additional details on our hedging instruments and activities, refer to Note 9. Derivative Financial Instruments, to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K.Our international operations accounted for 55%, 87%, and 93% of our net sales during the years ended December 31, 2011, December 31, 2010, and December 26, 2009, respectively, of which 78%, 84%, and 92% of these international sales, respectively, were denominated in euros. As a result, we have exposure to foreign currency exchange risk with respect to our net sales. Fluctuations in exchange rates, particularly in the U.S. dollar to euro exchange rate and U.S. dollar to Malaysian ringgit, affect our gross and net profit margins and could result in foreign exchange and operating losses. In the past, most of our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk has related to currency gains and losses between the time we sign and settle our sales contracts denominated in euros. For example, our Supply Contracts obligate us to deliver solar modules at a fixed price in euros per watt and do not adjust for fluctuations in the U.S. dollar to euro exchange rate. For the years ended December 31, 2011, December 31, 2010, and December 26, 2009, a 10% change in the euro exchange rates would have impacted our net euro sales by $123.7 million, $184.6 million, and $177.7 million, respectively, excluding the effect of our hedging activities. Our net sales denominated in euros are expected to continue to decline and therefore our foreign currency exchange risk associated with the euro is expected to also decline.Transaction Exposure: Many components of our business have assets and liabilities (primarily receivables, investments, accounts payable, debt, and solar module collection and recycling liabilities) that are denominated in currencies other than the components functional currency. Changes in the exchange rates between our components functional currencies and the other currencies in which these assets and liabilities are denominated can create fluctuations in our reported consolidated financial 63position, results of operations, and cash flows. We may enter into foreign exchange forward contracts or other derivative instruments to economically hedge assets and liabilities against the short term effects of currency exchange rate fluctuations. The gains and losses on these derivative instruments will offset all or part of the transaction gains and losses that we recognize in earnings on the related foreign currency assets and liabilities. These contracts typically have maturities of less than three months. For additional details on our economic hedging instruments and activities, refer to Note 9. Derivative Financial Instruments, to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K.If the U.S. dollar would have weakened by 10% against the euro, Malaysian ringgit, Japanese yen, Canadian dollar, and Australian dollar, the impact on our income before income taxes during the year ended December 31, 2011 would have been $0.5 million (favorable). If the U.S. dollar would have weakened by 10% against the euro, Malaysian ringgit, Japanese yen, and Canadian dollar the impact on our income before income taxes during the years ended December 31, 2010 and December 26, 2009 would have been $6.6 million (unfavorable) and $0.5 million (favorable), respectively.Earnings Translation Exposure: Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates create volatility in our reported results of operations because we are required to translate the financial statements of our subsidiaries that do not have a U.S. dollar functional currency. We may decide to purchase forward exchange contracts or other instruments to offset this impact from currency fluctuations. These contracts would be marked to market on a monthly basis and any unrealized gain or loss would be recorded in earnings. We do not hedge translation exposure at this time, but may do so in the future.In the past, currency exchange rate fluctuations have had an impact on our business and results of operations. For example, currency exchange rate fluctuations negatively impacted our cash flows by $21.4 million, $12.7 million, and $3.2 million in the years ended December 31, 2011, December 31, 2010, and December 26, 2009, respectively. Although we cannot predict the impact of future currency exchange rate fluctuations on our business or results of operations, we believe that we will continue to have risk associated with currency exchange rate fluctuations in the future. We will continue to evaluate actions we can take to use derivatives to help mitigate this risk.Interest Rate RiskOur primary interest rate risks are our outstanding variable rate debt, our solar power system sales prices from the effect of interest rates on our customers financing of such solar power systems, and our investments in debt securities.Variable Rate Debt Exposure: We are exposed to interest rate risk because our Revolving Credit Facility, German Facility Agreement, Malaysian Ringgit Facility Agreement, Malaysian Euro Facility Agreement, and the floating rate portion of our Malaysian Facility Agreement have variable interest rates, exposing us to variability in interest expense and cash flows. We use interest rate swap contracts and cross currency swap contracts to mitigate our exposure to interest rate fluctuations associated with a portion of our variable rate debt instruments. We have interest rate swap contracts in place to mitigate the interest rate risk for a portion our German Facility Agreement and the floating rate portion of our Malaysian Facility Agreement. We also have a cross currency swap contract in place to mitigate the interest rate risk of our Malaysian Ringgit Facility Agreement. For additional details on our hedging instruments and activities, refer to Note 9. Derivative Financial Instruments, to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. An increase in the Euro Interbank Offered Rate (EURIBOR) would impact our cost of borrowing under the unhedged portion of our German Facility Agreement and our entire Malaysian Euro Facility Agreement, and an increase in the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) would impact our cost of borrowing under our Revolving Credit Facility. If EURIBOR increased or decreased by 100 basis points, our interest cost for the year ended December 31, 2011 would have increased or decreased $0.6 million, respectively. If LIBOR increased or decreased by 100 basis points, our interest cost for the year ended December 31, 2011 would have increased or decreased $1.0 million, respectively. Effect on Customers Financing of Solar Power Systems: We are exposed to interest rate risk because many of our systems business customers depend on debt and equity financing to purchase a solar power system from us. Although the useful life of a solar power system is considered to be approximately 25 years, end users of our solar power systems must pay the entire cost of the solar power system by the time such system is completed. As a result, many of our customers rely on debt financing to fund their up front capital expenditures. An increase in interest rates could make it difficult for our end users to secure the financing necessary to purchase a system. This could lower demand or the price we can charge for our solar power systems and reduce our net sales. In addition, we believe that a significant percentage of our end users install solar power systems as an investment, funding the initial capital expenditure through a combination of equity and debt. An increase in interest rates could lower an investors return on investment in a system or make alternative investments more attractive relative to solar power systems, which, in each 64case, could cause these end users to seek alternative investments that promise higher returns.Investments in Debt Securities Exposure: We invest in debt securities, which exposes us to interest rate risk. The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal and provide liquidity on demand, while at the same time maximizing the income we receive from our investments without significantly increasing risk. Some of the securities in which we invest may be subject to market risk. This means that a change in prevailing interest rates may cause the market value of the investment to fluctuate. For example, if we hold a security that was issued with an interest rate fixed at the then prevailing rate and the prevailing interest rate later rises, the market value of our investment may decline. As of December 31, 2011, our marketable securities earned a pre tax yield of 0.48%, with a weighted average maturity of 11 months. If interest rates were to instantaneously increase (decrease) by 100 basis points, the market value of our total investment portfolio could decrease (increase) by $1.9 million. The direct risk to us associated with fluctuating interest rates is limited to our investment portfolio and we do not believe that a 10% change in interest rates would have a significant impact on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. As of December 31, 2011, all of our marketable securities were in commercial paper, corporate debt securities, federal and foreign agency debt, foreign government obligations, supranational debt, and U.S. government obligations.As of December 31, 2011, our restricted investments earned a pre tax yield of 5.85%, with a weighted average maturity of approximately 20 years. If interest rates were to instantaneously increase (decrease) by 100 basis points, the market value of our total restricted investment portfolio could decrease (increase) by $34.7 million. The direct risk to us associated with fluctuating interest rates is limited to our restricted investment portfolio. Given that our restricted investment portfolio is intended to pre fund our estimated solar module collection and recycling costs, and given the expected holding period of these investments, we believe it is unlikely that a 10% change in interest rates would have a significant impact on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. As of December 31, 2011, all of our restricted investments were in foreign and U.S. government obligations.Commodity and Component RiskWe are exposed to price risks for the raw materials, components, and energy costs used in the manufacture and transportation of our solar modules and BoS parts used in solar power systems. Also, some of our raw materials and components are sourced from a limited number of suppliers or a single supplier. We endeavor to qualify multiple suppliers using a robust qualification process. In some cases, we also enter into long term supply contracts for raw materials and components. As a result, we remain exposed to price changes in the raw materials and components used in our solar modules. In addition, a failure by a key supplier could disrupt our supply chain which could result in higher prices and or a disruption in our manufacturing process. We may be unable to pass along changes in the cost of the raw materials and components for our products and systems to our customers, and may be in default of our delivery obligations if we experience a manufacturing disruption.Credit RiskWe have certain financial and derivative instruments that subject us to credit risk. These consist primarily of cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, restricted investments, trade accounts receivable, interest rate swap contracts, cross currency swap contracts, and foreign exchange forward contracts. We are exposed to credit losses in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties to our financial and derivative instruments. We place cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, restricted investments, interest rate swap contracts, cross currency contracts, and foreign exchange forward contracts with various high quality financial institutions and limit the amount of credit risk from any one counterparty. We continuously evaluate the credit standing of our counterparty financial institutions.In addition, we have certain investments in debt securities related to countries in the Eurozone. These investments are for debt securities of countries with a lower likelihood of experiencing significant economic, fiscal, and or political strains such that default or severe decreases in fair value would occur. However, such risk cannot be eliminated and is reflected in the current fair value of the investments as of December 31, 2011.
 
