FILE:LEG/LEG-8K-20051202152553.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
On November 29, 2005, the Compensation Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of Leggett & Platt, Incorporated (the "Company") approved amendments to two of the Company's non-qualified executive deferred compensation programs, the Deferred Compensation Program and the Executive Stock Unit Program. In addition to administrative changes, the amendments contain changes intended to conform to proposed regulations issued under Internal Revenue Code Section 409A ("Section 409A").
 
The Committee also approved a resolution to "freeze" another non-qualified executive deferred compensation program, the Executive Deferred Stock Program. Because all amounts deferred under this Program were earned and vested as of December 31, 2004, it qualifies for grandfathered treatment under Section 409A. The resolution provides that no new participants may be added to the Program, no new deferrals may be made under the Program, and no modifications may be made to the Program that would cause amounts grandfathered under the Section 409A rules to become subject to Section 409A. The Program will continue in effect with respect to all amounts deferred under the Program as of December 31, 2004.
 
Participants in these three Programs are employees, officers and/or directors of the Company, and as such, have a relationship to the Company.
 
A summary of each of the Programs follows. The summaries are qualified in their entirety by reference to the program documents, which are filed as Exhibits 10.1 and 10.2 and incorporated herein by reference. The Executive Deferred Stock Program was filed March 31, 1999 as Exhibit 10.16 to the Company's 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998.
 
A. Deferred Compensation Program
 
The Deferred Compensation Program (the "DC Program") is a non-qualified program established under the Flexible Stock Plan that allows certain key employees to forego receipt of salary, bonus and other compensation in exchange for a future payment of cash or Company equity. The equity alternatives under the DC Program are: (i) at-market options with an initial face value five times the compensation foregone, and (ii) stock units (with dividend equivalents) accruing on a bi-weekly basis, or as compensation otherwise would have been paid, at a 20% discount to fair market value. The participants in the DC Program are directors, officers and employees of the Company.
 
The DC Program was amended and restated as of December 1, 2005. The Program was amended to:
 
 
 
 
B. Executive Stock Unit Program
 
The Executive Stock Unit Program (the "ESU Program") is a non-qualified retirement program established under the Flexible Stock Plan that allows a select group of management and/or highly compensated employees to make pre-tax contributions to acquire Company stock at a 15% discount. Shares are credited to an employee's account as "stock units" where they accrue dividends. The Company matches 50% of the employee's contribution and may match another 50% if certain earnings objectives are met. Matching contributions are subject to vesting requirements. Stock units are converted to shares and issued at retirement, death or termination.
 
The ESU Program was amended to be effective December 30, 2005. The Program was amended to:
 
 
 
 
C. Executive Deferred Stock Program
 
The Executive Deferred Stock Program (the "EDSP") is a non-qualified deferred compensation program established under the Flexible Stock Plan that allows a select group of highly compensated employees to defer the receipt of shares that would otherwise be issued upon the exercise of stock options. Under the EDSP, participants make an advance election to defer receipt of the option shares until a specified payout date or event, thus deferring the income tax that otherwise would be recognized at the time of exercise. Upon exercise, stock units representing the deferred shares are credited to the participant's account where they accrue dividends until the elected distribution date.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits
 
The following exhibits are filed as part of this report:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.1 . The name of this Program is the "Leggett & Platt, Incorporated Deferred Compensation Program."
Name
 
1.2 . The Program is intended to provide selected key employees, non-employee directors and advisory directors of the Company the opportunity to defer future compensation. The Program is an unfunded deferred compensation program for a select group of management and/or highly compensated employees as described in ERISA. Options and Stock Units provided for in the Program will be granted under the Company's Flexible Stock Plan, as amended, and will be subject to the terms of that plan.
Purpose
 
 
2.1 . The person or persons designated as the recipient of a deceased Participant's benefits under the Program.
Beneficiary
 
2.2 . The benefits available under the Program, including Options, Stock Units and L&P Cash Deferrals.
Benefits
 
2.3 . The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company or, except as to Section 16 Officers, any persons to whom the administrative authority has been delegated.
Committee
 
2.4 . The Company's common stock, $.01 par value.
Common Stock
 
2.5 . Leggett & Platt, Incorporated.
Company
 
2.6 . Salary, bonuses, director fees, and all other forms of cash compensation earned and vested in a calendar year. Bonuses may be earned and vested in one calendar year, but become payable in the following calendar year.
Compensation
 
2.7 .Any Compensation that would have become payable to a Participant but for the Participant's election to defer such Compensation.
Deferred Compensation
 
2.8 A Participant is considered disabled if the Participant (i) is unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months, or (ii) is, by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months, receiving income replacement benefits for a period of not less than 3 months under an accident and health plan covering employees of the Participant's employer.
.
Disability
 
2.9 . The Company's contribution of dividend amounts to a Participant's account made pursuant to Section 5.2.
Dividend Contribution
 
2.10 . A Participant's election to defer Compensation, which sets forth the percentage or amount of Compensation to be deferred and such other items as the Committee may require.
Election
 
2.11 . The Company or any directly or indirectly majority-owned subsidiary, partnership or other entity of the Company.
Employer
 
2.12 . The Employment Retirement Security Income Act of 1974, as amended.
ERISA
 
2.13 . The deferral of Compensation into an obligation of the Company to pay on a future date or dates the Compensation plus interest thereon determined pursuant to Section 5.4.
L&P Cash Deferral
 
2.14 . An amount equal to: (i) the present value, if any, by which the Participant's retirement benefit under the Company's Retirement Plan would be reduced as a result of the deferral of Compensation under the Program less (ii) the present value of Participant contributions not made to the Retirement Plan as a result of deferral of Compensation.
Lost Retirement Benefit Amount
 
2.15 . An option to purchase shares of Common Stock issued pursuant to Section 4.
Option
 
2.16 . A director or advisory director of the Company, a Section 16 Officer of the Company, or a management or highly compensated employee of the Employer selected by the Committee, who has delivered a signed Election form to the Company. The Committee may revoke an individual's right to participate in the Program if he no longer meets the Program's eligibility requirements or for any other reason. Such termination will not affect Benefits previously vested under the Program.
Participant
 
2.17 . All officers of the Company subject to the requirements of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Section 16 Officers
 
2.18 . Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, including all regulations and other guidance of general applicability issued thereunder.
Section 409A
 
2.19 . A unit of account deemed to equal a single share (or fractional share) of Common Stock. No Participant or Beneficiary will have any of the rights of a shareholder with respect to Stock Units.
Stock Unit
 
2.20 A severe financial hardship to the Participant resulting from an illness or accident of the Participant, the Participant's spouse, or a dependent of the Participant, loss of the Participant's property due to casualty, or other similar extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances arising as a result of events beyond the control of the Participant.
.
Unforeseeable Emergency
 
 
3.1 . Each Participant may elect to defer all or a portion of his Compensation into an Option, Stock Units, an L&P Cash Deferral, or any combination of the three.
Type and Amount of Deferral
 
3.2 . A Participant's Election must be made on or before December 31 for Compensation relating to the following calendar year, except that newly eligible Participants may make an Election during the calendar year within 30 days of first becoming eligible for participation for Compensation earned subsequent to the date of Election. Elections may be modified or withdrawn until such time as an original Election could no longer be made.
Election
 
The Committee may provide for Elections at any other times with respect to all or any part of Compensation or Contributions to the extent that such Elections are consistent with the requirements of Section 409A.
 
3.3 . If Compensation payable after giving effect to a deferral Election will be insufficient to make all Company benefit contributions and required tax withholdings, the Participant must, at the time of the Election, make arrangements suitable to the Company for the payment of such amounts.
Benefit Plan Contributions and Payroll Deductions
 
3.4 . Benefits under the Program vest when the Participant would have been vested in the Compensation but for the election to defer. Benefits not vested will terminate immediately upon a Participant's termination of employment or, with respect to non-employee directors or advisory directors, termination of service.
Vesting
 
 
4.1 . Unless the Committee determines otherwise, the number of Option shares granted to a Participant is equal to the nearest number of whole shares determined under the following formula:
Number of Options and Exercise Price
 
 
means the Compensation the Participant elected to defer into Options, plus the related Lost Retirement Benefit Amount, if any. The "" for each share covered by an Option is the fair market value of Company stock on the Grant Date.
"Compensation Foregone"
Exercise Price
 
4.2 . Options will be granted as of the last business day in December of each year or such other date as the Committee determines (the "").
Grant Date
Grant Date
 
4.3. The term of an Option will expire 10 years after the Grant Date (the "").
Term of Options
Expiration Date
 
4.4. Options will be exercisable on March 15
Exercise of Options
th
of the year following the year the compensation is earned and vested. However, despite any later specified date for exercise, any vested portion of an Option will become exercisable in full upon the death or Disability of the Participant.
 
An Option may be exercised by delivering a written notice to the Company accompanied by payment of the Exercise Price for the shares purchased. Such payment may be made in cash, by delivery of shares of L&P Common Stock (held for at least 6 months) or a combination of cash and Common Stock. Any such Common Stock will be valued at the per share closing price of the Company's common stock on the trading day immediately preceding the date of exercise or at such other time as determined by the Committee. No shares will be delivered in connection with an Option exercise unless all amounts required to satisfy tax and any other required withholdings have been paid to the Employer.
 
An Option may be exercised only by a Participant during his life or, in the case of Disability, by his guardian or legal representative. Upon the death of a Participant, the Option may be exercised by his Beneficiary or, if the Participant fails to designate a Beneficiary, by his legal representative.
 
If any Option has not been fully exercised on the Expiration Date, the unexercised portion of the Option shall be deemed exercised on such Expiration Date, provided the then market price of a share of L&P Common Stock exceeds the per share Exercise Price. In such event, shares of Common Stock will not be issued until the Exercise Price and any other required amounts have been paid. If the Company has not received payment of the Exercise Price and any other required amounts within 30 days after the Expiration Date, the exercise will be void and the Company will have no further obligation to the Participant with respect to the expired Option.
 
4.5 . All Options will be non-qualified options that are not entitled to special tax treatment under 422 of the Internal Revenue Code.
Non-Qualified Options
 
4.6. A Participant will have no rights as a shareholder with respect to the shares covered by his Option until a stock certificate has been issued for the shares. No adjustment will be made for dividends or other rights for which the record date is before the certificate date.
No Shareholders' Rights
 
 
5.1 . An account will be established to track Stock Units for each Participant who elects a Stock Unit deferral. Compensation will be deferred on a bi-weekly basis or as Compensation otherwise would have been paid, unless the Committee determines otherwise. Any Lost Retirement Benefit will be credited to the Participant's account at year-end. All deferrals and Dividend Contributions to a Participant's account will be used to acquire Stock Units at a price equal to 80% of the fair market value of a share of Common Stock on the date such deferrals and Dividend Contributions are made.
Stock Units
 
5.2. On the date a cash dividend is paid on Common Stock, the Company will make a Dividend Contribution equal to the per share cash dividend on the number of Stock Units credited to the Participant's account on the dividend record date.
Dividend Contributions
 
5.3 . Prior to distribution, Stock Units will be converted to the appropriate number of whole shares of Common Stock. The Company will make the distributions by January 31
Stock Unit Distributions
st
of the elected distribution year. For installment elections, each annual distribution will be equal to the balance of Stock Units in the Participant's account divided by the number of payments remaining.
 
The Company may withhold from the shares distributed any amount required to pay applicable taxes (at the Company's required withholding rate). Alternatively, the Participant may pay such taxes in cash if he elects to do so before the distribution date.
 
5.4 . L&P Cash Deferrals will bear interest at a rate established by the Committee. The interest will begin accruing on the date the Deferred Compensation would have been paid but for the deferral. Until the Committee determines otherwise, the Chief Financial Officer will determine the interest rates.
Interest on L&P Cash Deferral
 
5.5 . The Participant will select the timing and form of distribution for Stock Unit and L&P Cash Deferrals on his Election form. The first payment date may not be earlier than two years after the Election is made or such other date as the Committee determines. The Committee may establish maximum deferral periods and maximum payout periods. Until otherwise determined, distribution payouts must begin within 10 years of the effective date of the deferral, and all amounts subject to the deferral must be distributed within 10 years of the first distribution payout.
Timing and Form of Distribution
 
The Participant may make an election to extend the payout period or change the form of distribution for Stock Unit and L&P Cash Deferrals, not to exceed any maximum payout period established by the Committee. For purposes of the foregoing, each payout date in an installment distribution election will be treated as a separate election. Unless otherwise permitted under transition rules applicable to Section 409A, the election change must be made not less than 12 months before the first scheduled payment date designated in the original Election and must extend the first distribution payment by at least five years.
 
5.6 . If a Participant elects an L&P Cash Deferral, the Participant may later request that the Committee grant an Option or Stock Units in lieu of the L&P Cash Deferral. Such a conversion may only be made during the year in which the Compensation subject to the deferral election is earned. The Committee may, in its sole discretion and as permitted under applicable law, grant such conversion to the Participant on such date and upon such terms as the Committee determines. The Participant will forfeit all accrued interest of the L&P Cash Deferral if the Committee grants his request.
Convert L&P Cash Deferral to Option or Stock Units
 
5.7 . In the event of an Unforeseeable Emergency, the Committee may, in its sole discretion and as permitted under applicable law, authorize an early distribution of a Participant's vested L&P Cash Deferral or Stock Unit account.
Unforeseeable Emergency
 
5.8 . The Company's obligation to a Participant for Stock Unit and L&P Cash Deferrals is a mere promise to pay shares or money in the future and the Participant will have the status of a general unsecured creditor of the Company.
Unsecured Creditor
 
5.9 . The Committee and the Company's Secretary will make all determinations regarding benefits under the Program in accordance with ERISA.
Claims under ERISA
 
If a Participant believes he is entitled to receive a distribution under the Program and he does not receive such distribution, he must make a claim in writing to the Committee. The Committee will review the claim. If the claim is denied, the Committee will provide a written notice of denial within 90 days setting out: the reasons for the denial; provisions of the Program upon which the denial is based; any additional information to perfect the claim and why such information is necessary; the steps to be taken if a review is sought, including, as applicable, the right to file an action under Section 502(a) of ERISA following an adverse determination; and the time limits for requesting a review and for review.
 
If a claim is denied and the Participant desires a review, he will notify the Secretary in writing within 60 days of the receipt of notice of denial. In requesting a review, the Participant may review the Program or any related document and submit any written statement he deems appropriate. The Secretary will then review the claim and, if the decision is adverse to the Participant, provide a written decision within 60 days setting out: the reasons for the denial; provisions of the Program upon which the denial is based; a statement that the Participant is entitled to receive, upon request and free of charge, copies of documents relied upon in making the decision; and, as applicable, the Participant's right to bring an action under Section 502(a) of ERISA.
 
 
6.1 . The deferral of Compensation under the Program is not intended to affect other Employer benefit plans in which the Participant is participating or may be eligible to participate. The following rules will apply to the types of benefits listed below.
Impact on Benefit Plans
 
 
 
 
 
6.2 . Except as provided in Section 6.1, the Participant must make contributions and payments under all Employer benefit plans in which he is participating in the amounts required as if no deferral had occurred. If there is not sufficient Compensation after deferral from which to withhold required contributions and payments, the Participant must make arrangements suitable to the Company for payment of the required amounts.
Contributions
 
 
7.1 . Except to the extent the Committee otherwise designates pursuant to Section 7.2(e), the Committee will control and manage the operation and administration of the Program.
Administration
 
7.2 . The Committee will have such authority as may be necessary to discharge its responsibilities under the Program, including the authority to: (a) interpret the provisions of the Program; (b) adopt rules of procedure consistent with the Program; (c) determine questions relating to Benefits and rights under the Program; (d) maintain records concerning the Program; (e) designate any Company employee or committee to carry out any of the Committee's duties, including authority to manage the operation and administration of the Program; and (f) determine the content and form of the Participant's Election and all other documents required to carry out the Program.
Committee's Authority
 
7.3 . Notwithstanding the foregoing, (i) the Committee may not delegate its authority with respect to Section 16 Officers, and (ii) the Board of Directors must approve any action related to Benefits for non-employee directors or advisory directors.
Section 16 Officers and Non-Employee Directors
 
7.4 . Notwithstanding anything contained in the Program or in any document issued under the Program, it is intended that the Program will at all times meet the requirements of Section 409A and any regulations or other guidance issued thereunder, and that the provisions of the Program will be interpreted to meet such requirements.
Compliance with Applicable Law
 
 
8.1 . In the event of a stock dividend, stock split, merger, consolidation or other recapitalization of the Company affecting the number of outstanding shares of Common Stock, the number of Option shares and Exercise Price and the number of Stock Units credited to a Participant's account will be appropriately adjusted.
Change in Capitalization
 
8.2 . Nothing contained in the Program or in any document issued under the Program will constitute evidence of any agreement or understanding that the Employer will employ or retain the Participant for any period of time or at any particular rate of compensation.
No Right of Employment
 
8.3 . A Participant may designate one or more Beneficiaries to receive his Benefits if he dies. A Participant may change or revoke a designation of a Beneficiary at any time upon written notice to the Company. If a notice of beneficiary is not on file or if the Beneficiary is not living when the Participant dies, the Participant's estate will be his Beneficiary.
Beneficiary
 
8.4 . No Benefits or interests therein may be transferred, assigned or pledged during a Participant's lifetime. Benefits may not be seized by any creditor of a Participant or Beneficiary or transferred by operation of law in the event of bankruptcy or insolvency. Any attempted assignment or transfer will be void. However, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, allow a Participant to transfer Options by way of a bona fide gift. The donee will hold such Options subject to the Program.
Transferability
 
8.5 . The Program will be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Company, its successors and assigns, and each Participant, his heirs, personal representatives, and Beneficiaries.
Binding Effect
 
8.6 . The Company will have the right to amend or terminate the Program at any time. However, no such amendment or termination will deprive any Participant of the right to receive Benefits previously vested under the Program.
Amendments and Termination
 
8.7 . To the extent not preempted by ERISA, Missouri law will govern this Program.
Governing Law
 
8.8 . To the extent permitted by Section 409A, the Committee retains the right to delay a Participant distribution if the payment of such distribution would violate securities laws, eliminate or reduce the Company's tax deduction by application of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code, violate loan covenants or other contractual terms to which the Company is a party, or otherwise result in material harm to the Company.
Committee's Right
 

Exhibit 10.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.1. The name of this Program is the "Leggett & Platt, Incorporated 2005 Executive Stock Unit Program."
Name
 
1.2 . This Program is intended to attract, motivate, retain and reward Key Employees by giving them the opportunity to share in the appreciation in value of the Company's Common Stock. The Program is an unfunded deferred compensation plan for a select group of management and/or highly compensated employees as described in ERISA. The Program is established pursuant to the Leggett & Platt, Incorporated Flexible Stock Plan.
Purpose
 
 
2.1 . A separate book account established by the Company to track Stock Units for each Participant.
Account
 
2.2 . The Company's additional contribution of amounts to a Participant's Account made pursuant to Section 4.6.
Additional Matching Contribution
 
2.3 . The person or persons designated as the recipient of a deceased Participant's benefits under the Program.
Beneficiary
 
2.4. The Board of Directors of the Company.
Board
 
2.5 Any calendar year beginning on or after January 1, 2005.
.
Calendar Year
 
2.6 "Change in Control" shall be defined as any event qualifying for a distribution of deferred compensation under Section 409A(a)(2)(A)(v) of the Internal Revenue Code.
.
Change in Control
 
2.7 . The Compensation Committee of the Board or, except as to Section 16 Officers, the Management Committee or any person to whom the administrative authority has been delegated by the Committee.
Committee
 
2.8 . The Company's $.01 par value common stock.
Common Stock
 
2.9 . Leggett & Platt, Incorporated.
Company
 
2.10 . Salary, bonuses, and all other forms of cash compensation, to the extent designated by the Committee, earned and vested in any Calendar Year. In the case of a sales representative whose regular paycheck includes funds for travel and expenses, Compensation means 75% of the total. Compensation will also include remuneration which would have been received in cash but for the Participant's election to defer such remuneration or to receive a stock option in lieu of such remuneration in accordance with any deferred compensation program of the Company. Any amounts considered as Compensation by virtue of
Compensation
 
the preceding sentence will be counted as Compensation only once, even if the benefits derived from such compensation are includible in the Participant's taxable income in a subsequent year. Compensation will not include any bonus earned and vested in a Calendar Year, but to be paid in a subsequent Calendar Year, if the Participant is not eligible to participate in this Program during such subsequent Calendar Year.
 
2.11 . The amounts contributed to a Participant's Account, which include Participant Contributions, Matching Contributions, Additional Matching Contributions and Dividend Contributions.
Contributions
 
2.12 A Participant is considered disabled if the Participant (i) is unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months, or (ii) is, by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months, receiving income replacement benefits for a period of not less than 3 months under an accident and health plan covering employees of the Participant's employer.
Disability.
 
2.13 . The Company's contribution of dividend amounts to a Participant's Account made pursuant to Section 4.7.
Dividend Contribution
 
2.14 . A Participant's election to contribute Compensation, which sets forth the percentage of Compensation to be contributed, the method of distribution of stock units and such other items as the Committee may require.
Election
 
2.15 . The Company or any directly or indirectly majority-owned subsidiary, partnership or limited liability company of the Company.
Employer
 
2.16 . The Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
ERISA
 
2.17 . The closing price of Common Stock on a given date as reported on the New York Stock Exchange composite tape or, in the absence of sales on a given date, the closing price (as so reported) on the New York Stock Exchange on the last day on which a sale occurred prior to such date.
Fair Market Value
 
2.18 . Federal Income Contributions Act, as amended.
FICA
 
2.19 . A management and/or highly compensated employee of the Employer.
Key Employee
 
2.20 . A committee selected by the Board that is authorized to act on behalf of the Committee under the Program, except with respect to Section 16 Officers.
Management Committee
 
2.21 . The Company's contribution of amounts to a Participant's Account equal to 50% of a Participant's Contribution made pursuant to Section 4.5.
Matching Contribution
 
2.22 . A Key Employee selected to participate in the Program who has delivered a signed Election to the Company.
Participant
 
2.23 . The Participant's contribution of Compensation which is used to acquire Stock Units pursuant to Section 4.4.
Participant's Contribution
 
2.24 . All officers of the Company subject to the requirements of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Section 16 Officers
 
2.25 Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, including all regulations and other guidance of general applicability issued thereunder.
.
Section 409A
 
2.26 "Separation from Service" shall mean a termination of employment or other event as defined under Section 409A.
.
Separation from Service
 
2.27 Any Participant meeting the definition of "specified employee" under Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i).
.
Specified Employee
 
2.28 . A unit of account deemed to equal a single share (or fractional share) of Common Stock.
Stock Unit
 
2.29 A severe financial hardship to the Participant resulting from an illness or accident of the Participant, the Participant's spouse, or a dependent of the Participant, loss of the Participant's property due to casualty, or other similar extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances arising as a result of events beyond the control of the Participant.
.
Unforeseeable Emergency
 
2.30 . Any calendar year in which the Participant completes 1,000 hours of service. An hour of service means any hour for which the Employer pays the Participant, including hours paid for vacation, illness or disability. If the Participant was employed by a company or division acquired by the Company, the Participant's service will include hours of service with the acquired company for purposes of eligibility. However, for purposes of determining Years of Vesting Service under Section 5.4, the Participant's service will begin on the acquisition date.
Year of Service
 
2.31 . Any Year of Service except any year when the Participant is or was eligible to make contributions to this Program or the Stock Bonus Plan but declined to make such contributions.
Year of Vesting Service
 
 
3.1 . The Committee will select the Key Employees eligible to become Participants. Unless waived by the Committee, a Key Employee must have at least one Year of Service to be eligible to participate in the Program.
Selection of Participants
 
3.2 . The Committee may revoke a Participant's right to participate if he no longer meets the Program's eligibility requirements or for any other reason. If a Participant's employment is terminated for any reason, his right to participate in the Program will cease. Except as provided in Section 5.4, such termination will not affect Stock Units already credited to his Account.
Continued Eligibility
 
 
4.1 . An Account will be established to track Stock Units for each Participant. All Contributions to a Participant's Account will be used to acquire Stock Units at a price equal to 85% of the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the date such Contributions are made.
Acquisition of Stock Units
 
4.2 . A Participant's Election (including contribution percentage and form of distribution) will be made in a form approved by the Committee. The Election must be made on or before December 31 for Compensation to be earned and vested in the following Calendar Year, except that newly eligible Participants may, within 30 days of first becoming eligible for participation, make an Election for Compensation earned subsequent to the date of Election.
Participant's Election
 
On or before December 31 of each year following the Participant's initial Election, the Participant may change his contribution percentage for the next Calendar Year or may terminate his Election for the next Calendar Year. If no change or termination is received by December 31, the Participant's Election will irrevocably carry forward for the next Calendar Year. The Participant may not change the form of distribution selected in the initial Election, except as provided in Section 5.7.
 
The Committee may provide for Elections at any other times with respect to all or any part of Compensation or Contributions to the extent that such Elections are consistent with the requirements of Section 409A.
 
4.3 . A Participant may become newly eligible for the Program due to a Compensation increase, whereas he was previously eligible for a qualified Company benefit (e.g. the Stock Bonus Plan). A Participant may not defer performance compensation (e.g. an annual bonus) payable in his first year of eligibility if it was earned and vested prior to his becoming eligible to participate in the Program. In such a case, the Company will make the Matching Contribution and any Additional Matching Contribution as though the Participant's Contribution had been made with respect to performance compensation received in the first year of eligibility.
Treatment of Performance Compensation for Certain Newly Eligible Participants
 
4.4 . Each Participant may elect to contribute to the Program a percentage of his Compensation above a certain threshold. For 2006, the threshold is a base salary of $25,695, which amount may be increased by the Committee for years after 2006. The Committee will determine the maximum Participant Contribution percentage. Participant's Contributions will be made on a bi-weekly basis or as Compensation otherwise would have been paid, unless the Committee determines otherwise.
Participant's Contribution
 
A participant's maximum contribution percentage may increase during a Calendar Year due to a Compensation increase or promotion. In such a case, the Participant will not be considered "newly eligible" for the higher contribution rate under the Program. Any increase in contribution percentage must be made on or before December 31 for Compensation to be earned and vested in the following Calendar Year.
 
4.5 . The Company will make a Matching Contribution equal to 50% of the Participant's Contribution. Matching Contributions will be made at the same time as the Participant's Contributions.
Matching Contributions
 
4.6 . The Company will make an Additional Matching Contribution equal to a percentage of the Participant's Contribution for the applicable Calendar Year if the Company's return on net assets ("RONA") for the Calendar Year is at least 8%. The Additional Matching Contribution will begin at 5% of the Participant's Contribution for the applicable Calendar Year if the Company's RONA is 8% and increase to a maximum 50% of the Participant's Contribution if the Company's RONA is at least 12.5%. Such Contribution will be credited to the Account of each Participant who was employed as of the last business day of the Calendar Year, plus each Participant whose employment terminated prior to such date (a) due to Disability or death, or (b) after the Participant has attained 55 years of age and has at least 5 Years of Vesting Service. Additional Matching Contributions, if any, will be credited to the Participant's Account after the end of the Calendar Year when the amount has been determined.
Additional Matching Contributions
 
4.7 . On the date a cash dividend is paid on Common Stock, the Company will make a Dividend Contribution equal to the per share cash dividend on the number of Stock Units credited to the Participant's Account on the dividend record date.
Dividend Contributions
 
4.8 . In the event of a stock dividend, stock split, merger, consolidation or other recapitalization of the Company affecting the number of outstanding shares of Common Stock, the number of Stock Units credited to a Participant's Account will be appropriately adjusted.
Change in Capitalization
 
4.9 . The Company will pay on behalf of a Participant any FICA taxes due on Matching Contributions and Additional Matching Contributions. Such payment will be determined by the Committee and may include a tax "gross-up" on such payments.
FICA Tax Gross-Up
 
4.10 . Some Participants defer 100% of their Compensation under the Company's Deferred Compensation Program. Since the Compensation remaining after such a deferral is not sufficient to allow the Participant to make the full Participant's Contribution, the Company will make the Matching Contribution and any Additional Matching Contribution as though the full Participant's Contribution had been made.
Impact of Deferred Compensation Program
 
 
5.1 . Except in the case of Specified Employees, distribution of a Participant's Account will be made within 90 days after Separation from Service, Disability or death, but in no event later than March 15th of the Calendar Year following such event. Distribution of a Specified Employee's Account will be made six months after Separation from Service (other than by Disability or death) to the extent required to conform to Section 409A. Prior to distribution, the Stock Units will be converted to the appropriate number of whole shares of Common Stock.
Distribution
 
Distribution of a Participant's Account will be based on the number of Stock Units credited to his Account upon termination of employment. If Stock Units are credited to the
 
Participant's Account after a distribution has been made (, as a result of Dividend Contributions or Additional Matching Contributions), a subsequent distribution of those Stock Units will be made as soon as practicable, but in no event later than March 15th of the Calendar Year following such crediting of Stock Units.
e.g.
 
5.2 . Distributions will be made in the form elected by the Participant. The forms of distribution are: (a) a lump sum amount, or (b) annual installments for up to 15 years. Annual installment distributions will be made by January 31st of each Calendar Year following the Calendar Year of the initial distribution. Each annual distribution will be equal to the balance of Stock Units in the Account divided by the number of payments remaining.
Form of Distribution
 
If a Participant does not elect a form of distribution in his initial Election or if a Participant's Account value does not exceed $50,000 on termination of employment, the distribution will be made in a lump sum.
 
5.3 . When Stock Units are converted to Common Stock for distribution, the Company may withhold from such Common Stock any amount required to pay applicable taxes (at the Company's required withholding rate). Alternatively, the Participant may pay such taxes in cash if he elects to do so before the distribution date.
Withholding from Distributions
 
5.4 . Notwithstanding the above, upon the termination of employment of a Participant who has less than 5 Years of Vesting Service, any Stock Units acquired by Company Matching and Additional Matching Contributions will be forfeited (unless the Committee determines otherwise). However, such Stock Units will not be forfeited if the Participant's employment is terminated due to death or Disability.
Forfeiture of Stock Units
 
5.5 . If a Participant dies before he has received all distributions due under the Program, the remaining distributions will be made to his Beneficiary. Each Participant may designate a Beneficiary and change his Beneficiary from time to time. No such designation will become effective until received in writing by the Company. If a Participant has no living designated Beneficiary, then his Beneficiary will be his personal representative.
Beneficiary
 
5.6 In the event of an Unforeseeable Emergency or Change in Control, the Committee may authorize an immediate distribution to the Participant as permitted under Section 409A.
.
Distribution Upon Unforeseeable Emergency or Change in Control
 
5.7 . A Participant may extend the payout period of an installment election or change the form of distribution, not to exceed the maximum payout period of 15 years or such other period determined by the Committee. For purposes of the foregoing, each payout date in an installment distribution election will be treated as a separate election. Unless otherwise permitted under the transition rules applicable to Section 409A, the election change must be made not less than 12 months prior to termination of employment and must extend the first distribution payment by at least 5 years.
Change in Form of Distribution
 
 
6.1 . Except to the extent the Committee otherwise designates pursuant to Section 6.2(f), the Committee will control and manage the operation and administration of the Program.
Administration
 
6.2 . The Committee will have such authority and discretion as may be necessary to discharge its responsibilities under the Program, including the authority and discretion to: (a) interpret the provisions of the Program; (b) adopt rules of procedure consistent with the Program; (c) determine questions relating to benefits and rights under the Program; (d) maintain records concerning the Program; (e) determine the content and form of the Participant's Election and all other documents required to carry out the Program; and (f) designate any Company employee or committee, including the Management Committee, to carry out any of the Committee's duties, including authority to manage the operation and administration of the Program.
Committee's Authority
 
6.3 . Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may not delegate its authority with respect to Section 16 Officers.
Section 16 Officers
 
 
7.1 . The Committee and the Company's Secretary will make all determinations regarding benefits under the Program in accordance with ERISA.
Adjudication of Claims
 
If a Participant believes he is entitled to receive a distribution under the Program and he does not receive such distribution, he must make a claim in writing to the Committee. The Committee will review the claim. If the claim is denied, the Committee will provide a written notice of denial within 90 days setting out: the reasons for the denial; provisions of the Program upon which the denial is based; any additional information to perfect the claim and why such information is necessary; the steps to be taken if a review is sought, including the right to file an action under Section 502(a) of ERISA following an adverse determination; and the time limits for requesting a review and for review.
 
If a claim is denied and the Participant desires a review, he will notify the Secretary in writing within 60 days of the receipt of notice of denial. In requesting a review, the Participant may review the Program or any related document and submit any written statement he deems appropriate. The Secretary will then review the claim and, if the decision is adverse to the Participant, provide a written decision within 60 days setting out: the reasons for the denial; provisions of the Program upon which the denial is based; a statement that the Participant is entitled to receive, upon request and free of charge, copies of documents relied upon in making the decision; and the Participant's right to bring an action under Section 502(a) of ERISA.
 
 
8.1 . Nothing contained in the Program will restrict the right of the Employer to discharge a Participant or the right of a Participant to resign from employment. The Program should not be construed as an employment contract.
No Contract
 
8.2 . No Participant or Beneficiary may transfer, assign or otherwise encumber any benefits payable by the Company under the Program. Such benefits may not be seized by any creditor of Participant or Beneficiary or transferred by operation of law in the event of bankruptcy, insolvency or death. Any attempted assignment or transfer will be void.
No Assignment
 
8.3 . No person will have any interest in the Company's assets by virtue of the Program. No Participant or Beneficiary will have any of the rights of a shareholder with respect to Stock Units.
Unfunded Program
 
8.4 . The Program and any action taken pursuant to the Program should not be construed as creating a trust or other fiduciary relationship between the Company, the Participant, his Beneficiary or any other person.
No Trust Created
 
8.5 . The Program will be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Company, its successors and assigns, and each Participant, his heirs, personal representatives, and Beneficiaries.
Binding Effect
 
8.6 . The Company will have the right to amend or terminate the Program at any time. However, no such amendment or termination will deprive any Participant of the right to distribution of Stock Units previously credited to his Account.
Amendments and Termination
 
8.7 . To the extent not preempted by ERISA, this Program will be governed by Missouri law.
Governing Law
 
8.8 . Any notice or claim given under the Program will be in writing and signed by the party giving the same. If such notice or claim is mailed, it will be sent by United States first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the recipient's last known address as shown on the Company's records. The date of such mailing will be deemed the date of notice.
Notices
 
8.9 . To the extent permitted by Section 409A, the Committee retains the right to delay a Participant distribution if the payment of such distribution would violate securities laws, eliminate or reduce the Company's tax deduction by application of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code, violate loan covenants or other contractual terms to which the Company is a party, or otherwise result in material harm to the Company.
Committee's Right
 


