FILE:LEG/LEG-8K-20050421185327.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On April 21, 2005, Leggett & Platt, Incorporated issued a press release announcing financial results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2005. The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
This information is being funished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or incorporated by reference into any document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
On April 22, 2005, the company will hold an investor conference call to discuss its first quarter financial results.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: APRIL 21, 2005
 
 
Carthage, MO, April 21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fortune 500 diversified manufacturer Leggett & Platt reported earnings of $.37 per diluted share, in line with guidance issued on January 31. Per share earnings increased 16%, or $.05, over the $.32 attained in the first quarter of the prior year. Higher sales, solid performance at the steel rod mill, and improved operating efficiency contributed to the earnings increase.
 
Record first quarter sales of $1.30 billion were $114 million, or 9.6%, higher than in the first quarter 2004. Same location sales increased more than 8%, as a result of inflation (mainly in steel costs). Overall unit volume was essentially flat with first quarter 2004. Acquisitions (net of divestitures) contributed $14 million of the sales growth.
 
2005: Off to a Good Start
 
Felix E. Wright, Chairman and CEO said, "We're pleased with our first quarter results, and believe we're off to a good start for the year. During the quarter, sales growth came in at the upper end of our expectation; steel costs stabilized, but remain high; and the Fixture & Display group achieved both sales and margin improvement in comparison to 1Q 2004.
 
"In September we told investors that excess cash flow would go toward either acquisitions or share repurchase. Consistent with that strategy, we were strong buyers of our stock during the first quarter, purchasing 1.8 million shares, the most we've ever bought in a single quarter. These purchases were partially offset by issuance of shares through employee plans. As a result, common stock outstanding declined by 0.9 million during the quarter, and was 2.2 million shares below the level of one year ago.
 
"Of the $91 million of cash from operations generated in the quarter, we spent 7% on acquisition activity and 45% on stock repurchases. Altogether, including spending for capital projects and the dividend, we used slightly more cash than we generated during the quarter. We also paid off $350 million of debt, reducing our cash balance from $491 million at the start of the quarter to $143 million at quarter's end.
 
"We continue to be optimistic about 2005, expect to post record sales and earnings, and are maintaining the same full-year EPS guidance we first issued in December."
Acquisitions and Divestitures
 
During the quarter the company acquired one firm that will add about $12 million to annual sales in the Residential Furnishings segment. The company also divested one Residential Furnishings operation that generated annual revenue of about $15 million.
 
2005 Full Year Outlook: Still $1.50-$1.70 EPS
 
Earnings growth in 2005 should primarily be influenced by three factors: organic sales growth, the direction of raw material costs, and the extent of improvement in the Fixture and Display (F&D) operations. The company's expectations in these three areas are unchanged:
 
 
 
 
Accordingly, the company's earnings guidance for the full year 2005 remains at $1.50-$1.70 per share.
 
2Q 2005: $0.40-0.45 EPS
 
For the second quarter, Leggett anticipates trade sales of $1.32-1.37 billion, a sequential improvement of $20-70 million over first quarter (and about 5% sales growth versus 2Q 2004). Based on this sales assumption, the company anticipates earnings of $.40-$.45 per share for the second quarter.
 
Conference Call
 
Management will discuss these results in a conference call at 8:00 a.m. Central (9:00 a.m. Eastern) on April 22. The webcast can be accessed (live or replay) from the Investor Relations section of Leggett's website at . The dial-in number is (706) 634-7235; id# 5206508. Second quarter results will be released after the market closes on July 21, 2005, with a conference call the next morning.
www.leggett.com
 
 First Quarter 2005 (versus 1Q 2004)
SEGMENT RESULTS
 
 Total sales increased $48 million, or 8%, with acquisitions (net of divestitures) contributing $4 million of the increase. Inflation alone enhanced revenue by almost 11%, but that incremental revenue generated only modest income. Unit sales decreased about 2%, with slightly increased unit sales of mechanisms (for upholstered furniture) more than offset by declines in other areas, including U.S. innerspring unit sales. EBIT (earnings before interest and income taxes) was $55.7 million, a decrease of $13.7 million, or 20%. The EBIT decrease was attributable to reduced unit sales, higher chemical costs (which significantly impacted foam operations), restructuring costs, changes in product mix, and a loss on the sale of one small operation.
Residential Furnishings
 
 Total sales increased $25 million, or 10%, largely due to inflation. EBIT doubled, from $6.1 million last year to $12.0 million this year, from implementation of the company's tactical plan, modest margin on inflation-related sales increases, and absence of last year's restructuring charges.
Commercial Fixturing and Components
 Total sales increased $5 million, or 4%, solely from increased same location sales. Inflation added about 3% to sales, and unit volumes were up about 1%. EBIT decreased 17%, or $2.5 million, with increases from higher sales more than offset by higher energy and raw material costs, and production inefficiencies at some plants.
Aluminum Products
 
 Total sales increased $55 million, or 32%, solely from same location sales increases. Unit volume declined about 8%, but was more than offset by inflation. The $12.5 million EBIT improvement resulted primarily from a favorable steel rod-to-scrap price spread (which benefited the rod mill). Inflation-related sales increases brought little margin, and were offset by unit volume declines.
Industrial Materials
 
 Total sales increased $10 million, or 8%. Same location sales increased 2% (primarily from currency rate changes). Acquisitions contributed $8 million, or 6%, of the sales growth. EBIT declined 9%, or $1.0 million, due to a variety of factors including changes in currency rates.
Specialized Products
 
COMPANY DESCRIPTION: Leggett & Platt (NYSE: LEG) is a Fortune 500 diversified manufacturer that conceives, designs and produces a broad variety of engineered components and products that can be found in virtually every home, office, retail store, and automobile. The company serves a broad suite of customers that comprise a "Who's Who" of U.S. manufacturers and retailers. The 122-year-old firm is composed of 29 business units, 33,000 employee-partners, and more than 300 facilities located in over 20 countries. Leggett possesses the second-best Fortune 500 dividend growth record (90-fold growth via 34 consecutive annual increases at greater than 14% CAGR), has grown sales and earnings at a 15% annual average since going public in 1967, consistently posts top half performance among the Fortune 500, and sets a high standard for financial transparency and quality of earnings.
 
Leggett & Platt is North America's leading independent manufacturer of the following: a) components for residential furniture and bedding; b) retail store fixtures and point of purchase displays; c) components for office furniture; d) non-automotive aluminum die castings; e) drawn steel wire; f) automotive seat support and lumbar systems; g) carpet underlay; h) adjustable beds; and i) bedding industry machinery for wire forming, sewing and quilting. Primary raw materials include steel and aluminum. Main operations include metal stamping, forming, casting, machining, coating, welding, wire drawing, and assembly.
 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS: Statements in this release that are not historical in nature are "forward-looking." These statements involve uncertainties and risks, including the company's ability to improve operations and realize cost savings, price and product competition from foreign and domestic competitors, changes in demand for the company's products, cost and availability of raw materials and labor, fuel and energy costs, future growth of acquired companies, general economic conditions, foreign currency fluctuation, litigation risks, and other factors described in the company's Form 10-K. Any forward-looking statement reflects only the company's beliefs when the statement is made. Actual results could differ materially from expectations, and the company undertakes no duty to update these statements.
 
 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
 
SEGMENT RESULTS
 
LAST SIX QUARTERS
 


