FILE:LEG/LEG-8K-20070719171244.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
On July 19, 2007, Leggett & Platt, Incorporated issued a press release announcing financial results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2007. The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
This information is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or incorporated by reference into any document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
On July 20, 2007, the company will hold an investor conference call to discuss its second quarter financial results.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: JULY 19, 2007
Carthage, MO, July 19 
 
 
 
 
 
Fortune 500 diversified manufacturer Leggett & Platt reported earnings of $.33 per diluted share for the second quarter, including $.02 per share of net non-recurring benefits. Per share earnings in the second quarter of 2006 were $.45, and included $.05 per share of net income from non-recurring items and discontinued prime foam operations.
Quarterly sales of $1.32 billion were 3% lower than last year's second quarter sales (from continuing operations) of $1.36 billion. Same location sales decreased 5%, but were partially offset by a 2% increase in revenue from acquisitions (net of dispositions).
CEO Comments
CEO David S. Haffner commented, "As we mentioned a few weeks ago, several of our markets weakened considerably during the quarter, resulting in a broad-based revenue decline. Given the limited visibility inherent in our markets, we are not forecasting a robust second half of the year. We have yet to see any significant catalyst that will appreciably increase demand; accordingly, our full year guidance reflects continued market weakness for the remainder of 2007."
Despite lower expected revenues, the company continues to have a strong balance sheet and excellent cash flow. During 2007, Leggett expects to generate about $650 million of cash, largely from operations, but supplemented with proceeds of the prime foam divestiture (completed in March) and continued gradual increase of net debt to targeted levels. Leggett plans to spend approximately $200 million of that cash on dividends and maintenance capital, with the remainder available for investment in organic growth, acquisitions, and stock repurchases.
Strategic Review
As mentioned last month, the company is in the midst of a strategic review of its business portfolio. This current analytical effort grew from a series of internal strategy discussions that commenced in mid-2006. In February, Leggett's senior executives and Board of Directors decided to solicit additional insight. As a result, the company engaged a premier, national strategy consulting firm to provide an independent, thorough assessment of Leggett's business units. This ongoing, in-depth review should be completed over the next few months.
Dave Haffner commented, "This current review is broader in scope, more strategic in nature, and more long-term oriented than any of our previous activities. We anticipate a transformation for Leggett & Platt during 2008 as we implement fundamental changes in our businesses. We believe these changes will significantly increase total return to our shareholders. We will share additional information about these initiatives in the coming months."
 
Stock Repurchase
During the quarter Leggett bought over 3 million shares of its stock, achieving its second-highest quarterly repurchase on record; most of those shares were obtained near the end of June at a price of about $22. So far during 2007, the company has purchased 5.1 million shares of its stock, and issued 1.4 million shares through benefit plans. As a result, shares outstanding have declined by 3.7 million, or nearly 2%, to 174.2 million (as of mid-July).
As mentioned previously, the Board voted in May to increase the quarterly dividend by 6%, to 18 cents per share. The current dividend yield on Leggett stock is approximately 3.2%.
2007 Outlook: $1.28-$1.44 EPS
Full year 2007 earnings are anticipated to be $1.28-$1.44 per share. Guidance includes 10 cents per share of restructuring-related costs (5 cents per share more than in previous guidance) as the company more quickly implements further required changes. Sales (from continuing operations) are anticipated to be $5.2 billion, or 2% lower than in 2006, with acquisitions adding 2% and same location sales declining by 4%.
 
For the third quarter, Leggett anticipates sales of approximately $1.34 billion, a 2% decrease versus 3Q 2006 (excluding discontinued operations). Quarterly earnings are anticipated to be $.32-$.40 per share.
 Second Quarter 2007 (versus 2Q 2006)
SEGMENT RESULTS
 Total sales (from continuing operations) decreased $36 million, or 6%; acquisitions (net of restructuring and divestitures) added $10 million to sales, but were more than offset by a 7% decline in same location sales. EBIT (earnings before interest and income taxes) from continuing operations decreased $14 million, primarily due to lower same location sales.
Residential Furnishings
 Total sales decreased $7 million, or 3%. There have been no acquisitions within the last 12 months. EBIT decreased $4 million primarily due to lower sales.
Commercial Fixturing & Components
 Total sales declined $22 million, or 14%, in part due to movement of a customer's barbecue grill manufacturing to overseas locations and end-market softness. There have been no acquisitions within the last 12 months. EBIT decreased $14 million largely due to reduced sales and plant utilization.
Aluminum Products
 Total sales increased $4 million, or 2%. Same location sales declined 2%. Acquisitions contributed $14 million to sales but were partially offset by $6 million of divestitures. EBIT increased $1 million.
Industrial Materials
 Total sales increased $17 million, or nearly 9%. Same location sales grew over 5%, and acquisitions, net of divestitures, added over 3% to sales. EBIT improved $5 million due to increased sales, absence of last year's restructuring-related costs, and income from acquired companies.
Specialized Products
Conference Call
Management will discuss these results in a conference call at 8:00 a.m. Central (9:00 a.m. Eastern) on July 20. The webcast can be accessed (live or replay) from the Investor Relations section of Leggett's website at . The dial-in number is (303) 262-2140; there is no passcode. Third quarter results will be released after the market closes on Wednesday, October 17, 2007, with a conference call the next morning.
www.leggett.com
 
COMPANY DESCRIPTION: Leggett & Platt (NYSE: LEG) is a FORTUNE 500 diversified manufacturer that conceives, designs and produces a broad variety of engineered components and products that can be found in virtually every home, office, retail store, and automobile. The company serves a broad suite of customers that comprise a "Who's Who" of U.S. manufacturers and retailers. The 124-year-old firm is composed of 28 business units, 33,000 employee-partners, and more than 300 facilities located in over 20 countries.
Leggett & Platt is North America's leading independent manufacturer of: a) components for residential furniture and bedding; b) retail store fixtures and point of purchase displays; c) components for office furniture; d) non-automotive aluminum die castings; e) drawn steel wire; f) automotive seat support and lumbar systems; g) carpet underlay; h) adjustable beds; and i) bedding industry machinery for wire forming, sewing and quilting. Primary raw materials include steel and aluminum. Main operations include metal stamping, forming, casting, machining, coating, welding, wire drawing, and assembly.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS: Statements in this release that are not historical in nature are "forward-looking." These statements involve uncertainties and risks, including the company's ability to improve operations and realize cost savings, price and product competition from foreign and domestic competitors, changes in demand for the company's products, cost and availability of raw materials and labor, fuel and energy costs, future growth of acquired companies, general economic conditions, foreign currency fluctuation, litigation risks, and other factors described in the company's Form 10-K. Any forward-looking statement reflects only the company's beliefs when the statement is made. Actual results could differ materially from expectations, and the company undertakes no duty to update these statements.
 
 
 
 
 


