FILE:LEG/LEG-8K-20070531161123.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
 
As the next step in Leggett's continued succession plan, Felix E. Wright will transition into the consulting arrangement contemplated by Section 9 of his employment agreement. By notice to the Company earlier today, he will become an employee consultant to the Company for a two-year period beginning June 1, 2007, and will no longer serve as an executive officer of the Company. He will continue in his position as Chairman of the Board of Directors.
As an employee-consultant, Mr. Wright will report to the Chief Executive Officer of the Company. He will be paid an amount during the first and second years of consultation equal to 75% and 60%, respectively, of his highest consecutive five-year average earnings. Earnings include only salary and bonus.
In connection with this transition, Mr. Wright's severance benefit agreement, dated May 9, 1984, was terminated today. A description of Mr. Wright's severance benefit agreement is contained in the Company's proxy statement dated March 29, 2007 under the caption "Change-in-Control Agreements" which is incorporated by reference.
The above description is only a summary and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the documents themselves, which are listed as Exhibits to this Current Report on Form 8-K, and are incorporated by reference herein.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


