FILE:LEG/LEG-8K-20070504150408.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
 
Amendment to our Credit Agreement
On May 1, 2007 the Company entered into a Second Amendment to Credit Agreement among JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, and all of the participating banking institutions listed below (""). The Second Amendment amends the Company's multi-currency revolving credit agreement, dated August 5, 2005, which was previously amended by the First Amendment to Credit Agreement dated July 31, 2006 (collectively referred to as the "Credit Agreement"). The Company, from time to time, may borrow, repay and re-borrow up to $600 million under the Credit Agreement until April 30, 2012, at which time the Company's ability to borrow under the Credit Agreement will terminate. The Credit Agreement was amended by the Second Amendment, to, among other things:
Second Amendment
 
 
 
 
 
Below is an alphabetical listing of the participating banks along with their respective commitments under the Credit Agreement.
 
The Company may elect the type of borrowing under the Credit Agreement. The type of borrowing will determine the rate of interest to be paid on the outstanding principal balance, as follows:
 
 
 
The Company is required to periodically pay accrued interest on any outstanding principal balance under the Credit Agreement at different time intervals based upon the elected interest rate and the elected interest period. The Company may borrow, repay and re-borrow under the Credit Agreement at any time prior to the maturity date. All of the outstanding principal under the Credit Agreement will be due upon the maturity date. The Company may also terminate or reduce the lending commitments under the Credit Agreement, in whole or in part, upon three business days notice.
The Credit Agreement is unsecured, but contains certain restrictive covenants, including, but not limited to, restrictions on funded debt and short-term debt of the Company, restrictions on the Company's ability to mortgage and place liens on its property, a requirement that the Company's total indebtedness to total capitalization must not exceed 60%, and in the case of secured debt, a requirement that the principal amount of secured debt will not exceed 15% of consolidated total assets. The Credit Agreement provides that if the Company breaches any representation or warranty, does not comply with any covenant, fails to pay principal and interest in a timely manner, or an Event of Default, as defined in the Credit Agreement, otherwise occurs, then the Credit Agreement will terminate and all outstanding indebtedness under the Credit Agreement shall accelerate. As of April 30, 2007, there was no outstanding indebtedness under our Credit Agreement.
The foregoing is only a summary of certain terms and conditions of the Credit Agreement and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement is comprised of the Credit Agreement, dated August 5, 2005, the First Amendment to Credit Agreement, dated July 31, 2006 and the Second Amendment to Credit Agreement, dated May 1, 2007, all of which are filed as Exhibits 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3, respectively, and incorporated herein by reference.
The listed banks and/or their affiliates have provided, from time to time, and may continue to provide commercial banking and related services, as well as investment banking, financial advisory and other services to us and/or to our affiliates, for which we have paid, and intend to pay, customary fees, and, in some cases, out-of-pocket expenses.
Increase in our Commercial Paper Program
The Credit Agreement acts as support for the marketability of the Company's commercial paper program. On May 1, 2007, the Board of Directors of the Company increased the authorization under the commercial paper program from $400 million to $600 million. As of April 30, 2007, the Company had approximately $205 million of commercial paper outstanding.
We have used, and expect to use, the proceeds from the sale of our commercial paper notes ("Notes") for ordinary working capital needs, to finance our acquisition program, to repurchase our common stock and for other general corporate purposes.
We issue the Notes pursuant to a Commercial Paper Agency Agreement previously entered into between us and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (formerly The Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A.) attached hereto and incorporated herein as Exhibit 10.4 (the "Agency Agreement"). The Agency Agreement includes, as Exhibits A and A-1, forms of the Master Notes under which the commercial paper is issued. It also includes Exhibit B, a letter of representations, signed by us, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Issuing and Paying Agent, and The Depository Trust Company. The Agency Agreement provides for the issuance and payment of the Notes and contains customary representations, warranties, covenants and indemnification provisions. It may be terminated upon written notice by either party.
The Notes are marketed and sold through various agreements with commercial paper dealers. The Notes are issued in $200,000 minimum principal amounts at par less a discount representing an interest factor, or at par, if interest bearing, with interest established based upon market conditions and credit ratings assigned at the time of issuance. The maturity of the Notes will vary but may not exceed 270 days. As of April 30, 2007, all of the Notes had a one day maturity. As of April 30, 2007, the Notes had a weighted average interest rate of approximately 5.30%.
The foregoing is only a summary of certain terms and conditions of the Agency Agreement and is qualified in its entirety by reference to that agreement which is attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and/or its affiliates has provided from time to time, and may continue to provide commercial banking and related services, as well as investment banking, financial advisory and other services to us and our affiliates, for which we have paid, and intend to pay customary fees, and, in some cases, out-of-pocket expenses.
The Notes have not been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or any state securities laws and may not be reoffered or sold absent registration or applicable exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws. This Form 8-K does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities, and is not intended to condition the market in the United States, or elsewhere, for the issuance of our securities.
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
The information provided in Item 1.01 above is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On May 1, 2007 Standard & Poors Ratings Services ("S&P") lowered its corporate credit and senior unsecured debt ratings for the Company from "A+" to "A". S&P affirmed its "A-1" short-term and commercial paper ratings on the Company. Currently, Moody's Investor Services, Inc. assigns an "A2" rating to the Company's senior unsecured debt and a "P-1" rating to the Company's commercial paper.
These credit ratings reflected the views of the rating agency only. An explanation of the significance of these ratings may be obtained from the rating agency. Such ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities. Any rating can be revised upward or downward or withdrawn at any time by a rating agency if it decides that the circumstances warrant the change. Each rating agency may have different criteria for evaluating company risk and, therefore, each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.3
THIS SECOND AMENDMENT TO CREDIT AGREEMENT, dated as of May 1, 2007 is among LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED, a Missouri corporation (the ""), the lenders party hereto and JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A. (the "").
Borrower
Administrative Agent
The Borrower, the Administrative Agent and certain lenders have entered into that certain Credit Agreement dated as of August 5, 2005 which was amended by that certain First Amendment to Credit Agreement dated as of July 31, 2006 (as amended, the "" and capitalized terms used in this Amendment, to the extent not otherwise defined herein, shall have the same meanings as in the Agreement, as amended hereby). Barclays Bank PLC has assigned all of its right, title and interest in and to the Agreement to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. pursuant to an Assignment and Assumption dated as of the date hereof. The Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the lenders party hereto now desire to amend the Agreement as herein set forth.
Agreement
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises herein contained and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows effective as of the date hereof unless otherwise indicated:
Section 1.1. . Section 1.01 of the Agreement is amended as follows:
Amendments to Section 1.01
 
 
 
The amount of each Lender's Commitment as of May 1, 2007 is set forth on Schedule 2.01 or after May 1, 2007, in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender shall have assumed its Commitment or in the Increase Commitment Supplement pursuant to which such Lender shall have assumed or increased its Commitment, as applicable. As of the May 1, 2007, the aggregate amount of the Lenders' Commitments is $600,000,000.
 
Section 1.2. . The $600,000,000 number set out in clause (ii) of Section 2.20 and in clause (x) of Section 8.02 is amended to be $800,000,000.
Amendment to Increased Commitment Provisions
Section 1.3. . Schedule 2.01 () is amended in its entirety to read as set forth on Schedule 2.01 hereto. As a result of the amendment to Schedule 2.01, certain Persons are being added as "Lenders" under the Agreement and the amount of certain of the Lender's Commitments are changing.
Amendment to Schedule 2.01
Commitments
Section 2.1. . The effectiveness of Article 1 of this Amendment is subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions precedent:
Effective Date
(a) The Administrative Agent (or its counsel) shall have received from each party hereto either (i) a counterpart of this Amendment signed on behalf of such party or (ii) written evidence satisfactory to the Administrative Agent (which may include telecopy or other electronic transmission of a signed signature page of this Amendment) that such party has signed a counterpart of this Amendment.
(b) The Administrative Agent shall have received such documents and certificates as the Administrative Agent or its counsel may reasonably request relating to the organization, existence and good standing of Borrower, the authorization of the execution, delivery and performance of this Amendment and any other legal matters relating to the Borrower, this Amendment or the Loan Documents as the Administrative Agent may request, all in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and its counsel.
(c) The Administrative Agent shall have received a favorable written opinion (addressed to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders and dated the date hereof) of the Borrower's general in house counsel, substantially in the form of Exhibit B to the Agreement but covering the execution and delivery of this Amendment and covering such other matters relating to the Borrower or this Amendment as the Required Lenders shall reasonably request.
(d) The representations and warranties of Borrower set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents shall be true and correct on and as of the date hereof, except to the extent such representations and warranties relate specifically to another date.
(e) As of the date hereof, no Default shall exist.
Section 3.1. . The terms and provisions set forth in this Amendment shall modify and supersede all inconsistent terms and provisions set forth in the Agreement and except as expressly modified and superseded by this Amendment, the terms and provisions of the Agreement and the other Loan Documents are ratified and confirmed and shall continue in full force and effect. The Borrower, the Lenders and the Administrative Agent agree that this Amendment is a Loan Document as such term is defined in the Agreement and the Agreement as amended hereby and the other Loan Documents shall continue to be legal, valid, binding and enforceable in accordance with their respective terms.
Ratifications
Section 3.2. . The Borrower hereby represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders as follows: (a) after giving effect to this Amendment, no Default exists; (b) after giving effect to this Amendment, the representations and warranties set forth in
Representations and Warranties
 
the Agreement are true and correct on and as of the date hereof with the same effect as though made on and as of such date except with respect to any representations and warranties limited by their terms to a specific date; (c) the execution, delivery and performance of this Amendment and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, (i) are within the legal power and authority of the Borrower, (ii) have been duly authorized by all requisite actions, (iii) do not and will not conflict with, contravene or violate any provision of or result in a breach of or default under, or require the waiver (not already obtained) of any provision of, or the consent (not already given) of any Person under the terms of the Borrower's articles of incorporation or by laws, or any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan or credit agreement or other agreement or instrument to which the Borrower is a party or by which it is bound or to which any of its properties are subject, (iv) will not violate, conflict with, give rise to any liability under, or constitute a default under any law, regulation, order (including, without limitation, all applicable state and federal securities laws) or any other requirement of any court, tribunal, arbitrator, or Governmental Authority, and (v) will not result in the creation, imposition, or acceleration of any indebtedness or tax or any mortgage, lien, reservation, covenant, restriction, or other encumbrance of any nature upon, or with respect to, the Borrower or any of its properties; (d) this Amendment constitutes the legal, valid and binding obligation of the Borrower enforceable against the Borrower in accordance with its terms; and (e) the execution, delivery and performance of this Amendment and the transactions contemplated hereby do not require any action, approval or consent of, or filing with, any Governmental Authority. All representations and warranties made in this Amendment shall survive the execution and delivery of this Amendment, and no investigation by the Administrative Agent or any Lender nor any closing shall affect the representations and warranties or the right of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders to rely upon them.
Section 3.3. . All agreements, documents, or instruments now or hereafter executed and delivered pursuant to the terms of the Agreement, including each Loan Document, are hereby amended so that any reference in such agreements, documents, or instruments to the Agreement shall mean a reference to the Agreement as amended hereby.
Reference to Agreement
Section 3.4. . This Amendment is binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders and their respective successors and assigns, except the Borrower may not assign or transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of each Lender. Any assignment in violation of this Section 3.4 shall be void.
Successors and Assigns
Section 3.5. . This Amendment may be executed in one or more counterparts and on telecopy counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
Section 3.6. . No consent or waiver, express or implied, by the Administrative Agent or any Lender to or for any breach of or deviation from any covenant, condition or duty by the Borrower shall be deemed a consent or waiver to or of any other breach of the same or any other covenant, condition or duty.
Effect of Waiver
Section 3.7. . Any provision of this Amendment which is prohibited, unenforceable or not authorized in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such prohibition, unenforceability or nonauthorization without invalidating the remaining provisions hereof or affecting the validity, enforceability or legality of such provision in any other jurisdiction.
Severability
Section 3.8. . This Amendment is governed by and construed in accordance with the applicable law pertaining in the State of New York, other than those conflict of law provisions that would defer to the substantive laws of another jurisdiction. This governing law election has been
Governing Law
 
made by the parties in reliance (at least in part) on Section 51401 of the General Obligations Law of the State of New York, as amended (as and to the extent applicable), and other applicable law.
Section 3.9. . Section headings in this Amendment are included herein for convenience of reference only and shall not constitute a part of this Amendment for any other purpose.
Headings
Section 3.10.
. ORAL AGREEMENTS OR COMMITMENTS TO LOAN MONEY, EXTEND CREDIT OR TO FORBEAR FROM ENFORCING REPAYMENT OF A DEBT, INCLUDING PROMISES TO EXTEND OR RENEW SUCH DEBT, ARE NOT ENFORCEABLE REGARDLESS OF THE LEGAL THEORY UPON WHICH IT IS BASED THAT IS IN ANY WAY RELATED TO THE CREDIT AGREEMENT. TO PROTECT YOU (BORROWER(S)) AND US (CREDITOR(S)) FROM MISUNDERSTANDING OR DISAPPOINTMENT, ANY AGREEMENTS WE REACH COVERING SUCH MATTERS ARE CONTAINED IN THIS WRITING, WHICH IS THE COMPLETE AND EXCLUSIVE STATEMENT OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN US, EXCEPT AS WE MAY LATER AGREE IN WRITING TO MODIFY IT.
MISSOURI STATUTORY NOTICE
Executed as of the date first written above.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


