FILE:LEG/LEG-8K-20080717170919.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 17, 2008, Leggett & Platt, Incorporated issued a press release announcing financial results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2008. The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
This information is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or incorporated by reference into any document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
On July 18, 2008, the Company will hold an investor conference call to discuss its second quarter financial results.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: JULY 17, 2008
Carthage, MO, July 17, 2008 
Diversified manufacturer Leggett & Platt reported second quarter earnings per diluted share of $.27, including $.02 per share from discontinued operations. Per share earnings from continuing operations were $.25, and include $.01 of restructuring-related costs, and a $.02 charge for a non-recurring tax item. In the second quarter of 2007, earnings per share were $.33, including $.03 per share from discontinued operations and other items. The year-over-year reduction in continuing operations' earnings is primarily due to soft demand in several markets.
Second quarter sales from continuing operations were $1.06 billion, slightly lower than last year's sales (from continuing operations) of $1.07 billion. Same location sales declined 0.5%, as soft market demand and the company's decision to exit specific sales volume (with unacceptable profit margins) were largely offset by market share gains and price inflation. Increased sales from acquisitions were offset by sales reductions from divestitures.
Earnings from discontinued operations in the second quarter of 2008 were $.02 per share, and included approximately $.03 per share of non-operating charges. In the second quarter of 2007, earnings per share from discontinued operations were $.02.
CEO Comments
President and CEO David S. Haffner remarked, "Some of our investors have expressed concern about three different issues: weakness in many of the markets we serve, raw material cost inflation, and the likelihood of receiving the divestiture proceeds we anticipate. We have good news to report on all three fronts.
"Our U.S. bedding components business is enjoying market share gains due to several factors. First, bedding manufacturers are importing fewer innersprings, and instead increasing their use of domestically produced innersprings. Second, earlier this year we began producing innersprings for a strong regional bedding manufacturer that previously produced its own components. Finally, foam and air mattresses have lost market share recently as consumers back away from alternative bedding, because of its high cost, and move instead to better value innerspring bedding.
"Global steel costs have escalated dramatically since the start of the year; however, our vertically integrated position (i.e. melt furnace and rod mill) yields a significant competitive advantage in this market. To a very significant degree, we have successfully implemented price increases to recover the higher raw material costs; however, we typically experience a lag with the timing of the recovery. As costs potentially plateau later this
year, and our price increases catch up with the cost increases, we should see enhanced profitability during the second half of the year.
"The divestitures we announced last fall are progressing, and we are committed to selling or liquidating all seven of the operations we have previously identified. As disclosed yesterday, the sale of the Aluminum Products segment closed (for $300 million in cash, a $25 million subordinated note, and shares of preferred stock), and yielded 75% of the total after-tax cash proceeds we originally anticipated (back in November) for all seven targeted business units collectively. We are in discussions with potential buyers for the six remaining (smaller) business units, and anticipate the successful disposition of all six during 2008.
"In contrast to these positive developments, second quarter results for the Commercial segment are disappointing. The Store Fixtures business unit is working diligently to meet our required expectations for improved performance, in spite of extremely difficult market conditions and retailers' hesitancy to make capital investments in this environment. We are aiming for returns in this business unit of at least cost of capital levels by the fourth quarter of 2008. Third quarter is the seasonally strongest quarter for this unit, and will be critical in our evaluation of progress toward the return target.
"Despite external economic challenges, we feel very comfortable with our strategic direction and the initiatives we unveiled last November. We are absolutely committed to the continued execution of our plan, and believe our actions will reestablish Leggett as a more profitable company. Our goal is to consistently generate total shareholder return of 12-15% per year, on average."
Dividends and Stock Repurchases
Leggett declared a second quarter dividend of $.25 per share (paid on July 15), representing a 39% increase over last year's second quarter dividend of $.18 per share. The current dividend yield is approximately 6.3% (based on a $16 stock price). This year marks the company's 37
th
consecutive annual dividend increase at an average compound growth rate of over 14%.
During the quarter the company bought 2.7 million shares of its stock at an average price of just under $18 per share. So far, the company has purchased 6.9 million shares under its annual 10 million share repurchase authorization. As a reminder, Leggett's Board has authorized the purchase of an additional 20 million shares with proceeds from the divestitures.
2008 Outlook: $1.00 to $1.30 EPS
Expected earnings per share (from continuing operations) for the full year 2008 remain unchanged at $1.00-$1.30, even though guidance now incorporates higher restructuring-related costs (of approximately $.10, versus the prior estimate of $.05). Guidance does not include earnings from discontinued operations, possible gains or losses from future divestitures, nor additional stock repurchases the company expects to make with divestiture proceeds.
Per share earnings (from continuing operations) for the first half of 2008 were $.48, and included $.02 of restructuring costs; thus, guidance for the second half of the year is $.52-$.82, and anticipates approximately $.08 of restructuring costs. The company's forecast for the latter half of the year anticipates: i) continued weak market demand overall, ii) ongoing market share gains in bedding components, iii) earnings improvement as the company's price increases catch up with escalating steel costs, and iv) production and sale of steel billets as the company utilizes part of the Sterling mill's excess melt capacity.
Sales (from continuing operations) are projected to be approximately $4.3 billion, or about 2% higher than in 2007. This increase reflects steel-related price inflation, the deliberate elimination of approximately $100 million of unprofitable revenue from the company's Store Fixtures business, and minimal acquisition revenue.
 Second Quarter 2008 (versus 2Q 2007)
SEGMENT RESULTS
 Total sales from continuing operations decreased $8 million, or 1%. No acquisitions were completed during the past 12 months. Improved market share and inflation-related price increases largely offset the weak market demand experienced
Residential Furnishings
in many parts of the segment. EBIT (earnings before interest and income taxes) from continuing operations increased $6 million, primarily due to market share gains and operating improvements.
 Total sales from continuing operations decreased $34 million, or 16%, due to reduced spending by retailers and the company's decision to eliminate revenue with unacceptable profit margins. EBIT from continuing operations declined $6 million, largely due to the sales decrease.
Commercial Fixturing & Components
 Total sales increased $51 million, or 26%, as a result of the pass through of higher steel costs, increased sales of steel billets, and greater demand for wire (by our U.S. bedding operations). EBIT increased $10 million due to higher sales and operating improvements.
Industrial Materials
 Total sales from continuing operations increased $1 million. Continued sales growth in the European and Asian automotive markets was offset in the quarter by lower volume from North American automotive markets and the fleet portion of Commercial Vehicle Products. EBIT from continuing operations declined $3 million due to higher steel costs and lower sales in certain markets.
Specialized Products
Conference Call
Management will discuss these results in a conference call at 8:00 a.m. Central (9:00 a.m. Eastern) on July 18. The webcast can be accessed (live or replay) from the Investor Relations section of Leggett's website at www.leggett.com. The dial-in number is (303) 262-2053; there is no passcode. Third quarter results will be released after the market closes on Thursday, October 16, 2008, with a conference call the next morning.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
COMPANY DESCRIPTION: Leggett & Platt (NYSE: LEG) is a FORTUNE 500 diversified manufacturer that conceives, designs and produces a broad variety of engineered components and products that can be found in virtually every home, office, retail store, and automobile. The company serves a broad suite of customers that comprise a "Who's Who" of U.S. manufacturers and retailers. The 125-year-old firm's continuing operations are composed of 21 business units, 24,000 employee-partners, and more than 250 facilities located in 20 countries.
Leggett & Platt is North America's leading independent manufacturer of: a) components for residential furniture and bedding; b) retail store fixtures and point of purchase displays; c) components for office furniture; d) drawn steel wire; e) automotive seat support and lumbar systems; f) carpet underlay; g) adjustable beds; and h) bedding industry machinery.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS: Statements in this release that are not historical in nature are "forward-looking." These statements involve uncertainties and risks, including the company's ability to improve operations and realize cost savings, price and product competition from foreign and domestic competitors, changes in demand for the company's products, cost and availability of raw materials and labor, fuel and energy costs, future growth of acquired companies, general economic conditions, foreign currency fluctuation, litigation risks, and other factors described in the company's Form 10-K. Any forward-looking statement reflects only the company's beliefs when the statement is made. Actual results could differ materially from expectations, and the company undertakes no duty to update these statements.
 
 
 


