FILE:LEG/LEG-8K-20080331151321.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On March 26, 2008, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Leggett & Platt, Incorporated (the "Committee") took the following actions:
(e)
(i) The Committee, effective March 31, 2008, increased the base salaries of David S. Haffner, Chief Executive Officer; Karl G. Glassman, Chief Operating Officer; Matthew C. Flanigan, Chief Financial Officer; Paul R. Hauser, Senior Vice President  President, Residential Furnishings; and Joseph D. Downes, Jr., Senior Vice President  President, Industrial Materials (the "Named Executive Officers"). The former and current base salaries are reflected in the Summary Sheet for Executive Cash Compensation attached hereto and incorporated into this item as Exhibit 10.1.
(ii) The Company's 2004 Key Officers Incentive Plan (the "Plan") provides for cash awards to executives based upon the Company's operating results. Reference is made to the Plan which was filed March 1, 2006 as Exhibit 10.13 to the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005. An executive's cash award is calculated by multiplying his annual salary at the end of the year by a percentage set by the Committee (the "Target Percentage") then, applying an award formula adopted by the Committee for that year. The Committee increased the Target Percentage for each Named Executive Officer for 2008. The former and current Target Percentages are reflected in the Summary Sheet for Executive Cash Compensation.
(iii)The Committee adopted the Plan's award formula for 2008 (the "2008 Award Formula"). The 2008 Award Formula is applicable to the Company's ten executive officers, including the Named Executive Officers. There are two types of calculations under the 2008 Award Formula: one for Corporate participants and one for Profit Center participants. The award formula for Corporate participants is based on the Company's return on net assets (as defined in the 2008 Award Formula). The award formula for Profit Center participants is based on (i) the achievement of budgeted operating income of the profit centers under the executive's management (50% of the total award); (ii) the achievement of a targeted return on capital employed by the profit centers under the executive's management (50% of the total award); and (iii) a potential deduction related to internal audit issues, accounting errors, safety/OSHA ratings, and unremedied environmental problems associated with the profit centers under the executive's management (up to 20% of the total award). Messrs. Haffner, Glassman and Flanigan are Corporate participants. Messrs. Hauser and Downes are Profit Center participants. The foregoing is only a brief description of the 2008 Award Formula and is qualified in its entirety by such formula which is attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 10.2.
 
(d) Exhibits.
The following exhibits are filed as part of this report:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 10.1
The following table sets forth the former and current base salaries provided to the Company's principal executive officer, principal financial officer and other named executive officers. The base salaries were changed effective March 31, 2008.
 
Executive officers are also eligible to receive a cash award each year under the Company's 2004 Key Officers Incentive Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.13 to the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005). An executive's cash award is calculated by multiplying his annual salary at the end of the year by a percentage set by the Compensation Committee of the Company's Board ("Target Percentage") then, applying an award formula adopted by the Committee for that year. The Target Percentages applicable to the Company's principal executive officer, principal financial officer and other named executive officers were increased in 2008 as shown in the following table.
 
 

EXHIBIT 10.2
The 2004 Key Officers Incentive Plan ("") provides cash awards to participants based on the Company's operating results for the prior year. There are two award formulas under the Plan: one for Corporate participants and one for Profit Center participants. Under both formulas, a participant's award is calculated by applying the award formula to a percentage of the participant's annual salary at the end of the year (the ""). The award formula and each participant's target percentage are determined by the Plan Committee no later than 90 days after the beginning of each year.
Plan
target percentage
Participants in the Plan are executive officers of the Company. The Company has a separate Key Management Incentive Plan for other employees. Awards under the Key Management Incentive Plan are calculated in substantially the same manner as awards under the Plan. Collectively, the two plans are referred to as the "."
Incentive Plans
Award Formula for Corporate Participants
Awards for Corporate participants are calculated based on the Company's Return on Net Assets (""). Certain adjustments are made to Earnings Before Interest and Taxes () and net asset amounts reported in the Company's consolidated Financial Statements to determine Plan RONA.
RONA
"EBIT"
 
 
 
The Committee may reduce a participant's award by up to 10%, based on its evaluation of the participant's performance during the year.
When the Company achieves at least 16% RONA in a calendar year, the corporate payout percentage will begin at 50% and will follow the schedule below. Payout percentages for returns that fall between whole RONA percentage points are adjusted proportionately. No awards are payable for a year when RONA falls below 16%. The payout is capped at 150%.
 
The award is calculated by multiplying a participant's salary, his target percentage, and the payout percentage. For example, assume a participant's salary is $250,000, his target percentage is 50% and the company achieved a 21% RONA for a 100% payout percentage. The participant's award, assuming no discretionary reduction, would be $125,000 (250,000 x 50% x 100%).
Award Formula for Profit Center Participants
Profit Center participants in the Plan manage numerous operating locations. The Company sets an Incentive Earnings target and a Return on Capital Employed () target for each operating location every year. Profit Center awards are based on achievement of these targets at operations under the participant's supervision. Incentive Earnings equals operating income, plus an addback of corporate allocations. ROCE is equal to the Incentive Earnings of the operations under the participant's supervision, divided by the sum of those operations' fixed assets and working capital.
"ROCE"
The award may be reduced by up to 20% for certain key compliance shortcomings relating to internal audit issues, accounting errors, safety/OSHA ratings, and unremedied environmental problems occurring in those operations under the participant's supervision.
The Profit Center award is determined as follows:
 
The table below is used to determine the payout. Payout percentages for returns that fall between whole percentage points are adjusted proportionately. No awards are payable for achievement below 80%. The payout is capped at 150%. The Committee has the discretion to reduce any participant's award by up to 10%.
 
The award is calculated by multiplying a participant's salary at year end, his target percentage, and the weighted payout percentage for each portion of the award. For example, assume a participant in the Plan has a $250,000 salary and a 50% target percentage, and the participant manages locations that collectively achieved 90% of their Incentive Earnings targets and 110% of their ROCE targets for the year. The Incentive Earnings portion of the participant's award would be $50,000 ($250,000 x 50% x 50% x 80%), and the ROCE portion of the award would be $75,000 ($250,000 x 50% x 50% x 120%) for a total award of $125,000. If the operations under the participant's supervision had an average 4% compliance deduction, this would reduce the final award payout to $120,000 ($125,000  [$250,000 x 50% x 4%]).


