FILE:LEG/LEG-8K-20080908170242.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On September 4, 2008, a shareholder derivative complaint was filed by the New England Carpenters Pension Fund, which claims to own 3,000 shares of Leggett stock, in the United States District Court, Western District of Missouri. The action is purportedly brought on behalf of Leggett, naming it as a nominal defendant and naming as defendants certain current and former officers and directors of Leggett. The plaintiff alleges, among other things, that the individual defendants participated in the backdating of stock options, or allowed the backdating to occur; breached fiduciary duties; caused or allowed the Company to issue false and misleading financial statements and proxy statements; and sold Company stock while in possession of material non-public information.
The plaintiff seeks, among other things, unspecified monetary damages against the individual defendants, certain equitable and other relief relating to the profits from the alleged improper conduct, the rescission of certain unexercised options, punitive damages, the reimbursement of litigation costs, and the adoption of certain corporate governance proposals by the Company. It does not appear that the plaintiffs are seeking any monetary relief from the Company. Policies of directors and officers liability insurance are in force, and the Company is in the process of serving notice on these carriers of the lawsuit.
The complaint is based upon statistical analysis of Leggett stock prices and does not take into consideration important aspects of Leggett's stock option plans. For example, multiple option grants in December are alleged to have been backdated, but were, in fact, granted in accordance with the Leggett Deferred Compensation Program which (i) provided for the option prices to be established based on the lowest closing price in the month of December, and (ii) was on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission disclosing this pricing mechanism before the date of the grants. Leggett expects that the outcome of the litigation will not have a material effect on Leggett's financial condition or results of operation.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


