FILE:LEG/LEG-8K-20120426165655.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 26, 2012, Leggett & Platt, Incorporated issued a press release announcing its financial results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2012. The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
This information is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or incorporated by reference into any document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
On April 27, 2012, the Company will hold an investor conference call to discuss its first quarter financial results, annual guidance and related matters.
The press release contains the Company's "net debt to net capitalization ratio." Reconciliation of this non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is set forth in the press release. Company management believes the presentation of net debt to net capitalization provides investors a useful way to evaluate the Company's debt leverage if the Company was to use its cash to pay down debt. The Company's cash has fluctuated, sometimes significantly, from period to period. Management uses this ratio as supplemental information to track leverage trends across time periods with variable levels of cash. Net debt to net capitalization may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies and should not be considered a substitute for, or more meaningful than long-term debt to total capitalization. Because we may not be able to use our cash to reduce our debt on a dollar-for-dollar basis, the net debt to net capitalization ratio may have material limitations.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
The information provided in Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99.1, is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: APRIL 26, 2012
Carthage, MO, April 26, 2012 
Diversified manufacturer Leggett & Platt reported first quarter earnings per diluted share of $.30. In the first quarter of 2011, earnings were also $.30 per share. First quarter 2012 earnings benefited from higher unit volumes; first quarter 2011 included a $.03 per share benefit from unusual items (that did not recur in 2012).
First quarter 2012 sales were $947 million, a 5.7% (or $51 million) increase versus the prior year. Same location sales grew 4.5%, with unit volume gains and inflation each contributing roughly one-half of the growth. Acquisitions, net of divestitures, increased sales by 1.2%.
Increasing Demand
President and CEO David S. Haffner commented, "We are pleased with first quarter results. Aggregate unit volume increased, compared to a reasonably strong first quarter last year, and contributed to improved operating results. In addition, we are realizing the expected benefits from the restructuring activities initiated in late 2011, and continue to anticipate meaningful, full-year margin improvement. It is worth noting that our effective 1Q tax rate was about 300 basis points higher than what we anticipate for the remainder of the year. As a result of our operational performance, we increased our guidance range for both EPS and sales.
"The Western Pneumatic Tube acquisition is exceeding our expectations for strong performance. In the first half of this year, we are recognizing $6 million of charges from an acquisition-related fair value adjustment to inventory; these charges will cease after the second quarter. As a result, Western's earnings should improve as the year progresses.
"Given the cash outlay to acquire Western, we did not conduct any open-market repurchase of our stock during the first quarter. However, consistent with our often-stated priorities for use of excess cash flow, we expect eventually to resume buying back our stock, subject to the outlook for the economy, our level of cash generation, and any potential opportunities to further grow the company.
"We continue to assess our overall performance by comparing our Total Shareholder Return (TSR
1
) to that of peer companies on a rolling three-year basis. For the three-year period that began January 1, 2010, we have so far (over the last 28 months) generated TSR of 12% per year on average, in line with the TSR of the S&P 500 index. Our target is to achieve TSR in the top one-third of the S&P 500 companies over the long-term.
"We have maintained our strong financial base. We have over $270 million available under our existing commercial paper program and revolver facility. And we ended the quarter with net debt to net capital at 34%, within our long-term 30%-40% target range, despite the sizeable acquisition we made."
 
 
 
Dividends and Stock Repurchases
In February, Leggett & Platt's Board of Directors declared a $.28 first quarter dividend, one cent higher than last year's first quarter dividend. Thus, 2012 marks the 41
st
consecutive annual dividend increase for the company, with a compound annual growth rate of 13%. Notably, only 11 members of the S&P 500 have a longer string of consecutive annual dividend increases. Further, Leggett & Platt possesses the highest dividend yield among all of the S&P 500's Dividend Aristocrats with at least 30 consecutive annual dividend increases. At yesterday's closing share price of $23.60, the indicated annual dividend of $1.12 per share generates a dividend yield of 4.7%.
2012 Outlook
Leggett & Platt anticipates 2012 sales of approximately $3.65-3.85 billion, including modest inflation. Based upon that sales expectation, the company projects 2012 EPS of $1.25 - 1.45.
Over the last few years, Leggett & Platt significantly reduced its fixed cost structure, but purposely retained spare production capacity. Accordingly, unit sales can rebound appreciably without the need for large capital investment. As a result, the company has meaningful operating leverage that should significantly benefit future earnings as market demand rebounds.
For over 20 years the company has generated operating cash in excess of the amount needed to fund dividends and capital expenditures. That should again be true this year, as cash from operations is expected to exceed $325 million for 2012. Capital expenditures should be approximately $100 million for the year, and dividend payments should approximate $160 million.
For the full year, the company expects to issue approximately 2-3 million shares of its stock (via its employee benefit and stock purchase plans). The company has standing authorization from the Board of Directors to repurchase up to 10 million shares of its stock each year, and expects to repurchase shares during 2012, but has established no specific repurchase commitment or timetable.
 First Quarter 2012 (versus the same period in 2011)
SEGMENT RESULTS
 Total sales increased $33 million, or 7%; unit volume increased 5%, and inflation accounted for 2% of the sales increase. EBIT (earnings before interest and income taxes) decreased $2 million, with the benefit from higher unit volumes more than offset by non-recurrence of last year's $4 million gain from a building sale, higher raw material costs, and less favorable sales mix.
Residential Furnishings
 Total sales decreased $15 million, or 12%; same location sales decreased 8%, and the remaining 4% decline is attributable to a small divestiture. EBIT decreased $1 million primarily due to non-recurrence of last year's $4 million gain from a building sale. The earnings impact from lower revenue was more than offset by a $2 million gain from the sale of a business, restructuring-related benefits, and other cost savings.
Commercial Fixturing & Components
 Total sales increased $27 million, or 13%; one-half of the growth is from the acquisition of Western Pneumatic Tube. Same location sales grew 6%; unit volume declined 1% but was more than offset by 7% inflation. EBIT declined by $2 million, due to the $3 million fair value adjustment to Western Tube's inventory.
Industrial Materials
 Total sales increased $11 million, or 6%. EBIT was essentially flat, with the benefit from higher sales offset by several small items.
Specialized Products
Slides and Conference Call
A set of slides containing summary financial information is available from the Investor Relations section of Leggett's website at www.leggett.com. Management will host a conference call at 8:00 a.m. Central (9:00 a.m. Eastern) on Friday, April 27. The webcast can be accessed (live or replay) from Leggett's website. The dial-in number is (201) 689-8341; there is no passcode.
Second quarter results will be released after the market closes on Thursday, July 26, with a conference call the next morning.
 
COMPANY DESCRIPTION: Leggett & Platt (NYSE: LEG) is a diversified manufacturer (and member of the S&P 500) that conceives, designs and produces a variety of engineered components and products that can be found in most homes, offices, and automobiles. The 129-year-old firm is comprised of 20 business units, 18,000 employee-partners, and 130 manufacturing facilities located in 18 countries.
Leggett & Platt is the leading U.S. manufacturer of: a) components for residential furniture and bedding; b) office furniture components; c) drawn steel wire; d) automotive seat support & lumbar systems; e) carpet underlay; f) adjustable bed bases; g) bedding industry machinery.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS: Statements in this release that are not historical in nature are "forward-looking." These statements involve uncertainties and risks, including the company's ability to improve operations and realize cost savings, price and product competition from foreign and domestic competitors, changes in demand for the company's products, cost and availability of raw materials and labor, fuel and energy costs, future growth of acquired companies, general economic conditions, foreign currency fluctuation, litigation risks, and other factors described in the company's Form 10-K. Any forward-looking statement reflects only the company's beliefs when the statement is made. Actual results could differ materially from expectations, and the company undertakes no duty to update these statements.
: Investor Relations, (417) 358-8131 or invest@leggett.com
CONTACT
David M. DeSonier, Senior Vice President of Corporate Strategy and Investor Relations
Susan R. McCoy, Staff Vice President of Investor Relations
 
 
 
 
 
 
nm = not meaningful


