FILE:LEG/LEG-8K-20120514163953.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
The Company's Flexible Stock Plan, amended and restated effective as of May 10, 2012 (the "Plan") was approved by shareholders at the Company's annual meeting held May 10, 2012. The Plan provides for the award of stock based benefits (including stock options, stock appreciation rights (SARs), restricted stock, stock units, performance awards, and other stock based awards) to attract and retain valuable employees, align the interest of directors, employees and other key individuals with the interests of shareholders; and reward outstanding performance. The Plan has a term of 10 years.
e) .
Approval of the Amendment and Restatement of the Company's Flexible Stock Plan
David S. Haffner (President & Chief Executive Officer), Matthew C. Flanigan (Senior Vice President  Chief Financial Officer), and our other current named executive officers, Karl G. Glassman (Executive Vice President & Chief Operating Officer) and Joseph D. Downes, Jr. (Senior Vice President, President  Industrial Materials), along with our non-employee directors and other key employees are eligible to participate in the Plan. The material terms and conditions of the Plan and the amendments adopted by the shareholders at the annual meeting have been previously reported under Proposal Three in the Company's Proxy Statement (beginning on page 20), filed March 30, 2012, and in the Plan document attached as Appendix A to the Proxy Statement. The amendments to the Plan included:
 
 
The above disclosure is only a brief description of the Plan, as amended and restated, and is qualified in its entirety by the description in Proposal Three in the Proxy Statement, and the Plan document, each of which is incorporated herein by reference. The Plan document is also incorporated as Exhibit 10.1 hereto.
Paul R. Hauser, a named executive officer in the Company's Proxy Statement filed March 30, 2012, retired as Senior Vice President, President  Residential Furnishings on February 18, 2012. As such, Mr. Hauser will not participate in the Plan.
Item 5.07 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
The Company held its annual meeting of shareholders on May 10, 2012. In connection with this meeting, proxies were solicited pursuant to Section 14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Matters voted upon were (1) the election of twelve directors; (2) the ratification of the Audit Committee's selection of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm for the year ending December 31, 2012; (3) the amendment and restatement of the Company's Flexible Stock Plan; (4) an advisory vote on named executive officer compensation, commonly known as "Say-on- Pay"; and (5) a shareholder proposal requesting the addition of sexual orientation and gender identity to the Company's written non-discrimination policy. The number of votes cast for and against, as well as abstentions and broker non-votes, with respect to each matter, as applicable, are set out below.
All twelve nominees for director listed in the Proxy Statement were elected to hold office until the next annual meeting of shareholders or until their successors are elected and qualified, with the following vote:
1. .
Proposal One: Election of Directors
 
The ratification of the Audit Committee's selection of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm for the year ending December 31, 2012 was approved with the following vote:
2. .
Proposal Two: Ratification of Selection of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
 
The amendment and restatement of the Company's Flexible Stock Plan, as briefly described in Item 5.02 hereof, was approved with the following vote:
3. .
Proposal Three: Approval of the Amendment and Restatement of the Flexible Stock Plan
 
The advisory vote to approve the Company's named executive officer compensation package as described in the "Executive Compensation" section of the Company's Proxy Statement (commonly known as "Say-on-Pay") consisted of the following:
4. .
Proposal Four: Advisory Vote to Approve Executive Officer Compensation
 
The shareholder proposal was defeated with the following vote:
5. .
Proposal Five: Shareholder Proposal Requesting the Addition of Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity to the Company's Written Non-Discrimination Policy
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


