FILE:LEG/LEG-8K-20120726172054.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 26, 2012, Leggett & Platt, Incorporated issued a press release announcing its financial results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2012. The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
This information is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or incorporated by reference into any document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
On July 27, 2012, the Company will hold an investor conference call to discuss its second quarter financial results, annual guidance and related matters.
The press release contains the Company's "net debt to net capitalization ratio." Reconciliation of this non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is set forth in the press release. Company management believes the presentation of net debt to net capitalization provides investors a useful way to evaluate the Company's debt leverage if the Company was to use its cash to pay down debt. The Company's cash has fluctuated, sometimes significantly, from period to period. Management uses this ratio as supplemental information to track leverage trends across time periods with variable levels of cash. Net debt to net capitalization may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies and should not be considered a substitute for, or more meaningful than long-term debt to total capitalization. Because we may not be able to use our cash to reduce our debt on a dollar-for-dollar basis, the net debt to net capitalization ratio may have material limitations.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
The information provided in Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99.1, is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: JULY 26, 2012
Carthage, MO, July 26, 2012 
Leggett & Platt reported second quarter EPS of $.45, compared to $.37 last year. Second quarter 2012 EPS includes a $.04 unusual tax benefit and a $.02 benefit in discontinued operations associated with a previously divested business. Second quarter 2011 EPS included a $.02 benefit from unusual tax items.
Second quarter sales were $939 million, a $6 million, or 0.7%, decrease versus the prior year. Acquisitions, net of divestitures, increased sales by 1%. Same location sales declined approximately 2% due to lower trade sales at the steel rod mill, currency rates, and reduced store fixture sales. Apart from these three factors, same location sales increased 2%, with unit volumes flat to positive across the majority of the company. The strongest growth continues to come from the automotive and adjustable bed businesses.
Margin Improvement
President and CEO David S. Haffner commented, "We are pleased with the progress we continue to make. Second quarter EBIT margin increased from 8.4% last year to 9.2% for 2012. EBIT improved as a result of unit volume growth in certain businesses, our fourth quarter 2011 restructuring activity, and the Western Tube acquisition. We increased our full year EPS guidance to reflect the positive effect of second quarter's unusual items and improved margins.
"We are maintaining a strong financial base. At quarter's end, we had over $330 million available under our existing commercial paper program and revolver facility. Net debt to net capital was 33%, a decrease from 34% last quarter, and within our long-term 30%40% target range.
"We continue to assess our overall performance by comparing our Total Shareholder Return (TSR
1
) to that of peer companies on a rolling three-year basis. For the three-year period that began January 1, 2010, we have so far (over the last 31 months) generated TSR of 8% per year on average, compared to average annual TSR of 10% for the S&P 500 index. Our performance ranks slightly below the median of the S&P 500 companies, short of our goal to achieve TSR in the top one-third of the S&P 500 over the long-term."
Dividends and Stock Repurchases
In May, Leggett & Platt's Board of Directors declared a $.28 quarterly dividend, one cent higher than last year's second quarter dividend. Thus, 2012 marks the 41
st
consecutive annual dividend increase for the company, with a compound annual growth rate of 13%.
 
 
 
Notably, only 11 members of the S&P 500 have a longer string of consecutive annual dividend increases. Further, Leggett & Platt possesses the highest dividend yield among the S&P 500 Dividend Aristocrats that have posted over 30 consecutive annual dividend increases. At yesterday's closing share price of $21.85, the indicated annual dividend of $1.12 per share generates a dividend yield of 5.1%.
Given its January cash outlay to acquire Western Pneumatic Tube, the company did not conduct any open-market repurchases of its stock during the second quarter. The company plans to eventually resume buying back its stock, subject to the outlook for the economy, the level of cash generation, and opportunities to strategically grow its businesses.
2012 Outlook
Leggett & Platt anticipates 2012 sales of approximately $3.653.80 billion. Based upon that sales expectation, the company projects 2012 EPS of $1.35 - 1.50. Full year guidance reflects significant EPS improvement over the prior four years, in which reported EPS was $.62, $.70, $1.15, and $1.04.
Over the last few years, Leggett & Platt significantly reduced its fixed cost structure, but purposely retained spare production capacity. Accordingly, unit sales can rebound appreciably without the need for large capital investment. As a result, the company has meaningful operating leverage that should benefit earnings as market demand rebounds.
For over 20 years the company has generated operating cash in excess of the amount needed to fund dividends and capital expenditures. That should again be true this year, with cash from operations expected to approach $350 million. Capital expenditures should be approximately $90 million for the year, and dividend payments should approximate $160 million.
For the full year, the company expects to issue approximately 2 million shares of its stock (via its employee benefit and stock purchase plans). The company has standing authorization from the Board of Directors to repurchase up to 10 million shares of its stock each year, but has established no specific repurchase commitment or timetable.
 Second Quarter 2012 (versus the same period in 2011)
SEGMENT RESULTS
 Total sales increased $7 million, or 2%; unit volume increased 3%, but was partially offset by currency rate changes. EBIT (earnings before interest and income taxes) decreased $1 million, with the benefit from higher unit volumes more than offset by a weaker mix of sales in certain businesses.
Residential Furnishings
 Total sales decreased $24 million, or 17%; same location sales decreased 10%, and the remainder of the decline is attributable to a small divestiture. EBIT decreased $4 million primarily due to reduced sales, absence of EBIT from divested operations, and higher restructuring-related expense. These earnings impacts were partially offset by restructuring-related benefits and other cost savings.
Commercial Fixturing & Components
 Total sales increased $7 million, or 3%. The Western acquisition increased sales by 8%; however, same location sales decreased 5% due to lower trade sales at the steel rod mill. EBIT improved by $4 million, as a result of the Western acquisition and last year's restructuring activity.
Industrial Materials
 Total sales increased $9 million, or 5%; unit volume grew by 8%, but was partially offset by currency rate changes. EBIT improved $5 million, or 21%, largely due to higher sales.
Specialized Products
 
Slides and Conference Call
A set of slides containing summary financial information is available from the Investor Relations section of Leggett's website at www.leggett.com. Management will host a conference call at 8:00 a.m. Central (9:00 a.m. Eastern) on Friday, July 27. The webcast can be accessed (live or replay) from Leggett's website. The dial-in number is (201) 689-8341; there is no passcode.
Third quarter results will be released after the market closes on Monday, October 29, with a conference call the next morning.
COMPANY DESCRIPTION: Leggett & Platt (NYSE: LEG) is a diversified manufacturer (and member of the S&P 500) that conceives, designs and produces a variety of engineered components and products that can be found in most homes, offices, and automobiles. The 129-year-old firm is comprised of 20 business units, 18,000 employee-partners, and 130 manufacturing facilities located in 18 countries.
Leggett & Platt is the leading U.S. manufacturer of: a) components for residential furniture and bedding; b) office furniture components; c) drawn steel wire; d) automotive seat support & lumbar systems; e) carpet underlay; f) adjustable bed bases; g) bedding industry machinery.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS: Statements in this release that are not historical in nature are "forward-looking." These statements involve uncertainties and risks, including the company's ability to improve operations and realize cost savings, price and product competition from foreign and domestic competitors, changes in demand for the company's products, cost and availability of raw materials and labor, fuel and energy costs, future growth of acquired companies, general economic conditions, foreign currency fluctuation, litigation risks, and other factors described in the company's Form 10-K. Any forward-looking statement reflects only the company's beliefs when the statement is made. Actual results could differ materially from expectations, and the company undertakes no duty to update these statements.
: Investor Relations, (417) 358-8131 or invest@leggett.com
CONTACT
- David M. DeSonier,     Senior Vice President of Corporate Strategy and Investor Relations
- Susan R. McCoy,         Staff Vice President of Investor Relations
 
 
Management uses Net Debt to Net Capital to track leverage trends across time periods with variable levels of cash.
 
 
nm = not meaningful
 


