FILE:LEG/LEG-8K-20120402161105.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On March 28, 2012, the Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors (the "Committee") adopted the 2012 Award Formula (the "2012 Award Formula") for the Company's 2009 Key Officers Incentive Plan (the "Plan"). The Plan was filed March 26, 2009 as Appendix B to the Company's Proxy Statement. The 2012 Award Formula is applicable to the Company's eleven executive officers, including the named executive officers listed below. Under the 2012 Award Formula, an executive officer will be eligible to receive a cash award calculated by multiplying his annual salary at the end of the year by a percentage set by the Committee ("Target Percentage"), then applying the award formula. Corporate Participants and Profit Center Participants have separate award calculations based on factors defined in the 2012 Award Formula as follows:
.
Adoption of 2012 Award Formula for the Company's 2009 Key Officers Incentive Plan
 
 
. Awards for Corporate Participants are determined by the Company's aggregate 2012 financial results. No awards are paid for ROCE achievement below 25% and cash flow below $226 million. The maximum payout percentage for ROCE and Cash Flow achievement is each capped at 150%. David S. Haffner (President and Chief Executive Officer), Karl G. Glassman (Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer) and Matthew C. Flanigan (Senior Vice President  Chief Financial Officer) are Corporate Participants. Below is the 2012 corporate payout schedule. Payouts will be interpolated for achievement levels falling between those in the schedule. Financial results from acquisitions are excluded from the calculations in the year of acquisition.
Corporate Participants
 
. For Profit Center Participants, no awards are paid for achievement below 80% of the ROCE and FCF targets for the applicable profit centers under the Participant's management. The ROCE and FCF payouts are each capped at 150%. Joseph D. Downes, Jr. (Senior Vice President, President  Industrial Materials) is a Profit Center Participant. Below is the 2012 profit center payout schedule and targets for Mr. Downes. Payouts will be interpolated for achievement levels falling between those in the schedule. Financial results for each profit center may include a critical compliance adjustment, ranging from a potential 5% increase for exceptional safety performance to a 20% deduction for critical compliance failures. Financial results from acquisitions are excluded from the calculations in the year of acquisition.
Profit Center Participants
 
2012 Profit Center Targets
 
. In addition to the financial metrics described above, the award includes individual performance goals that are tailored to each executive officer's responsibility and aligned with the Company's strategic goals. The types of goals for our named executive officers in 2012 include:
Individual Performance Goals
: Margin enhancement, strategic direction for profitable growth, profitability of targeted business groups, and succession planning;
David S. Haffner
: Margin enhancement, revenue growth, increase on-site reviews of operations, and remediation of internal audit findings;
Karl G. Glassman
: Working capital management, upgrade of financial systems, cash repatriation, succession planning, and continuous improvement projects; and
Matthew C. Flanigan
Segment revenue growth, profitability of targeted businesses, and utilization and efficiency initiatives.
:
Joseph D. Downes, Jr.
The achievement of the individual performance goals is measured by the following scale.
 
The foregoing is only a brief description of the 2012 Award Formula and is qualified in its entirety by such formula which is attached and incorporated by reference as Exhibit 10.2. The definitions of ROCE, Cash Flow and FCF and example calculations are included in the attached 2012 Award Formula.
On March 28, 2012, the Committee increased the annual base salaries of the below named executive officers. The Committee also increased the Target Percentage of Mr. Haffner from 90% to 100%. The table below discloses the increase in salaries and the 2012 Target Percentages. Also attached and incorporated by reference as Exhibit 10.3 is the Company's Summary Sheet for Executive Cash Compensation.
.
Increase in Base Salaries and Target Percentage for Named Executive Officers
 
. Paul R. Hauser, a named executive officer in the Company's Proxy Statement filed March 30, 2012, retired as Senior Vice President, PresidentResidential Furnishings on February 18, 2012. As such, Mr. Hauser (i) will not participate in the Plan in 2012; (ii) does not have individual performance goals for the Company in 2012; and (iii) no longer receives a salary from the Company. As previously reported, Mr. Hauser received an annual base salary at the rate of $340,000 with a Target Percentage of 50% in 2011.
Retired Named Executive Officer
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
The 2009 Key Officers Incentive Plan ("") provides cash Awards to Participants based on the Company's operating results for the prior year. Capitalized terms not defined in this document have the meaning ascribed under the Plan. There are separate Award Formulas under the Plan for Corporate Participants and Profit Center Participants.
Plan
Under both formulas, a Participant's Award is calculated by reference to the Target Percentage of the Participant's annual salary at the end of the Year. The Award Formulas and each Participant's Target Percentage are determined by the Committee no later than 90 days after the beginning of each Year or before 25% of the Performance Period has elapsed.
Participants in the Plan are the executive officers of the Company. The Company has a separate Key Management Incentive Plan for other employees. Awards under the Key Management Incentive Plan are calculated in substantially the same manner as awards under the Plan.
For 2012, Awards under the Plan will be determined by achievement of the following Performance Objectives. Additional awards will be made based on the achievement of Individual Performance Goals, which will be established separately from this Plan and will be wholly independent of Awards under this Plan.
 
 
Award Formula for Corporate Participants
Awards for Corporate Participants are determined by the Company's aggregate 2012 financial results. Financial results from acquisitions are excluded from calculations in the year of acquisition.
The Performance Objectives for Corporate Participants are calculated as follows:
 
 
 
The Committee shall adjust all items of gain, loss or expense for the fiscal year determined to be (i) extraordinary, (ii) unusual in nature, (iii) infrequent in occurrence, (iv) related to the disposal of a segment of a business, or (v) related to a change in accounting principle, all as determined in accordance with standards established under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
Achievement targets and payout percentages for Corporate Participants' Performance Objectives are set forth below. No Awards are paid for ROCE achievement below 25% and Cash Flow below $226M. The ROCE and Cash Flow payouts are each capped at 150%. Payouts will be interpolated for achievement levels falling between those set out in the schedule.
 
The Award is calculated by multiplying a Participant's salary, Target Percentage, the relative weight of the Performance Objective, and the payout percentage. The sample calculation set forth below assumes a Participant with a base salary of $250,000 and a Target Percentage of 50%. If the Company achieved 29% ROCE and $226M Cash Flow, the Participant's Award under the Plan (which does not include the Individual Performance Goals), would be $87,500.
 
Award Formula for Profit Center Participants
Profit Center Participants manage numerous Profit Centers. The Company sets a ROCE target and a FCF target for each Profit Center every Year. The achievement of those Profit Center targets "rolls up" to an aggregate achievement for all the operations under a Profit Center Participant's management. Financial results for each Profit Center may include a critical compliance adjustment, ranging from a potential 5% increase for exceptional safety performance to a 20% deduction for critical compliance failures. Financial results from acquisitions are excluded from calculations in the year of acquisition.
The Performance Objectives for Profit Center Participants are calculated as follows:
 
 
 
 
The Committee shall adjust all items of gain, loss or expense for the fiscal year determined to be (i) extraordinary, (ii) unusual in nature, (iii) infrequent in occurrence, (iv) related to the disposal of a segment of a business, or (v) related to a change in accounting principle, all as determined in accordance with standards established under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
Achievement targets and payout percentages for Profit Center Participants are set forth below. No Awards are paid for achievement below 80% of the aggregate ROCE and FCF targets for the Profit Centers under the Participant's management. The ROCE and FCF payouts are each capped at 150%. The payout will be interpolated for achievement levels falling between those set out in the schedule.
 
 
The Award is calculated by multiplying a Participant's salary, Target Percentage, the relative weight of the Performance Objective, and the payout percentage. The sample calculation below assumes a Participant with a base salary of $250,000 and a Target Percentage of 50%. If the Participant's Profit Centers achieved 100% of the aggregate ROCE target and 90% of the aggregate FCF target, as adjusted for compliance, the Participant's Award under the Plan (which does not include the Individual Performance Goals), would be $95,000.
 

Exhibit 10.3
The following table sets forth annual base salaries provided to the Company's principal executive officer, principal financial officer and other named executive officers in 2011 and the 2012 base salaries approved by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors ("Committee") on March 28, 2012.
 
The executive officers will also be eligible to receive a cash award under the Company's 2009 Key Officers Incentive Plan (filed March 26, 2009 as Appendix B to the Company's Proxy Statement) in accordance with the 2012 Award Formula (filed April 2, 2012 as Exhibit 10.2 to the Company's Form 8-K). An executive's cash award is calculated by multiplying his annual salary at the end of the year by a percentage ("Target Percentage") set by the Committee, then applying an award formula adopted by the Committee for that year. The Target Percentages applicable to the Company's principal executive officer, principal financial officer and other named executive officers are shown in the following table. The 2012 Target Percentages were not changed from 2011 levels, except for Mr. Haffner's percentage was increased from 90% to 100%.
 
. An executive's cash award under the 2012 Award Formula is based, in part, on individual performance goals established outside the 2009 Key Officers Incentive Plan (20% relative weight). The types of goals for our named executive officers in 2012 include:
Individual Performance Goals
: Margin enhancement, strategic direction for profitable growth, profitability of targeted business groups, and succession planning;
David S. Haffner
: Margin enhancement, revenue growth, increase on-site reviews of operations, and remediation of internal audit findings;
Karl G. Glassman
: Working capital management, upgrade of financial systems, cash repatriation, succession planning, and continuous improvement projects; and
Matthew C. Flanigan
Segment revenue growth, profitability of targeted businesses, and utilization and efficiency initiatives.
:
Joseph D. Downes, Jr.
The achievement of the individual performance goals is measured by the following scale.
 
. Paul R. Hauser, a named executive officer in the Company's Proxy Statement filed March 30, 2012, retired as Senior Vice President, PresidentResidential Furnishings on February 18, 2012. As such, Mr. Hauser (i) will not participate in the Key Officers Incentive Plan in 2012; (ii) does not have individual performance goals for the Company in 2012; and (iii) no longer receives a salary from the Company. As previously reported, Mr. Hauser received an annual base salary at the rate of $340,000 with a Target Percentage of 50% in 2011.
Retired Named Executive Officer


