Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The information called for by this item is contained in the Companys annual report to security holders for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2002, under the heading Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition, and is hereby incorporated by reference. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. Generally In the operations of its subsidiaries and the reporting of its consolidated financial results, the Company is affected by changes in interest rates and currency exchange rates. The principal risks of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices to which the Company and its subsidiaries are exposed, and which may be material, relate to: interest rates on cash equivalents, available for sale securities, residual interests in securitizations, mortgage servicing rights (MSRs), mortgage loan origination and purchase commitments, investments in mortgage loans held for sale, debt and margin lending activities, retail trading volumes, commercial paper issuances and foreign exchange rates, generating translation gains and losses The Company and its subsidiaries have market risk sensitive instruments entered into for non trading and trading purposes. The Companys broker dealer holds marketable fixed income securities for resale to retail clients. Non trading Interest rates. The Companys rate sensitive assets and liabilities are managed centrally by the office of the Chief Financial Officer of the Company. The Finance Committee of the Companys Board of Directors approves the Companys policies and procedures utilized to manage the Companys interest rate risk. The Company has established investment guidelines to help minimize the market risk exposure of its non residual available for sale securities portfolio. These guidelines focus on managing liquidity, preservation of principal, and earnings, which are primarily affected by credit quality and movements in interest rates. Nearly 61% of the Companys cash equivalents (CE) and available for sale securities, which includes residual interests, (AFS) are classified as short term, compared to 51% last year. The CE assets are primarily held for liquidity purposes and are comprised of high quality, short term investments, including qualified money market funds (taxable and tax exempt). As of April 30, 2002, the portfolio had a duration of less than 0.1 years 29 Table of Contents with an average credit quality of AAA. With such a short maturity, the portfolios market value is relatively insensitive to interest rate changes. The Companys residual interests in securitizations, the majority of AFS, and MSRs are subject to prepayment risk, because a mortgage borrower has the option to prepay a mortgage loan at any time. Prepayment risk tends to increase when interest rates fall due to the benefits of refinancing. The expected income from these residual interests and MSRs is sensitive to movements in interest rates due to this sensitivity to mortgage prepayments. The prepayment risk is partially offset with the collection of prepayment penalties, a feature on the majority of originated loans. Residual interests are recorded based on discounted cash flow models utilizing prepayment, interest rate, credit losses and discount rate assumptions. Prepayment and loss assumptions are based on evaluation of the actual experience of the Companys servicing portfolio or on market rates on new portfolios, taking into consideration the current and expected interest rate environment and its expected impact on future prepayment and default rates. At April 30, 2002, the sensitivity of the current fair value of the residual interests to a 10% adverse change in prepayment rates would lower the fair value of the residuals by $13.1 million. Mortgage servicing rights are recorded based on the present value of estimated future cash flows related to servicing loans utilizing market discount rates and anticipated prepayment speeds. The prepayment speeds are estimated using the Companys historical experience and third party market sources for fixed rate mortgages with similar coupons and prepayment reports for comparable adjustable rate mortgage loans. At April 30, 2002, the sensitivity of the current fair value of MSRs to a 10% adverse change in prepayment rates would lower the fair value by $11.3 million. Residual assets bear the interest rate risk embedded within the securitization due to an initial fixed rate period on the loans versus the floating rate funding cost, and the on going basis risk between the indices of the floating rate assets and liabilities, offset somewhat by interest rate caps sometimes embedded within the securitization. An adverse change in interest rates of 10% would impact the fair value of residuals by $35.0 million. See Residual Interests in Securitizations and Mortgage Servicing Rights in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Companys annual report to security holders for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2002 for further sensitivity analysis of the other assumptions and detailed explanations of the cash flow models used. The Company is exposed to interest rate risk associated with its mortgage loan origination and purchase commitments. These commitments to fund mortgage loans consist of fixed and variable rate loans that will be sold in the secondary market. The Company has commitments to fund mortgage loans of $1.7 billion at April 30, 2002, as long as there is no violation of any conditions established in the contracts. External market forces impact the probability of commitments being exercised, and therefore, total commitments outstanding do not necessarily represent future cash requirements. The risk with these commitments to fund mortgage loans is that interest rates might rise between the time the customer locks in the interest rate on the loan and the time the loan is sold. In some instances, the Company will utilize forward contracts on FNMA mortgage backed securities to reduce the interest rate risk related to its fixed rate origination commitments. It is the Companys policy to utilize these financial instruments only for the purpose of offsetting or reducing the risk of loss in earnings associated with a defined or quantified exposure. They are purchased from certain broker dealer counterparties. If the counterparties do not fulfill their obligations, the Company may be exposed to default risk. As the risk of default depends on 30 Table of Contents the creditworthiness of the counterparty, the Companys policy requires that such transactions may be entered into only with counterparties that are rated A or better (or an equivalent rating) by recognized rating agencies. As a matter of practice, the Company has limited the counterparties to major banks and financial institutions meeting such standards. All interest rate contracts conform to the standard International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. documentation. Commercial paper is issued throughout the year primarily to fund receivables associated with the Business Services segment, mortgage loans held for sale, participation in RALs and seasonal working capital needs. At April 30, 2002 and April 30, 2001, no commercial paper was outstanding. For fiscal year 2002, the average issuance term was 22 days and average outstandings were $635 million. This compares with 16 days and $764 million for fiscal year 2001. As commercial paper borrowings are seasonal, interest rate risk typically increases through February and declines to zero by fiscal year end. See Financial Condition under the heading Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition in the Companys annual report to security holders for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2002. At April 30, 2002, there were no hedges outstanding related to long term debt. The Companys long term debt at April 30, 2002 consists primarily of fixed rate Senior notes; therefore, a change in interest rates would have no impact on consolidated pretax earnings. See Long Term Debt in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Companys annual report to security holders for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2002. The Companys broker dealer holds interest bearing receivables from customers, brokers, dealers and clearing organizations which consist primarily of amounts due on margin transactions and are generally short term in nature. The Companys broker dealer funds these short term assets with short term variable rate liabilities from customers, brokers and dealers, including stock loan activity. Although there may be differences in the timing of the re pricing related to these assets and liabilities, the Company believes it is not significantly exposed to interest rate risk in this area. As a result, any change in interest rates would not materially impact the Companys consolidated pretax earnings. Foreign Exchange Rates. The operation of the Companys subsidiaries in international markets provides exposure to volatile movements in currency exchange rates. The currencies involved are the Canadian dollar, the Australian dollar and the British pound. International tax operations constituted approximately 1.0% of the Companys fiscal year 2002 consolidated pretax earnings, compared to 1.3% in fiscal 2001. As currency exchange rates change, translation of the financial results of International tax operations into U.S. dollars does not presently materially affect, and has not historically materially affected, the consolidated financial results of the Company, although such changes do affect the year to year comparability of the operating results of the international businesses. The Company translates revenues and expenses related to its international operations at the average of exchange rates in effect during the period. The sensitivity analysis of fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates compares the U.S. dollar variance in using the actual exchange rates and using rates that have been adversely adjusted by 10%. The Company estimates that a 10% change in foreign exchange rates by itself would impact reported pretax earnings from continuing operations by approximately $806,000. Such impact represents approximately 11.4% of the pretax earnings of International tax operations for fiscal year 2002 and approximately .11% of the Companys pretax earnings for such year. In fiscal 2001, a 10% change in exchange rates would have impacted fiscal 2001 pretax earnings by approximately $731,000 or 12.3% of International tax operations pretax earnings and .15% of the Companys pretax earnings. 31 Table of Contents Trading The Companys trading portfolio is effected by changes in market rates/prices. The risk is the loss of earnings arising from adverse changes in the value of the trading portfolio. The Companys broker dealer holds the trading portfolio at quoted market prices and such portfolio represents .7% of the Companys total assets. The market value of the Companys trading portfolio at April 30, 2002 was approximately $28.4 million. The impact of a 10% change in the market value of these investments would be approximately $2.8 million, or about .4% of consolidated pretax earnings. With respect to its fixed income securities portfolio, the Company manages its market price risk exposure by limiting concentration risk, maintaining minimum credit quality and limiting inventory to anticipated retail demand and current market conditions. 
 
