Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The information called for by this item is contained in the Companys annual report to security holders for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2003, under the heading Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition, and is hereby incorporated by reference. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. Generally In the operations of its subsidiaries and the reporting of its consolidated financial results, the Company is affected by changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates and equity values. The principal risks of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices to which the Company and its subsidiaries are exposed, and which may be material, relate to: interest rates on cash equivalents, available for sale securities, residual interests in securitizations, mortgage servicing rights (MSRs), mortgage loan origination and purchase commitments, investments in mortgage loans held for sale, debt and margin lending activities, retail trading volumes, other assets, commercial paper issuances; foreign exchange rates, generating translation gains and losses; and equity prices. The Company and its subsidiaries have market risk sensitive instruments entered into for non trading and trading purposes. The Companys broker dealer holds marketable fixed income securities for resale to retail clients. Non trading Interest rates. The Companys rate sensitive assets and liabilities are managed at the subsidiary level. The Finance Committee of the Companys Board of Directors approves the Companys policies and procedures utilized to manage the Companys interest rate risk. The Company has established investment guidelines to help minimize the market risk exposure of its non residual available for sale securities portfolio. These guidelines focus on managing liquidity, preservation of principal, and earnings, which are primarily affected by credit quality and movements in interest rates. 47 Table of Contents Approximately 82% of the Companys cash equivalents (CE) and available for sale securities (AFS), which includes residual interests, are classified as short term, compared to 61% last year. The CE assets are primarily held for liquidity purposes and are comprised of high quality, short term investments, including qualified money market funds (taxable and tax exempt). As of April 30, 2003 and April 30, 2002, the portfolio had a duration of less than 0.1 years with an average credit quality of AAA. With such a short maturity, the portfolios market value is relatively insensitive to interest rate changes. The Companys residual interests in securitizations, the majority of AFS, and MSRs are subject to prepayment risk, because a mortgage borrower has the option to prepay a mortgage loan at any time. Prepayment risk tends to increase when interest rates fall due to the benefits of refinancing. The expected income from these residual interests and MSRs is sensitive to movements in interest rates due to this sensitivity to mortgage prepayments. The prepayment risk is partially offset with the collection of prepayment penalties, a feature on the majority of originated loans. In addition, prepayment penalties have the effect of reducing the borrowers propensity to prepay their mortgage during the penalty term. Residual interests are recorded based on discounted cash flow models utilizing prepayment, interest rate, credit losses and discount rate assumptions. Prepayment and loss assumptions are based on evaluation of the actual experience of the Companys servicing portfolio or on market rates on new portfolios, taking into consideration the current and expected interest rate environment and its expected impact on future prepayment and default rates. At April 30, 2003, the sensitivity of the current fair value of the residual interests to a 10% adverse change in prepayment rates would lower the fair value of the residual interests by $27.9 million, compared to $13.1 million at April 30, 2002. Mortgage servicing rights are recorded based on the present value of estimated future cash flows related to servicing loans utilizing market discount rates and anticipated prepayment speeds. The prepayment speeds are estimated using the Companys historical experience and third party market sources, where applicable. At April 30, 2003, the sensitivity of the current fair value of MSRs to a 10% adverse change in prepayment rates would lower the fair value by $18.6 million, compared to $11.3 at April 30, 2002. Residual assets bear the interest rate risk embedded within the securitization due to an initial fixed rate period on the loans versus the floating rate funding cost, and the on going basis risk between the indices of the floating rate assets and liabilities, offset somewhat by interest rate caps sometimes embedded within the securitization. An adverse change in interest rates of 10% would impact the fair value of residuals by $17.0 million at April 30, 2003, compared to $35.0 million at April 30, 2002. The Company originates mortgage loans and sells most non prime loans the same day the loans are funded to Trusts. As a result of the whole loan sales to the Trusts, the Company removes the mortgage loans from its balance sheet, records the gain on sale, cash and a receivable which represents the ultimate expected outcome from the disposition of the loans by the Trusts. Changes in interest rates and other market factors may result in ultimate disposition of the loans for amounts that vary from this expected outcome. The Trusts, as directed by the Trustees, generally enter into forward loan sales commitments which reduce the variability in the expected outcome from ultimate disposition of the loans. As a result, an adverse change in interest rates of 10% would generally not expose the Company to significant losses relating to changes in the fair value of the receivable from the Trusts. See note 7 Mortgage Banking Activities in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Companys annual report to security holders for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2003 for further sensitivity analysis of the other assumptions and detailed explanations of the cash flow models used. 48 Table of Contents The Company is exposed to interest rate risk associated with its mortgage loan origination and purchase commitments. These commitments to fund mortgage loans consist of fixed and adjustable rate loans, which will be largely sold in the secondary market. The Company had commitments to fund mortgage loans of $2.6 billion at April 30, 2003 and $1.7 billion at April 30, 2002, as long as the borrower fulfills the conditions required in the loan commitment. External market forces impact the probability of commitments being exercised, and therefore, total commitments outstanding do not necessarily represent future cash requirements. The risk with some of these commitments to fund mortgage loans is that interest rates might rise between the time the customer locks in the interest rate on the loan and the time the loan is sold. With the remaining commitments, where the borrower has not locked the interest rate on the loan, the same risks exist to the extent that interest rates rise and the Company chooses to not raise the rate on the loan. In some instances, the Company will utilize hedge vehicles or forward loan sale commitments to reduce this interest rate risk. It is the Companys policy to utilize hedge vehicles only for the purpose of offsetting or reducing the risk of loss in earnings associated with a defined or quantified exposure. They are purchased from certain broker dealer counterparties. If the counterparties do not fulfill their obligations, the Company may be exposed to default risk. As the risk of default depends on the creditworthiness of the counterparty, the Companys policy requires such transactions may be entered into only with counterparties rated A or better (or an equivalent rating) by recognized rating agencies. As a matter of practice, the Company has limited the counterparties to major banks and financial institutions meeting such standards. All interest rate contracts conform to the standard International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. documentation. An adverse change in interest rates of 10% would generally not expose the Company to significant losses related to its commitments, net of any gains or losses on associated hedge positions. Commercial paper is issued throughout the year primarily to fund seasonal working capital needs, dividend payments and purchases of treasury stock. At April 30, 2003 and April 30, 2002, no commercial paper was outstanding. For fiscal year 2003, the average issuance term was 12 days and average outstandings were $332 million. This compares with 22 days and $635 million for fiscal year 2002. The issuance term and average outstandings declined from the prior fiscal year due to the Companys agreement to waive its rights to purchase participation interests in, and receive license fees related to, RALs during the period January 1, 2003 through April 30, 2003. As commercial paper borrowings are seasonal, interest rate risk typically increases through the Companys third fiscal quarter and declines to zero by fiscal year end. See Financial Condition under the heading Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition in the Companys annual report to security holders for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2003. At April 30, 2003 and April 30, 2002, there were no hedges outstanding related to long term debt. The Companys long term debt at April 30, 2003 and April 30, 2002 consisted primarily of fixed rate Senior notes; therefore, a change in interest rates would have no impact on consolidated pretax earnings. See note 11, Long Term Debt, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Companys annual report to security holders for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2003. The Companys broker dealer holds interest bearing receivables from customers, brokers, dealers and clearing organizations, which consist primarily of amounts due on margin transactions and are generally short term in nature. The Companys broker dealer funds these short term assets with short term variable rate liabilities from customers, brokers and dealers, including stock loan activity. Although there may be differences in the timing of the re pricing related to these assets and 49 Table of Contents liabilities, the Company believes it is not significantly exposed to interest rate risk in this area. As a result, any change in interest rates would not materially impact the Companys consolidated pretax earnings. Foreign Exchange Rates. The operation of the Companys subsidiaries in international markets provides exposure to volatile movements in currency exchange rates. The currencies involved are the Canadian dollar, the Australian dollar and the British pound. International Tax Operations constituted approximately 1.1% of the Companys fiscal year 2003 consolidated pretax income, compared to 1.0% in fiscal 2002. As currency exchange rates change, translation of the financial results of International Tax Operations into U.S. dollars does not presently materially affect, and has not historically materially affected, the consolidated financial results of the Company, although such changes do affect the year to year comparability of the operating results of the international businesses. The Company translates revenues and expenses related to its international operations at the average of exchange rates in effect during the period. The sensitivity analysis of fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates compares the U.S. dollar variance in using the actual exchange rates and using rates, which have been adversely adjusted by 10%. The Company estimates a 10% change in foreign exchange rates by itself would impact reported pretax income from continuing operations by approximately $1.1 million. Such impact represents approximately 10.5% of the pretax income of International Tax Operations for fiscal year 2003 and approximately .11% of the Companys pretax income for such year. In fiscal 2002, a 10% change in exchange rates would have impacted fiscal 2002 pretax income by approximately $.8 million or 11.4% of International Tax Operations pretax income and .11% of the Companys pretax income. Equity. The Company has exposure to the equity markets in several ways. The largest exposures are through the Companys Deferred Compensation Plans, which have mismatches in asset and liability amounts and investment choices (both fixed income and equity), and through equity investments in the captive insurance company. At April 30, 2003, the impact of a 10% market value change in the combined equity assets of the Deferred Compensation Plans and the captive insurance company would be approximately $8.0 million, assuming no offset for the liabilities, versus $8.9 million at April 30, 2002. Trading The Companys fixed income trading portfolio is affected by changes in market rates/prices. The risk is the loss of income arising from adverse changes in the value of the trading portfolio. The Companys broker dealer holds the trading portfolio at quoted market prices and such portfolio represents .5% of the Companys total assets at April 30, 2003, compared to .7% at April 30, 2002. The market value of the Companys trading portfolio at 2003 fiscal year end was approximately $23.9 million, compared to approximately $28.4 million at 2002 fiscal year end. The impact of a 10% change in the market value of these investments for fiscal year 2003 would be approximately $2.4 million, or about .2% of consolidated pretax income. The impact 50 Table of Contents of such a change for fiscal year 2002 would be $2.8 million, or about .4% of consolidated pretax income. With respect to its fixed income securities portfolio, the Company manages its market price risk exposure by limiting concentration risk, maintaining minimum credit quality and limiting inventory to anticipated retail demand and current market conditions. 
 
