FILE:EMR/EMR-8K-20040823085325.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
.
Item 7.01    Regulation FD Disclosure
        The following information is furnished pursuant to Regulation FD.
(Percent change. Trailing 3-month average versus prior year.)
Emerson GAAP Underlying Orders  3 Month Summary
:
July 04 Order Comments
Strong orders continued across the company with favorable currency exchange rates contributing approximately 1.5 percentage points of the total +10% to +15% increase.
Process Control experienced strong orders across the majority of businesses in measurement and analytical, valves and regulators, and systems and solutions.
Orders in Industrial Automation stayed strong in the United States with continued increases across nearly all the businesses in this segment. 
Orders in the Electronics and Telecommunications segment stayed strong in the U.S. and Asia across the OEM and systems businesses.
HVAC orders reflect continued gains worldwide and solid market demand.
Orders in the Appliance and Tools segment continued to be positive led by the storage and motor businesses.
Upcoming Investor Events
September 14, 2004  Morgan Stanley Industrial Conference        Time:  4:15 pm Eastern Standard Time        Presenter:  David N. Farr, Chief Executive Officer
September 24, 2004  Prudential Financial Conference        Time:  8:30 am Eastern Standard Time        Presenter:  David N. Farr, Chief Executive Officer        Presentation: Will be posted at the presentation starting time in the Investor Relations section of        Emerson's web site at .
www.gotoemerson.com/financial
Updates and further details on these and other upcoming events will be posted in the Calendar of Events area in the Investor Relations section of the corporate web site as they occur.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


