FILE:EMR/EMR-8K-20041124081034.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
        Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
        [   ]   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
        [   ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
        [   ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
        [   ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
.
Item 7.01.   Regulation FD Disclosure
        The following information is furnished pursuant to Regulation FD.
(Percent change. Trailing 3-month average versus prior year.)
Emerson GAAP Underlying Orders  3 Month Summary
October 04 Order Comments:
Solid orders continued across the company with favorable currency exchange rates contributing approximately 2.5 to 3 percentage points of the total +5% to +10% increase.
Process Management experienced continued increases despite tougher prior year comparisons, with solid orders in measurement and analytical instruments and valves, and with strength in emerging markets.
Orders in Industrial Automation were strong across nearly all businesses led by continued capital spending and industrial demand in North America and Asia.
Orders in Network Power improved despite tougher prior year comparisons, with strength in the systems business and strength in Asia along with solid demand in North America and Latin America.
Climate Technologies orders continue to be impacted by inventory reductions in the U.S. residential air conditioning market and tougher prior year comparisons.
Orders in the Appliance and Tools segment were helped by strong demand in the storage business. Results in the motors, appliance, and tools businesses were mixed.
Upcoming Investor Events
January 27, 2005  Emerson's Annual Investment Community Update           Location: New York City           Presentation and Web-cast: Access to the Web-cast and presentations will be available in           the Investor Relations area of Emerson's Web site at at           the time of the event.
www.gotoemerson.com/financial
Updates and further details on these and other upcoming events will be posted in the Calendar of Events area in the Investor Relations section of the corporate web site as they occur.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


