FILE:EMR/EMR-8K-20050824073037.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
        Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 7.01   Regulation FD Disclosure.
        The following information is furnished pursuant to Regulation FD.
(Percent change. Trailing 3-month average versus prior year.)
Emerson GAAP Underlying Orders  3 Month Summary
July 2005 Order Comments:
Orders reflected continued strength from Process Management and Network Power. Industrial Automation orders remained solid while Climate Technologies improved after better results in July. Unfavorable currency exchange rates reduced orders by approximately 1 percentage point. The currency impact turned negative for the three months ended in July as the U.S. dollar continued to strengthen, especially relative to the Euro.
Process Management order levels remained strong in North America, Asia, and Latin America. The orders continued to be driven by strength across most end markets with particular strength from oil and gas and power.
Orders for Industrial Automation reflected solid capital spending and industrial demand in North America driven by the power generating alternator and the electrical distribution businesses.
Network Power orders continued to see strength from the power systems and the inbound power businesses offset by softness in the embedded power and connectivity businesses.
Orders for Climate Technologies remained negative against tough comparisons and weak global demand. The average orders did improve from June, mainly as a result of strong July orders in United States residential air conditioning markets.
Appliance and Tools segment orders were led by strength in the storage business offset by some weakness in the motors and appliance component businesses.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


