FILE:EMR/EMR-8K-20050503074022.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
        Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
        [   ]   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
        [   ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
        [   ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
        [   ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02.   Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Quarterly Press Release
On May 3, 2005, a press release was issued regarding results of Emerson Electric Co. (EMR) for the second quarter ended March 31, 2005. A copy of this press release is furnished with this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1.
The press release contains non-GAAP financial measures as such term is defined in Regulation G under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission. While Emerson believes these non-GAAP financial measures are useful in evaluating the company, this information should be considered as supplemental in nature and not as a substitute for or superior to the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. Further, these non-GAAP financial measures may differ from similarly titled measures presented by other companies.
.
Item 7.01   Regulation FD Disclosure
        The following information is furnished pursuant to Regulation FD.
(Percent change. Trailing 3-month average versus prior year.)
Emerson GAAP Underlying Orders  3 Month Summary
:
March 2005 Order Comments
Orders remained strong as end market dynamics continue to be favorable across the segments. This was led by continued increases in Network Power, while Process Management and Industrial Automation trends also remain solid. Favorable currency exchange rates contributed approximately 2 percentage points of the total +5% to +10% increase.
Process Management experienced strong orders across all parts of the segment, with strong project activity and an upturn in MRO activity. Growth in oil and gas projects has been particularly strong.
Overall orders in Industrial Automation were strong led by continued capital spending and industrial demand in North America.
Network Power orders continue their recovery from the depressed levels of 2 to 3 years ago. The current order trends are driven by strength in the systems business and the inbound power business.
Orders for Climate Technologies were impacted by weak European market demand and excess customer inventory in China.
Appliance and Tools segment orders were led by strength in the storage business and mixed results in the motors, appliance, and tools businesses.
Upcoming Investor Events
Emerson senior management will discuss the Company's second quarter 2005 results during an investor conference call that will be held on Tuesday, May 3, 2005. The call will begin at 2:00 p.m. Eastern Daylight Time (1:00 p.m. Central Daylight Time).
All interested parties may listen to the live conference call via the Internet by going to the Investor Relations area of Emerson's Web site at and completing a brief registration form. A replay of the conference call will be available for the next three months at the same location on the Web site.
www.gotoemerson.com/financial
Updates and further details on these and other upcoming events will be posted in the Calendar of Events area in the Investor Relations section of the corporate web site as they occur.
.
Item 9.01   Financial Statements and Exhibits
        (c)   Exhibits.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

EXHIBIT 99.1
Strength in Process Management, Industrial Automation and Network Power segments
Price increases and cost reduction efforts more than offset higher raw material costs
FY 2005 earnings per share target raised to 12-to-16 percent growth
         ST. LOUIS, May 3, 2005  Emerson (NYSE: EMR) announced that net sales increased 10 percent to $4.2 billion in the second quarter ended March 31, 2005, led by double-digit sales growth in Process Management, Industrial Automation, and Network Power. Underlying sales were up 5 percent for the quarter, excluding the impact of exchange rates (2 percent) and acquisitions (3 percent). Net earnings for the second quarter increased 10 percent to $348 million, or $0.83 per share, an increase of 11 percent versus the prior-year period. Net earnings in the second quarter of fiscal 2004 were $318 million, or $0.75 per share. Excluding the impact of gains totaling $0.04 per share in the prior year, earnings per share were up 17 percent in the second quarter.
        "Emerson had an excellent second quarter, with continued strong gains in sales and earnings," said Emerson Chairman and CEO David N. Farr. "In particular, our second-quarter results reflect outstanding strength in Process Management, which saw reported sales increase 12 percent and profits grow 55 percent as it continues to win major projects around the world. The Network Power segment also posted excellent results, with the introduction of new global solutions platforms and the Marconi Power acquisition made in the fourth quarter of 2004 contributing to a 22 percent gain in reported sales and a 31 percent increase in profits. The margin for this segment was
Add One
up 70 basis points as operating improvements resulting from prior-period cost reductions enabled the group to overcome the dilutive impact of the Marconi Power acquisition.
        "The strong sales increase for the quarter was also driven by the company's global positioning in faster growing emerging markets. Underlying sales growth in the United States was 5 percent in the second quarter, led by strength in Process Management, Industrial Automation, and Network Power. Underlying international sales also grew 5 percent in the second quarter, led by demand in emerging markets in Asia, Latin America, and Russia. Our continued investment in these areas provides a solid foundation for future growth.
        "Margins improved during the quarter, as benefits from sales volume leverage and our previous restructuring actions more than offset significantly higher material costs and the impact of the Marconi Power acquisition. The operating margin improved 20 basis points versus the prior-year quarter, driven by solid improvements in Process Management, Network Power, and Industrial Automation. The Appliance and Tools and Climate Technologies segments experienced margin pressure due to higher commodity prices. We expect this situation to improve in the second half of the year as price increases are expected to more fully offset commodity inflation and our continued restructuring efforts deliver planned benefits. Pre-tax margin for the quarter was down 30 basis points reflecting prior-year gains of $27 million.
        "Operating cash flow was $441 million for the quarter, compared to $451 million in the second quarter of 2004, reflecting investment in working capital to support higher sales. Free cash flow was $301 million versus $371 million in the prior-year period, primarily the result of increased capital investment to expand scroll compressor capacity to meet future demand as global markets move toward more efficient air conditioning. We continue to focus sharply on operational efficiency and lean manufacturing initiatives, with the average days-in-the-cash-cycle' improving to 74 days in the quarter from 79 days in the prior-year period. We remain committed to the full-year targets of $2.1 billion of operating cash flow and $1.6 billion of free cash flow, which includes $0.5 billion of capital expenditures.
Add Two
        "The ratio of net debt to net capital at the end of the second quarter improved to 27.1 percent, from 30.5 percent in the prior-year period. Operating cash flow to total debt also showed significant improvement, increasing to 49.1 percent from 41.9 percent in the prior year period. Our strong financial position allows us to create value for our shareholders by investing in our existing businesses and making strategic acquisitions that expand our capabilities and strengthen our market positions.
        "Our strong sales performance clearly demonstrates the power of our technological leadership and strong customer relationships. Process Management continues to win large, complex projects around the globe with industry-leading PlantWeb technology and a world-class solutions organization. Among these is the recent $7 million contract award to automate the Datang Ningde Power Plant in China, the first large-scale coal-fired power plant to be built in China's Fujian Province. Network Power is achieving similar results with a tremendous product, service, and solution capability focused on meeting all of our customers' global power needs. This segment continues to integrate the Marconi Power acquisition, which perfectly fits our strategy of making synergistic acquisitions that fill product and geographic gapsGrowth in Industrial Automation was again driven by strong demand in the United States, particularly in the power generating alternator and power transmission businesses.
.
        "The continued order strength in March coupled with our strong financial results in the first six months of the year has solidified our outlook for fiscal 2005. We expect that order momentum and backlog should drive sales growth for the year between 9 percent and 11 percent and our operating improvements should allow Emerson to deliver earnings per share of between $3.35 and $3.45. This would represent earnings per share growth of between 12 percent and 16 percent, an increase over our prior guidance of EPS growth between 10 percent and 15 percent."
        The fiscal 2005 forecast for earnings growth of 12 percent to 16 percent excludes the tax impact of potentially repatriating foreign earnings under the American Jobs Creation Act. As of March 31, 2005, the company had not decided whether, and to what extent, it might repatriate foreign earnings under this Act.
Add Three
        On Tuesday, May 3, 2005, at 2:00 p.m. EDT (1:00 p.m. CDT), Emerson senior management will discuss the second-quarter fiscal 2005 results during an investor conference call. All interested parties may listen to the live conference call via the Internet by going to the Investor Relations area of Emerson's Web site at and completing a brief registration form. A replay of the conference call will be available for the next three months at the same location on the Web site. Details of upcoming events will be posted as they occur in the Investor Relations Calendar of Events on the corporate Web site.
Upcoming Investor Events
www.gotoemerson.com/financial
        Statements in this release that are not strictly historical may be "forward-looking" statements, which involve risks and uncertainties. These include economic and currency conditions, market demand, pricing, and competitive and technological factors, among others, as set forth in the company's most recent Form 10-K filed with the SEC.
Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements
Add Four
TABLE 1
Add Five
TABLE 2
Add Six
TABLE 3
Add Seven
TABLE 4
Add Eight
TABLE 5
Add Nine
TABLE 6
Add Ten
TABLE 7
Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The following reconciles each non-GAAP measure with the most directly comparable GAAP measure (dollars in millions):
All amounts above are GAAP financial measures except as noted.


