FILE:EMR/EMR-8K-20050223083023.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
        Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
        [   ]   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
        [   ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
        [   ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
        [   ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
        The following information is furnished pursuant to Regulation FD.
(Percent change. Trailing 3-month average versus prior year.)
Emerson GAAP Underlying Orders  3 Month Summary
January 2005 Order Comments:
Orders stayed solid, led by strength in Process Management and Industrial Automation and a significant upturn in Climate Technologies. Orders reflect strong demand in emerging markets, particularly Asia and Latin America, and solid demand in the United States. Favorable currency exchange rates contributed 2 percentage points of the total +5% to +10% increase.
Process Management experienced strong orders in measurement and analytical instruments, flow, and power & water solutions, with strength in emerging markets.
Overall orders in Industrial Automation were strong led by continued capital spending and industrial demand in North America.
Orders in Network Power were impacted by tougher prior year comparisons and seasonal order patterns in the OEM embedded power business in November and December.
Climate Technologies orders improved driven by an upturn in demand in the U.S. residential air-conditioning market.
Appliance and Tools segment orders increased led by strength in the storage business and mixed results in the motors, appliance, and tools businesses.
Upcoming Investor Events
Updates and further details on these and other upcoming events will be posted in the Calendar of Events area in the Investor Relations section of the corporate web site as they occur.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


