FILE:EMR/EMR-8K-20050627073029.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
        Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
        [   ]   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
        [   ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
        [   ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
        [   ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 7.01    Regulation FD Disclosure.
        The following information is furnished pursuant to Regulation FD.
(Percent change. Trailing 3-month average versus prior year.)
Emerson GAAP Underlying Orders  3 Month Summary
:
May 2005 Order Comments
Orders reflected continued growth from Process Management, Network Power, and Industrial Automation, but Climate Technologies dropped total Emerson orders growth to +5%. Favorable currency exchange rates contributed approximately 2.5 percentage points of the total increase, less than last month's impact, and we expect that currency will be less favorable in future months. The order trends demonstrate the continued strength of global demand and are consistent with expectations based on end market drivers for our businesses.
Process Management order levels remained strong across the valve, measurement, and systems and solutions businesses. The stronger dollar had a negative impact as backlog revaluation brought down the order rate for the month of May.
Orders for Industrial Automation reflected strong capital spending and industrial demand in North America, Europe, and Asia.
Network Power orders were led by strength from the power systems and the inbound power businesses offset by softness in the embedded power business.
Orders for Climate Technologies were impacted by tougher comparisons to a strong 2004. Additionally, the segment experienced slower orders in air conditioning due to cool weather in the United States, continued weak European market demand, and excess customer inventory in China.
Appliance and Tools segment orders were led by strength in the storage and tools businesses offset by some weakness in the motors and appliance component businesses.
Upcoming Investor Events
On Tuesday, August 2, 2005, Emerson will issue the Company's third quarter 2005 results. Emerson senior management will discuss the results during an investor conference call that will be held the same day. The call will begin at 2:00 p.m. Eastern Daylight Time (1:00 p.m. Central Daylight Time).
All interested parties may listen to the live conference call via the Internet by going to the Investor Relations area of Emerson's web site at and completing a brief registration form. A replay of the conference call will be available for the next three months at the same location on the web site.
www.gotoemerson.com/financial
Updates and further details of these and other upcoming events will be posted in the Calendar of Events area in the Investor Relations section of the corporate web site as they occur.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


