FILE:EMR/EMR-8K-20051221080055.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
_______________
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event
reported): December 21, 2005
 
Emerson Electric Co.
-------------------------------------------------
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Charter)
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
 
(314) 553-2000
------------------------------------------
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
.
 
The following information is furnished pursuant to Regulation FD.
 
Emerson GAAP Underlying Orders  3 Month Summary
(Percent change. Trailing 3-month average versus prior year.)
 
 
November 2005 Order Comments:
 
Orders remained strong as end market dynamics continued to be favorable across the business segments. Unfavorable currency exchange rates reduced orders by approximately 3 percentage points.
 
Process Management order levels remained strong as the key end markets served continued to spend capital and generate order growth for this segment.
 
Orders for Industrial Automation were led by continued capital spending and industrial demand in North America.
 
Network Power orders continued at high levels due primarily to strong growth from both the power systems business and the embedded power business.
 
Orders for Climate Technologies remained very strong with the compressor business leading the growth. Comparisons to prior year have become easier and demand in the residential air-conditioning business is being driven by 10 SEER orders ahead of the transition to 13 SEER.
 
Appliance and Tools segment orders remained solid with growth led by the tools and storage businesses and modest growth in the motors business as well.
 
Upcoming Investor Events:
 
On Tuesday, February 7, 2006, Emerson will issue the Company's first quarter 2006 results. Emerson senior management will discuss the results during an investor conference call that will be held the same day. The call will begin at 2:00 p.m. Eastern Standard Time (1:00 p.m. Central Standard Time).
 
All interested parties may listen to the live conference call via the Internet by going to the Investor Relations area of Emerson's Web site at
www.gotoemerson.com/financial
and completing a brief registration form. A replay of the conference call will be available for the next three months at the same location on the Web site.
 
 
2
 
 
 
February 10, 2006  Emerson's Annual Investment Community Update
Presentation and Web-cast: Access to the Web-cast and presentations will be available in the Investor Relations area of Emerson's Web site at at the time of the event.
www.gotoemerson.com/financial
 
Updates and further details on these and other upcoming events will be posted in the Calendar of Events area in the Investor Relations section of the corporate Web site as they occur.
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 


