FILE:EMR/EMR-8K-20051128084138.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
_______________
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event
reported): November 28, 2005
 
Emerson Electric Co.
-------------------------------------------------
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Charter)
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
 
(314) 553-2000
------------------------------------------
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
.
 
 
Emerson GAAP Underlying Orders  3 Month Summary
(Percent change. Trailing 3-month average versus prior year.)
 
 
October 2005 Order Comments:
 
Orders reflected continued strength across the industrial and technology markets that Emerson serves. Currency exchange rates had a slightly negative impact on the order growth rates. As orders have continued to strengthen, expectations for the first quarter have been increased. Emerson now expects first quarter sales growth in the range of 10 to 12 percent, and based on the higher sales expectation, earnings per share in the first quarter is now expected to be in the range of $0.80 to $0.85, an increase of 14 to 21 percent versus prior year.
 
Process Management order levels remained strong as the key end markets served continued to spend capital and generate order growth for this segment. The reported order rates include a significant component of large project business, with sales expected to extend throughout the year and into next year.
 
Orders for Industrial Automation reflected continued solid demand in the commercial markets we serve. The growth continued to be balanced across the businesses with particular strength in the power transmission and electrical distribution businesses.
 
Network Power orders continued at high levels due primarily to strong growth from both the power systems business and the embedded power business.
 
Orders for Climate Technologies remained very strong with the compressor business leading the growth. Comparisons to prior year have become easier and demand in the residential air-conditioning business is being driven by late season warm weather and the pending 13 SEER transition.
 
Appliance and Tools segment orders accelerated due to strength in the tools businesses, particularly those that supply non-residential construction markets, and growth in the motors business.
 
Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements
 
Statements in this report that are not strictly historical may be "forward-looking" statements, which involve risks and uncertainties. These include economic and currency conditions, market demand, pricing, and competitive and technological factors, among others which are set forth in the "Risk Factors" of Part I, Item 1, and the "Safe Harbor Statement" of Exhibit 13, to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2005, which are hereby incorporated by reference.
 
2
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


