FILE:EMR/EMR-8K-20050902160017.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
        Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 1.01     Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
        Emerson Electric Co. (the "Company") is a party to split dollar life insurance agreements with its CEO and other four most highly paid executive officers (the "Named Officers"). Section 402 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 prohibited loans to the executive officers of public companies, however, which has been interpreted by some to prohibit at least certain types of split dollar life insurance policies. Accordingly, the Company suspended any subsequent premium payments under its split dollar life insurance policies for the Named Officers and withdrew premiums previously paid by the Company under those policies.
        On August 31, 2005, the Company notified the Named Officers it was terminating and transitioning the split dollar life insurance program to eliminate the split dollar arrangement. Under the transition, a Named Officer could elect either to (i) cancel the policy and receive its cash value, or (ii) convert the split dollar life insurance policy into an ongoing term life insurance policy with the same coverage, in which case the Company would make premium payments as long as the Named Officer remains an employee.
        The Named Officers have elected under the transition program to have the Company pay the premiums for a substitute term life insurance policy. The coverage amount for each Named Officer's substitute policy is $200,000. The annual premium for each policy is less than $5,000.
Item 1.02     Termination of Material Definitive Agreement
        In connection with the transition of the Company's split dollar life insurance program, its split dollar life insurance agreements with the Named Officers have been terminated as of August 31, 2005.
        The information provided in Item 1.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is hereby incorporated into this Item by reference.
Item 9.01     Financial Statements and Exhibits
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 10.1
Please be advised that the transition of the Emerson Split Dollar Life Insurance Program is effective as of August 31, 2005.
Recent Internal Revenue Services (IRS) regulations and Sarbanes Oxley legislation have impacted the effectiveness of such programs, which resulted in Emerson's withdrawal of premiums. It has been determined that the Company would not offer the split dollar program in the future, but that the Company will provide a transition option for existing program participants.
Each participant has two options:
Under either option above, the Split Dollar agreement is being terminated. If the participant chooses option 2 above, the Company will commence payment of the life insurance premium in September 2005, and this amount will also be reflected in the participant's September paycheck.
If you have any questions, please call.


