FILE:EMR/EMR-8K-20060523080035.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
_______________
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event
reported):  May 23, 2006
 
Emerson Electric Co.
-------------------------------------------------
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Charter)
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
 
(314) 553-2000
------------------------------------------
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01  Regulation FD Disclosure
.
 
The following information is furnished pursuant to Regulation FD.
 
Emerson GAAP Underlying Orders  3 Month Summary
(Percent change. Trailing 3-month average versus prior year.)
 
 
 
April 2006 Order Comments:
 
Order growth maintained a double-digit pace for the three months ended in April as end market dynamics for the majority of Emerson's businesses remained favorable. Unfavorable currency exchange rates reduced orders by approximately 2 percentage points.
 
Process Management orders remained strong, with particular strength in the United States, Asia and Latin America. The order growth rate dropped from March due to fluctuations in the timing of project bookings.
 
Orders for Industrial Automation remained strong driven by a favorable global capital spending environment. The growth for this segment was led by the power generating alternator and the electrical distribution businesses.
 
Network Power has moved into a period of tougher comparisons but continued to see strong growth. The growth continued to be driven by the power systems and the embedded power businesses.
 
Climate Technologies' order growth reflected easier comparisons and continued solid growth in Europe, domestic refrigeration and the solutions business.
 
Appliance and Tools growth was led by solid increases in the tools and storage business and modest increases from the motors business.
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 


