FILE:EMR/EMR-8K-20060227083831.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
_______________
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event
reported): February 27, 2006
 
Emerson Electric Co.
-------------------------------------------------
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Charter)
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
 
(314) 553-2000
------------------------------------------
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01  Regulation FD Disclosure
.
 
 
Emerson GAAP Underlying Orders  3 Month Summary
(Percent change. Trailing 3-month average versus prior year.)
 
 
January 2006 Order Comments:
 
Orders growth remained strong as three of the five business segments generated double-digit growth for the three months ended in January. Unfavorable currency exchange rates reduced orders by nearly 3 percentage points.
 
Process Management orders strengthened as this business continues to win large projects and experience growth across the valve, measurement, and systems businesses.
 
Orders for Industrial Automation were led by continued capital spending and industrial demand in North America. The growth for this segment was led by the power generating alternator business.
 
Network Power orders continued at high levels due to strong growth from both the power systems business and the embedded power business. Geographically the growth was driven by demand in the United States and Asia.
 
Orders for Climate Technologies remained strong as the residential air-conditioning business made the final transition from 10 SEER to 13 SEER on January 23.
rd
 
Appliance and Tools segment orders remained solid with growth led by the professional tools and the storage businesses.
 
 
2
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 


