FILE:EMR/EMR-8K-20060613091815.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
_______________
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (D) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event
reported): June 9, 2006
 
Emerson Electric Co.
-------------------------------------------------
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Charter)
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
 
(314) 553-2000
------------------------------------------
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02.
  
Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
 
(d) Effective June 9, 2006, the Board of Directors of Emerson Electric Co. (the "Company") appointed Randall L. Stephenson, Chief Operating Officer and a director of AT&T Inc., as a director of the Company to serve in the class of 2007. Mr. Stephenson was also appointed to serve as a member of the Compensation Committee.
 
A copy of the June 13, 2006 press release announcing Mr. Stephenson's appointment is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01.
  
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
EMERSON NAMES RANDALL STEPHENSON TO BOARD OF DIRECTORS
ST. LOUIS, JUNE 13, 2006 -- Randall L. Stephenson, chief operating officer of AT&T Inc. (NYSE:T), has been named to Emerson's (NYSE:EMR) board of directors, it was announced today by David N. Farr, chairman, CEO and president.
Mr. Stephenson is responsible for all wireline operations at AT&T. He was appointed to this position at SBC (which acquired AT&T and adopted its name last fall) in April 2004. Mr. Stephenson was appointed to the SBC board of directors in June 2005 and now serves on AT&T's board. Additionally, he serves on the board of Cingular Wireless, of which AT&T owns 60 percent.
"Randall's strong experience will be a valuable asset for Emerson," Farr said. "He has served in key finance and operations roles and has helped manage one of the most complex acquisitions in recent corporate history. His insights will be invaluable as Emerson continues to focus on improving shareholder value through internal efficiencies and acquisition opportunities."
Prior to becoming COO, Mr. Stephenson served in a variety of key roles at SBC, including that of senior executive vice president and chief financial officer. He began his career with Southwestern Bell Telephone Company in 1982 and has extensive experience in finance and operations.
Mr. Stephenson earned a Bachelor of Science degree in accounting from Central State University in Edmond, Okla., and a Master of Accountancy degree from the University of Oklahoma at Norman.
 
 
 
 
About Emerson
Emerson (NYSE: EMR), based in St. Louis, is a global leader in bringing technology and engineering together to provide innovative solutions to customers through its network power, process management, industrial automation, climate technologies, and appliance and tools businesses. Sales in fiscal 2005 were $17.3 billion. For more information, visit www.GoToEmerson.com.
 
 
 
 
 


