FILE:EMR/EMR-8K-20060207073539.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
_______________
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event
reported): February 7, 2006
 
Emerson Electric Co.
-------------------------------------------------
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Charter)
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
 
(314) 553-2000
------------------------------------------
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Quarterly Results Press Release
On February 7, 2006, a press release was issued regarding the first quarter results of Emerson Electric Co. (EMR). A copy of this press release is furnished with this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1.
The press release contains non-GAAP financial measures as such term is defined in Regulation G under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission. While Emerson believes these non-GAAP financial measures are useful in evaluating the company, this information should be considered as supplemental in nature and not as a substitute for or superior to the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. Further, these non-GAAP financial measures may differ from similarly titled measures presented by other companies. The reasons why management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful information are set forth in the Company's most recent Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
The following information is furnished pursuant to Regulation FD.
 
Emerson GAAP Underlying Orders  3 Month Summary
(Percent change. Trailing 3-month average versus prior year.)
 
 
December 2005 Order Comments:
 
Orders grew at a double-digit pace for the quarter as end markets remained strong while unfavorable currency exchange rates reduced orders by approximately 4 percentage points.
 
Process Management orders showed continued growth and the outlook for this business remains strong. The order growth rate change from recent months reflected tougher comparisons, the negative impact from currency of 7% to 8%, and the timing of project bookings.
 
Orders for Industrial Automation were led by continued capital spending and industrial demand in North America. The growth for this segment was led by the power generating alternator business.
 
Network Power orders continued at high levels due primarily to strong growth from both the power systems business and the embedded power business. The North American uninterruptible power supply and cooling business was particularly strong with order growth in excess of 25 percent during the quarter.
 
2
 
 
 
Orders for Climate Technologies remained very strong with the compressor business leading the growth. Orders remained strong driven by the residential air-conditioning business, which continued to see 10 SEER orders ahead of the transition to 13 SEER.
 
Appliance and Tools segment orders remained solid with growth led by the professional tools business and modest growth in the motors business.
 
Upcoming Investor Events:
 
Emerson senior management will discuss the Company's first quarter 2006 results during an investor conference call that will be held on Tuesday, February 7, 2006. The call will begin at 2:00 p.m. Eastern Standard Time (1:00 p.m. Central Standard Time).
 
All interested parties may listen to the live conference call via the Internet by going to the Investor Relations area of Emerson's Web site at
www.gotoemerson.com/financial
and completing a brief registration form. A replay of the conference call will be available for the next three months at the same location on the Web site.
 
February 10, 2006  Emerson's Annual Investment Community Update
Presentation and Web-cast: Access to the Web-cast and presentations will be available in the Investor Relations area of Emerson's Web site at
www.gotoemerson.com/financial
at the time of the event.
A replay of the Web-cast will be available for approximately one week at the same location on the Web site.
 
February 14, 2006  Lehman Brothers Industrial Select Conference
Presenter:  David N. Farr, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President
Presentation and Web-cast: Access to the Web-cast and presentation will be available in the Investor Relations area of Emerson's Web site at
www.gotoemerson.com/financial
at the time of the event.
A replay of the Web-cast will be available for approximately one week at the same location on the Web site.
 
Updates and further details on these and other upcoming events will be posted in the Calendar of Events area in the Investor Relations section of the corporate Web site as they occur.
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Contact:  Mark Polzin
(314) 982-1758
 
or John Hastings
(314) 982-8622
 
EMERSON REPORTS RECORD FIRST-QUARTER 2006 RESULTS
 
ST. LOUIS, February 7, 2006  Emerson (NYSE: EMR) announced net sales for the first quarter ended December 31, 2005 were $4.5 billion, an increase of 15 percent over the $4.0 billion reported in the same period last year. Net earnings for the first quarter increased 35 percent to $399 million, or $0.96 per share. This represents a 37 percent increase in earnings per share from the $0.70 earned in the same period last year.
The Company achieved underlying sales growth of 14 percent in the quarter, excluding the impact of unfavorable exchange rates (2 percent) and growth from acquisitions (3 percent). The sales growth was driven by increases from all five business segments and double-digit increases from four of the five segments, as shown below:
 
 
"Emerson's record first quarter demonstrates the tremendous momentum that exists in our businesses right now," said David N. Farr, chairman, chief executive officer and president. "Global end-market dynamics are favorable across Emerson's portfolio of businesses. Our market leading technologies and strong global presence leverage these market conditions to deliver exceptional growth for our shareholders."
 
- more -
 
Add One
 
 
Profitability in the quarter improved, driven by leverage on the increased sales volume, benefits from prior cost reduction efforts and lower restructuring costs. These items were partially offset by unfavorable product mix and increased pension costs. In total, price increases more than offset higher raw material costs during the quarter, but some businesses were still unable to recover material inflation through price increases. In total, the Company has now achieved the price-cost relationship that existed two years ago.
 
Segment Highlights
 
Balance Sheet / Cash Flow
Operating cash flow was $319 million in the first quarter of 2006, an increase of 22 percent from the first quarter of 2005. The strong cash flow performance reflects strong earnings growth and continued successful management of working capital. This focus on working capital management drove improvement in average "days-in-the-cash-cycle" during the quarter to 71 days from 74 days in the prior year quarter.
 
- more -
 
Add Two
 
 
"Emerson's ability to successfully manage working capital and cash flow demonstrates our commitment to creating value for shareholders over long periods of time," Farr said. "Our balance sheet is very strong, evidenced by the ratio of operating cash flow to debt, which increased to 63 percent (trailing 12 months) in the first quarter. This gives Emerson the flexibility to invest in our core operations and expand through acquisitions, while at the same time returning significant portions of cash flow to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases."
 
2006 Outlook
"The first quarter provided a strong start to the year. Earnings performance was strong and order trends for the quarter demonstrate that momentum exists in our key businesses. Based on continued strength of end markets, Emerson expects full year earnings per share in the range of $4.10 to $4.30," Farr said. Emerson senior management will review the dynamics of the first quarter and the relevant impacts to the full year outlook during the Company's regular quarterly earnings conference call today at 2 p.m. EST.
On Friday, February 10, 2006, Emerson will host its annual investment community update. At that time the Company will provide more detail regarding assumptions for 2006 performance as well as updates of long-term initiatives being pursued to create value for shareholders.
 
Upcoming Investor Events
On February 7, 2006, at 2:00 p.m. EST (1:00 p.m. CST), Emerson senior management will discuss the quarterly results during an investor conference call. All interested parties may listen to the live conference call via the Internet by going to the Investor Relations area of Emerson's web site at www.gotoemerson.com/financial and completing a brief registration form. A replay of the conference call will be available for the next three months at the same location on the web site.
On February 10, 2006, Emerson senior management will host the company's annual investment community update meeting in New York. The presentations will begin at 8 a.m. EST and conclude at approximately 11:30 a.m. EST. All interested parties may listen to the web-cast via the Internet by going to the Investor Relations area of Emerson's web site at www.gotoemerson.com/financial and completing a brief registration form. A replay of the web-cast will be available for approximately one week at the same location on the web site.
On February 14, 2006, David N. Farr, Emerson's Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President will present at the Lehman Brothers Industrial Select Conference in Miami, Florida. The presentation will begin at 1:15 p.m. EST and conclude at approximately 2:00 p.m. EST. All interested parties may listen to the live web-cast via the Internet by going to the Investor Relations area of Emerson's web site at www.gotoemerson.com/financial and completing a brief registration form. A replay of the web-cast will be available for approximately one week at the same location on the web site.
Details of upcoming events will be posted as they occur in the Investor Relations Calendar of Events on the corporate web site.
 
- more -
 
Add Three
 
 
Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements
Statements in this release that are not strictly historical may be "forward-looking" statements, which involve risks and uncertainties, and Emerson undertakes no obligation to update any such statement to reflect later developments. These include economic and currency conditions, market demand, pricing, and competitive and technological factors, among others, as set forth in the Company's most recent Form 10-K filed with the SEC.
 
(tables attached)
 
- more -
 
Add Four
 
 
TABLE 1
 
EMERSON AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED OPERATING RESULTS
(DOLLARS IN MILLIONS EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)
 
 
 
- more -
 
Add Five
 
 
TABLE 2
 
EMERSON AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
 
 
- more -
 
Add Six
 
 
TABLE 3
 
EMERSON AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
 
 
- more -
 
Add Seven
 
 
TABLE 4
 
EMERSON AND SUBSIDIARIES
SEGMENT SALES AND EARNINGS
(DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
 
# # #
 
 
 
 
 


