FILE:EMR/EMR-8K-20060801064538.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
_______________
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event
reported):  August 1, 2006
 
Emerson Electric Co.
-------------------------------------------------
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Charter)
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
 
(314) 553-2000
------------------------------------------
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02.
  
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
.
 
Quarterly Results Press Release
On August 1, 2006, a press release was issued regarding the third quarter results of Emerson Electric Co. (the "Company"). A copy of this press release is furnished with this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1.
The press release contains non-GAAP financial measures as such term is defined in Regulation G under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission. While the Company believes these non-GAAP financial measures are useful in evaluating the Company, this information should be considered as supplemental in nature and not as a substitute for or superior to the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. Further, these non-GAAP financial measures may differ from similarly titled measures presented by other companies. The reasons why management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful information are set forth in the Company's most recent Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Item 7.01.
  
Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
The following information is furnished pursuant to Regulation FD.
 
Emerson GAAP Underlying Orders  3 Month Summary
(Percent change. Trailing 3-month average versus prior year.)
 
 
June 2006 Order Comments
:
 
Order growth accelerated for the three months ended in June as underlying business conditions remained strong. Favorable currency exchange rates contributed approximately 2 percentage points to the increase.
 
Process Management orders remained strong as the global energy markets continue to drive demand for this business. The order growth was balanced across the valves, measurement and systems businesses. Orders were also aided by the weaker dollar.
 
Orders for Industrial Automation remained strong driven by a favorable global capital spending environment. The growth for this segment was led by the power generating alternator and the electrical distribution businesses.
 
Network Power order growth remained at high levels driven by the power systems, embedded power and inbound power businesses.
 
Climate Technologies order growth reflected strength from the compressor business. The residential air-conditioning market continued the transition to higher efficiency 13-SEER units, driving market penetration gains for this business. Hot weather in the United States also drove demand.
 
Appliance and Tools had strong growth across the tools and storage businesses with particular strength in the disposer business. The motors business also had solid growth driven primarily by demand for HVAC motors.
 
 
 
 
Upcoming Investor Events
 
Emerson senior management will discuss the Company's third quarter 2006 results during an investor conference call that will be held on Tuesday, August 1, 2006. The call will begin at 2:00 p.m. Eastern Daylight Time (1:00 p.m. Central Daylight Time).
 
All interested parties may listen to the live conference call via the Internet by going to the Investor Relations area of Emerson's Web site at www.gotoemerson.com/financial and completing a brief registration form. A replay of the conference call will be available for the next three months at the same location on the Web site.
 
Updates and further details of these and other upcoming events will be posted in the Calendar of Events area in the Investor Relations section of the corporate Web site as they occur.
Item 9.01.
  
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
EMERSON ACHIEVES RECORD THIRD QUARTER 2006 RESULTS
 
ST. LOUIS, August 1, 2006 
Emerson (NYSE: EMR) today announced record net sales and earnings for the third quarter ended June 30, 2006. Net sales totaled $5.2 billion, an increase of 17 percent from the $4.5 billion reported in the prior year period. For the quarter, underlying sales increased 12 percent, the third consecutive quarter of double digit organic sales growth. Underlying sales growth in the current quarter excludes growth from acquisitions of 5 percent and the negligible impact of exchange rates.
Earnings per share for the third quarter of $1.18 represent an increase of 37 percent from the $0.86 earnings per share achieved in the third quarter of 2005. The third quarter 2005 results included a tax expense of $58 million, or $0.14 per share, related to earnings repatriation of $1.3 billion in 2005. Excluding the expense in the prior year, the current quarter earnings per share rose by 18 percent.
"Emerson had an excellent quarter and continues to have strong momentum," said Emerson Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President David N. Farr. "We were again able to translate strong sales performance into exceptional earnings growth, successfully increasing profitability while managing a number of headwinds. Our market leading technologies, which are deployed on a global scale, create an excellent foundation for growth. These capabilities, partnered with a sharp focus on meeting our customers' needs, are what ultimately led to these great results."
 
 
- more -
 
 
 
Add One
 
For the nine months ended June 30, 2006, net sales were $14.6 billion, an increase of 15 percent over the same period last year. Excluding the third quarter 2005 tax expense referenced above, earnings per share increased 26 percent for the first nine months of this fiscal year. On a reported basis, earnings per share increased 33 percent over the prior year period.
Balance Sheet / Cash Flow:
Operating cash flow in the quarter was $620 million compared to $606 million in the third quarter of 2005. The Company continues to make progress on working capital initiatives as evidenced by the ratio of trade working capital to sales, which dropped to 18.4 percent in the current quarter compared to 18.9 percent in the same period last year. Free cash flow (operating cash flow less capital expenditures) for the quarter was $480 million, a slight decline versus the prior year quarter due to increased capital expenditures. The Company's full-year target for capital spending is unchanged at approximately $600 million, with full year targets of $2.5 billion of operating cash flow and $1.9 billion of free cash flow.
The financial position of Emerson remains strong, with the ratio of operating cash flow to debt at 58 percent on a trailing twelve month basis. This compares to 45 percent for the same period in 2005. The Company expects to achieve full year return on total capital (ROTC) of approximately 18 percent during 2006, a solid improvement from 2005 and a clear measure of successful value creation for Emerson shareholders.
Operating Highlights:
Emerson's operating profit margins improved to 15.7 percent in the quarter, a 20 basis point improvement from the 2005 period. Margins improved in four of the Company's five business segments, with the increase driven primarily by sales volume leverage and cost reduction efforts that more than offset dilution from acquisitions and continued pressure from commodity inflation. Pretax margins improved to 13.7 percent from 13.4 percent in the prior period.
Process Management had another successful quarter as revenue grew by 16 percent, aided by nearly 5 percentage points of growth from acquisitions. The global energy markets continue to spend capital at high levels and drive growth for Process Management. This business has strong momentum and continues to be acknowledged as the industry leader, most recently named by Frost & Sullivan as the 2006 Industrial Automation & Process Control Company of the Year.
 
- more -
 
 
 
Add Two
 
Industrial Automation saw continued growth as revenues increased by 17 percent during the quarter with acquisitions adding 7 percentage points of the growth. The global capital spending environment remains favorable and is driving strong demand within this business. The growth has been balanced across major geographic regions with particular strength in the United States and Europe.
Network Power sales increased by 38 percent in the quarter, with acquisitions contributing 16 percentage points. The acquisition sales came primarily from Artesyn Technologies, which was acquired on April 28, 2006. Strong organic growth more than offset the margin dilution from acquisitions, resulting in 30 basis points of margin expansion.
Climate Technologies grew by 10 percent in the quarter, with solid results from commercial and residential air-conditioning and refrigeration markets. The domestic residential air-conditioning market continued to ramp up production of new 13-SEER product lines, leading to market penetration gains for Emerson. Hot weather in the quarter also drove demand in this market.
Appliance and Tools experienced revenue growth of 6 percent in the third quarter. Growth was strong in the tools and storage businesses driven by new product introductions and growth in non-residential construction markets. The hermetic motor business also experienced strong growth, led by demand in the residential air-conditioning market. Margins declined by 90 basis points for this segment, as cost reductions and price increases were not able to offset continued material inflation.
Divestiture Strategy:
Emerson is constantly evaluating its portfolio of businesses to ensure the proper balance that can provide Emerson with sufficient growth opportunities and also generate a high level of return for shareholders. This drives the Company's acquisition process and at times directs the need to divest businesses that no longer fit with strategic plans or cannot meet return criteria. Currently, Emerson is considering the divestiture of several small units that have annual sales of approximately $500 million. These units are dilutive to Emerson's margins, returns and growth profile.
Full Year Earnings Outlook:
Emerson has experienced strong operating performance during the first three quarters of 2006. Additionally, there has been continued orders strength with June representing the 11 consecutive month of double-digit growth in trailing 3 month orders. Based on these factors the outlook for fiscal 2006 has been raised, and Emerson now expects earnings per share in the range of $4.33 to $4.38, an increase from previous guidance of $4.25 to $4.35.
th
 
- more -
 
 
 
Add Three
 
Upcoming Investor Events
On Tuesday, August 1, 2006, at 2:00 p.m. EDT (1:00 p.m. CDT), Emerson senior management will discuss the third-quarter fiscal 2006 results during an investor conference call. All interested parties may listen to the live conference call via the Internet by going to the Investor Relations area of Emerson's Web site at www.gotoemerson.com/financial and completing a brief registration form. A replay of the conference call will be available for the next three months at the same location on the Web site. Details of upcoming events will be posted as they occur in the Investor Relations Calendar of Events on the corporate Web site.
Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements
Statements in this release that are not strictly historical may be "forward-looking" statements, which involve risks and uncertainties, and Emerson undertakes no obligation to update any such statement to reflect later developments. These include economic and currency conditions, market demand, pricing, and competitive and technological factors, among others, as set forth in the Company's most recent Form 10-K filed with the SEC.
 
(tables attached)
 
 
- more -
 
Add Four
 
 
TABLE 1
EMERSON AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED OPERATING RESULTS
(DOLLARS IN MILLIONS EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)
 
 
 
 
- more -
 
Add Five
 
 
TABLE 2
EMERSON AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED OPERATING RESULTS
(DOLLARS IN MILLIONS EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)
 
 
 
 
- more -
 
Add Six
 
 
TABLE 3
EMERSON AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
 
 
 
- more -
 
Add Seven
 
 
TABLE 4
EMERSON AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
 
 
 
- more -
 
Add Eight
 
 
TABLE 5
EMERSON AND SUBSIDIARIES
SEGMENT SALES AND EARNINGS
(DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
 
 
 
- more -
 
Add Nine
 
 
TABLE 6
EMERSON AND SUBSIDIARIES
SEGMENT SALES AND EARNINGS
(DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
 
 
 
 
- more -
 
Add Ten
 
 
TABLE 7
 
Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
The following reconciles each Non-GAAP measure with the most directly comparable GAAP measure (dollars in millions):
 
 
 
- more -
 
Add Eleven
 
 
 
 
 
(1)  Tax expense of $58 million relating to repatriation of foreign earnings under the American Jobs Creation Act.
 
 
# # #
 
 
 
 
 


