FILE:EMR/EMR-8K-20070206071544.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
_______________
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event
reported):  February 6, 2007
 
Emerson Electric Co.
-------------------------------------------------
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Charter)
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
 
(314) 553-2000
------------------------------------------
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
   
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
   
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Quarterly Results Press Release
On February 6, 2007, a press release was issued regarding the first quarter 2007 results of Emerson Electric Co. (the "Company"). A copy of this press release is furnished with this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1.
The press release contains non-GAAP financial measures as such term is defined in Regulation G under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission. While the Company believes these non-GAAP financial measures are useful in evaluating the Company, this information should be considered as supplemental in nature and not as a substitute for or superior to the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. Further, these non-GAAP financial measures may differ from similarly titled measures presented by other companies. The reasons why management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful information are set forth in the Company's most recent Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
The following information is furnished pursuant to Regulation FD.
 
Emerson GAAP Underlying Orders  3 Month Summary
(Percent change. Trailing 3-month average versus prior year.)
 
 
December 2006 Order Comments:
 
Order growth was in the 5 percent to 10 percent range during the first quarter as end market conditions remained supportive of growth expectations. Favorable currency exchange rates contributed nearly 4 percentage points to the increase.
 
Process Management orders remained strong on a global basis with strength from the valve, systems and measurement businesses. Orders also benefited from the weaker dollar.
 
Order growth for Industrial Automation maintained a double-digit pace. Growth for this segment continued to be led by the power generating alternator and electronic drives businesses.
 
Network Power delivered strong order growth driven by the uninterruptible power supply (UPS), precision cooling and China power systems businesses.
 
 
Climate Technologies order trends remained negative due to tough comparisons for the North American residential air-conditioning business. Order growth in Europe and Asia was strong for this segment.
 
Appliance and Tools order growth remained in the 0 to 5 percent range. Moderate growth from the tools and storage businesses offset softness from the motors and appliance businesses.
 
Upcoming Investor Events:
 
Emerson senior management will discuss the Company's first quarter 2007 results during an investor conference call that will be held on Tuesday, February 6, 2007. The call will begin at 2:30 p.m. Eastern Standard Time (1:30 p.m. Central Standard Time).
 
All interested parties may listen to the live conference call via the Internet by going to the Investor Relations area of the Company's Web site at
www.gotoemerson.com/financial
and completing a brief registration form. A replay of the conference call will be available for the next three months at the same location on the Web site.
 
February 9, 2007  Emerson's Annual Investment Community Update
Location: New York City
Time: 8:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. EST
Presentation and webcast: Access to the webcast will be available in the Investor Relations area of Emerson's Web site at
www.gotoemerson.com/financial
at the time of the event. A replay of the webcast will be available for approximately one week at the same location on the Web site.
 
Updates and further details on these and other upcoming events will be posted in the Calendar of Events area in the Investor Relations section of the corporate Web site as they occur.
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Contact: Mark Polzin (314) 982-1758
or John Hastings (314) 982-8622
 
 
EMERSON REPORTS FIRST-QUARTER 2007 SALES UP
11
 
PERCENT TO $5.1 BILLION; 15 PERCENT INCREASE IN
EARNINGS PER SHARE TO $0.55
 
ST. LOUIS, February 6, 2007  Emerson (NYSE: EMR) announced net sales for the first quarter ended December 31, 2006 were $5.1 billion, an increase of 11 percent over the $4.5 billion reported in the same period last year. Net earnings for the first quarter increased 12 percent to $445 million, or $0.55 per share. This represents a 15 percent increase in earnings per share from the $0.48 earned in the same period last year. All per share amounts reflect the 2-for-1 stock split in the form of a stock dividend that was paid on December 11, 2006.
Underlying sales grew 4 percent in the quarter, which excludes the net impact of growth from acquisitions and divestitures (5 percent) and favorable exchange rates (2 percent). Underlying international sales increased 11 percent, including strong growth in Europe, Asia and Latin America. This quarter marked the first time that international sales were over 50 percent of total sales. As expected, underlying growth in the United States was down 2 percent driven primarily by weakness in the residential air-conditioning markets for the Climate Technologies segment, which experienced exceptionally strong growth last year as the industry converted to 13-SEER energy standards.
 
- more -
 
 
Add One
 
"Emerson's first quarter demonstrates the strength of the global balance across our portfolio of businesses," said Emerson Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President David N. Farr. "The Company's performance in the first quarter represents a solid start to what is expected to be another year of strong sales and earnings growth for Emerson."
 
Segment Highlights
Process Management delivered another quarter of strong sales and earnings performance. Reported sales grew by 11 percent which included an underlying sales increase of 6 percent and the favorable impact of currency translation (3 percent) and acquisitions (2 percent). Orders grew at a double digit rate in the quarter as strong capital spending in global energy markets continued to support the growth. The margin for this segment expanded by 170 basis points to 17.8 percent driven by leverage on the sales volume increase, benefits from new products and benefits from prior cost reduction activities.
Industrial Automation achieved sales growth of 16 percent in the quarter. Underlying sales growth was 11 percent, which excludes the favorable impact of currency translation (4 percent) and acquisitions, net of divestitures (1 percent). Growth was led by Europe and Asia, which saw underlying growth of 15 percent and 18 percent, respectively. The capital spending environment continued to drive growth in these markets. Also, global demand for both primary and back-up power generation capacity continued to drive strong growth for the power generating alternator business. The profit margin for this segment was 16.7 percent, an increase of 10 basis points from the prior year quarter.
Network Power sales grew 28 percent in the quarter, which included a favorable impact of 17 percent from acquisitions, net of divestitures, and 2 percent from currency translation. Growth remained strong in the core uninterruptible power supply (UPS), precision cooling and China power systems businesses which offset weakness in the North American telecom power
- more -
 
 
Add Two
 
business. The margin for this segment was 9.8 percent versus 11.5 percent in the prior year quarter driven primarily by dilution from acquisitions and deleverage on significantly lower sales volumes in the North American telecom business.
Climate Technologies sales decreased 8 percent in the first quarter of 2007. Underlying sales decreased 11 percent, which excludes the favorable impact of acquisitions (2 percent) and currency translation (1 percent). The sales decrease is primarily attributable to the North American residential air-conditioning market, where sales in the prior year quarter were exceptionally strong because of pending 13-SEER energy efficiency standards. Business was strong in Europe and Asia for this segment, with underlying sales growth of 33 percent and 11 percent, respectively. The margin for this business declined by 70 basis points, mainly due to deleverage on the North American sales volume declines, capacity expansion investments and margin dilution from acquisitions.
Appliance and Tools had sales growth of 5 percent in the quarter which included more than 1 percent of favorable currency translation and more than 1 percent from acquisitions. Strong growth from the tools and storage businesses was offset by a decline from the motors and appliance components businesses. Profitability for this segment improved by 70 basis points to 12.2 percent, driven primarily by benefits from prior cost reduction activities.
 
Balance Sheet / Cash Flow
Operating cash flow was $327 million in the first quarter of 2007, an increase of 2 percent from the first quarter of 2006. The cash flow increase was driven by increased earnings, which were mostly offset by increased working capital. The Company's financial position is strong, evidenced by the ratio of operating cash flow to debt at over 55 percent on a trailing 12 month basis.
 
- more -
 
 
Add Three
"Despite a slower start to the year, Emerson remains committed to generating significant amounts of cash flow in the current growth environment," Farr said. "We expect to generate approximately $2.7 billion of operating cash flow and $2.0 billion of free cash flow in fiscal 2007. The key priorities for using this cash will continue to be funding internal growth and new products, dividends, share repurchases and acquisitions that strengthen our businesses."
 
2007 Outlook
The first quarter provided a solid start to the year. Earnings performance slightly exceeded expectations and order trends remained healthy during the quarter. Based on these factors Emerson expects full year earnings per share in the range of $2.50 to $2.60, which would represent growth in the range of 12 percent to 16 percent. This earnings performance is predicated on underlying sales growth in the range of 5 percent to 7 percent and reported sales growth in the range of 8 percent to 11 percent.
 
Upcoming Investor Events
On February 6, 2007, at 2:30 p.m. EST (1:30 p.m. CST), Emerson senior management will discuss the quarterly results during an investor conference call. All interested parties may listen to the live conference call via the Internet by going to the Investor Relations area of Emerson's Web site at www.gotoemerson.com/financial and completing a brief registration form. A replay of the conference call will be available for the next three months at the same location on the Web site.
On February 9, 2007, Emerson senior management will host the Company's annual investment community update meeting in New York. The meeting will discuss expectations for the Company's performance in 2007 as well as updates of long-term initiatives being pursued to create value for shareholders. The presentations will begin at 8:30 a.m. EST and conclude at
 
- more -
 
 
Add Four
approximately 11:30 a.m. EST. All interested parties may listen to the webcast via the Internet by going to the Investor Relations area of Emerson's Web site at www.gotoemerson.com/financial and completing a brief registration form. A replay of the webcast will be available for approximately one week at the same location on the Web site.
Details of upcoming events will be posted as they occur in the Investor Relations Calendar of Events on the corporate Web site.
 
Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements
Statements in this release that are not strictly historical may be "forward-looking" statements, which involve risks and uncertainties, and Emerson undertakes no obligation to update any such statements to reflect later developments. These risks and uncertainties include economic and currency conditions, market demand, pricing, and competitive and technological factors, among others, as set forth in the Company's most recent Form 10-K filed with the SEC.
 
(tables attached)
 
- more -
 
 
Add Five
TABLE 1
 
EMERSON AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED OPERATING RESULTS
(DOLLARS IN MILLIONS EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)
 
 
 
 
 
- more -
 
 
Add Six
TABLE 2
 
EMERSON AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
 
 
 
 
 
- more -
 
 
Add Seven
TABLE 3
 
EMERSON AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
 
 
 
 
- more -
 
 
Add Eight
TABLE 4
 
EMERSON AND SUBSIDIARIES
SEGMENT SALES AND EARNINGS
(DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
 
 
 
- more -
 
 
Add Nine
TABLE 5
 
Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
The following reconciles Non-GAAP measures with the most directly comparable GAAP measure (dollars in millions):
 
 
# # #
 
 


