FILE:EMR/EMR-8K-20070625080414.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
_______________
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event
reported): June 25, 2007
Emerson Electric Co.
-------------------------------------------------
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
 
(314) 553-2000
------------------------------------------
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01  Regulation FD Disclosure
.
 
The following information is furnished pursuant to Regulation FD.
 
Emerson GAAP Underlying Orders  3 Month Summary
(Percent change. Trailing 3-month average versus prior year.)
 
 
May 2007 Order Comments:
 
Order growth remained at 10 percent for the three months ended in May. Increases at Process Management and Network Power were offset by declines at Industrial Automation and Appliance and Tools. Favorable currency exchange rates contributed nearly 3 percentage points to the increase.
 
Process Management maintained double-digit order growth led by spending from the global energy markets. Order growth was strong across the valve, systems and measurement businesses.
 
Industrial Automation also maintained double-digit order growth and was led by the power generating alternator and electronic drives businesses. Orders benefited from the weaker dollar.
 
Order growth for Network Power increased to the range of 10 to 15 percent. The uninterruptible power supply, precision cooling and China power systems businesses continued to provide strong growth and telecom orders turned positive for the three months ended in May.
 
Climate Technologies maintained strong order growth. The growth was driven by international demand, with particular strength from Europe and Asia.
 
Appliance and Tools orders were flat for the three months ended in May. Moderate growth from the tools and storage businesses was offset by negative orders from the motors and appliance businesses.
 
Upcoming Investor Events:
 
On Tuesday, August 7, 2007, Emerson will issue the Company's third quarter 2007 results. Emerson senior management will discuss the results during an investor conference call that will be held the same day. The call will begin at 2:00 p.m. Eastern Daylight Time (1:00 p.m. Central Daylight Time).
 
All interested parties may listen to the live conference call via the Internet by going to the Investor Relations area of Emerson's Web site at
www.emerson.com/financial
and completing a brief registration form. A replay of the conference call will be available for the next three months at the same location on the Web site.
 
Updates and further details on these and other upcoming events will be posted in the Calendar of Events area in the Investor Relations section of the corporate Web site as they occur.
2
 
 
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
3
 
 


