FILE:EMR/EMR-8K-20080327080513.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
.
 
The following information is furnished pursuant to Regulation FD.
 
Emerson GAAP Underlying Orders  3 Month Summary
(Percent change. Trailing 3-month average versus prior year.)
 
 
 
February 2008 Order Comments:
 
Orders growth remained strong at 10 percent for the three months ended February 29, 2008. Strength in the Network Power, Process Management and Industrial Automation business segments led the growth. Favorable currency exchange rates contributed approximately 3 to 4 percentage points to the increase.
 
Process Management orders remained at high levels, with continued strength from the energy sectors. Strong project activity in all world areas helped drive the order growth rate.
 
Industrial Automation order growth was driven by strength in the power generating alternator and fluid automation businesses. The orders continued to benefit from the weaker dollar.
 
Order growth for Network Power remained at high levels led by strength in telecommunications and data-center computing end markets.
 
Climate Technologies order growth moderated for the three months ended in February. While order growth in Asia remained strong, it was offset by softness in the United States and Europe.
 
Order trends in the Appliance and Tools segment remained negative as order strength in the non-residential storage and professional tools businesses was more than offset by weakness in the motors, appliance components and residential storage businesses.
 
Upcoming Investor Events:
 
On Tuesday, May 6, 2008, Emerson will issue the Company's second quarter 2008 results. Emerson senior management will discuss the results during an investor conference call that will
 
2
be held the same day. The call will begin at 2:00 p.m. Eastern Daylight Time (1:00 p.m. Central Daylight Time).
 
All interested parties may listen to the live conference call via the Internet by going to the Investor Relations area of Emerson's Web site at
www.emerson.com/financial
and completing a brief registration form. A replay of the conference call will be available for the next three months at the same location on the Web site.
 
Updates and further details on these and other upcoming events will be posted in the Calendar of Events area in the Investor Relations section of the corporate Web site as they occur.
 
3
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
4
 
 
 


