FILE:EMR/EMR-8K-20080205065516.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
_______________
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event
reported): February 5, 2008
 
Emerson Electric Co.
-------------------------------------------------
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
 
(314) 553-2000
------------------------------------------
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02.   Results of Operations and Financial Condition
.
Quarterly Results Press Release
On February 5, 2008, a press release was issued regarding the first quarter 2008 results of Emerson Electric Co. (the "Company"). A copy of this press release is furnished with this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1.
The press release contains non-GAAP financial measures as such term is defined in Regulation G under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission. While the Company believes these non-GAAP financial measures are useful in evaluating the Company, this information should be considered as supplemental in nature and not as a substitute for or superior to the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. Further, these non-GAAP financial measures may differ from similarly titled measures presented by other companies. The reasons why management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful information are set forth in the Company's most recent Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Item 7.01.   Regulation FD Disclosure
.
 
The following information is furnished pursuant to Regulation FD.
 
Emerson GAAP Underlying Orders  3 Month Summary
(Percent change. Trailing 3-month average versus prior year.)
 
 
December 2007 Order Comments:
 
Orders growth was strong for the three months ended in December as most segments continued to experience high levels of demand. Favorable currency exchange rates contributed approximately 3 percentage points to the growth.
 
Strong global presence, good project activity, and general strength throughout key served markets drove double-digit order rates in Process Management.
 
Industrial Automation remained strong, with solid infrastructure investment and global power generation demand. Orders also benefited from the weaker dollar.
 
Strength from data-center computing and telecommunications led Network Power order growth.
 
Climate Technologies order growth was strong, partially due to favorable comparisons to the prior year quarter for the U.S. residential air-conditioning business. Order growth benefited from market penetration gains in the water-heater controls industry.
 
Appliance and Tools orders continue to be impacted negatively by weakness in consumer spending and residential investment.
 
Upcoming Investor Events:
 
Emerson senior management will discuss the Company's first quarter 2008 results during an investor conference call that will be held on Tuesday, February 5, 2008. The call will begin at 2:00 p.m. Eastern Standard Time (1:00 p.m. Central Standard Time).
 
 
All interested parties may listen to the live conference call via the Internet by going to the Investor Relations area of Emerson's Web site at
www.emerson.com/financial
and completing a brief registration form. A replay of the conference call will be available for the next three months at the same location on the Web site.
 
February 7, 2008  Emerson's Annual Investment Community Update
Location: St. Louis, MO
Time: 5:00 p.m. to 6:30 p.m. Eastern Standard Time
Presenter: David N. Farr, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President
Presentation and webcast: Access to the webcast and presentations will be available in the Investor Relations area of Emerson's Web site at
www.emerson.com/financial
at the time of the event. A replay of the webcast will be available for approximately one week at the same location on the Web site.
 
Updates and further details on these and other upcoming events will be posted in the Calendar of Events area in the Investor Relations section of the corporate Web site as they occur.
 
Item 9.01.   Financial Statements and Exhibits
.
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
EMERSON REPORTS STRONG FIRST QUARTER RESULTS
20 Percent to $0.66
 
ST. LOUIS, February 5, 2008  Emerson (NYSE: EMR) announced net sales for the first quarter ended December 31, 2007 were $5.6 billion, an increase of 12 percent over the $5.1 billion reported in the same period last year. This sales increase included 7 percent growth in underlying sales (which exclude acquisitions, divestitures and foreign currency translation) and a 5 percent favorable impact from foreign currency translation. Underlying sales growth in the United States was 5 percent and underlying international sales increased 9 percent, including 16 percent growth in Asia.
Earnings from continuing operations for the first quarter were up 17 percent to $522 million, or $0.66 per share. This represents a 20 percent increase in earnings per share (EPS) from the $0.55 earned in the same period last year.
On December 31, 2007, Emerson completed the sale of the Brooks Instrument unit, which resulted in an after-tax gain of $42 million. The gain and operations of Brooks during the quarter are classified as a discontinued operation. Including the $0.05 per share effect of the Brooks gain and operations in the first quarter of 2008, EPS was $0.71, an increase of 29 percent from the first quarter of 2007.
"These results demonstrate that Emerson continues to be well positioned for strong performance in the current global environment," said Emerson
 
 
Add One
Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, David N. Farr. "Emerson's diverse set of businesses, innovative technology and broad global reach create a strong platform for continued growth in sales and earnings during 2008, even in a more challenging environment."
The operating profit margin showed solid improvement in the quarter, increasing 60 basis points to 14.8 percent. A continued focus on operational excellence initiatives across the company was a key to driving the improvement. The company was able to leverage the increased sales volume and also realized the benefits from cost containment programs. The pretax margin improved 110 basis points to 13.8 percent.
 
Business Segment Highlights
Process Management sales grew 18 percent for the quarter. This included 12 percent underlying sales growth, a favorable impact of 5 percent from currency translation and 1 percent from acquisitions, net of divestitures. Sales were strong globally, driven primarily by increased energy sector demand and increased market penetration. The margin for this segment improved 20 basis points to 18.0 percent.
Industrial Automation sales grew 13 percent for the quarter. Underlying sales growth was 6 percent, which excludes 7 percent favorable impact of currency translation. Sales in the U.S. and Europe were solid, due largely to capital goods investments and global power generation demand. The margin for this segment declined 150 basis points to 15.2 percent. Funds received under the U.S. Continued Dumping and Subsidy Offset Act were $3 million in the first quarter of 2008 compared to $24 million in the first quarter of 2007, which had a negative 190 basis point impact on the margin during the first quarter of 2008.
Network Power reported sales growth of 17 percent for the quarter, which included underlying sales growth of 12 percent. Reported sales included a 4 percent favorable currency impact as well as a 1 percent favorable impact from the Stratos acquisition. Strength in North American and Asian markets drove the sales growth. The margin expanded 300 basis points to 12.8 percent, due
 
 
 
Add Two
primarily to leverage on the higher sales volume and prior cost containment actions.
Climate Technologies achieved sales growth of 11 percent in the quarter. Underlying sales growth was 7 percent with an additional 4 percent coming from currency translation. Higher sales in the United States and Asia more than offset weakness in Europe. The decline in Europe is primarily the result of lower heat pump compressor sales, which were very high in the prior year quarter. The margin improved 40 basis points to 13.4 percent, mainly as a result of leverage on higher volume and cost reduction programs.
Appliance and Tools sales declined 4 percent in the quarter, which included more than 2 percent of favorable currency translation and negative 2 percent from divestitures, net of acquisitions. Weakness in consumer spending and residential investment led to the overall sales decline. Profitability for this segment improved by 70 basis points to 12.9 percent, driven primarily by cost containment actions and the favorable impact of divestitures.
 
Balance Sheet / Cash Flow
Operating cash flow was $423 million in the first quarter of 2008, an increase of 29 percent from the first quarter of 2007. This improvement was driven by increased earnings and working capital improvements. The ratio of trade working capital to sales improved 10 basis points to 19.7 percent.
"Emerson's continued focus on cash generation and returns is evidenced by the cash flow results this quarter," Farr said. "Emerson's strong cash position allows us to invest in strategic areas of our business and also return substantial amounts of cash to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases."
 
2008 Outlook
Based on performance in the quarter and continued order strength, Emerson expects full year earnings per share from continuing operations in the range of $2.95 to $3.05, which would represent growth in the range of 11 percent to 15 percent. This earnings per share performance is based on anticipated
 
 
 
Add Three
underlying sales growth in the range of 5 percent to 7 percent, reported sales growth in the range of 9 percent to 11 percent, and operating profit margin improvement of 40 to 60 basis points.
The 2008 outlook incorporates dilution of $0.02-$0.03 per share related to the Motorola Embedded Communications Computing acquisition, which closed on December 31, 2007. Estimated dilution to earnings per share results from non-cash charges for amortization of intangibles, a one-time inventory write-up, in-process R&D, and integration restructuring. A $15 million pretax expense associated with in-process R&D costs was recorded in the first quarter 2008.
 
Upcoming Investor Events
On February 5, 2008, at 2:00 p.m. EST (1:00 p.m. CST), Emerson senior management will discuss the first quarter results during an investor conference call. All interested parties may listen to the live conference call via the Internet by going to the Investor Relations area of Emerson's Web site at
www.emerson.com/financial
and completing a brief registration form. A replay of the conference call will be available for the next three months at the same location on the Web site.
On February 7 and 8, 2008, Emerson senior management will host the company's annual investment community update meeting in St. Louis at Emerson's global headquarters. The presentation by Mr. Farr on Thursday, February 7, will be webcast live in its entirety, starting at 5:00 p.m. EST and is expected to conclude at approximately 6:30 p.m. EST. He will discuss the company's performance and business initiatives being pursued to create value for shareholders. Those interested may listen to the webcast via the Internet by going to the Investor Relations area of Emerson's Web site at
www.emerson.com/financial
and completing a brief registration form. A replay of the webcast will be available for approximately one week at the same location on the Web site. Slide presentations by Emerson executives, including those presented on Friday, February 8, will be posted on the company Web site for viewing at the beginning of each day's sessions.
 
 
 
Add Four
Details of upcoming events will be posted as they occur in the Investor Relations Calendar of Events on the Web site.
 
Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements
Statements in this release that are not strictly historical may be "forward-looking" statements, which involve risks and uncertainties, and Emerson undertakes no obligation to update any such statements to reflect later developments. These risks and uncertainties include economic and currency conditions, market demand, pricing, and competitive and technological factors, among others, as set forth in the company's most recent Form 10-K filed with the SEC.
 
 
 
Add Five
TABLE 1
EMERSON AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED OPERATING RESULTS
(DOLLARS IN MILLIONS EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)
 
 
 
 
 
Add Six
TABLE 2
EMERSON AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
 
 
 
 
 
Add Seven
TABLE 3
EMERSON AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
 
 
 
 
 
 
Add Eight
TABLE 4
EMERSON AND SUBSIDIARIES
SEGMENT SALES AND EARNINGS
(DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
 
 
 
 
Add Nine
TABLE 5
Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
The following reconciles Non-GAAP measures with the most directly comparable GAAP measure (dollars in millions):
 
 
Expected Fiscal Year 2008 Operating Profit Improvement
 
 
###
 
 
 


