FILE:EMR/EMR-8K-20080506064553.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
_______________
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event
reported): May 6, 2008
 
Emerson Electric Co.
-------------------------------------------------
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
 
(314) 553-2000
------------------------------------------
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 2.02.
 
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
.
Quarterly Results Press Release
On May 6, 2008, a press release was issued regarding the second quarter 2008 results of Emerson Electric Co. (the "Company"). A copy of this press release is furnished with this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1.
The press release contains non-GAAP financial measures as such term is defined in Regulation G under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission. While the Company believes these non-GAAP financial measures are useful in evaluating the Company, this information should be considered as supplemental in nature and not as a substitute for or superior to the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. Further, these non-GAAP financial measures may differ from similarly titled measures presented by other companies. The reasons why management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful information are set forth in the Company's most recent Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Item 7.01.
 
Regulation FD Disclosure
.
 
The following information is furnished pursuant to Regulation FD.
 
Emerson GAAP Underlying Orders  3 Month Summary
(Percent change. Trailing 3-month average versus prior year.)
 
 
March 2008 Order Comments:
 
Order growth remained strong in the 10 to 15 percent range during the second quarter. Order rates were significantly impacted by currency translation primarily due to the strengthening euro to dollar relationship. Currency exchange rates contributed approximately 6 percentage points to the overall increase.
 
Order growth in the Process Management segment showed strength as global energy markets and project activity remained favorable, and penetration gains continued. The order growth rate for this segment excluding currency was approximately 10 percent, with currency translation contributing an additional 10 percentage points.
 
Order trends in the Industrial Automation segment were solid, led by strength in the power generating alternator and materials joining and precision cleaning businesses. Currency translation favorably impacted the order growth rate approximately 7 percentage points.
 
Network Power maintained double-digit growth and was led by strength across the power systems and inbound power businesses.
 
 
Climate Technologies order growth remained positive. Strength from Asia and the controls businesses was offset by weakness in the U.S. residential market.
 
Order trends in the Appliance and Tools segment continued to be impacted negatively by the weakness in the U.S. consumer and residential markets.
 
Upcoming Investor Events:
 
Emerson senior management will discuss the Company's second quarter 2008 results during an investor conference call that will be held on Tuesday, May 6, 2008. The call will begin at 2:00 p.m. Eastern Daylight Time (1:00 p.m. Central Daylight Time).
 
All interested parties may listen to the live conference call via the Internet by going to the Investor Relations area of Emerson's website at
www.emerson.com/financial
and completing a brief registration form. A replay of the conference call will be available for the next three months at the same location on the website.
 
May 21, 2008  2008 Electrical Products Group Conference
 
Updates and further details on these and other upcoming events will be posted in the Calendar of Events area in the Investor Relations section of the corporate website as they occur.
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
EMERSON REPORTS STRONG SECOND-QUARTER 2008 RESULTS
 
ST. LOUIS, May 6, 2008  Emerson (NYSE: EMR) announced net sales for the second quarter ended March 31, 2008 of $6.0 billion, an increase of 12 percent compared with $5.4 billion in the prior year. Earnings from continuing operations in the second quarter increased 21 percent to $598 million, or $0.75 per share. This represents an increase of 23 percent in earnings per share from the $0.61 earned in the same period last year. Results for the quarter include a $52 million impairment charge relating to Emerson's intent to sell its European appliance motor and pump business within the next twelve months. This business was previously reported in the Appliance and Tools segment and its financial results for 2007 and 2008 have been reclassified as discontinued operations. Impact of the charge is a negative $0.06 per share, resulting in net earnings per share for the second quarter of $0.69 per share, up 13 percent.
Underlying sales increased 6 percent in the quarter, which excludes the impact of favorable foreign currency exchange rates (4 percent) and impact from acquisitions, net of divestitures (2 percent). Strong international results led the growth, where sales increased by 10 percent on an underlying basis. Regional underlying sales growth
- more -
 
 
Add One
 
included increases of 18 percent in both Asia and Latin America and 19 percent in Middle East/Africa. As expected, underlying sales in the United States softened and were up approximately 1 percent.
"Emerson's strong performance for the second quarter and first half of 2008 clearly demonstrates our continued ability to execute, even in a tougher economic environment," said Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President David N. Farr. "Our focus hasn't changed. We continue to invest in technology leadership, stronger business platforms, a broader global position and greater operational efficiency to create significant value for our shareholders."
Operating profit margin for the second quarter improved 100 basis points to 16.4 percent from 15.4 percent in the prior year period. The operating margin improvement was driven mainly by cost containment programs, volume leverage and hedging gains. The profit margin improvement included a mark-to-market benefit of $30 million relating to commodity hedging. Pretax earnings margin increased 90 basis points to 14.5 percent.
Segment Highlights
Process Management continued to demonstrate strong global performance with reported sales increasing 19 percent in the quarter. Underlying sales grew 16 percent, led by strength in global energy sectors and continued project wins in a range of industries. Reported sales included a favorable 5 percent impact from currency and a negative 2 percent impact from divestitures, net of an acquisition. During the quarter, major project awards were announced to digitally automate the smelter expansion for the largest copper producer in China as well as new power plants in the United States. The margin for this segment expanded by 20 basis points to 17.9 percent. Continued investment was made for long-term global growth and increasing new product efforts.
Industrial Automation revenues increased 11 percent in the quarter with 5 percent underlying sales growth and favorable currency translation of 6 percent. Sales growth was balanced geographically, with underlying growth in the United States
 
- more -
 
 
Add Two
at 4 percent and international at 5 percent. The profit margin for this segment increased 20 basis points to 14.5 percent from the prior year quarter.
Network Power sales grew 27 percent in the quarter, which included underlying sales growth of 11 percent, a favorable impact of 12 percent from acquisitions, and 4 percent from currency translation. The core uninterruptible power supply (UPS), precision cooling and China power systems businesses led the growth. The margin for this segment was flat at 12.3 percent versus the same quarter last year. Cost containment programs and volume leverage were offset by margin dilution from the Motorola Embedded Communications Computing acquisition.
Climate Technologies sales increased 1 percent in the second quarter. Underlying sales decreased 2 percent with weakness in the United States and Europe offsetting strength in Asia. Reported sales included 3 percent favorable currency translation. The margin for this segment declined 10 basis points to 14.9 percent compared to the same prior year quarter due to material pressures and a more challenging U.S. residential market.
Appliance and Tools sales decreased 6 percent in the quarter. Underlying sales decreased 6 percent, with currency translation adding 1 percent and divestitures subtracting 1 percent. Weakness in consumer spending and residential investment continued to contribute to the negative underlying sales growth. Profitability for this segment improved by 140 basis points to 14.6 percent due primarily to benefits resulting from restructuring undertaken in the last two years, cost containment programs and effective management of the price/cost exposure.
Balance Sheet / Cash Flow
Strong operating cash flow of $748 million in the second quarter of 2008 represented a 37 percent increase from the second quarter 2007 driven by higher operating earnings and improved asset management. Free cash flow (operating cash flow less capital expenditures) was $569 million, an increase of 45 percent compared to $393 million in the prior year quarter. The capital expenditure target for the year remains unchanged at $0.8 billion.
 
- more -
 
 
Add Three
"Great execution by our operational management allowed Emerson to deliver a strong quarter in terms of cash generation. Operating cash flow is key to a strong future, allowing us to invest for growth through technology and geographic expansion, as well as maintain our focus on returning a significant portion of cash to shareholders through dividends and share repurchase," Farr said. "Based on our strong performance in the first half of 2008, we still expect operating cash flow of approximately $3.2 billion and a 21 percent return on total capital (ROTC) for the full fiscal year."
The company's commitment to returning cash to shareholders is shown by its record of 51 consecutive years of dividend increases and by an active share repurchase program. As of the end of March 2008, the company had purchased 74.4 million of the 80 million shares authorized by the board of directors in 2001 (as adjusted for Emerson's December 2006 two-for-one stock split). Management is recommending to the board today the authorization to repurchase an additional 80 million shares which is expected to be completed over the next four to five years, subject to market conditions and other investment opportunities.
2008 Outlook
Based on the strong first half results of fiscal 2008 and the favorable order trends, Emerson has increased the earnings per share outlook for the year. The company now expects earnings per share from continuing operations in the range of $3.00-$3.10. Emerson still expects full year underlying sales growth in the range of 5 to 7 percent and reported sales of approximately $25 billion, an increase of 11 to 13 percent over fiscal year 2007 sales of $22.1 billion, excluding discontinued operations.
Upcoming Investor Events
On Tuesday, May 6, 2008, at 2:00 p.m. EDT (1:00 p.m. CDT), Emerson senior management will discuss the second quarter fiscal 2008 results during an investor conference call. All interested parties may listen to the live conference call via the Internet by going to the Investor Relations area of Emerson's website at
 
- more -
 
 
Add Four
www.emerson.com/financial
and completing a brief registration form. A replay of the conference call will be available for the next three months at the same location on the website.
On May 21, 2008, Emerson Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President David N. Farr will present at the 2008 Electrical Products Group Conference in Longboat Key, Florida. The presentation will begin at 10:45 a.m. EDT and conclude at approximately 11:25 a.m. EDT. The presentation slides will be posted at the presentation starting time in the Investor Relations area of Emerson's website at
www.emerson.com/financial
. The presentation slides will be available for approximately one week at the same location on the website.
Details of upcoming events will be posted as they occur on the Events Calendar in the Investor Relations section of the website.
Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements
Statements in this release that are not strictly historical may be "forward-looking" statements, which involve risks and uncertainties, and Emerson undertakes no obligation to update any such statements to reflect later developments. These risks and uncertainties include economic and currency conditions, market demand, pricing, and competitive and technological factors, among others, as set forth in the company's most recent Form 10-K filed with the SEC.
(tables attached)
 
- more -
 
 
Add Five
 
TABLE 1
EMERSON AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED OPERATING RESULTS
(DOLLARS IN MILLIONS EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)
 
 
 
 
- more -
 
 
Add Six
 
TABLE 2
EMERSON AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED OPERATING RESULTS
(DOLLARS IN MILLIONS EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)
 
 
 
- more -
 
 
Add Seven
 
TABLE 3
EMERSON AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
 
 
 
 
- more -
 
Add Eight
 
TABLE 4
EMERSON AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
 
 
 
 
- more -
 
Add Nine
 
EMERSON AND SUBSIDIARIES
SEGMENT SALES AND EARNINGS
(DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
 
 
 
- more -
 
 
Add Ten
 
TABLE 6
EMERSON AND SUBSIDIARIES
SEGMENT SALES AND EARNINGS
(DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
 
 
 
- more -
 
 
Add Eleven
 
TABLE 7
 
Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
The following reconciles non-GAAP measures with the most directly comparable GAAP measures (dollars in millions):
 
 
 
 
All amounts above are GAAP financial measures except as noted.
 
 
# # #
 
 
 


