FILE:EMR/EMR-8K-20091103064524.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
_______________
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event
reported): November 3, 2009
 
Emerson Electric Co.
-------------------------------------------------
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)
 
 
 
Registrants telephone number, including area code:
 
(314) 553-2000
------------------------------------------
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 2.02.   Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
Quarterly Results Press Release
On November 3, 2009, a press release was issued regarding the fourth quarter and fiscal 2009 results of Emerson Electric Co. (the Company). A copy of this press release is furnished with this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1.
The press release contains non-GAAP financial measures as such term is defined in Regulation G under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission. While the Company believes these non-GAAP financial measures are useful in evaluating the Company, this information should be considered as supplemental in nature and not as a substitute for or superior to the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. Further, these non-GAAP financial measures may differ from similarly titled measures presented by other companies. The reasons management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful information are set forth in the Companys most recent Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Item 7.01.   Regulation FD Disclosure
.
 
The following information is furnished pursuant to Regulation FD.
 
Emerson GAAP Underlying Orders  3 Month Summary
(Percent change. Trailing 3-month average versus prior year.)
 
 
September 2009 Order Comments:
 
Emersons trailing three-month order rate was down 15 to 20 percent, with currency exchange rates positively impacting orders by approximately 3 percentage points. The trailing three-month underlying order rate trend lines for September have flattened out for Process Management and have shown modest improvement across the rest of the business segments versus the August trailing three-month period.
 
Process Management order rates were down 10 to 15 percent in the trailing three-month period. Currency exchange rates positively impacted the order growth rate by approximately 9 percentage points. The trailing three-month underlying order rates for July, August and September, excluding currency, were at similar levels. Order rates remain mixed among end-markets.
 
While order rates across the Industrial Automation business segment remained very weak, they have stabilized at low levels in the trailing three-month period.
 
 
Infrastructure spending in China, including renewable energy projects, continued to positively impact the China network power business. This growth was more than offset by broad weakness across the balance of the businesses in the Network Power segment.
 
Climate Technologies trailing three-month order rates improved with continued strength driven by China.
 
Challenging U.S. residential, non-residential and consumer end market conditions continued to negatively impact the Appliance and Tools order trends.
 
Upcoming Investor Events:
 
Emerson senior management will discuss the Companys fourth quarter and fiscal year 2009 results during an investor conference call that will be held on Tuesday, November 3, 2009. The call will begin at 3:00 p.m. Eastern Standard Time (2:00 p.m. Central Standard Time).
 
All interested parties may listen to the live conference call via the Internet by going to the Investor Relations area of Emersons website at
www.emerson.com/financial
and completing a brief registration form. A replay of the conference call will be available for the next three months at the same location on the website.
 
November 11, 2009  Baird 2009 Industrial Conference
Location: Chicago, Illinois
Time: 11:05 a.m. to 11:35 a.m. Eastern Standard Time
Presenter: David N. Farr, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President
Presentation and webcast: Access to the webcast will be available in the Investor Relations area of Emersons website at
www.emerson.com/financial
at the time of the event. A replay of the webcast will be available for approximately one week at the same location on the website.
 
Updates and further details on these and other upcoming events will be posted in the Calendar of Events area in the Investor Relations section of the corporate website as they occur.
 
Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements:
 
Statements in this Current Report on Form 8-K that are not strictly historical may be forward-looking statements, which involve risks and uncertainties, and Emerson undertakes no obligation to update any such statements to reflect later developments. These risks and uncertainties include economic and currency conditions, market demand, pricing, and competitive and technological factors, among others, as set forth in the Company's most recent Form 10-K filed with the SEC.
 
 
 
Item 9.01.   Financial Statements and Exhibits
.
 
(d)     Exhibits
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
EMERSON REPORTS FISCAL 2009 RESULTS WITH IMPROVING
TRENDS IN FOURTH QUARTER
 
 
ST. LOUIS, November 3, 2009  Emerson (NYSE: EMR) announced sales for the fourth quarter ended September 30, 2009 of $5.3 billion, a decrease of 21 percent from the $6.7 billion for the same period last year. Underlying sales in the quarter declined 20 percent, which excludes a 2 percent unfavorable impact from currency exchange rates and a 1 percent positive impact from acquisitions. Sequentially, fourth quarter sales improved 4.6 percent versus the third quarter, showing revenue stabilization for the second consecutive quarter.
Earnings per share of $0.67 for the fourth quarter decreased 24 percent from the $0.88 achieved in the prior year period. Rationalization expense was $62 million higher in the quarter compared to the same period last year, and negatively impacted the earnings per share comparison by $0.06 per share. This was essentially offset by lower tax expense as expected in the fourth quarter that had a positive impact of $0.07 on the earnings per share comparison. The lower tax rate was driven by planned restructuring of international units to utilize a net operating loss benefit and favorable international pretax income mix. Gross profit margin improved 110 basis points compared to the prior year quarter, and 200 basis points over the third quarter of 2009.
 
-more-
 
Page Two
 
Pretax earnings margin for the fourth quarter was 12.3 percent versus 14.9 percent in the fourth quarter of 2008 and 10.7 percent in the third quarter of 2009.
Our fourth quarter results signify improving revenue trends as well as the positive benefits of our aggressive structural repositioning for greater efficiency, said Emerson Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President David N. Farr. We are well positioned for economic recovery, but the shape and speed of the recovery remains unknown and we expect weakness to continue in the near-term. However, we are benefiting from our aggressive investments in new technologies to speed new product introductions, and in emerging markets, which now represent 32 percent of total revenue.
 
Full-Year Results
Net sales for fiscal 2009 were $20.9 billion, a decrease of 16 percent from the prior year. Underlying sales declined 13 percent, currency translation subtracted 4 percent and acquisitions added 1 percent. Despite the lower sales and aggressive inventory reduction, gross profit margin remained flat at 36.8 percent versus last year driven by benefits from restructuring and cost containment efforts. The pretax earnings margin for fiscal 2009 was 11.6 percent. Earnings per share from continuing operations decreased 27 percent to $2.27 from the $3.11 achieved in fiscal 2008. Including the impact from discontinued operations in fiscal 2008, net earnings per share in fiscal year 2009 declined 26 percent.
I am greatly encouraged by the many ways we have strengthened Emerson, Farr said. We generated $2.6 billion of free cash flow, essentially unchanged from last year, and maintained gross profit margins despite the significant volume declines and inventory reduction. Inventory was reduced by approximately $500 million, we repositioned our assets for higher sales in emerging markets, and we successfully completed $1 billion of strategic acquisitions. Although we expect economic conditions to remain challenging, our efforts have established solid momentum for fiscal 2010.
 
-more-
 
Page Three
 
Balance Sheet / Cash Flow
In fiscal 2009, operating cash flow was $3.1 billion and capital expenditures were $531 million, resulting in strong free cash flow (operating cash flow less capital expenditures) of $2.6 billion, matching fiscal 2008 levels when sales were significantly higher. As a result, free cash flow as a percent of sales was a strong 12.2 percent. Emerson aggressively reduced working capital by $620 million in 2009, helping to drive the strong cash flow performance. Free cash flow as a percent of net earnings was 148 percent for 2009, the ninth consecutive year in excess of 100 percent. The company returned 56 percent of operating cash flow to shareholders through $998 million in dividends and $718 million in share repurchases.
Fiscal year 2009 was Emersons 53 year of increased dividends per share. The Board of Directors voted yesterday to increase the quarterly cash dividend from thirty-three cents ($0.33) to thirty-three and a half cents ($0.335) per share of common stock, an increase of 1.5 percent. The new dividend will be payable on December 10, 2009 to shareholders of record on November 13, 2009.
rd
Emerson took rapid steps to adjust our operations to the changing market conditions, and our free cash flow performance and balance sheet are testaments to this fact, Farr said. Even with the significant challenges the company faced this year, we have met the challenge by doing what we do best: innovating and moving forward with opportunities to strengthen our business platforms.
For example, we recently announced an agreement and tender offer to acquire Avocent Corporation for approximately $1.2 billion in cash. Avocent will extend the integrated solutions that Emerson Network Power provides for improving data center operations. Emersons power and cooling technology, combined with Avocents monitoring, managing and problem solving software, will allow us to offer a more compelling solution to our data center customers most pressing challenge --  energy efficiency. This is just one more example of how we are strengthening the foundation on which to build as the economic cycle turns positive.
 
-more-
 
Page Four
 
Business Segment Highlights
Process Management
sales decreased 13 percent in the fourth quarter versus the prior year quarter. This included a 13 percent underlying sales decline, a 3 percent unfavorable impact from currency translation and a 3 percent favorable impact from acquisitions. The margin for this segment was 17.4 percent versus 22.0 percent achieved in fourth quarter 2008, impacted by a $25 million increase in restructuring expense, negative mix (approximately 2 margin points) and volume deleverage (approximately 2 margin points). However, we are encouraged by a 2.6 margin point increase achieved sequentially from the third quarter, reflecting effective cost reductions and restructuring efforts, as well as leverage from additional volume. During the fourth quarter, the next-generation Delta V process-control system was launched, which reduces project complexity, increases operational flexibility and lifts the PlantWeb digital architecture to new levels of operational performance.
TM
TM
For fiscal year 2009, Process Management sales were $6.2 billion, a decrease of 6 percent versus the prior year. Underlying sales declined only 2 percent, reflecting the strong first quarter of 2009 and following a very strong prior five-year period. Reported sales included a 6 percent unfavorable impact from currency translation and a 2 percent favorable impact primarily from the Roxar acquisition.
Industrial Automation
sales were down 36 percent in the fourth quarter of 2009 compared to the fourth quarter of 2008. Underlying sales decreased by 37 percent, the System Plast and Trident Power acquisitions added 3 percent and currency subtracted 2 percent. The revenue decline for the quarter was at a similar level to the decline in the third quarter, suggesting the economic bottom is forming for this segment. Segment margin declined to 7.7 percent, versus the prior year margin of 15.6 percent, impacted significantly by the deleverage from lower volume (approximately 8 margin points) which includes aggressive inventory reduction, and increased restructuring of $14 million. Margin expanded 2.7 percentage points
 
 
-more-
 
Page Five
 
sequentially from the third quarter on essentially flat sales indicating the cost reduction efforts are providing positive impacts.
Industrial Automation sales in fiscal 2009 declined 24 percent, with underlying sales decreasing 22 percent. Reported sales included a 4 percent unfavorable impact from currency translation and a favorable impact of 2 percent from the System Plast and Trident Power acquisitions.
In the fourth quarter,
Network Power
reported a sales decline of 22 percent, with underlying sales down 20 percent and currency and acquisitions subtracting 1 percent each. Margin for this segment improved by 0.7 margin points from the prior year quarter despite the volume decline and increased restructuring expense of $24 million. The positive impacts from cost reduction efforts and restructuring benefits primarily offset the volume deleverage.
Network Power sales were $5.4 billion in fiscal 2009. Reported sales for this segment contracted 15 percent which included an underlying sales decrease of 11 percent, an unfavorable 3 percent impact from currency and a negative 1 percent impact from the sales decline related to the Embedded Computing acquisition.
Climate Technologies
sales decreased 10 percent in the quarter, moderating from higher percentage declines in the previous two quarters. Underlying sales declined 10 percent, currency subtracted 2 percent and acquisitions added 2 percent. By region, the United States and Europe were down 11 percent and 20 percent respectively, but growth resumed in Asia which was up 4 percent in the quarter, aided by the China stimulus programs. Segment margin increased 2.5 percentage points primarily driven by cost reduction efforts and effective management of cost/price exposures.
In fiscal 2009, Climate Technologies sales contracted 16 percent to $3.2 billion. Underlying sales declined 15 percent, currency translation subtracted 2 percent and acquisitions added 1 percent.
Sales in the segment decreased 22 percent in the quarter, with consumer related product demand continuing to show signs of
Appliance and Tools
 
-more-
 
Page Six
 
stabilization. The margin for this segment was 15.4 percent, a 3.3 margin point improvement from the prior year quarter primarily driven by cost reduction efforts and effective price/cost management, and by the $22 million impairment charge which was recorded in the fourth quarter 2008.
Appliance and Tools sales in fiscal 2009 declined 22 percent to $3.0 billion, with underlying sales decreasing 21 percent and currency translation subtracting 1 percent.
 
Fiscal 2010 Outlook
While 2009 has been a challenging year, Emerson is well positioned as we enter 2010. The decisive steps that we have taken to reposition our operations for greater efficiency, as well as our investment in strategic acquisitions, will contribute significantly to our growth when the economic cycle improves. Underlying sales for fiscal 2010 are expected to be down 5 to 7 percent. First quarter underlying sales are expected to be down 17 to 20 percent. Operating profit margin for fiscal year 2010 is expected to be flat to slightly down.
 
Upcoming Investor Events
Today at 3:00 p.m. EST (2:00 p.m. CST), Emerson senior management will discuss the fourth quarter and fiscal year results during an investor conference call. All interested parties may listen to the live conference call via the Internet by going to the Investor Relations area of Emerson's website at
www.emerson.com/financial
and completing a brief registration form. A replay of the conference call will be available for the next three months at the same location on the website.
On November 11, 2009, Mr. Farr will present at the Robert W. Baird Industrial Conference in Chicago, Illinois. The presentation will begin at 11:05 a.m. EST and conclude at approximately 11:35 a.m. EST. All interested parties may listen to the live
 
 
-more-
 
Page Seven
 
webcast via the Internet by going to the Investor Relations area of Emerson's website at
www.emerson.com/financial
and completing a brief registration form. A replay of the webcast will be available for approximately one week at the same location on the website.
On Friday morning, February 5, 2010, Emerson senior management will host Emerson's annual investment community update meeting in New York City. Additional details will be available in December.
Details of upcoming events will be posted as they occur in the Investor Relations Calendar of Events on the corporate website.
 
Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements
Statements in this release that are not strictly historical may be forward-looking statements, which involve risks and uncertainties, and Emerson undertakes no obligation to update any such statements to reflect later developments. These risks and uncertainties include economic and currency conditions, market demand, pricing and other competitive and technological factors, among others, as set forth in the Company's most recent Form 10-K filed with the SEC. The Company expects to file its 10-K for fiscal 2009 within the next 30 days.
 
(tables attached)
 
-more-
 
Page Eight
 
TABLE 1
EMERSON AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED OPERATING RESULTS
(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts, unaudited)
 
 
 
 
-more-
 
Page Nine
 
TABLE 2
EMERSON AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED OPERATING RESULTS
(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts, unaudited)
 
 
 
-more-
 
Page Ten
 
 
TABLE 3
EMERSON AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(Dollars in millions, unaudited)
 
 
 
 
-more-
 
Page Eleven
 
TABLE 4
EMERSON AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(Dollars in millions, unaudited)
 
 
 
 
-more-
 
Page Twelve
 
TABLE 5
EMERSON AND SUBSIDIARIES
SEGMENT SALES AND EARNINGS
(Dollars in millions, unaudited)
 
 
 
 
-more-
 
Page Thirteen
 
TABLE 6
EMERSON AND SUBSIDIARIES
SEGMENT SALES AND EARNINGS
(Dollars in millions, unaudited)
 
 
 
 
-more-
 
Page Fourteen
 
TABLE 7
Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
The following reconciles non-GAAP measures with the most directly comparable GAAP measures (dollars in millions):
 
 
 
 
 
 
All amounts above are GAAP financial measures, except as noted.
 
###
 
 
 


