FILE:EMR/EMR-8K-20090209141344.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
_______________
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event
reported): February 3, 2009
 
Emerson Electric Co.
-------------------------------------------------
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
 
(314) 553-2000
------------------------------------------
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02.
   
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
.
 
(b)       On February 3, 2009, David C. Farrell retired from the Board of Directors of Emerson Electric Co. (the "Company"), effective as of the election of Directors at the Company's Annual Meeting of Stockholders on February 3, 2009. Mr. Farrell did not stand for re-election at the Company's Annual Meeting in accordance with the requirement in the Company's Bylaws that an individual may not stand for election or re-election as a Director after the age of 72.
 
(d)       On February 3, 2009, the Board of Directors of the Company elected Dr. Clemens Boersig, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Deutsche Bank AG, as a Director of the Company. He will stand for election at the Company's 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. Dr. Boersig was also appointed to serve as a member of the Compensation Committee and the Finance Committee.
 
Dr. Boersig will be compensated on the same basis as all other non-management Directors of the Company, as described under "Director Compensation" in the Company's Proxy Statement for its 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. This includes an award of 3,450 shares of restricted stock, representing the $115,000 restricted stock portion of the annual retainer payable to all non-management Directors.
 
A copy of the February 9, 2009 press release announcing Dr. Boersig's election is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01.
   
Financial Statements and Exhibits
.
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
EMERSON NAMES DEUTSCHE BANK CHAIRMAN
CLEMENS BOERSIG TO BOARD OF DIRECTORS
 
ST. LOUIS, February 9,
2009  Dr. Clemens Boersig, chairman of the supervisory board of Deutsche Bank AG, has been elected to Emerson's (NYSE:EMR) board of directors, it was announced today by David N. Farr, chairman, CEO and president.
Boersig, 60, has served as chairman of Deutsche Bank's supervisory board since 2006. He joined the global investment bank in 1999 as executive vice president and chief financial officer. Boersig subsequently joined the bank's management board and later assumed the additional role of chief risk officer.
"Clemens has an excellent financial background, strong global and industrial experience, and broad management skills that are valuable and well suited to Emerson's shareholders," Farr said. "We look forward to his counsel and insight as we continue to diversify our business and expand into new markets around the world."
Boersig previously served three years as chief financial officer of the German power company RWE AG, where he was also a member of the management board. Before that, he worked 12 years with Robert Bosch GmbH, where he held various senior executive roles, including member of the management board. He began his career as an assistant professor at the Universities of Mannheim and Munich, before joining the corporate planning department of Mannesmann Group in 1977.
Boersig holds degrees in business administration and mathematics from Mannheim University. In 1975, he received his doctorate in economics (Dr. rer. pol.) from Mannheim University.
Boersig will serve on the Emerson board's Compensation and Finance Committees.
He also serves as a member of the supervisory boards of Bayer AG, Daimler AG and Linde AG, and he is a member of the European Financial Services Roundtable and
 
a trustee of the International Accounting Standards Committee Foundation (IASCF). Boersig also is chairman of the supervisory board of the European School of Management and Technology and is active in many cultural and philanthropic organizations.
 
# # #
 
About Emerson
Emerson (NYSE: EMR), based in St. Louis, Missouri (USA), is a global leader in bringing technology and engineering together to create innovative solutions for customers through its network power, process management, industrial automation, climate technologies, and appliance and tools businesses. Sales in fiscal 2008 were $24.8 billion.  For more information, visit www.Emerson.com.  
 
 
 
 


