FILE:EMR/EMR-8K-20100202064527.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
                 Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
                 Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
                 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
                 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Item 2.02     Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Quarterly Results Press Release
On February 2, 2010, a press release was issued regarding the first quarter 2010 results of Emerson Electric Co. (the Company). A copy of this press release is furnished with this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1.
The press release contains non-GAAP financial measures as such term is defined in Regulation G under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission. While the Company believes these non-GAAP financial measures are useful in evaluating the Company, this information should be considered as supplemental in nature and not as a substitute for or superior to the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. Further, these non-GAAP financial measures may differ from similarly titled measures presented by other companies. The reasons management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful information are set forth in the Companys most recent Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
The following information is furnished pursuant to Regulation FD.
Emerson GAAP Underlying Orders  3 Month Summary
 
(Percent change.  Trailing 3-month average versus prior year.)
December 2009 Order Comments:
Emersons trailing three-month order rate was flat to down 5 percent, with currency positively impacting orders by approximately 6 percentage points.  The trailing three-month order trends excluding currency have shown improvement in all five business segments.  Total underlying orders excluding currency turned slightly positive for the month of December.
The Process Management order rate was down 10 to 15 percent in the trailing three-month period.   Currency exchange rates positively impacted the order rate by approximately 7 percentage points, a much smaller impact than in the October and November trailing three-month periods.  The trailing three-month underlying order trends excluding currency have shown modest improvement since October.
Order trends for Industrial Automation continued to show sequential improvement each month in the trailing three-month period.  Positive order growth was realized in the electronic drives business, while the power generating alternator business remained weak.  Currency exchange rates positively impacted orders by approximately 7 percentage points.
 
Network Power trailing three-month order trends continued to show improvement, impacted positively by growth in the network power business in Asia and the embedded power and computing businesses.
Climate Technologies orders continued to trend positive, driven by strength in Asia and improvement in air-conditioning and refrigeration end-markets.
Appliance and Tools order trends showed continued improvement, led by growth in some of the consumer-related businesses.
Upcoming Investor Events:
Emerson senior management will discuss the Companys first quarter 2010 results during an investor conference call that will be held on Tuesday, February 2, 2010.  The call will begin at 2:00 p.m. Eastern Standard Time (1:00 p.m. Central Standard Time).
All interested parties may listen to the live conference call via the Internet by going to the Investor Relations area of Emersons website at and completing a brief registration form. A replay of the conference call will be available for the next three months at the same location on the website.
www.Emerson.com/financial
February 5, 2010  Emersons Annual Investment Community Update
Location:  New York City
Time:  8:30 a.m. to 11:45 a.m. Eastern Standard Time
Presentation and Webcast:  Access to a webcast of the conference presentations, as well as the presentation slides, will be available in the Investor Relations area of Emersons website at at the time of the event.  A replay of the webcast and the presentation slides will be available for approximately one week at the same location on the website.
www.Emerson.com/financial
Updates and further details on these and other upcoming events will be posted in the Calendar of Events area in the Investor Relations section of the corporate website as they occur.
 
Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements:
 
Statements in this Current Report on Form 8-K that are not strictly historical may be forward-looking statements, which involve risks and uncertainties, and Emerson undertakes no obligation to update any such statements to reflect later developments. These risks and uncertainties include economic and currency conditions, market demand, pricing, and competitive and technological factors, among others, as set forth in the Company's most recent Form 10-K filed with the SEC.
 
.
Item 9.01    Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)     Exhibits
 
 
 
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

 
 
 
ST. LOUIS, February 2, 2010 Emerson (NYSE: EMR) announced that net sales for the first quarter ended December 31, 2009 were $5.0 billion, a decline of 7 percent from $5.4 billion reported in the prior year quarter.  Underlying sales in the quarter declined 13 percent, which excludes a 3 percent favorable impact each from currency exchange rates and acquisitions.  Underlying sales in emerging markets declined only 4 percent in the quarter, helped by growth in Asia of 4 percent, compared to a decline of 18 percent in mature markets.
 
Diluted earnings per share for the first quarter were down 7 percent to $0.56 per share. Despite the decline in sales, gross profit margin expanded 110 basis points to 38.0 percent and operating profit margin was even with the prior year at 14.8 percent, impacted positively by cost reduction initiatives and restructuring benefits.  The pretax earnings margin for the first quarter was 11.7 percent compared to 12.6 percent in the prior year period primarily due to increased acquisition amortization and interest expense.
 
Considering the continuing economic pressures, this was a solid quarter and an encouraging start for 2010, said Chairman, CEO and President David N. Farr. Our margin improvement demonstrates that we are doing the right things to drive global best cost and increase shareholder value.  To successfully manage through the uncertain
 
-more-
 
 
Page Two
 
economic conditions that remain in most of our markets, we are focused on accelerating new product programs, investing in emerging markets, and making strategic acquisitions in our core and adjacent markets.  This is positioning us for sustainable sales and profit improvements as global economic conditions improve.
 
Business Segment Highlights
 
sales declined 9 percent in the quarter, versus their highest first quarter sales on record in fiscal 2009.  Underlying sales decreased 17 percent against tough comparisons to the prior year period, and exclude a positive 5 percent impact from acquisitions and a favorable currency impact of 3 percent. The EIM acquisition in October provides significant entry into the electric valve actuation market segment, with products targeted for energy-related and water and waste industries.  Segment margin declined to 15.6 percent, versus the prior year margin of 19.6 percent, impacted by volume deleverage (approximately 3 margin points) and negative mix (approximately 1 margin point).
Process Management
 
sales decreased 21 percent in the quarter against a tough comparison to the prior year quarter in which underlying sales were still growing.  Underlying sales decreased 28 percent, currency added 4 percent and acquisitions added 3 percent.  In October, Emerson completed the acquisition of SSB Wind Systems, a leading global supplier of electrical pitch control systems for the wind turbine market.  This acquisition further strengthens Emersons presence in this fast-growing market, which includes alternators, converters and couplings.  The margin for this segment was 9.8 percent versus 14.9 percent in the prior year period, impacted by volume deleverage (approximately 4 margin points) and a $15 million increase in restructuring.  Margin expanded sequentially from the fourth quarter, reflecting benefits from cost reduction and restructuring efforts.
Industrial Automation
 
Sales in the segment declined 5 percent in the first quarter, including an underlying sales decline of 10 percent, a 3 percent favorable impact from currency and a 2 percent favorable impact from the Avocent acquisition.  Strength
Network Power
 
-more-
 
 
Page Three
 
continued in Asia, which was up 7 percent in the quarter, and positive growth resumed in the embedded power business.  Segment margin improved 4.5 points with positive impacts realized from the aggressive cost reductions and restructuring efforts as well as reduced restructuring expense.  The acquisition of Avocent Corporation was completed on December 11, 2009 and it is being integrated into the Network Power business.  Emerson decided that the LANDesk business unit of Avocent is not a strategic fit for Emerson and it is expected to be sold within six months.  Therefore, the results of LANDesk are being reported as discontinued operations.  Avocent had revenues of $390 million in 2009, excluding $150 million from LANDesk.
 
sales growth turned positive, increasing 13 percent in the quarter.  Underlying sales were up 7 percent, acquisitions added 3 percent and currency added 3 percent.  Asia and the U.S. led with growth of 52 and 7 percent respectively.  Margin for this segment expanded to 14.5 percent versus 7.9 percent in the prior year period reflecting positive impacts from cost reduction and restructuring efforts, effective price/cost management and decreased restructuring costs versus the prior year period.
Climate Technologies
 
sales decreased 5 percent in the quarter, which included an underlying sales decrease of 7 percent and a 1 percent favorable impact each from currency translation and acquisitions.  Sales growth resumed in some of the consumer related businesses.  Segment margin improved to 15.2 percent, up 5.0 points from 10.2 percent in the prior year quarter, driven by cost reductions and effective price/cost management.
Appliance and Tools
 
Balance Sheet / Cash Flow
 
Strong operating cash flow of $687 million in the first quarter represented a 115 percent increase from the same quarter last year, driven primarily by improved asset management and stable margins.  Free cash flow (operating cash flow less capital expenditures) was $598 million, up 219 percent compared to the prior year quarter, and was 141 percent of net earnings.
 
-more-
 
 
Page Four
 
 Our strong cash flow generation is allowing us to take advantage of growth and investment opportunities to position ourselves for long-term global trends, Farr said.  We completed $1.3 billion in acquisitions in our first quarter, including Avocent, which significantly enhances Emersons datacenter solutions capability and positions us strongly for the growing importance of energy management in datacenters worldwide.  We continue to reposition our business portfolio to expand Emersons served markets as well as shift our sales to higher growth emerging markets.  A strong balance sheet makes this possible.
 
2010 Outlook
 
Based on the improving business conditions in the first quarter, improving recent order patterns, and strong profit improvement from the last 18 months of global restructuring efforts, Emerson expects full year earnings per share in the range of $2.20 to $2.40, which includes the impact of the Avocent acquisition.  This estimate is based on an anticipated underlying sales decline in the range of negative 3 percent to negative 6 percent.   Emerson is estimating a 2 percent favorable impact from currency translation and a 4 percent favorable impact from acquisitions resulting in reported sales flat to up 3 percent, or $20.9 to $21.5 billion. Operating profit margin and pretax margin are expected to be in the range of 15.1 to 15.6 percent and 11.7 to 12.3 percent respectively.  The operating cash flow target is $2.7 to $3 billion.  Detailed assumptions on the 2010 outlook will be provided in the companys investor conference in New York City on Friday, February 5.
which are
 
Upcoming Investor Events
 
Today at 2:00 p.m. EST (1:00 p.m. CST), Emerson senior management will discuss the first quarter results during an investor conference call. All interested parties may listen to the live conference call via the Internet by going to the Investor Relations area of Emerson's website at and completing a brief
w
ww.Emerson.com/financial
 
-more-
 
 
Page Five
 
registration form.  A replay of the conference call will be available for the next three months at the same location on the website.
 
On February 5, Emerson senior management will host the companys annual investor conference in New York.  The presentations will begin at 8:30 a.m. EST and conclude at approximately 11:45 a.m. EST.   All interested parties may listen to a webcast of the conference presentations via the Internet by going to the Investor Relations area of Emerson's website at and completing a brief registration form.  The presentation slides will be posted on the company website at the beginning of the conference.  A replay of the webcast and the presentation slides will be available for approximately one week at the same location on the website.
www.Emerson.com/financial
 
Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements
 
Statements in this release that are not strictly historical may be forward-looking statements, which involve risks and uncertainties, and Emerson undertakes no obligation to update any such statements to reflect later developments. These risks and uncertainties include economic and currency conditions, market demand, pricing, and competitive and technological factors, among others, as set forth in the company's most recent Form 10-K filed with the SEC.
 
 
Page Six
 
 
 
-more-
 
 
Page Seven
 
 
 
-more-
 
 
Page Eight
 
 
 
-more-
 
 
Page Nine
 
 
 
-more-
 
Page Ten
 
TABLE 5
 
Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The following reconciles Non-GAAP measures with the most directly comparable GAAP measure (dollars in millions):
 
 
 
 


