FILE:EMR/EMR-8K-20100803064551.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 2.02     Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Quarterly Results Press Release
 
On August 3, 2010, a press release was issued regarding the third quarter 2010 results of Emerson Electric Co. (the Company). A copy of this press release is furnished with this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1.
 
The press release contains non-GAAP financial measures as such term is defined in Regulation G under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission. While the Company believes these non-GAAP financial measures are useful in evaluating the Company, this information should be considered as supplemental in nature and not as a substitute for or superior to the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. Further, these non-GAAP financial measures may differ from similarly titled measures presented by other companies. The reasons management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful information are set forth in the Companys most recent Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
The following information is furnished pursuant to Regulation FD.
Emerson GAAP Underlying Orders  3 Month Summary
(Percent change.  Trailing 3-month average versus prior year.)
June 2010 Order Comments:
Order growth remained strong for the three months ended in June versus a period of easier comparisons in the prior year.  Currency exchange rates negatively impacted orders by approximately 5 percentage points.  Excluding currency, the trailing three-month underlying order growth rate improved again and was at the highest level since orders turned positive in February.
Process Management trailing three-month underlying orders excluding currency strengthened as MRO demand continued.  Currency exchange rates negatively impacted orders by approximately 11 percentage points.  Project orders have increased, mainly focused on small and medium size projects.  Mega-project quoting activity has increased, but is not expected to have an impact until later in 2011.
Industrial Automation order growth remained very high across all businesses, with particular strength in the power generating alternators, electrical drives, and power transmission businesses.
Orders for Network Power continued to strengthen and were up 10 percent.  Growth in the embedded power, inbound power and embedded computing businesses was partially offset by modest declines in the network power business in Asia.  Excluding the currency impact, modest growth resumed in the uninterruptible power supply and precision cooling business.
 
 
Climate Technologies trailing three-month orders remained strong globally, but order growth is moderating as Climate Technologies moves into a period of more difficult comparisons.  Key drivers of order growth are broad strength across Asian end markets, as well as European refrigeration, North American residential replacement and stationary refrigeration, and global transport end markets.
Appliance and Tools order growth remained in the 5 to 10 percent range.  Growth in the tools, motors and appliance businesses was partially offset by weakness in the residential storage business.
Upcoming Investor Events:
Emerson senior management will discuss the Companys third quarter 2010 results during an investor conference call that will be held on Tuesday, August 3, 2010.  The call will begin at 2:00 p.m. Eastern Daylight Time (1:00 p.m. Central Daylight Time).
All interested parties may listen to the live conference call via the Internet by going to the Investor Relations area of Emersons website at and completing a brief registration form. A replay of the conference call will be available for the next three months at the same location on the website.
www.Emerson.com/financial
August 31, 2010  Morgan Stanley Global Industrials Unplugged Conference
Location:  The New York Palace Hotel in New York City
Time:  9:00 a.m. to 9:40 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time
Presenter: Edward L. Monser, Chief Operating Officer
Updates and further details on these and other upcoming events will be posted in the Calendar of Events area in the Investor Relations section of the corporate website as they occur.
Item 9.01.   Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)  Exhibits.
 
 
 
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

- more -
 
 
ST. LOUIS, August 3, 2010  Emerson (NYSE: EMR) today announced that net sales for the third quarter ended June 30, 2010 were $5.6 billion, an increase of 11 percent from the prior year quarter.  Underlying sales increased 7 percent, which excludes a 3 percent impact from acquisitions and a 1 percent impact from favorable currency exchange rates.  Growth resumed in the U.S. and Europe, up 11 percent and 9 percent, respectively.  Asia continued to grow, as it has each quarter this year, increasing 3 percent.
Earnings from continuing operations for the third quarter were $0.78 per share, increasing 53 percent compared with $0.51 last year.  Including discontinued operations, net earnings per share increased 51 percent, to $0.77.
Global markets continue to recover, at a slower pace than previous economic cycles, but in-line with our expectations.  We expect this slow, but steady, recovery to continue for the next several years.  We do not expect a double-dip recession in our end markets.  This will be an environment where well-managed, global industrial companies can operate quite efficiently, said Chairman, CEO and President David N. Farr.  Our solid third quarter results prove the actions were taking to strengthen Emersons performance and accelerate growth in key markets around the world continue to be the right ones.  We delivered substantial improvements in sales, profits and margins during the quarter and have positive momentum globally as we finish out our fiscal year.
 
 
- more -
 
Page Two
 
Gross profit margin and operating profit margin expansion were strong as a result of leverage on higher sales volume, new product and technology programs, and our aggressive global restructuring and repositioning efforts.  Gross profit margin improved to 39.2 percent compared with 36.1 percent in the prior year quarter, and operating profit margin increased to 18.0 percent, compared with 14.7 percent in the prior year period.  Pretax margin improved 4.8 points from 10.9 percent to 15.7 percent.
Business Segment Highlights
sales moved positive, up 2 percent in the quarter, which included a 1 percent underlying sales decrease, a 2 percent favorable impact from acquisitions and a positive currency impact of 1 percent.  Segment margin improved to 20.6 percent, increasing 5.8 points from 14.8 percent in the prior year quarter, driven primarily by cost reductions, positive mix, lower restructuring expense and foreign currency transactions.  Orders have continued to strengthen and project quoting activity has increased, although mega-projects are not expected to have an impact until later in 2011.  Process Management was recently selected as the main automation contractor for Shells floating LNG (liquefied natural gas) facility, potentially the worlds first floating LNG development.  Process Management also opened a $30 million global innovation center, including the worlds largest flow lab, to develop and test high-performance valves.
Process Management
sales increased 18 percent in the quarter with 16 percent underlying sales growth and a 2 percent favorable impact from acquisitions.  Sales growth resumed across all businesses and geographies in this segment. Segment margin increased 7.1 points to 12.8 percent, with positive impacts from volume leverage and aggressive cost reduction actions, compared with significant deleverage in the prior year quarter.
Industrial Automation
sales increased 7 percent in the quarter, including an underlying sales decline of 1 percent, a 7 percent favorable impact from the Avocent acquisition and a positive currency impact of 1 percent.  Growth remained solid in the
Network Power
 
 
- more -
 
Page Three
 
earlier cycle embedded power business.  Sales in Asia weakened against solid growth last year as well as a reduction in stimulus benefits in China versus the prior year quarter, but are expected to grow in the fourth quarter.  Orders continue to improve for the uninterruptible power supply and precision cooling business.  Margin for this segment expanded 2.4 points to 12.8 percent, due primarily to aggressive cost repositioning actions, lower restructuring expense and a favorable impact from foreign currency transactions.
demonstrated strong global growth with sales increasing 29 percent in the third quarter.  International growth was 35 percent and U.S. growth was 23 percent.  Underlying sales were up 28 percent and acquisitions added 1 percent.  Strength in Asia continued, with sales up 49 percent compared with the prior year quarter with positive impacts from stimulus programs and recently enacted higher-efficiency standards in China.  U.S. sales growth remained broad-based among residential, refrigeration and commercial end markets.  Europe moved positive and grew 22 percent in the quarter, with strength in refrigeration.  Margin increased 4.4 points to 20.1 percent reflecting benefits from volume leverage, restructuring efforts and lower restructuring expense.
Climate Technologies
sales grew 10 percent in the quarter, including an 8 percent increase in underlying sales and a 2 percent favorable impact from acquisitions.  Sales growth was solid across the professional tools, motors and appliance businesses, partially offset by weakness in residential storage.  Segment margin expanded 4.0 points to 18.0 percent, driven primarily by benefits from restructuring programs and volume leverage.
Appliance and Tools
Balance Sheet / Cash Flow
For the third quarter, operating cash flow was $703 million and capital expenditures were $122 million resulting in free cash flow (operating cash flow less capital expenditures) of $581 million.  Free cash flow was 99 percent of net earnings attributable to Emerson in the quarter.  Operating cash flow for the nine months ended
 
 
- more -
 
Page Four
 
in June was $2.0 billion, an increase of 17 percent, primarily driven by increased earnings.
Our operating management has delivered strong trade working capital performance, as demonstrated by working capital improving to 16.3 percent of sales this quarter, Farr said.  Free cash flow remains a priority and we expect a record level of free cash flow and trade working capital as a percent of sales this year.  We are putting that cash to work to strengthen our core businesses and invest for future growth, both internally and with strong strategic acquisitions.  We will remain disciplined in using the strength of our balance sheet as we have historically.  We fully understand it is our responsibility to invest for shareholders to deliver long-term incremental value.
2010 Outlook
Based on improving business conditions and continued strength in order trends, Emerson now expects full year earnings per share in the range of $2.60 to $2.70.  This does not include any impact from the recently announced offer to purchase Chloride Group PLC or any potential divestitures of LANDesk or our North American motors and controls businesses.  For the year, underlying sales are expected to be approximately flat.  Emerson estimates a 3 percent favorable impact from already completed acquisitions and a 2 percent favorable impact from currency translation, resulting in net sales that are up approximately 4 to 5 percent. Operating profit margin and pretax margin are expected to be in the range of 16.2 to 16.5 percent and 13.3 to 13.7 percent, respectively.
Upcoming Investor Events
Today at 2:00 p.m. EDT (1:00 p.m. CDT), Emerson senior management will discuss the third quarter results during an investor conference call.  All interested parties may listen to the live conference call via the Internet by going to the Investor
 
 
- more -
 
Page Five
 
Relations area of Emerson's website at and completing a brief registration form.  A replay of the conference call will be available for the next three months at the same location on the website.
www.Emerson.com/financial
On August 31, 2010, Emerson Chief Operating Officer Edward L. Monser will present at the Morgan Stanley Global Industrials Unplugged Conference in New York City.  The presentation will begin at 9:00 a.m. EDT and conclude at approximately 9:40 a.m. EDT.
Details of upcoming events will be posted as they occur on the Events Calendar in the Investor Relations section of the website.
 
Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements
Statements in this release that are not strictly historical may be forward-looking statements, which involve risks and uncertainties, and Emerson undertakes no obligation to update any such statements to reflect later developments.  These risks and uncertainties include economic and currency conditions, market demand, pricing, and competitive and technological factors, among others, as set forth in the company's most recent Form 10-K filed with the SEC.
 
Page Six
 
 
 
- more -
 
Page Seven
 
 
 
- more -
 
Page Eight
 
 
 
- more -
 
Page Nine
 
 
 
 
Page Ten
 
 
 
- more -
 
Page Eleven
 
 
 
- more - -
 
Page Twelve
 


