FILE:EMR/EMR-8K-20101102064512.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Quarterly Results Press Release
 
On November 2, 2010, a press release was issued regarding the fourth quarter and fiscal 2010 results of Emerson Electric Co. (the Company). A copy of this press release is furnished with this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1.
 
The press release contains non-GAAP financial measures as such term is defined in Regulation G under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission.  While the Company believes these non-GAAP financial measures are useful in evaluating the Company, this information should be considered as supplemental in nature and not as a substitute for or superior to the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. Further, these non-GAAP financial measures may differ from similarly titled measures presented by other companies.  The reasons management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful information are set forth in the Companys most recent Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  References to orders in the press release refer to the Companys trailing three-month average GAAP underlying orders versus the prior year as reported in our Form 8-K filed on October 28, 2010.
.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 

 
 
Fiscal 2010 Highlights:
ST. LOUIS, November 2, 2010  Emerson (NYSE: EMR) today announced that net sales for fiscal 2010 increased 5 percent to $21.0 billion.  Underlying sales declined 1 percent, currency translation added 2 percent and acquisitions added 4 percent.  Emerging market sales hit record levels of 34 percent of sales and international sales were 57 percent of total sales.  Gross profit margin expanded 2.0 points to a record 39.6 percent for the year and operating profit margin reached 16.7 percent.  Pretax earnings margin was 13.7 percent.  Earnings per share from continuing operations grew 15 percent to $2.60, which includes a negative $0.04 impact from the Chloride Group PLC acquisition and a negative $0.05 impact from the reclassification of the appliance motors and U.S. commercial and industrial motors businesses (Motors) to discontinued operations.  Net earnings per share increased 25 percent to $2.84, and includes a $0.20 gain from the sale of Motors and a positive $0.04 impact from the results of divested businesses. (See Table 7 attached)
Because of the work accomplished during the downturn, we had a strong finish to the year.  Our September order trends accelerated to 18 percent and reveal
 
- more - -
Page Two
 
tremendous momentum heading into fiscal 2011, said Chairman and CEO David N. Farr.  We are proud of our employees accomplishments and the results
we delivered.  Looking ahead, 2011 should be an even stronger year.
Net sales for the fourth quarter ended September 30, 2010, were $5.8 billion, an increase of 14 percent from the prior year quarter.  Underlying sales in the quarter increased 12 percent, which excludes a 3 percent impact from acquisitions and a 1 percent unfavorable impact from currency exchange rates.  Growth was solid across all global markets.  Underlying sales in the quarter grew 9 percent in the U.S., 14 percent in Asia, 15 percent in Europe and 11 percent in Latin America.
Fourth quarter earnings per share from continuing operations increased 12 percent to $0.75 which includes a negative $0.04 impact from the Chloride Group PLC acquisition and a negative $0.02 impact from the reclassification of Motors to discontinued operations.  Net earnings per share for the fourth quarter increased 46 percent to $0.98.  The results for the quarter include a $0.20 gain from the sale of Motors, the positive $0.02 impact from operating results for Motors, and a positive $0.01 impact from LANDesk.
Our fourth quarter results reflect continued strengthening in the global economy and improved demand for Emersons products, Farr said.  Businesses are spending again.  Thats good for Emerson.  In the midst of the harsh economic downturn of the past couple of years, we did what weve done before.  We repositioned the company to be stronger than ever before and to benefit from what we expect to be a slow but steady economic recovery.
Balance Sheet / Cash Flow
Operating cash flow was strong at $3.3 billion in 2010, representing 15.6 percent of sales and an increase of 7 percent from 2009.  Capital expenditures were $524 million, resulting in record free cash flow (operating cash flow less capital expenditures)
of $2.8 billion.  Free cash flow was 128 percent of net earnings common stockholders, the 10 consecutive year in excess of 100 percent.  Trade working capital as a percent
th
 
- more -
 
 
Page Three
 
of sales showed substantial improvement, as it declined from 19.0 percent in fiscal 2009 to 16.8 percent in fiscal 2010.
 Fiscal year 2010 was Emersons 54 consecutive year of increased dividends per share.  The Board of Directors is expected today to increase the quarterly cash
th
dividend from thirty-three and one-half cents ($0.335) to thirty-four and one-half cents ($0.345) per share of common stock, an increase of 3.0 percent.  The new dividend is expected to be payable on December 10, 2010 to shareholders of record on November 12, 2010.
 Cash flow from operations in 2010 essentially matched our record level in 2008 on lower sales and earnings.  We are especially pleased with that outcome.  We will continue to stay the course and take steps to ensure that generating abundant free cash flow remains one of our four highest priorities and consistent achievements to create long-term value, Farr said.  Strong free cash flow allows us to control our destiny and invest in emerging markets and innovative technology to fuel Emersons growth and create value for our customers and shareholders.
Business Segment Highlights
sales continued to strengthen and were up 5 percent in the quarter.  Underlying sales increased 5 percent, acquisitions added 1 percent and unfavorable currency subtracted 1 percent.  Orders strengthened in the trailing three-month period, driven by our strong global positioning and technology leadership.  Segment margin increased to 19.1 percent, expanding 1.6 points from 17.5 percent in the prior year quarter, driven primarily by cost reductions, lower restructuring expense and volume leverage.  Based on Process Managements advanced technologies and
Process Management
industry expertise, it was recently awarded a $28 million automation contract to modernize 100 hydroelectric turbine generators in Ukraine.
had strong performance in the quarter, with sales increasing 23 percent including an underlying sales increase of 26 percent, a 4 percent
Industrial Automation
unfavorable impact from currency and a 1 percent favorable impact from acquisitions.  Recently, Emerson won a major contract to provide power inverters and plant-wide
 
- more -
 
 
Page Four
 
controls for what will be Californias largest photovoltaic facility.  This project leverages the great technology across Industrial Automation and Process Management to provide a comprehensive solution to our customers toughest challenges.  Segment margin
expanded 6.0 points to 16.3 percent, driven by positive impacts from volume leverage, aggressive cost reduction actions and reduced restructuring.  The hermetic motors business ($545 million in sales for 2010 and $474 million in sales for 2009), which formerly reported through Appliance and Tools has been moved to the Industrial Automation segment.  Prior periods have been reclassified to reflect this change.
strong global growth and acquisitions drove sales higher by 23 percent in the quarter, including underlying sales that increased 12 percent.  The Avocent and Chloride acquisitions had a favorable impact of 11 percent.  Sales in Asia expanded 20 percent in the quarter, along with solid growth in the U.S. and Europe of 6 percent and 14 percent, respectively.  Segment margin expanded 1.9 points to 15.2 percent reflecting benefits from volume leverage, aggressive cost repositioning actions and lower restructuring expense that was partially offset by lower price and unfavorable mix.
Network Powers
sales increased 10 percent in the quarter with 11 percent underlying sales growth and a 1 percent unfavorable impact from currency.  Sales in the U.S. grew 5 percent, Europe grew 13 percent and Asia grew 28 percent.  The U.S. residential air conditioning business declined as inventory corrections took place in the quarter.  Commercial air conditioning sales increased, driven by penetration gains and favorable mix from higher technology product sales.  Refrigeration remained strong globally in both stationary and transport end markets.
Climate Technologies
Margin increased 2.4 points to 19.2 percent driven by volume leverage, increased technology based products, decreased restructuring expense and cost reductions.
sales were up 2 percent in the quarter, reflecting flat underlying sales and a 2 percent favorable impact from acquisitions.  Strength in the tools and disposer businesses was offset by residential storage weakness.  Segment
Tools and Storage
margin was 20.7 percent, a 0.1 point decline from the prior year quarter.  In conjunction with the sale of Motors, prior results for this segment have been adjusted to reflect
 
- more -
 
 
Page Five
 
the reclassification of these businesses into discontinued operations.  This segment has been renamed Tools and Storage (formerly Appliance and Tools).  The retained hermetic motors business has been moved into Industrial Automation.
 
Fiscal 2011 Outlook
Emerson is well positioned for the continuing recovery as we move into 2011.  End markets continue to improve as evidenced by order trends strengthening and backlog expanding 18 percent in the past year.  The combination of our completed cost-repositioning efforts, new product and technology launches, geographic balance, emerging market footprint and portfolio mix, position Emerson to have another strong year in 2011.
Our initial view of 2011 is:
Emerson will provide expanded insights on full year 2011 expectations at our annual investment community conference in February 2011.
Upcoming Investor Events
Today at 2:00 p.m. EDT (1:00 p.m. CDT), Emerson senior management will discuss the fourth quarter and full year results during an investor conference call.  All interested parties may listen to the live conference call via the Internet by going to the Investor Relations area of Emerson's website at and
www.Emerson.com/financial
completing a brief registration form.  A replay of the conference call will be available for the next three months at the same location on the website.
 
- more - -
Page Six
 
On February 3 and 4, 2011, Emerson senior management will host the companys annual investment community update meeting in St. Louis at Emersons global headquarters.  Additional details will be available in December.
Details of upcoming events will be posted as they occur on the Events Calendar in the Investor Relations section of the website.
Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements
Statements in this release that are not strictly historical may be forward-looking statements, which involve risks and uncertainties, and Emerson undertakes no obligation to update any such statements to reflect later developments.  These risks and uncertainties include economic and currency conditions, market demand, pricing,
and competitive and technological factors, among others, as set forth in the company's most recent Form 10-K filed with the SEC.  The company expects to file its Form 10-K for fiscal 2010 within the next 30 days.
 
- more - -
 
 
Page Seven
 
TABLE 1
 
 
 
- more -
 
 
Page Eight
 
TABLE 2
 
 
 
- more -
 
 
Page Nine
 
TABLE 3
 
 
 
- more - -
 
Page Ten
 
TABLE 4
 
 
 
- more - -
 
Page Eleven
 
TABLE 5
 
 
 
 
Corporate and other expense in Q4FY10 includes increases of $50M of stock compensation expense due to the overlap of two stock compensation programs and increase in stock price during the quarter and approximately $30M of expense related to the Chloride Group PLC acquisition over the prior year quarter.
(1)
 
- more - -
 
Page Twelve
 
TABLE 6
 
 
 
 
 
- more - -
 
Page Thirteen
 
TABLE 7
 
 
- more - -
 
Page Fourteen
 
TABLE 8
 
Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The following reconciles Non-GAAP measures with the most directly comparable GAAP measure
(dollars in millions):
 
 
 
 
 


