FILE:EMR/EMR-8K-20110201064530.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 2.02.     Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Quarterly Results Press Release
 
On February 1, 2011, a press release was issued regarding the first quarter 2011 results of Emerson Electric Co. (the Company). A copy of this press release is furnished with this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1.
 
The press release contains non-GAAP financial measures as such term is defined in Regulation G under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission.  While the Company believes these non-GAAP financial measures are useful in evaluating the Company, this information should be considered as supplemental in nature and not as a substitute for or superior to the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. Further, these non-GAAP financial measures may differ from similarly titled measures presented by other companies.  The reasons management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful information are set forth in the Companys most recent Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Media Contact:  Mark Polzin (314) 982-1758
 
ST. LOUIS, February 1, 2011  Emerson (NYSE: EMR) today announced that net sales for the first quarter ended December 31, 2010, were $5.5 billion, an increase of 15 percent from the prior year quarter. Underlying sales increased 11 percent in the quarter, which excludes a 5 percent impact from acquisitions and a 1 percent unfavorable impact from currency exchange rates.  Underlying sales growth was balanced globally, with the U.S. increasing 10 percent and international sales increasing 11 percent.
Earnings from continuing operations for the first quarter were $0.63 per share, increasing 15 percent compared with $0.55 in the same period last year.  Including discontinued operations, net earnings per share increased 13 percent.  Operating profit margin improved to 15.4 percent from 15.2 percent in the prior year period.  This improvement was driven by volume leverage and benefits from restructuring and cost repositioning efforts, partially offset by higher material costs as commodity prices continued to increase.   An additional headwind this quarter was $18 million from the triennial stock option award and resulting expense.  Pretax margin was 12.9 percent compared with 12.0 percent in the prior year period.  The tax rate was 31.2 percent in the quarter compared with 25.6 percent in the same period last year.  The lower tax rate in the first quarter last year resulted from a tax benefit from the restructuring of a foreign subsidiary.
Emerson performed well in the first quarter as economies around the world continued to recover, said Chairman and Chief Executive Officer David N. Farr.  During the past two years, we focused on improving and repositioning our operations to benefit during what we believe will be a slower global economic recovery.  We are
 
- more - -
 
Page Two
 
seeing the value of that hard work.  The foundation of Emerson is very strong, which creates enormous potential for the long term.
 
Balance Sheet / Cash Flow
Operating cash flow was $322 million in the first quarter of 2011, compared with $687 million in the prior year period, principally due to an increase in working capital to support growth as the global economy continues to recover.  Trade working capital as a percent of sales showed improvement, declining to 17.7 percent from 18.0 percent in the prior year quarter.
While we had a slower start to cash flow for the year, we expect to achieve our operating cash flow target of $3.3 to $3.5 billion and our free cash flow target of $2.7 to $2.9 billion for 2011, Farr said.  Strong cash flow and a healthy balance sheet are essential as we invest in opportunities to strengthen our business platforms, pursue technology leadership, globalize assets and drive business efficiency.  We will continue to be disciplined as we assess and act on investment opportunities that will consistently deliver value to our shareholders.
Business Segment Highlights
sales continued to gain momentum, up 12 percent in the quarter.  Underlying sales increased 13 percent and unfavorable currency subtracted 1 percent.  Market-leading technologies and a strong global footprint helped solidify large project wins, including Process Managements selection as main automation contractor on Petrobras Comperj project, which is Brazils largest refining and petrochemical complex.  Segment margin was 18.8 percent, increasing 3.2 points from 15.6 percent in the prior year quarter, driven by volume leverage and cost reductions.
Process Management
reported a strong quarter of sales and earnings performance.  Sales increased 23 percent, which included a 24 percent increase in underlying sales, a negative 2 percent currency impact and a positive 1 percent impact from acquisitions.  Sales were strong globally, as capital goods investment continued to show improvement.  Segment margin increased 4.2 points to 15.3 percent reflecting
Industrial Automation
 
- more -
 
Page Three
 
benefits from volume leverage, reduced restructuring and cost reductions.  Substantial material inflation was only partially offset by pricing increases.
sales increased 21 percent in the quarter.  Underlying sales grew 6 percent and the Avocent and Chloride acquisitions added 15 percent.  Growth remained solid in the U.S. and Europe, which increased 9 percent and 6 percent, respectively.  Sales in Asia were up 3 percent against a more difficult prior year comparison that included the benefit of strong stimulus programs in China.  Segment margin declined 4.0 points to 10.9 percent, driven by increased amortization from the Chloride and Avocent acquisitions of $25 million (1.5 points), other Chloride acquisition costs of $15 million (1 point), negative price, material inflation and expediting costs for materials. The other Chloride acquisition costs will be essentially eliminated by the second half of fiscal 2011.  In addition, positive pricing programs are being implemented to offset rising costs.  These actions should allow the margin to increase to higher levels in the second half of the fiscal year.  Emerson has made significant investments in key acquisitions in this segment, developing next-generation data center infrastructure management technologies, and solidifying the global footprint of this business.  While these investments have had a negative impact on margins in the short term, they are creating the foundation for strong, profitable growth in this next cycle, which is just beginning.
Network Power
sales grew by 3 percent in the quarter with international sales leading the growth.  Underlying sales increased 4 percent and currency subtracted 1 percent.  Sales grew 12 percent internationally, while sales declined in the U.S. by 3 percent. The U.S. residential air conditioning business declined due to tougher prior year comparisons that were positively impacted by the industry build-ahead of equipment prior to the R-410A refrigerant conversion.  Refrigeration sales remained strong globally.  Margin improved 0.7 points to 15.2 percent, reflecting benefits from cost reductions and mix.  Volatility in material prices had a negative impact on margin that was only partially offset by pricing actions.
Climate Technologies
sales increased 3 percent in the quarter, reflecting a 3 percent increase in underlying sales.  Strength in the professional tools business was
Tools and Storage
 
- more -
 
 
Page Four
 
partially offset by weakness in consumer storage as residential markets remain weak.  Segment margin improved 2.1 points to 20.8 percent.  We do not expect to see a very strong recovery in U.S. consumer discretionary spending.
 
Fiscal 2011 Outlook
Continued global economic recovery, solid order trends and execution of our global restructuring plans during the past two years position Emerson for a strong year in 2011.
Emerson expects full-year fiscal 2011 earnings per share in the range of $3.15 to $3.30, with earnings per share from continuing operations growth of 21 to 27 percent, a strong improvement over the solid 15 percent increase in fiscal 2010, the start of Emersons recovery.  Reported sales are expected to be approximately $24 to $24.5 billion, an increase of 14 to 17 percent compared with fiscal year 2010 sales of $21.0 billion.  Underlying sales are expected to grow 10 to 13 percent.  Operating profit margin and pretax margin are expected to be in the range of 17.4 to 17.7 percent and 14.8 to 15.1 percent, respectively.  Operating cash flow is expected to be $3.3 to $3.5 billion with free cash flow (operating cash flow less capital expenditures) of $2.7 to $2.9 billion.
Upcoming Investor Events
discuss the first quarter results during an investor conference call.  All interested parties may listen to the live conference call via the Internet by going to the Investor Relations area of Emerson's website at and completing a brief registration form.  A replay of the conference call will be available for the next three months at the same location on the website.
Today at 2:00 p.m. EST (1:00 p.m. CST), Emerson senior management will
www.Emerson.com/financial
On February 3 and 4, 2011, Emerson senior management will host the companys annual investor conference in St. Louis at Emersons global headquarters.  The presentation by Mr. Farr on Thursday, February 3, will be webcast starting at 4:15 p.m. EST and is expected to conclude at approximately 6:00 p.m. EST.  Those
 
- more -
 
 
Page Five
 
interested may listen to the webcast via the Internet by going to the Investor Relations area of Emerson's website at and completing a brief registration form. A replay of the webcast will be available for approximately one week at the same location on the website.  Slide presentations by Emerson senior management, including those presented on Friday, February 4, will be posted on the company website for viewing at the beginning of each days sessions.
www.Emerson.com/financial
Details of upcoming events will be posted as they occur on the Events Calendar in the Investor Relations section of the website.
Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements
Statements in this release that are not strictly historical may be forward-looking statements, which involve risks and uncertainties, and Emerson undertakes no obligation to update any such statements to reflect later developments.  These risks and uncertainties include economic and currency conditions, market demand, pricing,
and competitive and technological factors, among others, as set forth in the company's most recent Form 10-K filed with the SEC.
 
- more -
 
 
 
 
Page Six
 
TABLE 1
EMERSON AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
 
- more -
 
 
 
 
Page Seven
 
TABLE 2
EMERSON AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
- more -
 
 
 
 
Page Eight
 
TABLE 3
 
- more -
 
 
 
 
Page Nine
 
TABLE 4
 
 
Corporate and other expense in Q1FY11 includes an increase of $18M related to stock option expense.
(1)
 
- more -
 
 
 
 
Page Ten
 
TABLE 5
 
Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The following reconciles Non-GAAP measures with the most directly comparable GAAP measure
(dollars in millions):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


