FILE:EMR/EMR-8K-20120809151325.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
(d) On August 7, , the Board of Directors of Emerson Electric Co. (the Company) elected Matthew S. Levatich, president and chief operating officer of Harley-Davidson Motor Company, Inc., as a Director of the Company. He will stand for election at the Companys 2013 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. Mr. Levatich was also appointed to serve as a member of the Compensation Committee.
2012
 
Mr. Levatich will be compensated on the same basis as all other non-management Directors of the Company, as described under Director Compensation in the Companys Proxy Statement for its 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. This includes an award of 1,240 shares of restricted stock, representing a $62,500 pro rata award of the $125,000 restricted stock portion of the annual retainer payable to all non-management Directors.
 
A copy of the August 7, 2012 press release announcing Mr. Levatichs election is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
             
Exhibit Number
Description of Exhibits
 
99.1                                Press release dated August 7, 2012.
 
 
 
 
 
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
             
Exhibit Number
Description of Exhibits
 
99.1                                Press release dated August 7, 2012.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
EMERSON MATTHEW LEVATICH TO
NAMES
 
ST. LOUIS, August 7, 2012  Matthew Levatich, president and chief operating officer of Harley-Davidson Motor Company, Inc., has been elected to Emersons (NYSE:EMR) board of directors, Chairman and CEO David N. Farr announced today.
evatich has served as president and COO of Harley-Davidson since 2009. An 18-year Harley Davidson employee, he has held a wide range of management and leadership positions at the company, and has helped strengthen it as a global brand.
   L
Matt has a strong background in manufacturing, excellent global marketing experience, and broad management skills that will be of great value to Emersons shareholders, Farr said. We look forward to his insight and counsel as we continue to grow our competitive global leadership position.
Levatich joined Harley-Davidson in 1994 through its Leadership Development Program and quickly worked his way up to several senior roles within Harley-Davidson. As the president and managing director of MV Agusta Motor S.p.A., he oversaw the integration of the companys premium Italian performance motorcycle brand. Before that, he had managed all aspects of Harley-Davidsons global parts and accessories business after successfully leading its worldwide supply chain operations. Prior to Harley-Davidson, Levatich held various supervising roles at Albany International in New York.
 Levatich will serve on the Emerson Boards Compensation Committee.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Levatich page 2
 
Levatich holds an undergraduate degree in mechanical engineering from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. He received his ME in engineering management and MBA in marketing, finance and organizational behavior from Northwestern University. He serves on the executive advisory board of the MMM Program at the J.L. Kellogg Graduate School of Management and Robert R. McCormick School of Engineering and Applied Sciences at Northwestern University and is a trustee on the Milwaukee Institute of Art and Design and a Regent at the Milwaukee School of Engineering (MSOE).
 
 
About Emerson
 
Emerson (NYSE:EMR), based in St. Louis, Missouri (USA), is a global leader in bringing technology and engineering together to provide innovative solutions for customers in industrial, commercial, and consumer markets around the world. The company is comprised of five business segments: Process Management, Industrial Automation, Network Power, Climate Technologies, and Commercial & Residential Solutions. Sales in fiscal 2011 were $24.2 billion. For more information, visit . 
www.Emerson.com
 
 
# # #
 


