FILE:EMR/EMR-8K-20120209142225.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(d) On February 7, 2012, the Board of Directors of Emerson Electric Co. (the Company) elected Joshua B. Bolten, Co-Founder and Managing Director of Rock Creek Global Advisors, LLC and former Chief of Staff to the President of the United States, as a Director of the Company. He will stand for election at the Companys 2013 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. Mr. Bolten was also appointed to serve as a member of the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee.
 
Mr. Bolten will be compensated on the same basis as all other non-management Directors of the Company, as described under Director Compensation in the Companys Proxy Statement for its 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the Proxy Statement). This includes an award of 2,409 shares of restricted stock, representing the $125,000 restricted stock portion of the annual retainer payable to all non-management Directors.
 
A copy of the February 8, 2012 press release announcing Mr. Boltens election is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 5.07. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
 
The final results for each of the matters submitted to a vote of stockholders at the Companys 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on February 7, 2012 are as follows:
 
: The six Directors named in the Proxy Statement were elected by the stockholders, by the votes set forth in the table below:
Proposal 1
 
 
: The Companys executive compensation as described in the Proxy Statement was approved by the non-binding advisory votes of the stockholders set forth in the table below:
Proposal 2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
: The appointment of KPMG LLP as the Companys independent registered public accounting firm for fiscal 2012 was ratified by the stockholders, by the votes set forth in the table below:
Proposal 3
 
 
: The stockholder proposal requesting the issuance of a sustainability report as described in the Proxy Statement was not approved by the stockholders, by the votes set forth in the table below:
Proposal 4
 
 
: The stockholder proposal requesting the Board of Directors to take necessary steps (excluding those steps that must be taken by the stockholders) to declassify the Companys Board of Directors as described in the Proxy Statement was approved by the stockholders, by the votes set forth in the table below:
Proposal 5
 
 
Based on these results, the Board of Directors determined to take the steps requested by this proposal.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
             
Exhibit Number
Description of Exhibits
 
99.1                               Press release dated February 8, 2012.
 
 
 
 
 
 
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
             
Exhibit Number
D
escription of Exhibits
 
99.1                               Press release dated February 8, 2012.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
   Media contact:
   Mark Polzin, 314.982.1758
 
 
ST. LOUIS, February 8, 2012  Joshua Bolten, managing director of Rock Creek Global Advisors and former White House official under President George W. Bush, has been elected to (NYSE:EMR) board of directors, Chairman and CEO David N. Farr announced today.
Emersons
 
Bolten served as President Bushs chief of staff from 2006 to 2009, director of the Office of Management and Budget from 2003 to 2006, and deputy chief of staff from 2001 to 2003.  After leaving government service, he was a visiting professor for two years in Princeton Universitys Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs.  In 2011, he co-founded Rock Creek Global Advisors, which advises multinational companies on economic and regulatory policy.
 
Josh is a tremendous talent and has keen insight into issues surrounding global economics and global trade, Farr said. His solid financial background and leadership ability will be valuable to Emerson shareholders in helping the company continue to grow its competitive global leadership position.
 
Boltens 20 years of public service also includes positions as general counsel to the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative, chief trade counsel to the U.S. Senate Finance Committee and attorney at the U.S. State Department.  In private business, Bolten was an attorney in a Washington, D.C. firm in the mid-1980s and also was executive director of legal and governmental affairs for Goldman Sachs in London from 1994 to 1999.
 
Bolten will serve on the Emerson boards Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bolten  page 2
 
A native of Washington, D.C., Bolten received his undergraduate degree from Princeton in 1976 and a law degree from Stanford in 1980.  Bolten is a member of the International Advisory Board of BP plc.  He serves on the boards of the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum as vice chairman and the Clinton Bush Haiti Fund as co-chair.  He served from January to July 2011 as interim CEO of the ONE Campaign, a global advocacy organization that fights poverty and preventable disease, and currently serves on its board.
 
About Emerson
 
Emerson (NYSE:EMR), based in St. Louis, Missouri (USA), is a global leader in bringing technology and engineering together to provide innovative solutions for customers in industrial, commercial, and consumer markets through its network power, process management, industrial automation, climate technologies, and tools and storage businesses. Sales in fiscal 2011 were $24.2 billion. For more information, visit . 
www.Emerson.com
 
 
 


