FILE:APOL/APOL-8K-20060111180417.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
To the extent applicable, the information disclosed under Item 5.02 is incorporated herein by reference. A copy of the Separation Agreement is attached as Exhibit 10.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
To the extent applicable, the information disclosed under Item 5.02 is incorporated herein by reference. The information furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
On January 11, 2006, Apollo Group, Inc. announced the appointment of Mr. Brian Mueller to serve as President. Mr. Mueller succeeds Todd S. Nelson who submitted to the Board of Directors his resignation as Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, and President, effective January 11, 2006. Dr. John G. Sperling, founder and current board member of Apollo Group, was appointed interim Executive Chairman of the Board. Mr. Mueller, 51, joined Apollo Group, Inc. in 1987. He most recently held the position of Chief Operating Officer of Apollo Group. Mr. Mueller held the position of Chief Executive Officer of University of Phoenixs online campus from March 2002 to November 2005 and Chief Operating Officer and Senior Vice President of University of Phoenixs online campus from May 1997 to March 2002. The Company and Mr. Nelson have entered into a Separation Agreement (the "Separation Agreement") dated January 11, 2006. The Separation Agreement includes requirements for c onfidentiality, non-competition, and non-solicitation. The Separation Agreement also provides that Mr. Nelson releases the Company from claims arising or occurring on or prior to the date of the Separation Agreement, and that Mr. Nelson may revoke the Separation Agreement and his release at any time within seven days after its execution. The Separation Agreement provides that, notwithstanding his resignation, Mr. Nelson will be entitled to receive a separation payment totaling $18 million and requires that the Company incur all its and Mr. Nelsons tax liabilities related to this payment. In exchange for this severance payment, all of Mr. Nelsons outstanding options will be terminated. Including the expense related to the amounts to be paid to Mr. Nelson under the terms of the Separation Agreement, diluted earnings per share are expected to be between $.46 and $.47 for the quarter ending February 28, 2006, and to be between $2.74 and $2.80 for fiscal 2006.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits. 10.1 Separation Agreement 99.1 Press Release dated January 11, 2006
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

This SEPARATION AGREEMENT AND MUTUAL RELEASE AND WAIVER OF CLAIMS ("Agreement") is entered into this 11th day of January, 2006, in the County of Maricopa, State of Arizona, between Todd Nelson ("Mr. Nelson") and the Apollo Group, Inc., its subsidiaries, affiliates, agents, officers, shareholders, owners, directors and employees (hereinafter referred to as the "Company") and is intended by the parties to extinguish all rights and obligations hereinafter designated.
1. Subject to the terms of this Agreement, Mr. Nelson tenders, and the Board of Directors of the Company accepts, Mr. Nelson's voluntary resignation from all positions he currently holds within the Company, including without limitation, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, effective January 11, 2006. Mr. Nelson waives call and notice of meetings of the Company's Board of Directors held on January 6, January 9 and January 10, 2006.
2. Mr. Nelson and the Company's Board of Directors wish this employment separation to be as amicable as possible and therefore by their signatures below have agreed to the following mutual covenants and conditions of such separation.
In exchange for Mr. Nelson's promises set forth herein, including the full waiver and release of all potential claims, including claims of personal injury, the Company agrees to:
In exchange for the promises of the Company set forth in Paragraph I above, by execution of this Agreement, Mr. Nelson releases, on behalf of himself and his heirs, executors, administrators, and assigns, any and all claims of any nature whatsoever against the Company and its parent corporation, subsidiaries, affiliates, agents, officers, owners, directors, employees, insurers, and assigns, with respect to any matter arising prior to the date of his execution of this Agreement, including any and all claims or causes of action arising out of the employment of Mr. Nelson by the Company and his separation from that employment. This includes, without limitation, all rights or claims arising under the Civil Rights Acts of 1964, as amended, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, as amended, the Civil Rights Act of 1991, Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, the Older Workers' Benefit Protection Act of 1990, the Arizona Civil Rights Act, the Arizona Employment Protection Act, the Arizona Constructive Discharge Act or any other applicable state or federal statute, or any common law cause of action, including claims for breach of express or implied contract, wrongful discharge, tort, personal injury, or any claims for attorney's fees or other costs. Mr. Nelson further covenants and agrees that upon being paid the amounts provided for in Paragraph I herein, the Company is not further indebted to him in any amount for any reason except for any accrued benefits to which Mr. Nelson may be legally entitled under the terms of any existing Apollo employee benefit plan. This Paragraph II of the Agreement does not release or discharge any obligation created by this Agreement. Mr. Nelson shall, however, continue to have the benefits provided a former Director for indemnification per the Articles and By-Law of the Company.
FULL WAIVER AND RELEASE
In exchange for the promises of Mr. Nelson set forth herein, by execution of this Agreement, the Company forever waives and releases any and all claims of any nature whatsoever against Mr. Nelson which it has, or may hereafter have, arising out Mr. Nelson's employment by the Company and his separation from that employment. This includes, without limitation, all rights or claims arising out of applicable state or federal statute, or any common law cause of action, including claims for breach of express or implied contract, tort, personal injury, or any claims for attorneys' fees or other costs. This Paragraph III of the Agreement does not release or discharge any obligation created by this Agreement. Mr. Nelson will continue to have coverage under the terms of any present or future Company D&O and E&O liability insurance policies, notwithstanding his separation from employment.
FULL WAIVER AND RELEASE
In exchange for the consideration provided under this Agreement, Mr. Nelson hereby agrees that all of his outstanding options to purchase Company stock (both vested and non-vested) granted pursuant to any Company stock incentive plan shall terminate as of the date of his termination of employment with the Company, notwithstanding any other agreement to the contrary. As soon as practicable after the execution of this Agreement, Mr. Nelson will convert his Apollo Group, Inc. Class B Common Stock into Class A Common Stock.
The parties agree not to issue any disparaging or derogatory statements about the other, including without limitation, comments about Company officers, owners, employees or products.
Mr. Nelson agrees that for a period of two years from the date of this Agreement he will not, either directly or through others, solicit or attempt to solicit any employee of the Company, its parents, subsidiaries, or affiliates to terminate his or her relationship with the Company, its parents, subsidiaries, or affiliates in order to become an employee or consultant of any other person or entity.
Mr. Nelson agrees that for a period of one year following his separation of employment with the Company, he will not accept a position with any organization that provides educational services in competition with those provided by the Apollo Group, Inc. or its subsidiaries, whether as a principal, consultant, employee, or otherwise. For an additional one year, Mr. Nelson agrees that he will not accept any such position with the following organizations: Career Education Corp.; Corinthian Colleges; DeVry; ITT Educational Services; or Strayer Education. Just as his former position with the Company was national in scope, so too are the restrictions contained in this paragraph.
The parties understand and agree that during the course of Mr. Nelson's employment with the Company, he learned certain trade secrets and other confidential and/or proprietary information relating to the Company, its products and investors. As used in this Agreement, "Confidential Information" means any and all tangible and intangible information whether oral or in writing or in any other medium, relating to the management, financial aid policies and procedures, operations, products, intentions, plans, goals, objectives, inventions, records, financial condition, financial results, and financial projections of the Company. Mr. Nelson agrees not to disclose or use any of the Company's proprietary or confidential information or trade secrets for his own benefit or for the benefit of any third party without the written permission of the owner of the Company, or as required by law.
The parties agree that all aspects of this settlement and the negotiations leading to the amount paid, are confidential and may not be disclosed except to their respective tax advisors, legal counsel, corporate representatives and/or regulatory and governmental agencies with a need to know and/or as required by law. Mr. Nelson may also disclose such information to his immediate family.
The parties agree that if a Court of competent jurisdiction finds that a party has breached any of the material terms of this Agreement, then the non-breaching party will be entitled to any and all relief available at law or in equity, including appropriate injunctive relief.
Mr. Nelson is advised to consult with an attorney prior to executing this Agreement.
By his signature below, Mr. Nelson affirms that he will be given at least twenty-one (21) days within which to consider this Agreement.
Mr. Nelson may revoke this Agreement at any time within seven (7) days following his execution of the Agreement. This Agreement shall not become effective or enforceable until the foregoing revocation period has expired.
If any provision of this Agreement is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, void, or unenforceable for whatever reason, the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall nevertheless continue in full force and effect without being impaired in any manner whatsoever.
At the core of this Agreement is Mr. Nelson's commitment not to commence any legal proceeding against the Company. A counterclaim shall not be deemed to mean Mr. Nelson has commenced a legal proceeding. The Company has agreed to pay Mr. Nelson a significant amount of money in return for this commitment. Therefore, if Mr. Nelson breaches his commitment and commences a legal proceeding against the Company, he agrees that he will first repay the Company all amounts he has received under the terms of this Agreement.
The construction, interpretation and performance of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Arizona and no action involving this Agreement may be brought except in the Superior Court of the State of Arizona or in the United States District Court for the District of Arizona.
This Agreement constitutes the sole and entire Agreement between the parties hereto, and supersedes any and all understandings and agreements made prior hereto, including but not limited to, the Employment Agreement between Mr. Nelson and the Company. There are no collateral understandings, representations, or agreements other than those contained herein. No provision of this Agreement shall be amended, waived or modified except by an instrument in writing, signed by the parties hereto. It is understood and agreed that the offering of this Agreement by the Company is not to be construed as an admission of any liability on its part to Mr. Nelson, other than to comply with the terms of this Agreement.
Mr. Nelson hereby represents that he has read and understands the contents of this Agreement, that no representations other than those contained herein have been made to him to induce or influence his execution of the Agreement, but that he executes this Agreement knowingly and voluntarily and upon independent legal advice of his own choosing.
1776369.2

Apollo Group, Inc.
News Release
Phoenix, Arizona, January 11, 2006  Apollo Group, Inc. (Nasdaq:APOL) today announced the appointment of Brian Mueller to the position of President. Mr. Mueller succeeds Todd S. Nelson who submitted to the Board of Directors his resignation as a Director and Officer. Dr. John G. Sperling, founder of Apollo Group, was appointed interim Executive Chairman of the Board.
"Brian is the right person to lead Apollo Group's next stage of growth," said Dr. Sperling. "With his instinct for innovation, his operational discipline, and his resolute focus on academic quality, he possesses the perfect blend of skills, passion, and experience to take us forward. Apollo has excellent momentum today due to the capable and decisive leadership he has demonstrated."
Mr. Mueller is a seasoned executive with a 19-year career at Apollo Group and University of Phoenix and has broad-based experience in operations, education, sales, finance, marketing, strategy, and general management. As CEO of the University of Phoenix Online campus for the past several years, he delivered exceptional performance in leading and transforming the organization into the largest and most effective online university in the world.
Mr. Mueller said, "Over the past 30 years, University of Phoenix has built a renowned brand. It is recognized as an industry leader and has earned respect for its innovative quality model. We have done this by focusing on high caliber curriculum and instruction, developing a powerful network of local campuses and management talent and adopting systems and technologies unique in higher education. We are, in fact, unparalleled in the industry."
"As we move toward a future with changing demographics and the potential for even greater promise, we will continue to focus on our core strengths and adopt new strategies that ensure greater efficiencies within our operations. I look forward to working closely with Apollo's solid group of executives and staff and we will continue to address the challenges and meet the opportunities that will ensure our continued success," concluded Mr. Mueller.
Apollo Group, Inc. has been providing higher education programs to working adults for almost 30 years. Apollo Group, Inc., operates through its subsidiaries: The University of Phoenix, Inc., Institute for Professional Development, The College for Financial Planning Institutes Corporation, and Western International University, Inc. The consolidated enrollment in its educational programs makes it the largest private institution of higher education in the United States. It offers educational programs and services at 95 campuses and 153 learning centers in 39 states, Puerto Rico, Alberta, British Columbia, Netherlands, and Mexico.
For more information about Apollo Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries, call (800) 990-APOL or visit Apollo on the company website at: .
www.apollogrp.edu
These forward-looking statements are based on estimates, projections, beliefs, and assumptions of Apollo Group, Inc. and its management and speak only as of the date made and are not guarantees of future performance. Apollo Group, Inc. undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, or any facts, events, or circumstances after the date hereof that may bear upon forward-looking statements. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures Apollo Group, Inc. makes in its reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Kenda B. Gonzales, CFO ~ (800) 990-APOL ~ Janess Pasinski ~Apollo Group, Inc. ~ (800) 990-APOL, option 6 ~ CKPR: Nancy Newton (602) 417-0684 or Lisa Noble (602) 417-0685 ~ or
Company Contact:
kenda.gonzales@apollogrp.edu
Investor Relations Contact:
janess.pasinski@apollogrp.edu
Press Contact:
nnewton@ckpr.biz
lnoble@ckpr.biz


