FILE:APOL/APOL-8K-20070504105514.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(b) On May 2, 2007, Hedy F. Govenar and John M. Blair advised Apollo Group, Inc. (the "Company") of their intention to resign for personal reasons as members of the Companys Board of Directors effective immediately after the Company files its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2006 and its other delinquent reports. After such reports are filed, Ms. Govenar and Mr. Blair will serve on the Board of Directors of the University of Phoenix, Inc. and Western International University, Inc., respectively, both wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Company. Neither Ms. Govenar nor Mr. Blair has advised the Company of any disagreement with the Company on any matter relating to the Companys operations, policies or practices. Ms. Govenar has been a director of the Company since 1997, and Mr. Blair has been a director of the Company since 2000. A copy of the press release announcing the resignations of Ms. Govenar and Mr. Blair, dated May 4, 2007, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference. The information in this Form 8-K shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits. The following exhibit is filed herewith: Exhibit Number Description 99.1 Press Release issued by Apollo Group, Inc., dated May 4, 2007.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Apollo Group, Inc.
News Release
Phoenix, Arizona, May 4, 2007  Apollo Group, Inc. (Nasdaq:APOL) today announced the resignations of Hedy Govenar and John Blair from its Board of Directors, effective immediately after the Company files its delinquent financial reports, which are expected no later than May 25, 2007.
After such reports are filed, Ms. Govenar and Mr. Blair will serve on the Board of Directors for University of Phoenix and Western International University, respectively, both wholly-owned subsidiaries of Apollo Group.
"Hedy Govenar and John Blair have been critical assets to Apollo Group and we value their long-term dedication to the Company," said Brian Mueller, President of Apollo Group. "We look forward to continuing to work with them in their new roles and will appreciate their contributions to our subsidiaries."
Ms. Govenar has been a director of the Company since 1997 and Mr. Blair has served as director of the Company since 2000.
Neither Ms. Govenar nor Mr. Blair advised the Company of any disagreement with the Company on any matter relating to its operations, policies or practices. "We expect," said Mr. Mueller, "that upon completion of the filing of our financial reports we will soon be able to complete our due diligence work on the various candidates for replacement of these Board members."
The current members of the Company's Board of Directors are: John G. Sperling, Founder and Acting Executive Chairman of Apollo Group; Brian Mueller, President of Apollo Group; Peter V. Sperling, Senior Vice President, Secretary and Treasurer of Apollo Group; Dino DeConcini, Vice President and Senior Associate of international business consulting firm, Project International, Inc.; K. Sue Redman, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Texas A&M University; James R. Reis, Executive Vice President of GAINSCO, INC. and Founder and Managing Director of First Western Capital, LLC; and George Zimmer, Founder, CEO and Chairman of Men's Wearhouse, Inc.
Apollo Group, Inc. has been an education provider for more than 30 years, operating the University of Phoenix, the Institute for Professional Development, the College for Financial Planning, Western International University and Insight Schools. The Company offers innovative and distinctive educational programs and services from high school through college level at 262 locations in 39 states, Puerto Rico, Alberta, British Columbia, the Netherlands, and Mexico, as well as online, throughout the world.
For more information about Apollo Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries, call (800) 990-APOL or visit Apollo on the company website at: .
www.apollogrp.edu
Janess Pasinski ~Apollo Group, Inc. ~ (480) 557-1719 ~ Ayla Dickey ~ Apollo Group, Inc. ~ (480) 557-2952 ~
Investor Relations Contact:
janess.pasinski@apollogrp.edu
Press Contact:
ayla.dickey@apollogrp.edu


