FILE:APOL/APOL-8K-20070626174651.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
On June 20, 2007, the Articles of Incorporation of Apollo Group, Inc. ("Apollo Group") were amended. The amendment effected the following changes to the Articles of Incorporation: (i) changed the range of the size of the Board of Directors (the "Board") from between nine and fifteen members to between seven and fifteen members under Article V, (ii) changed the Board from a classified Board to an unclassified Board under Article V; and (iii) modified and added provisions regarding the limitation on liability of directors under Article VII.
The Articles of Amendment to the Articles of Incorporation are set forth in Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K. The previous provisions of the Articles of Incorporation are set forth in Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
The following exhibits are filed herewith:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
The following exhibits are filed herewith:

 
Exhibit 99.1
     A director or former director of the Corporation shall not be liable to the Corporation or its shareholders for money damages for any action taken or any failure to take any action as a director, except liability for any of the following:
     The Corporation may indemnify a director or former director for any liability (as defined in Arizona Revised Statutes  10-850) to any person for any action taken, or any failure to take any action, except liability for any of the following:
The Corporation may advance expenses with respect to any liability for which it may so indemnify, on such terms and conditions as may be determined by the Corporation. The authority of the Corporation to so indemnify and advance expenses shall be in addition to the provisions of Arizona Revised Statutes  10-850 to 10-858 and shall apply whether or not the Corporation would have power to indemnify or advance expenses to the individual against the
 
same liability under the provisions of Arizona Revised Statutes  10-850 to 10-858 in the absence of the above authority. The authority of the Corporation to so indemnify and advance expenses shall be in addition to the provisions of any contract or Corporation bylaw dealing with indemnification or advancement of expenses, provided, however, that any contract or bylaw purporting to make indemnification or advancement of expenses mandatory shall not apply to the indemnification authority pursuant to this ARTICLE VII, which shall remain discretionary. Any determination to indemnify or advance expenses pursuant to this ARTICLE VII shall be made by the Board of Directors of the Corporation by a majority vote. Any director who is a party to any proceeding, or otherwise considered to be interested in such proceeding, shall not be disqualified from voting with respect to any such determination if the director discloses his interest to the other directors; In addition, any determination to indemnify or advance expenses pursuant to this ARTICLE VII may be made by any other authorizing method permitted by law."
     
"1. Number of Directors.
          The number of directors of the Corporation shall be not less than seven (7) nor more than fifteen (15) members, as established from time to time by the Board of Directors. The term of each director holding office at the time of the effective date of this amendment to ARTICLE V, Section 1 shall terminate as of the next Annual Meeting of shareholders entitled to vote on the election of directors, notwithstanding that any of such directors may have been elected to a term that would have extended beyond such date, and the directors elected at such Annual Meeting shall hold such office until the following Annual Meeting of shareholders entitled to vote on the election of directors or until his or her earlier death, resignation, or removal. The foregoing notwithstanding, each director shall serve until his or her successor is duly elected."
     
"3. Removal.
          Except as provided in Section 1 of this ARTICLE V, a director may be removed by the shareholders only for cause at a special meeting of such shareholders, called for such purpose in conformity with the Corporation's Bylaws, and only by an affirmative vote of the holders of two-thirds (2/3) of the voting power of all the shares entitled to vote at such meeting."


