FILE:APOL/APOL-8K-20080116155728.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On January 16, 2008, we issued a press release regarding a verdict in pending securities litigation involving Apollo Group, Inc. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits. The following exhibit is furnished herewith: Exhibit Number Description 99.1 Text of press release issued by Apollo Group, Inc. dated January 16, 2008.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Apollo Group, Inc.
News Release
Phoenix, Arizona, January 16, 2008  Apollo Group, Inc. (Nasdaq:APOL) is disappointed in the decision returned today by a Phoenix jury in a consolidated securities class action brought by the Policemen's Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago. The case, tried in federal district court in Arizona, was premised on Apollo's supposed failure to disclose unsubstantiated allegations from a preliminary government report.
"We disagree with the jury's verdict, both the finding and the amount of damages," said Wayne W. Smith of Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP, counsel to Apollo. "The law does not require the disclosure of preliminary or unproven charges in a government investigation. In not disclosing the report at issue, Apollo acted in good faith and in the best interests of its students, alumni, employees and shareholders, who could have been unfairly harmed by a premature disclosure."
Importantly, the ultimate disclosure of the report's contents caused no statistically significant movement in Apollo's stock price. The plaintiff in the case did not suffer any damages; there simply was no loss associated with the initial report and its unsubstantiated allegations.
During trial, Apollo presented evidence demonstrating that the Company acted responsibly, consulted with professional advisors as appropriate, and at all times communicated truthfully to the market.
Apollo is evaluating options for appeal.
United States District Judge James A. Teilborg presided over the case. In addition to Mr. Smith, Apollo was represented by: Joseph P. Busch III and Jared M. Toffer of Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP; and David R. Rosenbaum of Osborn Maledon, P.A.
More information on the case may be found in Apollo's Legal Information Center at .
www.apollolegal.com
Apollo Group, Inc. has been an education provider for more than 30 years, providing academic access and opportunity to students through its University of Phoenix, Institute for Professional Development, College for Financial Planning, Western International University, Insight Schools and Apollo Global.  It also owns Aptimus, a provider of innovative digital media solutions.  The Company's distinctive educational programs and services are provided at the high school, college and graduate levels at 259 locations in 40 states and the District of Columbia; Puerto Rico; Alberta and British Columbia, Canada; Mexico and the Netherlands, as well as online, throughout the world. 
About Apollo Group, Inc.
For more information about Apollo Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries, call (800) 990-APOL or visit Apollo on the company website at: .
www.apollogrp.edu
Allyson Pooley ~ (312) 660-2025 ~ / Janess Pasinski ~ (480) 557-1719 ~ Sara Jones, Mercury Public Affairs, LLC ~ (818) 326-1871 ~
Investor Relations Contacts:
allyson.pooley@apollogrp.edu
janess.pasinski@apollogrp.edu
Media Contact:
sjones@mercuryllc.com


