FILE:APOL/APOL-8K-20080513160553.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On May 13, 2008, Apollo Group, Inc. issued a press release announcing that it plans to establish a new Canadian institution named Meritus University. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits. The following exhibit is furnished herewith: Exhibit Number 99.1 Description Text of press release of Apollo Group, Inc. dated May 13, 2008.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Apollo Group, Inc.
News Release
Phoenix, Arizona, May 13, 2008 Apollo Group, Inc. (Nasdaq: APOL) ("Apollo Group", "Apollo" or "the Company") today announced that it plans to establish a new Canadian institution, named Meritus University ("Meritus" or "the University"). Following review of program proposals by the Maritime Provinces Higher Education Commission, Meritus University has received approval to offer its first three programs from the New Brunswick Department of Post-Secondary Education, Training and Labour, thereby establishing degree-granting status. Meritus University will be based in Fredericton, New Brunswick, offering complete degree programs online to working professionals throughout Canada and abroad.
"We understand there is a value to Canadian education that transcends Canadian borders," said Greg Cappelli, executive vice president of global strategy for Apollo Group. "Meritus University's mission is to meet Canada's growing demand for advanced education, while making Canadian education, which is highly-regarded internationally, accessible worldwide."
Brian Mueller, president of Apollo Group, added, "With nearly a decade of presence in Canada through Apollo's University of Phoenix, Meritus University is delivering what Canadian students have been telling us they want  academic programs that are competitively-priced and market-relevant, taught by Canadian faculty who hold substantial positions across a wide spectrum of Canadian industries. Meritus University will reflect what Apollo's institutions are known for and what Canadian students say their education be  mobile, global and very effective."
should
New Brunswick is an attractive location because of its positive regulatory and business environment. Building upon Apollo Group's advanced student support systems and New Brunswick's highly-skilled labor pool, Meritus University is expected to be operational later this year.
Minister of Business New Brunswick, Greg Byrne, said, "Meritus will be a welcomed addition to the Fredericton business community. As we chart the course toward self-sufficiency, we know how important it is to create economic opportunities for the people of New Brunswick. Being the home of one of the oldest public universities in North America, and now the newest online degree-granting university in the world, speaks volumes about the progressive business and education environment in New Brunswick."
The three programs approved by the Department are the Master of Business Administration, Bachelor of Business Administration and the Bachelor of Information Technology Management. Meritus University will not seek U.S. accreditation.
Meritus University, Inc. is a New Brunswick, Canada, corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Apollo NB Holding Company, which in turn is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Apollo Group, Inc. Meritus University's mission is to foster relevant and innovative learning that meets the needs of diverse student populations, their employers and communities. Adapting programs to an ever-changing world, Meritus' educational philosophy facilitates critical thinking, collaboration and leadership by integrating academic theory with best-practice applications. The University is inclusive and provides access to students beyond traditional classroom walls, while being respectful of and responsive to diverse learning styles and cultures.
About Meritus University, Inc.
Apollo Group, Inc. has been an education provider for more than 30 years, providing academic access and opportunity to students through its University of Phoenix, Institute for Professional Development, College for Financial Planning, Western International University, Insight Schools and Apollo Global. It also owns Aptimus, a provider of innovative digital media solutions. The Company's distinctive educational programs and services are provided at the high school, college and graduate levels in 40 states (as of February 29, 2008) and the District of Columbia; Puerto Rico; Alberta and British Columbia, Canada; Mexico and Chile; the Netherlands, as well as online throughout the world.
About Apollo Group, Inc.
For more information about Apollo Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries, call (800) 990-APOL or visit the Company's website at www.apollogrp.edu.
Statements in this press release regarding Apollo Group's business outlook, future financial and operating results, and overall future prospects, are forward-looking statements, and are subject to the Safe Harbor provisions created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These forward-looking statements are based on current information and expectations and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those projected in such statements due to various factors.  For a discussion of the various factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, please refer to the risk factors and other disclosures contained in Apollo Group's previously filed Form 10-K, Forms 10-Q, and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Forward-Looking Safe Harbor
Apollo Group, Inc.
Allyson Pooley ~ 312-660-2025 ~
Investor Relations:
allyson.pooley@apollogrp.edu
Maggie Fairs ~ Dicomm Media ~ 800-613-5205 ~ Ryan Donaghy ~ Business New Brunswick ~ 506-453-2694 ~
Canadian Media Contacts:
mfairs@dicommintl.com
Ryan.Donaghy@gnb.ca
Marla Sheiner ~ 602-557-1711 ~
U.S. Media Contact:
marla.sheiner@apollogrp.edu


