FILE:APOL/APOL-8K-20080606090310.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:                         (480) 966-5394
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
     On June 5, 2008, University of Phoenix, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Apollo Group, Inc., released its 2008 Annual Academic Report (the "Report"). A copy of the Report is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
The following exhibit is furnished herewith:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
     EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
The first University of Phoenix Academic Annual Report contains a transparent look at a variety of ways in which the University of Phoenix measures itself in relation to its Mission and social agenda of access and inclusion. The Report was created within the framework laid out by the Spellings Report: access, accountability, quality, and affordability.
The University's role in providing access to higher education has grown over the last thirty-plus years from a degree-completion institution to a comprehensive university offering associate, baccalaureate, graduate, and doctoral degree programs. An institutional culture of assessment has led to a robust internal set of measurements that inform a system of accountability and continuous improvement. Using data from numerous sources, the University reallocates, adjusts, and reinvests its resources to meet the ongoing needs of the students. This reinvestment includes a sophisticated technology infrastructure that both enriches content and enhances delivery.
The Report examines University quality and performance in the context of external measures of success including the Educational Testing Service (ETS) MAPP assessment. Results show that as a group, University of Phoenix students make significant progress in basic content areas from freshman to senior levels. University of Phoenix students often enter their studies with lower scores in the general education areas as compared to more exclusive institutions but perform at levels comparable to seniors at other institutions by the time they graduate.
The University's role in providing access to higher education has grown over the last thirty-plus years from a degree-completion institution to a comprehensive university...
The Report also includes comparative data from the Standardized Assessment of Information Literacy Skills (SAILS). Results in this instance show that University of Phoenix students performed comparably to or better than students at other institutions surveyed.
Because of an open-access admissions policy, a large number of the University of Phoenix students enter the University with a high number of risk factors (as defined by the Department of Education). Despite increased risk factors for completion and lower incoming skills, completion rates for the University are comparable to those reported nationally.
Finally, this Report analyzes the University's financial accountability. Reinvestment of resources into curriculum and technology is highlighted, as well as the issue of affordability of tuition. As a for-profit University operating in the public sector, it is shown that University of Phoenix actually pays back monies to taxpayers for every student it educates as opposed to the costs accrued to taxpayers by its tax-exempt public and non-profit counterparts in higher education.
1
 
     INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW
Mission and Social Agenda
University of Phoenix (UPX) was founded on an agenda of social responsibility to provide educational access to underserved populations. This agenda has served the University and its students well, and the doctrines underpinning that agenda have become an integral part of the culture at University of Phoenix.
UPX has been dedicated to a sector of the population that holds great promise for the future of the country  the middle class. Studieshave shown that a college-educated citizenry is beneficial to the overall health of society. An educated populace results in higher employment rates, better levels of health, and more civic engagement. These factors are all key to the University's Mission.
1
Associate Programs
But providing educational opportunities to all Americans who wish to avail themselves is fraught with challenge. Nationally, approximately half of all incoming freshmenrequire remedial services and 72 percent of all colleges and universities offer remedial coursework. University of Phoenix has worked hard to level the playing field for our students. As an open-access university at the undergraduate level, we have been successful in accepting students who might have been denied admission at other institutions, and we have provided them with the opportunity and tools for success.
2
3
Baccalaureate Programs
BSB
2
 
Baccalaureate Programs cont.
BSB cont.
BSM
BSCOM
BSEd
BSIT
BSCJA
BSOSM
BSHA
BSHS
BSN
BSP
Over the years, the University's institutional and academic maturity has led to its evolution from a degree-completion institution to a comprehensive university, incorporating a range of teaching and learning models. The faculty's focus is on teaching and serving students as interactive learning coaches. Today the University serves more than 300,000 students, has a cadre of more than 20,000 faculty members, and has graduated more than 400,000 alumni.
Graduate Programs
MBA
MSA
MHA
3
 
Graduate Programs cont.
MIS
MSAJS
MSP
MAEd
MSN
MSC
Recent market demands and changing demographics, as well as increases in the need for college-educated workers, have led the University to develop new academic offerings in fields with great demand. By offering more than 100 degree programs at the associate, bachelor, master, and doctoral levels in much-desired employment areas (from business and technology to health care and education), the University has become a comprehensive learning institution responding to today's workplace needs in every sense.
Doctoral Programs
DBA
DM
DHA
EdD
PhD
4
 
Accreditation/Approvals/Regulations
The University of Phoenix is one of the most scrutinized institutions on the American academic landscape. As a for-profit, publicly traded organization, the parent company Apollo Group, Inc. is subject to the rules, regulations, and reporting requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission as well as the governance of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The University is approved in 42 states and currently operates 80 campuses and 114 learning centers in 39 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, two Canadian provinces, and in Mexico and The Netherlands. The University must conform to all state, provincial, and national laws regarding licensed businesses and the regulations of various departments of education and higher education commissions in each distinct locality.
The University of Phoenix holds regional accreditation by the Higher Learning Commission of the North Central Association of Colleges and Schools and has held this accreditation since 1978. In addition to regional accreditation, the University has applied for and been granted programmatic accreditation for several individual academic programs:
5
 
     
ACCOUNTABILITY
Assessment and Continuous Improvement
University of Phoenix places significant emphasis on the importance of assessing student learning. What is gleaned from the assessment process provides the roadmap for continuous improvement at the University. The first step in any assessment process is to agree upon and clearly delineate expected outcomes. To ensure that our students can and do achieve the same skill levels as their contemporaries, the University established university-wide Learning Goals. These goals apply to each student in every program at all degree levels and are incorporated into curricula, instruction, and assessment approaches. These Learning Goals help ensure that University of Phoenix graduates possess the qualities former Secretary of Labor Robert Reich noted as requirements for workers in the new economy, "...to think, solve problems, and learn how to apply skills in new contexts."
4
The University's Learning Goals are as follows:
Professional Competence and Values
Graduates of University of Phoenix will have mastered a specific array of disciplinary knowledge and abilities, and will be able to apply their knowledge immediately in real-world settings. They will demonstrate values and ethics appropriate to their discipline and engage in lifelong learning to improve their professional competence and practice.
Critical Thinking and Problem Solving
Graduates of University of Phoenix will reason clearly and critically. They will be problem solvers, able to identify and evaluate problems, utilize critical thinking skills to recommend and select among alternative solutions, implement solutions and evaluate consequences.
Communication
Graduates of University of Phoenix will communicate verbally and in writing in a clear, concise and correct manner. They will use proper grammar and punctuation. They will analyze the needs and abilities of their audiences, choose from a variety of communication tools, adjust the content of messages, and deliver their messages accordingly.
Information Utilization
Graduates of University of Phoenix will be adept at accessing and utilizing information. They will research issues, gather information from a variety of sources, analyze the plausibility and accuracy of information regardless of source, and utilize information appropriately to address issues or inform action.
Collaboration
Graduates of University of Phoenix will work effectively in diverse groups and teams to achieve tasks. They will be collaborators, able to function well in team settings as both leaders and followers. They will respect diversity and behave in a tolerant manner toward colleagues and those they serve.
The Assessment Process
The University has developed a robust assessment process that comprises an all-encompassing Institutional Quality Improvement System. The purpose of the Institutional Quality Improvement System is to provide evidence that the institution is meeting its
6
 
mission through continuous assessments based on a comprehensive array of quality control and assurance instruments. A major component of this plan is the assessment of student learning.
The University's continuous search for the best ways to assure quality control led to the adoption of an Academic Assessment Plan (AAP), designed to demonstrate that our graduates meet programmatic and University Learning Goals. The AAP is comprised of four ongoing and iterative steps. These include:
In order to ensure students are meeting the goals, each college has developed an assessment matrix that outlines specific learning outcomes aligned to the University Learning Goals. Multiple methods have been identified to assess each outcome. Additionally, to ensure the assessments are both reliable and valid, the Department of Learning Assessment employs trained external evaluators who use scoring rubrics that support the evaluation of authentic assessment.
The ingrained culture of assessment at the University provides the administration with the ability to "close the loop." Taking the information gained through the assessment process, the University is able to appropriately allocate time, resources, and technological expertise to improve the student learning experience and enhance student success.
The ability to fully integrate assessment into University-wide systems, from learning outcomes to student satisfaction, has afforded University of Phoenix a unique opportunity to reinvest resources. This is discussed more fully later in the Report under the section
Financial Accountability.
Learning Outcomes
Learning Assessment Alignment Model
7
 
     ACCESS: A PHILOSOPHY OF INCLUSION
Our Students
In 2007 the University of Phoenix was listed by the magazine as having graduated the largest number of underrepresented students in master's degree programs.
Diverse Issues in Higher Education
Throughout its history the University has sought to provide access to higher education to underserved populations. The diversity index at the University of Phoenix is well above the national average  expanding the scholarly community and providing greater opportunities for underrepresented populations to advance their personal and professional lives.
In terms of gender, women make up the majority of the student body at the University of Phoenix. The percentage of female-to-male students is slightly higher than the national average.
8
 
Our Faculty
The University employs a strong cadre of carefully selected academics as the Core Faculty that oversees curriculum and instruction. The Core Faculty is complemented by a large team of Associate Faculty members with advanced academic degrees and years of experience in the fields in which they teach. Our faculty help students relate to the world of work, help them make connections between theoretical and practical application, and bring immediate relevance to content.
The University currently has a faculty of over 20,000 Associate Faculty and approximately 1,500 Core Faculty members.
University of Phoenix encourages a culture of disciplined inquiry among its faculty and a commitment to keeping themselves professionally up to date. These are important factors necessary to implement all aspects of its Mission. University of Phoenix faculty members are therefore encouraged to be, and are rewarded for being, actively involved in academic and professional scholarly activities.
9
 
     QUALITY
The following sets of data represent baseline information that measures the success of University assessment systems internally and compares those results to national norms using third-party, standardized tools. Although this first pass is not perfect in all aspects, it sets a baseline for continued assessment of our systems as gauged by our own systems and comparisons to external norms.
Student Satisfaction Surveys
Recently, institutions of higher education have put additional focus on student satisfaction. Annually Noel-Levitz,an educational management company, conducts and publishes the National Student Satisfaction and Priorities Report. The report suggests that institutions can use the results to "gauge whether an institution is providing an experience that students deem worthwhile." Current research supports the link between student perceived value and satisfaction, to retention, motivation, and even student success.
5
6
7
University of Phoenix regularly conducts student satisfaction surveys and uses the results to allocate resources and to prioritize and implement change within the organization. Following results are examples of the type of assessments regularly conducted.
Student Academic Satisfaction
Student Services Satisfaction
Graduate Satisfaction
10
 
Alumni Satisfaction
ETS MAPP
The Educational Testing Service (ETS) is a non-profit organization whose mission is to "advance quality and equity in education for all people worldwide." ETS administers the MAPP (Measure of Academic Proficiency and Progress) assessment, a test of college-level skills in critical thinking, reading, writing, and mathematics, to undergraduate students. The assessment was developed to assist institutions in the assessment of the outcomes of general education programs to improve the quality of instruction and learning.
8
ETS defines "college level" skills for each of the four areas of assessment as:
9
Reading questions measure students' ability to...
Writing questions measure students' ability to...
Critical thinking questions measure students' ability to...
11
 
Mathematics questions measure students' ability to...
A total of 1,966 University of Phoenix students voluntarily participated in the MAPP assessment. It was administered online.
As shown on the following tables, University of Phoenix students were compared...
*University of Phoenix Freshmen are defined as those completing from 1 to 30 credits. University of Phoenix Seniors are defined as those having completed more than 90 credits.
The results of the MAPP assessment as shown on the line graphs to follow indicate that...
12
 
MAPP-Institutional Comparisons All Students
Specialized Institutions include schools of business and management; law; medicine; engineering and technology; art, music and design.
MAPP-Institutional Comparisons Seniors
Specialized Institutions include schools of business and management; law; medicine; engineering and technology; art, music and design.
MAPP-Institutional Comparisons Freshmen
Specialized Institutions include schools of business and management; law; medicine; engineering and technology; art, music and design.
13
 
MAPP-University of Phoenix Freshmen vs. Seniors
The difference between all the means is statistically significant at an alpha level of 0.05.
The effect size (Cohen's d) for the means is between 0.20  0.50.
As the following graph shows, UPX students enter with critical thinking scores a little lower than their counterparts at all institutions. However, by the time they reach their senior year, UPX students have mastered these skills at comparable levels to other students.
MAPP-Freshmen vs. Seniors  Critical Thinking Score Comparison
UPX students begin with a reading level skill scoring below students at all institutions in the US and at about the same level as students at master's level institutions. When they graduate, UPX students' reading skills have increased at rates comparable to their peers.
MAPP-Freshmen vs. Seniors  Reading Score Comparison
14
 
Students at the University of Phoenix spend a great deal of time writing assignments and communicating. As exemplified in the following graph, although UPX students enter with writing skills at a considerably lower level than students at other institutions, by the time they graduate, writing skill scores have risen to comparable levels as their peers at other institutions.
MAPP-Freshmen vs. Seniors  Writing Score Comparison
As an open-admissions institution at the undergraduate level, University of Phoenix accepts students with varying abilities in mathematics. As the graph below shows, this particular skill set for entering students is well below other institutions. By the time the students are seniors, the mathematics skills scores have risen significantly.
MAPP-Freshmen vs. Seniors  Mathematics Score Comparison
15
 
SAILS Standardized Assessment
The Standardized Assessment of Information Literacy Skills(SAILS) is a 40-item standardized, multiple-choice assessment designed to measure undergraduate students' information literacy skills. More specifically, the SAILS program is used to assess the following skill sets:
10
The skills sets are based on the Association of College and Research Libraries' (ACRL) Information Literacy Competency Standards for Higher Education: Standards, Performance Indicators, and Outcomes. The standards on which the SAILS assessment is based are as follows:
11
The information literate student...
 
In December 2007 a total of 14,636 University of Phoenix undergraduate students were contacted via email and asked to take the SAILS assessment voluntarily. The invitation was sent to a group comprised of 5,256 associate degree students and 9,380 baccalaureate students. The latter group of students was selected at random from across all undergraduate academic programs. The associate degree-seeking students were randomly selected from the overall pool of Sophomores (those students who had completed between 31 and 60 credits) enrolled in the Associate of Arts in Business program. Due to the presence of email scanning devices on some student computers, not all the students received the email invitation to participate in the SAILS assessment. A total of 1,170 students completed the assessment, for a response rate of 7.99%.
16
 
The results were used to compare University of Phoenix students in a variety of ways. The first was to compare University of Phoenix students to other students at all institutions of higher education participating in the SAILS program. This included two-year community colleges, baccalaureate institutions, as well as master's institutions.
The following results for the University of Phoenix students showed that they:
SAILS University of Phoenix Institutional Comparison
University of Phoenix and All institutions participating in the SAILS program
17
 
When compared to other students at other master's institutions, University of Phoenix students:
SAILS University of Phoenix Institutional Comparison
University of Phoenix and Master's institutions participating in the SAILS program
After comparisons to other institutions were completed, the information was used to compare University of Phoenix students to one another. In a comparison of entering Freshmen (those successfully completing from 1 to 30 credits) to those who were Seniors (those having successfully completed 90 or more credits) the data showed that the Seniors:
18
 
SAILS University of Phoenix Internal Comparison
University of Phoenix Freshmen vs Seniors
As an institution with significant student populations both in the physical classroom and online, University of Phoenix is well positioned to compare student performance in the two modalities. In this regard, two sample groups were identified. The first were the campus-based students who completed the majority of their courses (at least 75 percent) through the traditional venue of the physical classroom. The comparison group was made up of students who completed 100 percent of their courses through the online venue. The results were as follows:
19
 
SAILS University of Phoenix Modality Comparison
University of Phoenix On Campus students vs Online students
These findings are in accord with the "No Significant Difference Phenomenon" as cited by Thomas Russell in his 2001 bookof the same name, with one exception. In the University of Phoenix SAILS comparison, students taking 100 percent of their courses online were able to develop a research strategy better than the campus based students, but in all other areas online and campus students were found to have equivalent skills.
12
As with all quantitative research, the analytic framework is limited. When interpreting the results of the SAILS Program research with the University of Phoenix students, it should be noted that the sample pool did not represent a pure random sample, and the small sample sizes in some response categories led to larger standard errors. The SAILS
20
 
program allows institutions to self-select the institution type (e.g. bachelor's, master's, doctoral). Benchmark comparisons are based on these classifications, and some of the items in the assessment may not apply to University of Phoenix students.
Predictors of College Success
A number of predictors of student success (or lack thereof) in higher education have been researched over the years. Most national sources cite high school grades, most specifically the Grade Point Average (GPA), as a common forecaster. This is shown below.
High School GPA as Predictor of Degree Completion
High School Grades vs. USA Bachelor Completion
Data Source: Degree Attainment Rates at American Colleges and Universities, January, 2005.
The University of Phoenix has identified other predictors, one of the most salient of which is the number of transfer credits students enter the University with, as indicated in the graph below.
Transfer Credits vs. UPX Bachelor Completion Rate (%)
Data Source: UPX cohort 11/1998 to 3/2000.
21
 
Inclusion and reaching out to underserved populations are at the heart of the University's Mission. The University of Phoenix admission requirements to the associate and baccalaureate programs are that students must have successfully completed high school or have earned a GED. Students are not required to have a minimum high school GPA and high school transcripts are not requested.
Students are excluded from traditional institutions for a number of reasons (financial, geographic, academic), all of which affect the completion rates at those institutions. Like their European cousins, many American institutions only admit the academic and financial elite. Students entering these universities not only have the requisite academic pedigree, few have risk factors identified as stumbling blocks to degree completion. The risk factors as identified by the Department of Education include the following:
14
At the University of Phoenix the majority of all students in the 2003 cohort studied and profiled below had risk factors 6 and 7. Further, increased risk factors are part of what defines non-traditional students. These increased risk factors  being parents, needing to enroll on a part-time basis, or not having a high school diploma  are some of the very reasons our students cite for enrolling in the University of Phoenix.
As shown in the graph below, University of Phoenix students with two risk factors completed at a rate of 55% as compared to students at institutions reported by the Department of Education who completed at a rate of 20%. As the risks increase in number, the completion rate for both sets of students decreases. The University of Phoenix students with three, four, and even five risk factors complete at higher rates than the national norm. Finally UPX students with six risk factors complete at a rate of 18%.
Number of Risk Factors vs. Bachelor Completion Rate
Note: Almost all UPX students in the 19982000 cohort studied had R6 and R7 risk factors because UPX required students at that time to be working and 23 years old.
22
 
Completion Rates
Using Department of Education-identified risk factors for student success, one might expect that the University of Phoenix would suffer low completion rates. In contrasting similar UPX and national cohorts, however, the results show that University of Phoenix students' rate of degree completion is comparable with national completion rates.
All primary providers of postsecondary educationin the United States must report data on enrollments, program completions, and graduation rates as well as other institutional information to the Department of Education for publication in the Integrated Postsecondary Education Data System or IPEDS.
15
The issue for institutions such as the University of Phoenix is that IPEDS data is calculated using "first-time students." These are students who start at one institution and complete their entire degree at that same institution. That student is an anomaly at University of Phoenix. The University of Phoenix began as a degree-completion institution; an institution that students sought out to finish what they had started; an institution to which students who had accumulated varying degrees of college credits came to complete their major course of study. Until the advent of the associate degree program at the University, students with zero transfer credits were a rarity. Therefore, the completion rates reported to IPEDS differ from the completion rates calculated by using the true population of the University, most of whom do not fall within the IPEDS definition.
Those rates are reported below for the associate, baccalaureate, and graduate programs at the University of Phoenix and in the following table for the same groups on a national level. As stated previously, the University of Phoenix rates are comparable to the National Completion Rates as reported by the Office of Economic Development.
Completion Rates
 
These results validate the Mission of the University as an inclusive institution dedicated to serving high-risk students. We provide access to these students who, as a result of their studies and learning, go on to graduate with knowledge and skill levels comparable to or better than standard measures and at a completion rate that is comparable to the norm in American higher education.
23
 
     
FINANCIAL ACCOUNTABILITY
In today's highly politicized education environment, it is difficult to separate academic accountability from financial accountability. Institutions of higher learning vie not only for students but also for dollars. Taxpayers increasingly want to know where their money is going and how effective colleges are with their spending. The dramatic demographic shifts in the U.S. populationin which too few Americans participate and complete a higher education because they are under-funded and under-preparedmake it imperative that both the private for-profit and public non-profit sectors work to ensure that a college education is both available and affordable.
University of Phoenix, like many other open access institutions, is already wrestling with the meaning and impact of these demographic shifts. As we open our doors even wider to accommodate the growth we see in underserved students, it has been necessary to expand our investments into research and learning resources as well.
Reinvestment of Resources
The development of our online learning system, which began in 1989, has resulted in a scalable platform that allows us to make curriculum enhancements and changes in very short timeframes. In addition, as our assessment process helps us to identify where changes must be made in technology, curriculum or support systems, the University has learned to quickly identify and invest resources specifically targeted toward helping students achieve the learning outcomes. In this way we can "close the loop" on our assessment process in ways that affect the entire institution quickly and effectively.
For example, in 2000 the University began providing all course materials and textbooks, in electronic format via the Internet. This move is an essential and ongoing strategy to support students in the achievement of the Learning Goals by developing their abilities to access and organize electronic information, providing a means for collaboration, and introducing new learning tools that assist with critical thinking skills, communication, and professional competence. Key elements of this electronic resource system include ebooks, simulations, virtual organizations, writing and math support services, electronic portfolios, and a virtual library of more than 100 databases.
Currently, the University of Phoenix offers over 1,700 courses on campus and online. Almost all courses (1,683) are technologically enhanced, 255 of those courses use simulations, more than 400 courses direct students to the virtual organizations to solve problems, and approximately 100 courses utilize electronic portfolios. By providing electronic access to these materials, the University is in a position of being able to track usage and know if our students are accessing the learning tools and materials provided.
16
Student Tutorial Help (for month of February 2008)
24
 
University Electronic Library
Electronic Textbook Collection
The University of Phoenix National Research Center
Reinvestment in our students' continued academic progress includes investments in research. In May 2008, the University announced the establishment of the University of Phoenix National Research Center (NRC) to drive continued significant and innovative research initiatives in teaching and learning among students, particularly non-traditional students, in higher education.
In support of its mission, the NRC will study and monitor developments in the field of higher education and how best to enhance the role played by University of Phoenix, particularly as it relates to innovative teaching and learning methods, educational technology, and issues of student achievement and retention, accountability, affordability, access and inclusion. The NRC will also work to enhance the University's research agenda, facilitating, supporting, and promoting faculty and student research. As a leader in adult higher education, as well as in technologically-enhanced delivery of education, University of Phoenix seeks to enrich the literature in these areas by developing a repository of information and research opportunities that will inform continued research in learning models, learning styles, and especially in dealing with the next generations of learners.
17
Affordability
Affordability goes hand-in-hand with accountability. To fulfill our social agenda, we must be able to provide education that benefits both our students and the communities in which they live.
Affordability for students at University of Phoenix takes into account both direct and indirect costs. Tuition and fees are maintained in the mid-range nationally for private universities. Textbooks and materials are dramatically lower than average, due to our technological innovations and scale, which have enabled us to pass significant savings on to our students.
Affordability of a college education must also take into account the indirect costs of time to degree completion and the ability of students to continue working while enrolled. The University's contemporary scheduling model plays a significant role in the affordability equation. That students can enroll sequentially and on a continuous basis, obtaining the courses they need almost any week of the year (rather than in standard semester terms), is no small factor in the success and the affordability for most UPX students.
25
 
Last but not least on the affordability and accountability spectrum is the public cost of a private sector education. We know what the cost of a public education is because it garners significant political and public debate both locally and nationally. What is not so well-known, however, is that a private sector institution such as the University of Phoenix actually pays back approximately $300 per student, when one calculates the difference in factors between tax-exempt status, tuition subsidies and various other forgone taxes. In an era marked by increasing tuition and decreasing state and federal funds for higher education, this becomes an essential element of financial accountability.
This information is encapsulated below with a set of related definitions and sources.
Operational Definitions & Procedures for Net Cost to Taxpayers Per Student: "30,000 ft. View"
November 2007
General Note: Unless otherwise noted the data tables referred to are from the IPEDS 2004/Spring Compendium Tables. This can be found at http://nces.ed.gov/das/library/tables_listings/Spring2005.asp
The data for 4-year and 2-year institutions were summed. Data from less-than-2-year institutions were not used.
1  Number of Students  Full-Time Equivalent
The number of FTE students was drawn from:
26
 
2  Direct Government Support
Drawn from IPEDS Table 21. . Line items include:
Revenues of Title IV institutions, by level of institution, accounting standards utilized, and source of funds: United States, fiscal year 2004
27
 
3  Auxiliary Enterprises
Drawn from IPEDS Table 21. . Revenues not coming from government or tuition. Line items include:
Revenues of Title IV institutions, by level of institution, accounting standards utilized, and source of funds: United States, fiscal year 2004
28
 
4  Student Loans  Interest Rate Subsidy
Federally guaranteed student loans are currently available at a discounted rate of 6.8 percent which equates to approximately a 7.3 annual percentage rate. A similar, unsecured loan would have an interest rate in the range of 10 to 10.5 percent. The difference amounts to a federal subsidy for higher education that was estimated to be three percent. The size of the subsidy was estimated with a six-step process.
29
 
5  Expected Future Student Loan Losses Due to Default
6  Taxes Forgone on Endowments  Investment Income
7  Taxes Forgone on Additions to Endowments
Similarly contributions to the endowments of public and not-for-profit institutions avoid income taxes.
8  Taxes Forgone on Gifts, Grants, and Contracts
Gifts, grants, and contracts received by public and not-for-profit institutions have tax consequences for the donors. The income taxes avoided was estimated to be 30 percent. Capital appropriations for public institutions was assumed to be of no cost to the tax payers since one asset, cash, is being transferred into another asset of equal value such as a building or infrastructures.
9  Taxes Forgone on Corporate Profits
The Apollo Group paid approximately 9.9 percent of its total revenue in income taxes. A similar percentage was applied to public and non-for-profit schools to estimate the taxes these institutions avoided. Total revenue data was gathered from IPEDS Table 21.
10  Sales and Other Taxes Forgone
Similarly, Apollo Group company records estimated that .5 percent of total revenue was paid for sales and use taxes, personal property taxes, and real property taxes. This was an extremely conservative estimate because it was calculated only from supplier
30
 
invoices that itemized the amount of taxes paid. This percentage (.5 %) was applied to the total revenues of public and not-for-profit schools as an estimate of the additional taxes avoided.
11  Tax on Corporate Profits
Corporate taxes paid by for-profit institutions was estimated from total revenue (IPEDS Table 21 and Apollo Group 2004 Annual Report) at a rate of 9.9 percent.
12  Sales and Other Taxes
Sales and other taxes paid by for-profit institutions was estimated from total revenue (IPEDS Table 21 and Apollo Group 2004 Annual Report) at a rate of .5 percent.
13  Research Expense
The amount of money spent on research activities was drawn from IPEDS Table 23. .
Expenses of Title IV institutions, by level of institution, accounting standards utilized, and type of expense: United States, fiscal year 2004
Endnotes
1
http://www.policyanalyst.com/articles/education/000002.htm
Spellings Report, page 11, http://www.ed.gov/about/bdscomm/list/hiedfuture/reports/0809-draft.pdf
2
http://nces.ed.gov/programs/digest/d07/tables/dt07_317.asp
3
4
www.yale.edu/ynhti/pubs/A16/reich.html
https://www.noellevitz.com/About+Us
5
2007 National Research Report,
6
https://www.noellevitz.com/NR/rdonlyres/CB7710B8-C2B9-4F93-99D6-BEBEEC9488F4/0/2007NationalStudentSatisfactionReport.pdf
Kara, Ali. Penn State University  York Campus, DeShields, Oscar W., Jr., California State University, Northridge. "Business Student Satisfaction, Intentions and Retention in Higher Education: An Empirical Investigation. Fall 2004. http://www.elmar-list.org/MEQ_Vol_3/student_satisfaction.pdf
7
8
www.ets.org
MAPP User's Guide, Draft 2007
9
10
www.projectsails.org/sails/aboutsails.php
11
http://www.ala.org/ala/acrl/acrlstandards/standards.pdf
12
http://nosignificantdifference.wcet.info/faq.asp
Degree Attainment Rates at American Colleges and Universities, Revised Edition, January 2005, University of California, Los Angeles
13
National Center for Educational Statistics,
14
http://nces.ed.gov/das/epubs/showTable.asp?pubNumber=19&tableNumber=C&dir=2002168
According to their website (http://nces.ed.gov/IPEDS/about/#box1), "IPEDS defines postsecondary education as a formal program designed primarily for students beyond the compulsory' high school age. This includes programs whose purpose is academic, vocational, or continuing professional education, and excludes avocational and adult basic education programs."
15
Numbers provided by University of Phoenix, Department of Curriculum Design and Development
16
University of Phoenix Press Release May 6, 2008
17
http://www.upxnewsroom.com/news/
31
 
University of Phoenix Administrative Officers
32
 


