FILE:APOL/APOL-8K-20080625090122.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
     (b) On June 25, 2008, Apollo Group, Inc. (the "Company") announced the resignation of Brian Mueller as President and a member of the Board of Directors of the Company, effective June 24, 2008.
     (c) The Company's Board of Directors has appointed Joseph L. D'Amico, who is the Company's current Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, as the Company's interim President (and principal executive officer), effective June 24, 2008.
A copy of the Company's press release announcing Mr. Mueller's resignation and Mr. D'Amico's appointment is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits.
The following exhibit is furnished herewith:
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
PHOENIX, June 25, 2008  Apollo Group, Inc. (Nasdaq:APOL) ("Apollo Group," "Apollo" or "the Company") today announced the resignation of Brian Mueller as President and Director, effective immediately.
"We are thankful for Brian's many years of service to the Company and for the instrumental role he has played in our success," said John G. Sperling, founder and acting Executive Chairman of the Board. "His contributions to Apollo during the course of his 20-year career are numerous and we wish him well."
Mueller served as President of Apollo Group since early 2006 and previously as CEO of University of Phoenix's online campus. Throughout the course of his career with Apollo and University of Phoenix, he served in a series of leadership roles in the organization.
Apollo Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, Joseph L. D'Amico will serve as interim President. Sperling noted, "Joe has been involved in all aspects of our operation and we are highly confident in his abilities to lead Apollo."
Commenting on the transition, Greg Cappelli, Executive Vice President, Global Strategy and Assistant to the Executive Chairman, stated, "Apollo is engaged in a CEO search process. And, we are very fortunate to have an extremely talented and long tenured executive and managerial group and we will continue to look to their leadership."
About Apollo Group, Inc.
Apollo Group, Inc. has been an education provider for more than 30 years, providing academic access and opportunity to students through its University of Phoenix, Institute for Professional
 
Development, College for Financial Planning, Western International University, Meritus University, Insight Schools and Apollo Global. It also owns Aptimus, a provider of innovative digital media solutions. The Company's distinctive educational programs and services are provided at the high school, college and graduate levels in 40 states (as of February 29, 2008) and the District of Columbia; Puerto Rico; Alberta and British Columbia, Canada; Mexico; Chile; and the Netherlands, as well as online throughout the world.
Investor Relations Contacts:
Allyson Pooley ~ (312) 660-2025 ~
allyson.pooley@apollogrp.edu
Media Contact:
Keri Ruiz ~ (602) 417-0695 ~
kruiz@ckpr.biz


