FILE:APOL/APOL-8K-20090608060049.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
     On June 7, 2009, Apollo UK Acquisition Company Limited ("Acquisition Company") and Apollo Global, Inc. ("Apollo Global") entered into an Implementation Agreement (the "Implementation Agreement") with BPP Holdings plc ("BPP"), a company registered in England and Wales. Pursuant to the Implementation Agreement, Acquisition Company issued an announcement (the "Rule 2.5 Announcement") pursuant to Rule 2.5 of the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers (the "City Code") disclosing that Acquisition Company and BPP had agreed on the terms of a recommended all cash acquisition (the "Acquisition") by Acquisition Company for the entire issued and to be issued ordinary share capital of BPP, for cash of 620 pence per share. The Acquisition values BPP's existing issued and to be issued share capital at approximately 304 million (approximately $484 million based upon the current exchange rate). Acquisition Company is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Apollo Global, which is an 80.1% owned subsidiary of Apollo Group, Inc.
     It is expected that the Acquisition will be effected by means of a scheme of arrangement (the "Scheme") under Part 26 of the UK Companies Act 2006. A scheme of arrangement involves an application by BPP to the High Court of Justice in England and Wales (the "Court") to sanction the Scheme and to confirm the reduction of BPP's share capital associated with the cancellation and extinguishing of the Scheme Shares (as defined below) provided for by the Scheme under section 137 of the Companies Act 1985 ("Capital Reduction"), that would enable Acquisition Company to become the owner of the entire issued share capital of BPP. The Scheme is subject to the approval at the meeting or meetings of the holders of Scheme Shares ("Scheme Shareholders") (and any adjournment thereof) to be convened pursuant to an order of the Court under Part 26 of the Companies Act 2006 for the purposes of considering and, if thought fit, approving the Scheme (with or without amendment) (the "Court Meeting"). Such approval requires the affirmative vote of a majority in number representing three-fourths or more in value of the Scheme Shareholders present and voting, either in person or by proxy, at the Court Meeting (or at any adjournment thereof).
     In addition, the Scheme will require special resolutions of BPP shareholders (the "General Meeting Resolutions") approving, among other things, the implementation of the Scheme and the Capital Reduction at an extraordinary general meeting of BPP shareholders to be convened in connection with the Scheme (the "General Meeting") by at least three-fourths of the votes cast. Furthermore, the Court must sanction the Scheme and confirm the Capital Reduction, and an office copy of the order of the Court sanctioning the Scheme under Part 26 of the Companies Act (the "Scheme Court Order") and of the Reduction Court Order and minute of such reduction attached thereto must be delivered to the Registrar of Companies, and in the case of the Reduction Court Order and minute, registered by the Registrar of Companies. If the Scheme becomes effective, it will be binding on all BPP shareholders, irrespective of whether they attended or how they voted at the Court Meeting or the General Meeting.
     "Scheme Shares" are the BPP shares:
Table of Contents
     Scheme Shares, however, do not include any BPP shares beneficially owned by Apollo Group, Inc. or its subsidiaries or held by BPP in treasury at or prior to the Capital Reduction Record Time.
     Under the Implementation Agreement, in lieu of the Scheme, Acquisition Company may, with the consent of the Panel on Takeovers and Mergers (the "Panel"), elect at any time to implement the proposed Acquisition by means of a takeover offer ("Offer"), provided that Acquisition Company must consult with BPP before making such election and shall consider any representations which BPP may make, and the terms and conditions of the Offer must in all material respects be at least as favorable to BPP's shareholders as the Scheme. If Acquisition Company elects to implement the proposed Acquisition by way of an Offer, the BPP directors must unanimously give an unqualified recommendation of the Offer except to the extent that the BPP directors have determined in good faith and in compliance with their fiduciary duties that such recommendation would not be in BPP shareholders' interests.
     BPP has entered into an inducement fee and exclusivity agreement with Apollo Global (on behalf of Acquisition Company) under which BPP has undertaken, among other things, not to solicit or initiate any possible offer for BPP or any other transaction which is inconsistent with, or an alternative to, the Acquisition. BPP has agreed to pay Acquisition Company an inducement fee equal to one percent of the value of the Acquisition (inclusive of any recoverable VAT), calculated on a fully diluted basis, if an Independent Inconsistent Transaction (as defined below) is announced under Rule 2.5 of the City Code which is subsequently approved or recommended by the BPP directors or subsequently becomes or is declared unconditional in all respects or is completed. If BPP is approached by a third party with a view to entering into a transaction which involves a change of control of at least 50 percent of the BPP shares, or which involves or contemplates the transfer of any interest in the whole, or substantially the whole of the undertaking, assets and/or business of BPP or any of its subsidiaries (an "Independent Inconsistent Transaction"), and prior to such Independent Inconsistent Transaction becoming the subject of an announcement under Rule 2.5 of the City Code the BPP directors determine (acting reasonably and in good faith) that they are intending to recommend such Independent Inconsistent Transaction, then BPP must, as soon as reasonably practicable, notify Acquisition Company of the fact of that approach and shall provide Acquisition Company a period of 72 hours to revise and amend the terms of the Acquisition during which they will not recommend the Independent Inconsistent Transaction. If Acquisition Company revises the terms of the Acquisition so that the value of the consideration is not less than the value offered by the Independent Inconsistent Transaction, the BPP directors shall recommend the revised Acquisition to the BPP shareholders.
     Under the Implementation Agreement, Acquisition Company and BPP have agreed to make antitrust filings to the Office of Fair Trading in the United Kingdom as soon as reasonably practicable and to assist and consult with each other in the preparation of such filings.
     The Acquisition is conditional upon the Scheme becoming effective by not later than November 30, 2009, or such later date as Acquisition Company and BPP may, with the consent of the Panel, agree and (if required) the Court may allow. The Scheme is also subject to satisfaction or waiver of certain conditions set forth in the Rule 2.5 Announcement, including:
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the Implementation Agreement, Acquisition Company may invoke any of the preceding conditions only with the consent of the Panel to invoke such condition with the effect that BPP would cause the Scheme to lapse and Acquisition Company would not be required to proceed with the Acquisition. There can be no assurance that the Panel would permit Acquisition Company to invoke any condition with such effect. The Acquisition will lapse and the Scheme will not proceed (unless the Panel otherwise consents) if before the date of the Court Meeting the Office of Fair Trading has referred the Acquisition to the Competition Commission. In addition, if the Scheme does not become effective on or before November 30, 2009, it will lapse and the Acquisition will not proceed, unless the Panel otherwise consents.
     The Implementation Agreement will terminate if:
     The Acquisition is expected to be funded with cash provided by Apollo Global, which may elect to finance all or a portion of its funding with external debt providers.
     The foregoing description of the Implementation Agreement and the Rule 2.5 Announcement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Implementation Agreement and the Rule 2.5 Announcement, which are attached as Exhibits 2.1 and 2.2, respectively, to this Current Report on Form 8-K. It is expected that the Scheme Document will be sent to BPP shareholders as soon as practicable.
Table of Contents
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
     On June 8, 2009, Apollo Group, Inc. issued a press release announcing the execution of the Implementation Agreement by Acquisition Company and BPP and the issuance of the Rule 2.5 Announcement by Acquisition Company. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
     The information in Item 7.01 of this Form 8-K and Exhibit 99.1 furnished herewith shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that section, nor shall they be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in any such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
The following exhibits are provided herewith:
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 2.1
 
Implementation Agreement
 
 
 
BETWEEN
BACKGROUND
OPERATIVE PROVISIONS:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Signed by the duly authorised representatives of the parties on the date stated at the beginning of this Agreement.
 
 
The parties recognise that the Timetable may be affected by factors outside the control of the parties including but not limited to:

Exhibit 2.2
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
8 June 2009
Not for release, publication or distribution in whole or in part, in, into or from the United States, Canada, Australia or Japan or any other jurisdiction where it is unlawful to do so
The board of Apollo UK, a newly-incorporated, wholly-owned subsidiary of Apollo Global, and the board of BPP are pleased to announce the terms of a recommended all cash offer for the entire issued and to be issued share capital of BPP by Apollo UK.
Apollo Global, a joint venture formed in 2007, is 80.1 per cent. owned by Apollo Group, Inc. and 19.9 per cent. owned by private equity firm The Carlyle Group. Apollo Global was formed with the intention of making a range of investments in the international education services sector. Apollo Group has been an education provider for more than 30 years and has established itself as a leading provider of higher education programmes in the United States that meet the needs of the working adult.
Transaction summary
 
 
BPP Board's recommendation
Commenting on the Acquisition, Gregory Cappelli, Co-Chief Executive Officer of Apollo Group, Inc. and Chairman of Apollo Global, Inc. said:
"We're thrilled to be joining forces with this outstanding education institution in the UK. The combination of our brands, educational offerings and technological capabilities will provide greater opportunities for students and employees of both institutions. We look forward to working together and building upon the success of this premier organisation."
David Sugden, Chairman of BPP, said:
"The offer from Apollo UK provides an excellent opportunity for all of our stakeholders. For shareholders, it presents an opportunity to realise an attractive premium in cash for their shareholding at a time of economic uncertainty and at a very early stage in the development of our Business School. For our employees, it allows them to continue their excellent work in making BPP a leading education provider but to do so with the additional benefit of the scale of resources and expertise that Apollo can provide. For our customers, they will see our educational products enhanced by the expertise that Apollo will bring whilst enjoying continuity in the people and facilities that they are used to
 
dealing with. Everyone who has been involved in BPP in the 33 years since it was founded can be proud of the great company that it is today."
This summary should be read in conjunction with, and is subject to, the full text of the following announcement (including its Appendices). Appendix III to the following announcement contains definitions of certain terms used in this summary and the following announcement.
In accordance with Rule 19.11 of the City Code, a copy of this announcement will be published on the following websites: www.bpp.com/ir/ and www.apollogroup.edu.
PRESS ENQUIRIES
For further information contact:
Apollo Global, Inc. and Apollo Group, Inc.
 
Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Limited ("Credit Suisse"), which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority in the United Kingdom, is acting for Apollo UK and Apollo Global and for no one else in connection with the Acquisition and will not be responsible to any person other than Apollo UK and Apollo Global for providing the protections afforded to clients of Credit Suisse, nor for providing advice in relation to the Acquisition, the content of this announcement or any matter referred to herein. Neither Credit Suisse nor any of its subsidiaries, branches or affiliates owes or accepts any duty, liability or responsibility whatsoever (whether direct or indirect, whether in contract, in tort, under statute or otherwise) to any person who is not a client of Credit Suisse in connection with this announcement, any statement contained herein or otherwise.
Hawkpoint Partners Limited ("Hawkpoint"), which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority, is acting for BPP and no one else in connection with the Acquisition and will not be responsible to any person other than BPP for providing the protections afforded to clients of Hawkpoint or for providing advice in relation to the Acquisition, the content of this announcement or any matter referred to herein.
This announcement does not constitute, or form part of, any offer for, or any solicitation of any offer for, securities. Any response to the Acquisition should be made only on the basis of information referred to in the Scheme Document which BPP intends to despatch shortly to BPP Shareholders and, for information only, to persons with information rights and to holders of options/awards under the BPP Share Schemes.
The availability of the Acquisition to persons who are not resident in the United Kingdom may be affected by the laws of the relevant jurisdiction in which they are located. Such persons should inform themselves of, and observe, any applicable legal or regulatory requirements of their jurisdiction. Any failure to comply with these requirements may constitute a violation of the securities laws of any such jurisdiction. Further details in relation to overseas shareholders will be contained in the Scheme Document.
The Acquisition referred to in this document will not be made available directly or indirectly, in, into or by use of the mails of, or by any means (including, without limitation, telephonically or electronically) or interstate or foreign commerce of, or any facilities of a national securities exchange of, the United States, Canada, Australia or Japan or any other jurisdiction if to do so would constitute a violation of the relevant laws
 
of such jurisdiction. This document does not constitute an offer in the United States, Canada, Australia or Japan or any other such jurisdiction and the Acquisition will not be made available by any such use or means from or within the United States, Canada, Australia or Japan or any such other jurisdiction. Accordingly this document is not being, and should not be, mailed, transmitted or otherwise distributed, in whole or in part, in or into or from the United States, Canada, Australia or Japan or any such other jurisdiction.
The Apollo UK Directors and the Apollo Global Directors accept responsibility for the information contained in this announcement other than information for which the BPP Board accepts responsibility. To the best of the knowledge and belief of the Apollo UK Directors and the Apollo Global Directors (who have taken all reasonable care to ensure that such is the case), the information contained in this announcement for which they accept responsibility is in accordance with the facts and does not omit anything likely to affect the import of such information.
The BPP Board accepts responsibility for the information contained in paragraphs 2, 4, 6, 8, 9, 10, 14, 16 and 17 of this announcement. To the best of the knowledge and belief of the directors of BPP (who have taken all reasonable care to ensure that such is the case), the information contained in this announcement for which they accept responsibility is in accordance with the facts and does not omit anything likely to affect the import of such information.
CAUTIONARY NOTICE REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS
This document contains certain forward looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and business of BPP, the Acquisition and certain plans and objectives of the boards of BPP, Apollo Global and Apollo UK. These forward looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate to historical or current facts. Forward looking statements often use words such as "anticipate", "target", "expect", "estimate", "intend", "plan", "goal", "believe", "will", "may", "should", "would", "could" or other words of similar meaning. These statements are based on assumptions and assessments made by the boards of BPP, Apollo Global and Apollo UK in the light of their experience and their perception of historical trends, current conditions, expected future developments and other factors they believe appropriate. By their nature, forward looking statements involve risk and uncertainty and the factors described in the context of such forward looking statements in this document could cause actual results and developments to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by such forward looking statements.
Although the boards of Apollo UK, Apollo Global and BPP believe the expectations in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialise, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described in this document. The boards of BPP, Apollo Global and Apollo UK
 
assume no obligation to update or correct the information contained in this document.
DEALING DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS
Under the provisions of Rule 8.3 of the City Code, if any person is, or becomes, "interested" (directly or indirectly) in 1% or more of any class of "relevant securities" of BPP, all "dealings" in any "relevant securities" of that company (including by means of an option in respect of, or a derivative referenced to, any such "relevant securities") must be publicly disclosed by no later than 3.30 pm (London time) on the London business day following the date of the relevant transaction. This requirement will continue until the date on which the offer becomes, or is declared, unconditional as to acceptances, lapses or is otherwise withdrawn or on which the "offer period" otherwise ends. If two or more persons act together pursuant to an agreement or understanding, whether formal or informal, to acquire an "interest" in "relevant securities" of BPP, they will be deemed to be a single person for the purpose of Rule 8.3.
Under the provisions of Rule 8.1 of the City Code, all "dealings" in "relevant securities" of BPP by Apollo UK, Apollo Global or BPP, or by any of their respective "associates", must be disclosed by not later than 12.00 noon (London time) on the London business day following the date of the relevant transaction.
A disclosure table, giving details of the companies in whose "relevant securities" "dealings" should be disclosed, and the number of such securities in issue, can be found on the Panel's website at .
www.thetakeoverpanel.org.uk
"Interests in securities" arise, in summary, when a person has long economic exposure, whether conditional or absolute, to changes in the price of securities. In particular, a person will be treated as having an "interest" by virtue of the ownership or control of securities, or by virtue of any option in respect of, or derivative referenced to, securities.
Terms in quotation marks are defined in the City Code, which can also be found on the Panel's website. If you are in any doubt as to whether or not you are required to disclose a "dealing" under Rule 8, you should consult the Panel.
Rule 2.10 disclosure
In accordance with Rule 2.10 of the City Code, the current issued share capital of BPP comprises 48,952,695 ordinary shares of 10 pence each and admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange under the UK ISIN Code GB0000698414.
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
8 June 2009
Not for release, publication or distribution in whole or in part, in, into or from the United States, Canada, Australia or Japan or any other jurisdiction where it is unlawful to do so
The terms of the Acquisition value the entire issued and to be issued share capital of BPP at approximately 303.5 million.
The Acquisition represents a premium of:
 
 
upon the strong international reputation of UK degrees, the UK is the second largest market in the world for international students pursuing higher education qualifications. International student mobility is anticipated to continue to increase, benefiting the UK market.
The UK is also experiencing growth in the market for online educational programmes as evidenced by growth in online graduate business enrolments. Apollo Global expects that there will be increasing demand for flexible study options from working adults as well as traditional higher and secondary education students in the UK.
BPP's focus on academic quality and student outcomes has allowed it to maintain a high quality reputation amongst employers and consumers. The Company's Professional Education businesses, its Law School and the recently established Business School are well positioned to take advantage of the opportunities provided in the market.
Benefits to BPP
Apollo Global is expected to have a significant impact on the operations and educational offerings of BPP. Apollo Group has more than 30 years' experience delivering a broad range of educational programmes and curricula through various modalities.
Apollo Group has significant expertise in the development, management and delivery of both online and campus-based education. Online education has become an increasingly important delivery mechanism throughout the world as it provides greater access and flexibility for students. Apollo Group believes it is a global leader in the delivery of online education today and can assist BPP in its efforts to develop this modality further in the UK and other markets.
Apollo Group has historically focused on delivering educational solutions for the working adult. These include, but are not limited to, robust student services and support, online and on-campus course options, flexible schedules and access to significant learning resources designed around the needs of professionals. Apollo Group believes that it can assist BPP in further developing this market segment which is central to Apollo Group's strategy.
Additionally, through its Insight Schools Unit, Apollo Group participates in the US High School market (14-18 year old age group). Insight Schools offers curriculum and administrative services to public schools to operate full-time online programmes. Currently Insight Schools serves students in 10 states in the US. Apollo Group believes that it is in a unique position to assist BPP in further growing and developing its schools business in a variety of ways.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Apollo Global, Inc. and Apollo Group, Inc.
 
Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Limited ("Credit Suisse"), which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority in the United Kingdom, is acting for Apollo UK and Apollo Global and for no one else in connection with the Acquisition and will not be responsible to any person other than Apollo UK and Apollo Global for providing the protections afforded to clients of Credit Suisse, nor for providing advice in relation to the Acquisition, the content of this announcement or any matter referred to herein. Neither Credit Suisse nor any of its subsidiaries, branches or affiliates owes or accepts any duty, liability or responsibility whatsoever (whether direct or indirect, whether in contract, in tort, under statute or otherwise) to any person who is not a client of Credit Suisse in connection with this announcement, any statement contained herein or otherwise.
Hawkpoint Partners Limited ("Hawkpoint"), which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority, is acting for BPP and no one else in connection with the Acquisition and will not be responsible to any person other than BPP for providing the protections afforded to clients of Hawkpoint or for providing advice in relation to the Acquisition, the content of this announcement or any matter referred to herein.
This announcement does not constitute, or form part of, any offer for, or any solicitation of any offer for, securities. Any response to the Acquisition should be made only on the basis of information referred to in the Scheme Document which BPP intends to despatch
 
shortly to BPP Shareholders and, for information only, to persons with information rights and to holders of options/awards under the BPP Share Schemes.
The availability of the Acquisition to persons who are not resident in the United Kingdom may be affected by the laws of the relevant jurisdiction in which they are located. Such persons should inform themselves of, and observe, any applicable legal or regulatory requirements of their jurisdiction. Any failure to comply with these requirements may constitute a violation of the securities laws of any such jurisdiction. Further details in relation to overseas shareholders will be contained in the Scheme Document.
The Acquisition referred to in this document will not be made available directly or indirectly, in, into or by use of the mails of, or by any means (including, without limitation, telephonically or electronically) or interstate or foreign commerce of, or any facilities of a national securities exchange of, the United States, Canada, Australia or Japan or any other jurisdiction if to do so would constitute a violation of the relevant laws of such jurisdiction. This document does not constitute an offer in the United States, Canada, Australia or Japan or any other such jurisdiction and the Acquisition will not be made available by any such use or means from or within the United States, Canada, Australia or Japan or any such other jurisdiction. Accordingly this document is not being, and should not be, mailed, transmitted or otherwise distributed, in whole or in part, in or into or from the United States, Canada, Australia or Japan or any such other jurisdiction.
The Apollo UK Directors and the Apollo Global Directors accept responsibility for the information contained in this announcement other than information for which the BPP Board accepts responsibility. To the best of the knowledge and belief of the Apollo UK Directors and the Apollo Global Directors (who have taken all reasonable care to ensure that such is the case), the information contained in this announcement for which they accept responsibility is in accordance with the facts and does not omit anything likely to affect the import of such information.
The BPP Board accepts responsibility for the information contained in paragraphs 2, 4, 6, 8, 9, 10, 14, 16 and 17 of this announcement. To the best of the knowledge and belief of the directors of BPP (who have taken all reasonable care to ensure that such is the case), the information contained in this announcement for which they accept responsibility is in accordance with the facts and does not omit anything likely to affect the import of such information.
CAUTIONARY NOTICE REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS
This document contains certain forward looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and business of BPP, the Acquisition and certain plans and objectives of the boards of BPP, Apollo Global and Apollo UK. These forward looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate to historical or current facts. Forward looking statements often use words such as "anticipate", "target", "expect", "estimate", "intend", "plan",
 
"goal", "believe", "will", "may", "should", "would", "could" or other words of similar meaning. These statements are based on assumptions and assessments made by the boards of BPP, Apollo Global and Apollo UK in the light of their experience and their perception of historical trends, current conditions, expected future developments and other factors they believe appropriate. By their nature, forward looking statements involve risk and uncertainty and the factors described in the context of such forward looking statements in this document could cause actual results and developments to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by such forward looking statements.
Although the boards of Apollo UK, Apollo Global and BPP believe the expectations in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialise, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described in this document. The boards of BPP, Apollo Global and Apollo UK assume no obligation to update or correct the information contained in this document.
DEALING DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS
Under the provisions of Rule 8.3 of the City Code, if any person is, or becomes, "interested" (directly or indirectly) in 1% or more of any class of "relevant securities" of BPP, all "dealings" in any "relevant securities" of that company (including by means of an option in respect of, or a derivative referenced to, any such "relevant securities") must be publicly disclosed by no later than 3.30 pm (London time) on the London business day following the date of the relevant transaction. This requirement will continue until the date on which the offer becomes, or is declared, unconditional as to acceptances, lapses or is otherwise withdrawn or on which the "offer period" otherwise ends. If two or more persons act together pursuant to an agreement or understanding, whether formal or informal, to acquire an "interest" in "relevant securities" of BPP, they will be deemed to be a single person for the purpose of Rule 8.3.
Under the provisions of Rule 8.1 of the City Code, all "dealings" in "relevant securities" of BPP by Apollo UK, Apollo Global or BPP, or by any of their respective "associates", must be disclosed by not later than 12.00 noon (London time) on the London business day following the date of the relevant transaction.
A disclosure table, giving details of the companies in whose "relevant securities" "dealings" should be disclosed, and the number of such securities in issue, can be found on the Panel's website at .
www.thetakeoverpanel.org.uk
"Interests in securities" arise, in summary, when a person has long economic exposure, whether conditional or absolute, to changes in the price of securities. In particular, a person will be treated as having an "interest" by virtue of the ownership or control of securities, or by virtue of any option in respect of, or derivative referenced to, securities.
 
Terms in quotation marks are defined in the City Code, which can also be found on the Panel's website. If you are in any doubt as to whether or not you are required to disclose a "dealing" under Rule 8, you should consult the Panel.
Rule 2.10 disclosure
In accordance with Rule 2.10 of the City Code, the current issued share capital of BPP comprises 48,952,695 ordinary shares of 10 pence each and admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange under the UK ISIN Code GB0000698414.
 
The Acquisition shall be subject to the following Conditions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following definitions apply throughout this announcement unless the context requires otherwise:
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Apollo Group, Inc. News Release
Phoenix, Arizona, June 8, 2009  Apollo Group, Inc. (Nasdaq: APOL) ("Apollo Group" or "the Company") today announced that its 80.1%-owned subsidiary Apollo Global, Inc. has agreed to acquire UK-based BPP Holdings plc ("BPP") (LSE:BPP), a leading provider of education and training to professionals in the legal and finance industries. Apollo Global has agreed to purchase all of the outstanding shares of BPP at 620 pence per share in cash, representing an enterprise value of approximately $540 million. The transaction is structured as a court-sanctioned acquisition arrangement under the laws of the UK and is subject to court, shareholder and regulatory approval and other customary closing conditions. The transaction, if approved, is expected to close during Apollo Group's fiscal fourth quarter. The transaction terms and structure are described in more detail in a Form 8-K filed by Apollo Group today with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which includes a copy of the announcement released in the UK today by Apollo Global pursuant to applicable UK law.
The acquisition will provide Apollo Global with access to lifelong learning programs in the UK's professional education sector, establish a significant UK and pan European platform, and expand the range of advanced degrees and cross border educational opportunities available to its students.
"We're thrilled to be joining forces with this outstanding educational institution in the UK," said Greg Cappelli, co-chief executive officer of Apollo Group and chairman of Apollo Global.  "The combination of our brands, educational offerings and technological capabilities will provide greater opportunities for students and employees of both institutions. We look forward to working together and building upon the success of this world class organization."
"The offer provides an excellent opportunity for all of our stakeholders," said David Sugden, chairman of BPP Holdings. "For shareholders, it presents an opportunity to realize an attractive premium in cash for their shares. For our employees, it allows them to continue their excellent work in making BPP a leading education provider. For our customers, they will see our educational products enhanced by the expertise that Apollo will provide."
Founded in 1976 and based in London, England, BPP enjoys an excellent reputation among business and legal communities throughout Europe. The institution is organized into three business divisions: (1) Professional Education, which provides certification and continuing education; (2) College of Professional Studies, which operates four law schools, human resource training and a business school; and (3) Mander Portman Woodward (MPW), which operates independent fifth and sixth form colleges (similar to preparatory schools in the US). BPP is the first private sector institution to have been granted degree awarding powers in the UK.
 
"The UK is a large and growing market with strong student participation rates and an increasing interest in online learning," added Mr. Cappelli. "Furthermore, the UK has a tremendous international reputation for higher education and is the second largest market in the world for international students pursuing degrees. We believe this is an excellent market and company from which to establish our European base."
BPP's focus on academic quality and student outcomes has allowed it to maintain a high quality reputation amongst employers and consumers. The company's professional education business, fifth and six form colleges, law school and the recently established business school are all well positioned to take advantage of the opportunities provided in the market.
About Apollo Group, Inc.
Apollo Group, Inc. has been an education provider for more than 30 years, providing academic access and opportunity to students through its subsidiaries, University of Phoenix, Institute for Professional Development, College for Financial Planning, Western International University, Meritus University, Insight Schools and Apollo Global. The Company's distinctive educational programs and services are provided at the high school, undergraduate, graduate and doctoral levels in 40 states and the District of Columbia; Puerto Rico; Canada; Mexico; Chile; and the Netherlands, as well as online throughout the world (data as of February 28, 2009).
For more information about Apollo Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries, call (800) 990-APOL or visit the Company's website at .
www.apollogrp.edu
About Apollo Global, Inc.
Apollo Global, Inc., a $1 billion joint venture formed in 2007, is 80.1% owned by Apollo Group, Inc. and 19.9% owned by private equity firm, The Carlyle Group. Apollo Global was formed with the intention of making a range of investments in the international education services sector. Apollo Global is a consolidated subsidiary of Apollo Group, Inc.
About BPP Holdings plc
BPP is a leader in the provision of professional education and training, and developing careers by helping people to attain and build on professional qualifications. BPP provides its training and professional education through three separate operating divisions: BPP Professional Education, BPP College of Professional Studies and Mander Portman Woodward (premium independent fifth and sixth form colleges). In 2007 BPP College of Professional Studies was granted degree awarding powers.
Forward-Looking Safe Harbor
Statements in this press release regarding Apollo Group's business outlook, future financial and operating results, future enrollment, and overall future strategy and plans, are forward-looking statements, and are subject to the Safe Harbor provisions created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on current information and expectations and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those projected in such statements due to various factors. For a discussion
 
of the various factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, please refer to the risk factors and other disclosures contained in Apollo Group's previously filed Form 10-K, Forms 10-Q, and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Investor Relations Contact:
Allyson Pooley ~ (312) 660-2025 ~
allyson.pooley@apollogrp.edu
Media Contact:
Sara Jones ~ Mercury Public Affairs ~ (818) 326-1871 ~
sjones@mercuryllc.com


