FILE:APOL/APOL-8K-20091207060135.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
     On December 7, 2009, University of Phoenix, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Apollo Group, Inc., issued a press release announcing key findings from its Academic Annual Report 2009. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K. The University of Phoenix, Inc. Academic Annual Report 2009 is furnished as Exhibit 99.2 to this Form 8-K.
     The information in Item 7.01 of this Form 8-K and Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 furnished herewith shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that section, nor shall they be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in any such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
The following exhibits are provided herewith:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
PHOENIX, December 7, 2009  In acknowledgement of the need to produce greater accountability and transparency throughout higher education, Apollo Group, Inc. (NASDAQ:APOL) subsidiary University of Phoenix today announced key findings from its second Academic Annual Report, demonstrating the University's continued progress in addressing the challenges facing higher education today and calling for greater understanding of the country's next generation of students, who are increasingly different from generations past. Recognizing the Obama administration's ambitious goals to address the nation's educated workforce shortage and the economic crisis, the Report explores how best to serve the growing contingent of talented, hardworking people who want to better themselves, but find they are shut out of higher education because of their real-life responsibilities  a group that comprises 73 percent of college students today.
"These nontraditional students represent the next generation of learners," said Dr. William J. Pepicello, president of University of Phoenix. "They are not just students, they are students. Understanding their needs and motivations and what systems will be necessary to serve them is critical if we, as a nation, are to produce the highest proportion of college graduates in the world by 2020."
our
America's
Key Findings
 
 
Comparisons
In a comparison of findings between its 2008 and 2009 reports, cautioning that two years cannot adequately point to significant trends, University of Phoenix reported slightly higher rates of student satisfaction this year over last. In the area of information literacy, results showed that scores for seniors continued to increase over those reported for freshman at approximately the same rate.
University of Phoenix acknowledged a slight decrease in academic progress and progression, although the overall comparison between its students and their contemporaries was comparable because the variance in scores measured by the standard deviation was much greater than the decrease reported this year. Completion rates for the University showed a slight decline  1 percentage point for associate, 2 percentage points for baccalaureate and 5 percentage points for graduate  in students graduating within 150 percent of the traditional time for degree completion.
"In areas where comparisons can be made and declines were found  no matter how slight  University of Phoenix has initiated thoughtful and critical analysis as to the possible reasons for the changes and developed programs for continuous improvement," said Pepicello.
The University is currently exploring possible reasons for the slight decline in completion rates. Specifically, it is examining the demographics of next generation learners and how this unique student population learns. Important factors in this analysis will include age, previous academic experience, transfer credits and preference for learning modality.
Continuous Improvement
In response to data gathered to this point, University of Phoenix has determined specific areas to be addressed, with a focus on programs for orientation, a refined approach to introductory courses and a just-in-time plan for remediation. University Orientation, currently in trial with a small sub-set of the University's student population, upon introduction will be a three-week, non-credit bearing, free orientation course required for all students entering with fewer than 24 credits prior to their enrollment with the University. The new program is intended to address the skills necessary to be successful at University of Phoenix, and will introduce new students to the format, expectations and requirements of the environment in which they will be learning.
 
"The orientation program will encourage prospective students to take personal responsibility for their learning and help them make informed decisions about whether this is the type of institution they wish to attend and if they are ready to do so," said Pepicello. "It will afford prospective students the opportunity to experience the rigors of the college classroom without financial burden, so that those who discover they are not ready will not incur debt."
From there, it is anticipated that all students entering with fewer than 24 credits will be required to take a customized sequence of courses designed to increase retention and promote success for at-risk students. The First-Year Sequence has been designed in four blocks with the student at the center. Each block will build upon, reinforce and recycle the academic skills introduced in the previous blocks. Course content will be interrelated to reinforce content and skill-building mastered in each course, laddering material taught over multiple courses.
"In this way, it is expected that students will learn and retain more information than if they were learning everything in one course, without a grounding context," explained Pepicello.
Lastly and also as part of the First-Year Sequence, University of Phoenix is changing its approach to remediation and instituting a program of integrative learning, which will provide just-in-time skills on a gradual basis. This innovative approach will make learning opportunities available to students throughout their course of study, not just at the beginning and not in an all-in-one, sink-or-swim course.
"We are changing remedial education to work for all students when they need it and without sacrificing their appropriate academic progression," said Pepicello.
University of Phoenix's complete 2009 Academic Annual Report is available at .
www.phoenix.edu/academicannualreport
About University of Phoenix
University of Phoenix is constantly innovating to help students balance education and life in a rapidly changing world. Through flexible schedules, challenging courses and interactive learning, students achieve personal and career aspirations without putting their lives on hold. During the quarter ending August 31, 2009, 443,000 students were enrolled at University of Phoenix, the largest private university in North America. University of Phoenix serves a diverse student population, offering associate's, bachelor's, master's, and doctoral degree programs from campuses and learning centers across the U.S. as well as online throughout the world.
About Apollo Group, Inc.
Apollo Group, Inc. is one of the world's largest private education providers and has been in the education business for more than 35 years. The Company offers innovative and distinctive educational programs and services both online and on-campus at the high school, undergraduate, graduate and doctoral levels through its subsidiaries: University of Phoenix; Institute for Professional Development; College for Financial Planning; Western International University; Meritus University; Insight Schools and Apollo Global. The Company's programs and services are provided in 40 states and the District of Columbia; Puerto Rico; Canada; Latin America; and Europe, as well as online throughout the world (data as of August 31, 2009).
 
For more information about Apollo Group and its subsidiaries, call (800) 990-APOL or visit the Company's website at .
www.apollogrp.edu
For More Information
Sara Jones, (818) 326-1871 Allyson Pooley, (312) 660-2025
Media Contact:
sara.jones@apollogrp.edu
Investor Relations Contact:
allyson.pooley@apollogrp.edu

Exhibit 99.2
"Now, just as we've opened the doors of college to every American, we also have to ensure that more students can walk through them. That's why I've challenged every American to commit to at least one year of higher education or advanced training, because, by the end of the next decade, I want to see America have the highest proportion of college graduates in the world."
President Barack Obama
 
 
 
 
Today the University is a comprehensive learning institution enrolling approximately 443,000 students, with a faculty of more than 27,000, and more than 500,000 alumni.
 
The Mission of the University of Phoenix is to provide access to higher education opportunities that enable students to develop the knowledge and skills necessary to achieve their professional goals, improve the productivity of their organizations, and provide leadership and service to their communities.
However, the economic and demographic landscape of the United States has seen considerable shifts in the more than 30 years of the University's existence. As a result, the focus of higher education must shift accordingly to meet a new set of challenges. America's workforce stands at a crossroads: For the first time in history, the next generation is in danger of being less educated than the generation before. The impending retirement of the baby boomer generation will create a gap in the supply of highly skilled professionals a gap that we will not be able to fill unless we increase access to higher education.
1
The immensity of the problem will require both public and
 
The I Am A Phoenix website provides many first-hand accounts from Next Generation Learners who have overcome the odds to earn their degrees at the University of Phoenix.
http://www.IAmAPhoenix.com
 
equal attention should be given to those students in at-risk groups who succeed. Lessons can be learned from them and the institution's services and processes can be refined and restructured accordingly. In a 1997 study of at-risk, minority students, the authors identified two kinds of knowledge vital to student outcomes. "The first was the theoretical knowledge taught in formal programs; the second was local, heuristic knowledge learned experientially and culturally." The authors noted (as have others) that those at-risk students who did succeed were those who became experts at going to school at their chosen institution. Thus, the researchers concluded that "institutions should do more to identify, honor, and provide for the acquisition of local, heuristic knowledge." In addition, the study notes that, "students must acquire a certain amount of heuristic, or practical, knowledge that is necessary to function competently on campus."
Journal of College Student Development,
5
6
Studies have shown that at-risk students, in particular, have a need for courses early in their college experience that are clearly relevant to their current lives, the workplace, and their future goals. The at-risk or inexperienced students need methods of connecting coursework to things that are familiar and important in their lives. If students can fuse new information to their existing knowledge, they experience a sense of accomplishment and the short-term successes that are important to retention.
The Challenge of Diversity
According to a report completed by the Joint Center for Housing Studies at Harvard University, one in five heads of households is either foreign-born or a first generation American. "At the same time, the numbers of nontraditional' households unmarried couples, female householders, and singles of all types are growing rapidly, especially among the native-born white population."Historically, most of these households have
7
"Diversity enhances America's economic competitiveness. Sustaining the nation's prosperity in the 21st century will require us to make effective use of the talents and abilities of all our citizens, in work settings that bring together individuals from diverse backgrounds and cultures."
American Council on Education
lower incomes and generally lower rates of college attendance.
As a result, the American public tends to dismiss decreased attainment in higher education in this country to the melting-pot nature of the pool of college enrollees. However, according to the Alliance of Excellent Education, this misconception is based on the idea that other countries achieve better college attainment rates per capita than the United States because they have small, homogeneous college enrollments. While that student population is usually easier to educate because their needs, academic achievement levels, and expectations are similar, these countries do not necessarily serve
8
only a small, homogeneous group. According to the Alliance, "data show that many countries' schools successfully assimilate immigrant or high-poverty populations that are proportionately larger than those in the United States. American schools, on the other hand, do little to mitigate the barriers that these groups face." According to the Fact Sheet issued by the Alliance for Excellent Education, , "Finland and the Netherlands are the undisputed success stories of the survey in terms of accessibility and affordability. Both have large student bodies, high attainment rates, extensive grant programs, and student bodies that are reasonably reflective of broader society."
9
How Does the United States Stack Up? International Comparisons of Academic Achievement
 
This last point is salient if used as a lens for examining America's higher education system. Traditional colleges and universities, even public state institutions, use a set of admissions requirements that define the student body of those institutions. In fact, by and large these admissions requirements define the 27 percent of potential undergraduate students that are served by these institutions. For that reason, traditional students can be served well by these institutions. That is, if admissions requirements are a de facto profile of incoming students, then academic and support systems can be aligned to their needs. However, as noted, increasingly, the majority of incoming students in America do not meet traditional admissions profiles. Nonetheless, most of higher education continues to function as if they do. And in doing so we fail the growing number of non-traditional students.
The trend in higher education in the United States and in the rest of the world will be a continued increase in student diversity both in ethnicity and age, which will increase the number of non-traditional student enrollments. According to a report by published in June 2009, "at some point, probably just after 2020, minority students will outnumber whites on college campuses for the first time." In addition, the average age of students will continue to rise as more and more people realize the need for additional credentials due to changing technology and a requirement for lifelong learning. The report concludes that, at this time, "The colleges that are doing the best right now at capturing that demographic are community colleges and for-profit institutions."
The Chronicle of Higher Education
11
Reconsidering Remediation
While most of the country and the Obama administration recognize the need for expanded opportunities in higher education, a dilemma exists that cannot be ignored if we are to meet the goal of returning the United States as the global academic and economic leader.
It has been reported that more than 90 percent of all high school seniors expect to continue their education beyond high school. The stumbling block to their success is not simply whether there will be institutions that can meet the demand, but rather whether the typical American high school graduate is ready for the rigors of continuing his or her education.
The facts are that only about one-third of all high school seniors (including those who expect to continue their education) are prepared to do so. Despite efforts by local school districts, state legislators, and the federal government in the form of the standardized achievement tests and the No Child Left Behind Act, high schools across the country continue to graduate students who lack basic academic proficiency in many areas. The 2007 America Competes Act set a goal to reduce,
"It's one thing to blame the K-12 system when a 19-year-old freshman can scarcely write and do math, but quite another when the student in the remedial' course is 38 years old..."
Fordham Institute
and even eliminate, the need for remediation. The current cost of remedial education is staggering. Conservative estimates are that public colleges alone spend one to two billion annually on remedial education programs. Estimates are that at least half of all students entering college today are required to take some remedial courses prior to starting their college courses. The costs for this are not only incurred by the taxpayers, but also by students who must pay for these non-credit bearing remedial courses. In addition to
12
 
the immediate financial considerations, the opportunity cost for the students are high as well; enrolling in remedial courses extends the time-to-degree completion and thereby limits the students' earning power during the lost time.
To address this issue appropriately, it is important to examine the true purpose of remediation. Is the goal of remedial education short-term immersion to identify students who have not mastered all the linguistic or mathematics skills and bring them up to speed in one or two inclusive, sink-or-swim courses? If so, then it should be eliminated because it is not working.
All students needing academic assistance are not fresh out of high school. Many students are older students who have stopped out, are recareering, have served in the armed forces, or are perhaps not native-English speakers. They may have mastered the necessary skills at one time, but now need to revisit and refresh the topics. Raising high school standards will not necessarily assist these students, and certainly eliminating remedial education will not serve them well. Once again, that puts the focus on the 27 percent of traditional students, while the needs of the majority the Next Generation Learners who do not go directly from high school to college, are not addressed.
The Call for Accountability and Transparency
As the importance of higher education to the well being of the country becomes evident, there is keen interest in what institutions of higher education are doing. Are students getting what they are paying for? Are institutions actually teaching the students? Are institutions using taxpayer and benefactor monies wisely to the benefit of the students and the country? How are they doing this and can they prove they are accomplishing these things? Two years ago in the Spellings Report, , the authors challenged higher education "to produce a robust culture of accountability and transparency throughout higher education."
A Test of Leadership: Charting the Future of U.S. Higher Education
13
To date, there have been a variety of responses to that challenge. Institutions implemented websites and created joint information portals; the Minnesota state colleges and universities system instituted a statewide electronic portfolio infrastructure; and the University of Phoenix began issuing the Academic Annual Report. These efforts are a good start, but all of education (higher education as well as the K-12 system) has a great deal of work to do to dispel the public's perception that what goes on inside the classroom stays in the classroom. More and more people believe they should have a stake in defining the metrics of excellence for education.
14
15
To change to a more accountable system, one that is transparent, all institutions will need to begin to report more information concerning outputs rather than inputs. That means a report on how many students are actually using the university's library is more important than how many tomes have accumulated in the stacks over the years. It means that how students do when they leave the institution is as important as the grades earned while enrolled. And a report showing what students learned and whether they understand how to function in the workplace using technology, working with teams, and demonstrating critical thinking to solve problems is more beneficial than a report showing how many students graduated from the institution within a specified number of years.
 
Completion Rates
With this greater emphasis on accountability and transparency in higher education from the public sector, the government, and individual students and parents as well, a great deal of discussion surrounds institutional graduation rates. Some would like to use graduation rates as the main yardstick for determining whether a college is actually educating students, and if attending that institution is worth the time and money the students (or their parents) must spend to earn a degree.
To assist the government and the public, the Department of Education instituted the Integrated Postsecondary Education Data System or IPEDS. According to the National Center for Education Statistics website, IPEDS is described as "...the primary source for data on
16
colleges, universities, and technical and vocational post-secondary institutions in the United States."
IPEDS gathers information from every institution participating in the federal student financial aid programs. However, many IPEDS definitions, particularly those that define students counted in the completion rates, are based on traditional students: those who have gone directly from high school to a four-year college; those who enroll full-time; those who have not earned credit from any other institution; and those who graduate within six years or 150 percent of the normal completion time.
"The more you learn, the more you earn and the less likely you are to be unemployed. Earnings increase and unemployment decreases with additional years of education. But completing a program is worth more than attending college without earning a degree."
Bureau of Labor Statistics
As noted earlier in this report, the number of students who qualify in that category decreases each year. There are many reasons for this decrease, not the least of which today is that many students have fallen into the status of economic drop outs those students who, due to the failing economy, cannot continue their educations uninterrupted. When these students do return to college, many will not return full-time, others will have earned transfer credits at community colleges while working full-time, and many will transfer to institutions closer to their homes or to those where tuition is lower, etc. When students do this stop out or transfer to other institutions they are lost to the IPEDS count for graduation rates for all institutions.
To put this into perspective, many of the non-traditional students who make up the Next Generation Learners are missing from the IPEDS graduation rate summaries. According to the American Federation of Teachers, "Another shortcoming of using snapshot institutional data is that it obscures two separate policy issues: extended time-to-degree and dropping out. Students still enrolled after 150 percent of expected graduation time represent a growing trend in higher education."
17
According to the American Association of State Colleges and Universities, "critics have denounced graduation rates as inadequate and misleading." Further, "disclosure of such rates and public policy based on them unfairly condemns institutions whose access missions lead them to accept at-risk students." Certainly no one is advocating that graduation rates be ignored, but the rates should be put into context to be meaningful tools for analysis. At-risk students do have a greater chance of failing to complete degree
18
 
programs, hence the term at-risk. However, many of these students can and do complete degree programs when given the appropriate support and tools to do so. They may take longer than 150 percent of the IPEDS-defined normal completion time, but many do complete degree programs and continue on to graduate level programs as well.
Return on Investment (ROI)
The Student
Besides graduation rates, determining if an institution is adding value to the student's education is an essential part of determining whether a college education is beneficial and if there is a return on the
"Education," Aristotle said, "is the best provision for old age. For individual citizens, education provides a basis for economic security that can last into retirement. For society as a whole, education builds the foundation for ensuring economic prosperity now and in the future."
The Economic Return on Investment in South Carolina's Higher Education
investments of both money and time. College attendance has been shown to have beneficial effects on students even if they do not complete their degree programs. According to the Carnegie Foundation, "college attendance has been shown to decrease prejudice, enhance knowledge of world affairs and enhance social status..." Certainly completion of a college degree should be the goal, but the value added to the student and society of the time spent in college should not be ignored.
19
To illustrate this point, the Bureau of Labor Statistics notes that "the more you learn, the more you earn." In addition, those people who have attended college are less likely to be laid off than those who have not attended college at all. People who attend some college might expect earnings of approximately $1.5 million as compared to those people who do not continue their
education beyond high school who generally earn about $1.2 million in their lifetime. Of course, completing a degree program will increase the likelihood of increased lifetime earnings with each upper level degree earned.
20
Table 1: Expected Lifetime Earnings
21
Source: U.S. Census Bureau
 
Society
In addition to the increased quality of life of the educated individual, it has been established that as a group, college educated citizens vote more, volunteer in the community at a higher rate, smoke less, and are less likely to be involved in crime. To illustrate these societal benefits, consider the conclusions of a study done by researchers at the University of California at Berkeley:
22
Affordability in higher education means many things. A college education is an investment in an individual as well as an investment in the community and society in general.
The information above was summarized by the Campaign for College Opportunity, a California non-profit organization cofounded in 2003 with a mission to ensure California produces one million additional college graduates by 2025 to meet the workforce demands of the future.
23
The report from which these statements were drawn was created prior to the current economic crisis gripping California and, while California's situation may be extreme, it is not the only state undergoing serious budgetary issues and facing tough decisions about the amount of taxpayer dollars that can be allocated to higher education. And yet, as the information in the UC Berkeley report emphasizes, investment in higher education pays off for both the student and the communities in which they live.
 
In 2008, the University of Phoenix published its first Academic Annual Report. That report presented a transparent look at a variety of ways in which the University measures itself in relation to its Mission and social agenda of access and inclusion. The purpose of this year's report is similar and, as such, it contains the results for many of the same measurements. While it is clear that two years cannot adequately point to significant trends, we make note of several comparative indicators.
In general, there is great similarity in results as compared to last year. For instance, it can be noted that student and faculty diversity in ethnicity and gender remain about the same as last year. In the area of student satisfaction, students reported slightly higher rates this year over last. In addition, this year's report now contains results of the National Survey of Student Engagement (NSSE) showing University of Phoenix students' responses, as well as those of an aggregate of national institutions. This measurement was not in place last year and, as such, is a first-time baseline for future comparison.
In the area of information literacy, the results shown in Tables 6 and 7 indicate that scores for seniors continue to increase over those reported for freshmen at approximately the same rate. Academic progress and progression, always of special interest, shows a slight decrease this year; however, the overall comparison between the University of Phoenix students and their contemporaries is comparable because the variance in scores measured is far less than the margin of error as indicated by the standard deviation reported this year.
The Completion Rates for the University show a slight decline in the number of students graduating in 150 percent of the traditional time to degree completion. The University has identified several possible contributing factors that it will continue to assess going forward. This is discussed more fully below in the section titled Directions for the Future.
Last year's Academic Annual Report included the Net Cost to Taxpayers defined by institution type. This year's figure for the amount that the University of Phoenix pays back for each student educated is less than it was last year; however, the University of Phoenix continues to pay back, rather than diminish, public coffers. In addition, the University will continue to monitor this situation and will attempt to identify salient elements going forward.
DEMOGRAPHICS*
The Students
The students who attend the University of Phoenix are representative of the general population of the United States of America. They come predominantly from the 73 percent of non-traditional students who make up the majority of students enrolled in higher education today. They are the Next Generation Learners and they include:
They are people who embody the American spirit, and America needs them to succeed.
*All UOPX demographic numbers shown are compiled from those students who responded to the survey.
 
Almost half the University's enrollment consists of students from underrepresented racial or ethnic communities well beyond the institutional average nationwide as shown on the following charts.
24
has recognized the University of Phoenix for having graduated more underrepresented students with master's degrees in business, health care, and education than any other university in the nation. Diversity brings vibrancy to the classroom, creating an environment where multiple perspectives are shared to the benefit of all.
Diverse Issues in Higher Education
25
Charts showing the demographic breakdown of the University of Phoenix students by degree program as compared to the demographics of the national student population are shown below.
 
As the charts show, undergraduate enrollment at the University of Phoenix is more ethnically diverse than the latest national enrollment figures provided by the National Center for Education Statistics. Female students comprise 67 percent of the undergraduate University of Phoenix enrollment, as compared to 57 percent of the national undergraduate students.
Graduate student enrollment at the University of Phoenix is ethnically diverse with more than 50 percent minority enrollment as opposed to 36 percent minority enrollment nationally.
 
The Faculty
The University of Phoenix currently has approximately 1,500 Core Faculty and more than 25,500 Associate Faculty members.
The Associate Faculty are those faculty members contracted to teach individual classes or activities. The Core Faculty is composed of two subcategories: Administrative Faculty and Lead Faculty. Administrative Faculty are faculty members whose duties include a combination of instruction, curriculum oversight and
development, and/or academic and faculty administration. Lead Faculty are those faculty members who have been contracted for at least a year to serve as Area Chairs and others whose roles serve instructional purposes.
Quality assurance in faculty recruitment and performance at all locations is an integral part of the University of Phoenix
Faculty teaching in Next Generation Education must be adept and flexible to meet the challenge that technology is making in the classroom and the students themselves.
effort to ensure that it graduates highly qualified individuals from its programs. Accordingly, all prospective faculty members are required to go through the same sophisticated screening and certification process regardless of where they wish to teach.
The following charts show the ethnicity and gender breakdown for University of Phoenix faculty, as well as national faculty demographics. Faculty ethnicity for the University is more diverse than the figures provided by NCES for American faculty in general.The University of Phoenix faculty is made up in almost equal portions of men (51 percent) and women (49 percent). Women make up a larger portion of University of Phoenix faculty in comparison to the national breakdown, comparing to the National Center for Education Statistics, which shows females made up only 42 percent of faculty nationwide in 2007.
26
 
COMPARATIVE OUTCOME RESULTS
Student Satisfaction
"It might be argued that dissatisfied students may cut back on the number of courses or drop out of college completely. Hence, the satisfaction intention retention link for students in higher education should be studied and carefully managed."
Business Student Satisfaction, Intentions and Retention in Higher Education: An Empirical Investigation
Student retention has always been a conundrum for colleges and universities. Exactly what it takes to keep students in college and to assist them in successfully completing a degree program is somewhat elusive. For many years, retention studies focused on academic ability as the predictor of retention. However, many researchers found that academic performance explained only about half of the variance. Student satisfaction plays a large part in whether students continue in their studies, whether they return or go on for a graduate degree, and whether or not the students would recommend their institution to others.
27
The University regularly conducts student
satisfaction surveys and uses these results to implement change within the organization. The following tables show student satisfaction at the University of Phoenix as compiled from internal surveys including the following:
Student End-of-Course Surveys
Table 2: UOPX Student Satisfaction
Source: UOPX Institutional Research 2009
 
As these surveys indicate, University of Phoenix students attending courses rate each category high at 90 percent or better.
End-of-Program Surveys
End-of-program surveys are based on a Likert scale of 1-5 (where 1 = and 5 = ).
Strongly Disagree
Strongly Agree
Table 3: UOPX Student End-of-Program Graduate Surveys
Source: UOPX Institutional Research 2009
Alumni Surveys
Overall, the University of Phoenix Alumni Survey, also done on a Likert scale (where 1 =and 5 = ), rated the University at 4 or above in four of the five categories.
Strongly Disagree
Strongly Agree
Table 4: UOPX Alumni Survey
Source: UOPX Institutional Research 2009
*Exact sample size varies by item.
National Survey of Student Engagement
The University of Phoenix also uses an external measure of student satisfaction, the National Survey of Student Engagement (NSSE). This year's survey reports on the 2007-08 academic year. As noted in the following tables, University of Phoenix seniors' responses that relate to the stated University of Phoenix Learning Goals are compared to accumulated average
28
 
responses by students attending other institutions of higher education offering at least baccalaureate through graduate degree programs. In each of the ten categories, University of Phoenix students rate UOPX higher than the national average response rating.
29
Table 5: National Survey of Student Engagement
Source: NSSE http://nsse.iub.edu/
Information Literacy
"The greatest challenge facing us today is how to organize information into structured knowledge. We must rise above the obsession with the quantity of information and the speed of transmission, and focus on the fact that the key issue for us is our ability to organize the information once it has been amassed, to assimilate it, to find meaning in it and assure its survival."
Dr. Vartan Gregorian, President, Carnegie Corporation in the keynote address presented at the White House Conference on School Libraries June 2002
The information explosion that erupted in the late 20th century is still being felt today and will continue to influence all our lives. The magnitude of exactly what happened is difficult to comprehend at times. To put it into context, the Library of Congress was established in 1800 and by the 20th century it had become the largest library in the world, with nearly 142 million items on approximately 650 miles of bookshelves. In the first 18 months of the dot-com revolution, the amount of text on the Web already exceeded that of the Library of Congress.
30
31
A challenge for higher education is to ensure that students are able to use digital technologies, communication tools, and networks to solve problems. Using these tools to solve problems involves the ability to locate information, to determine the type of data and research required, to evaluate the quality of the source and the information, and to understand and follow the ethical and legal issues surrounding use of Internet resources.
The skills required to become successful in the digital workplace are woven throughout the five Learning Goals required for all University of Phoenix courses and programs: professional
 
competence and values; critical thinking and problem solving, communication, information utilization, and collaboration.
In addition, the University has taken steps to ensure that the way students learn emulates the way professionals work today. The University Library houses more than 20 million articles, more than 65,000 publications, and 114 databases available to users seven days a week from anywhere there is an Internet connection. The University began building an eBook library that now contains approximately 1,800 books and reference sources being used in 91 percent of all courses. All students and faculty have access to the entire eBook Collection throughout their degree programs.
Another example is Virtual Organizations which are realistic web-based businesses, schools, health care and government organizations that promote authentic assessment by immersing students into problem-based learning environments. Virtual Organizations provide a solution to the difficulties students have in gaining access to proprietary information. They also provide a relevant context for students to practice solving workplace problems. Virtual Organizations are distinct from simulations and case studies because they present students with a microcosm of the real world. Students must first determine what data is needed to solve a problem, locate the appropriate information through data mining a specific Virtual Organization, and apply that information to solve the problem. Virtual Organizations provide students a full range of data that includes financial statements, personnel records, and other information essential to practice applying theoretical knowledge to solving problems. More than 50,000 unique users access Virtual Organizations each month.
Standardized Assessment of Information Literacy Skills (SAILS)
In an effort to benchmark student achievement in information literacy as compared to students from other similar institutions and to make internal University of Phoenix comparisons, the University makes use of the Standardized Assessment of Information Literacy Skills (SAILS) originally developed by Kent State University and endorsed by the Association of College and Research Libraries (ACRL).
32
The SAILS assessment is based on the following ACRL standards of Information Literacy Competency Standards for Higher Education:
The information literate student determines the nature and extent of the information needed.
Standard I:
The information literate student accesses needed information effectively and efficiently.
Standard II:
The information literate student evaluates information and its sources critically and incorporates selected information into his or her knowledge base and value system.
Standard III:
The information literate student understands many of the economic, legal, and social issues surrounding the use of information and accesses and uses information ethically and legally.
Standard V:*
*ACRL Standard IV is not used in the SAILS assessment.
 
As the SAILS Freshmen table below shows, University of Phoenix freshmen score as well or better in all but two areas measured through the SAILS assessment as incoming students at other institutions offering at least baccalaureate through graduate level programs.
33
Table 6: SAILS Freshmen
Source: SAILS https://www.projectsails.org
The next table, SAILS Seniors, shows that University of Phoenix seniors compare favorably or the same in benchmark comparisons to students at other similar institutions in all but two areas.
Table 7: SAILS Seniors
Source: SAILS https://www.projectsails.org
 
Further and perhaps more important is that University of Phoenix seniors score better than UOPX freshmen in each of the literacy competencies measured in this survey.
The percentage of improvement for University of Phoenix freshmen and seniors is comparable to that of the improvement for like groups in the national survey.
*Master's Freshmen and Seniors reference institutions that offer baccalaureate through graduate degrees.
 
Measure of Academic Proficiency and Progress (MAPP)
As a part of the assessment process and in particular in response to the third principle, the University of Phoenix uses the Measure of Academic Proficiency and Progress (MAPP) assessment developed by the Educational Testing Service (ETS).
The Educational Testing Service is a non-profit organization with a mission to "advance quality and equity in education for all people worldwide." ETS administers the Measure of Academic Proficiency and Progress or MAPP assessment, a test of college-level skills in critical thinking, reading, writing, mathematics, humanities, social sciences, and natural sciences to undergraduate students. The assessment was developed to assist institutions in the assessment of the outcomes of general education programs to improve the quality of instruction and learning. According to their website, MAPP results allow the institution to:
34
35
 
The results of the MAPP assessment are shown on the following tables and bar graphs.
Table 8: MAPP Freshman Institutional Comparison
Source: MAPP http://www.ets.org
*Weighted total.
 
*Master's Freshmen and Seniors reference institutions that offer baccalaureate through graduate degrees.
 
Completion Rates
As noted earlier in this report, emphasis on completion rates as the main or only indicator of student success is misguided. In the report, , the authors indicate that the median time-to-degree completion for those students (both Pell recipients and non-recipients) who graduated in 1999-2000, but who had stopped out at one point during their undergraduate education, was 92 months or close to eight years. At the University of Phoenix, 53 percent of the students qualified for Pell Grants in 2008-09. In addition, those students (Pell Grant recipients and non-recipients) who had characteristics such as transferring, stopping out, having parents who did not graduate from college, and other undergraduate risk factors, were frequently associated with a longer time-to-degree.
A Profile of Successful Pell Grant Recipients: Time to Bachelor's Degree and Early Graduate School Enrollment
36
To ignore these students who do persist and complete their educations is a disservice. The Institute of Higher Education Policy indicates that, in general, college graduates have higher levels of savings, increased personal and professional mobility, improved quality of life for themselves and their children, and better consumer decision-making skills. The Institute does not qualify these graduates as only those who have completed their educations within four, six, or any other set number of years.
37
IPEDS completion rates for the University of Phoenix showing associate, baccalaureate, and graduate students, as well as IPEDS public institution completion rates are below. Table 10 includes additional columns (>3 years for associate and graduate students, and >6 years for baccalaureate students). These columns have been added in anticipation of possible changes in the IPEDS reporting system for the coming year that may include collection and reporting of these figures for all participating institutions.
Table 10: UOPX Completion Rates
Source: UOPX Institutional Research
Table 11: Public Institution Graduation Rates (IPEDS)
Source: IPEDS
 
AFFORDABILITY AND RETURN ON INVESTMENT
Many University of Phoenix students are employed full-time while enrolled. Internal research has shown that University of Phoenix students' average annual salaries for the time they are enrolled in their program of study increase at higher rates than the national average salary increase for the same time period.
Table 12: UOPX Average Student Salary Increases
Source: UOPX Institutional Research Entering Student Income Source: University of Phoenix Registration Survey Completing Student Income Source: University of Phoenix End-of-Program Survey All Post-Pre differences are statistically significant (P < .001) Source: National Data taken from Bureau of Labor and http://www.culpepper.com/PayPractices/BSI/Historical.asp
 
Other Costs Associated with Higher Education
It is also important to examine the cost of higher education to the taxpayer when a student attends a public university, a private non-profit institution, and a for-profit institution. The focus for most taxpayers is on public institutions because they are taxpayer supported and represent a hefty portion of each state's annual budget. What may not be quite as obvious, however, is that taxpayers also contribute heavily to non-profit, private institutions, even those with generous endowment programs. For-profit institutions such as the University of Phoenix, however, actually return money to the public for each student educated. The following table (and the operational definitions that follow) compares the net cost to taxpayers per student at public institutions, not-for-profit, for-profits in general, and the University of Phoenix specifically. As the table shows, the University of Phoenix actually pays back approximately $140 per student, when the calculations for the difference in factors between tax-exempt status, tuition subsidies, and various other foregone taxes are considered.
Cost to Taxpayers
Table 13: Net Cost to Taxpayers per Student
 
OPERATIONAL DEFINITIONS AND PROCEDURES FOR NET COST TO TAXPAYERS PER STUDENT
September 2009
General Note: Unless otherwise noted, the data tables referred to are:
1. Number of Students  Full-Time Equivalent
The number of FTE students was drawn from:
2. Direct Government Support
Drawn from Table 21. Revenues of Title IV institutions, by level of institution, accounting standards utilized, and source of funds: United States, fiscal year 2007. Line items include:
 
3. Auxiliary Enterprises
Drawn from Table 21. Revenues of Title IV institutions, by level of institution, accounting standards utilized, and source of funds: United States, fiscal year 2007. Revenues not coming from government or tuition. Line items include:
 
4. Student Loans  Interest Rate Subsidy
Federally guaranteed student loans were available at a rate of 6.8 percent in 2007. Similarly, unsecured loans would have an interest rate in the range of 10 percent. The difference amounts to a federal subsidy for higher education that was estimated to be 3 percent. The size of the subsidy was estimated with a six-step process.
 
5. Expected Future Student Loan Losses Due to Default
6. Taxes Foregone on Endowments  Investment Income
 
Note: The Investment return for four-year not-for-profit institutions was 30.7 percent of total revenue. This was quite a bit higher than 23.4 percent in fiscal year 2006 and 23.1 percent in fiscal year 2004.
7. Taxes Foregone on Additions to Endowments
Contributions to the endowments of public and not-for-profit institutions avoid income taxes
8. Taxes Foregone on Gifts, Grants, and Contracts
Gifts, grants, and contracts received by public and not-for-profit institutions have tax consequences for the donors. The income taxes these institutions avoided was estimated using the effective income tax rate of 38 percent, which was from the Apollo Group 2007 Annual Report. Capital appropriations for public institutions was assumed to be of no cost to the taxpayers because one asset, cash, is being transferred into another asset of equal value such as a building or infrastructures.
9. Taxes Foregone on Corporate Profits
The Apollo Group had a provision for income taxes of 9.1 percent of its total revenue (or approximately 38 percent of pre-tax income). A similar percentage was applied to public and non-for profit schools to estimate the taxes these institutions avoided. Total revenue data was gathered from Table 21.
10. Sales and Other Taxes Foregone
Similarly, it was estimated that Apollo Group paid 0.5 percent of total revenue for sales and use taxes, personal property taxes, and real property taxes. This was an extremely conservative estimate because it was calculated only from supplier invoices that itemized the amount of taxes paid. This calculation was obtained from Apollo Tax Department. This percentage (0.5 percent) was applied to the total revenues of public and not-for-profit schools as an estimate of the additional taxes avoided.
11. Tax on Corporate Profits
Corporate taxes paid by for-profit institutions were estimated from total revenue (Table 21 and Apollo Group 2007 Annual Report) at a rate of 9.1 percent (or approximately 38 percent of pre-tax income).
 
12. Sales and Other Taxes
Sales and other taxes paid by for-profit institutions were estimated from total revenue (Table 21and Apollo Group 2007 Annual Report) at a rate of 0.5 percent. This calculation was obtained from the Apollo Tax Department.
13. Research Expense
The amount of money spent on research activities was drawn from Table 23. Expenses of Title IV institutions, by level of institution, accounting standards utilized, and type of expense: United States, fiscal year 2007.
 
Transparency is critical for the health of all institutions of higher education. But there is little point to collecting and reporting data for the sole purpose of reporting. If the data are not put to use for institutional improvements that lead to enhancements in the overall student experience and result in student success, the university cannot fulfill its potential. In this regard, this Academic Annual Report is used not only to provide transparency but also as a tool for self-analysis and continuous improvement.
In areas where comparisons can be made and declines were found, no matter how slight, the University has initiated thoughtful dialogue as to the possible reasons for the changes. Specifically, the University reviewed the possible reasons for the decline in completion rates (1 percentage point for associate, 2 percentage points for baccalaureate, and 5 percentage points for graduates within the traditional time to completion) shown in Table 10. The University is currently exploring possible reasons for the slight decline in completion rates. Specifically, it is examining the demographics of Next Generation Learners and how this unique student population learns. Important factors in this analysis will include age, previous academic experience, transfer credits, and preference for learning modality.
In response to data gathered to this point, the University has determined specific areas to be addressed in an effort to continue our Mission to provide access to higher education opportunities that enable students to develop the knowledge and skills necessary to be successful. These include programs for orientation, a refined approach to the introductory courses, and a just-in-time plan for remediation.
SOLUTIONS
The University of Phoenix recognizes that expanding access is only one part of the equation in meeting the goal of increasing academic attainment successfully. To meet the needs of the Next Generation Learners, many of whom enroll at the University of Phoenix, and in an effort to respond to the call to arms by the Obama administration to meet the needs of the American public, the University has redefined and realigned several foundational elements of the student experience.
The Role of Technology
Next Generation Learners experience life, and thus education, differently from previous generations. They live in a world enhanced by technology and this fact affects their expectations for accessibility and service within the higher education environment. The University of Phoenix has developed cutting edge systems for delivering curriculum and providing academic support to students throughout their programs of study. The availability of all University systems on a 24/7 basis redefines for students the notion of "going to school" in terms that make sense for students who cannot be limited by space or time restrictions. With this in mind, the University has set as its goal the building of a twenty-first century learning platform that will take us to the next level of higher education service and delivery.
Rethinking Strategies for Student Success
Scheduled for implementation within the next year are two programs: the University Orientation and the First-Year Sequence. It is anticipated that these programs will be required for all students entering with fewer than 24 credits. These programs are designed to meet
 
both types of student knowledge that have been identified as requirements for success: heuristic knowledge and theoretical knowledge. The programs cover more than basic academic skills; they include everything from finances to fitness, taking a holistic approach by educating the whole person as opposed to focusing solely on classroom skills. Attention is given to ensure that all students entering the University of Phoenix are familiar with and understand how and when to use the academic assets and learning tools provided to them and how to establish strong relationships with faculty and advisors.
University Orientation
at this time. In this way, students are encouraged to take personal responsibility for their learning. Faculty teaching in the orientation program will be experienced full-time faculty who understand the complexities of orienting a new student specifically to the University of Phoenix.
The stated purposes and goals reflect a program that will meet the students' needs as well as one that is in concert with three of the four national goals as stated by the Obama administration. (The fourth goal, "having stronger links between education and jobs," is addressed in the First-Year Sequence.)
 
The Orientation program affords prospective students the opportunity to experience the rigors of the college classroom without financial burden. In this way, the University is allowing those students who are not ready, the opportunity to realize this without incurring unnecessary debt and going through the arduous process of applying for private or federal financial aid. It is anticipated that many of the students who do not successfully complete orientation are the same students who very likely would not complete their first enrolled course.
The First-Year Sequence (FYS)
The second prong of the planned approach to increasing student retention and success for at-risk students is the implementation of a customized sequence of courses. The First-Year Sequence will be the entry path for all students entering University of Phoenix to pursue an associate or bachelor's degree who have fewer than 24 college units. The course content of the First-Year Sequence is based in liberal arts, interdisciplinary studies, and academic skills and strategies. The First-Year Sequence meets the fourth plank of the Obama education platform, "creating a skilled workforce by having stronger links between education and jobs."
The First-Year Sequence has been designed in four blocks with the student at the center. The curriculum begins by addressing things that matter to students as individuals such as health and finances. From there, the subject matter progresses to thinking outward to issues affecting community, national trends, and global concerns. To progress to that point and keep the students engaged, however, it must start first with the individual student. Each block builds upon, reinforces, and recycles the academic skills introduced in the previous blocks. The course content is interrelated to reinforce content and skill building mastered in each course.
To accomplish this, the First-Year Sequence has been designed with the concept of laddering material taught over multiple courses. In this way, it is expected that students will learn and retain more information than they would if they were learning everything in one course. To integrate the holistic approach to learning that will encourage development of the heuristic skills required for persistence, the First-Year Sequence will also establish a sense of community among the entry-level students. This will be bolstered primarily by an increase in participation. An increased focus on interaction within discussion groups online and in the classroom will lead to more group spirit and a sense of the individual as part of a larger, successful group.
A NEW PERSPECTIVE ON REMEDIATION: JUST-IN-TIME SKILLS
The traditional method of remediation is to test incoming students and, based on these results, require students to successfully complete an entire remedial course or courses prior to
 
being admitted into a regular course of study. However, studies done by the National Center for Postsecondary Research indicate that the current methods of remediation "allow early persistence, but not necessarily degree completion." From this, it could be inferred that students who successfully complete the remedial courses are able to regurgitate information immediately, but cannot retain or perhaps apply their learning when the time comes for them to take the advanced courses in which the skills are required.
39
The University of Phoenix made the decision to change its approach to remediation and institute a program of integrative learning on a gradual plane to provide just-in-time skills. Through these programs, the University makes learning opportunities available to students throughout their academic career, not just at the beginning and not all in one sink-or-swim course. In a recent commentary article in , the author, Mike Rose, a professor of social research methodology at UCLA, suggests that we rethink, "core assumptions about cognition and language: Writing filled with grammatical errors does not preclude engagement with sophisticated intellectual materials, and errors can be dealt with effectively as one works with such material." Understanding this is key to changing remedial education to work for all students when they need it and without sacrificing appropriate academic progression.
The Chronicle of Higher Education
40
The University of Phoenix provides remediation for students needing assistance through online tools that are available to students at every level and throughout their entire academic program. Students requiring assistance with language and writing skills can avail themselves of many services offered through the Center for Writing Excellence and mathematics assistance is available through the Center for Mathematics Excellence. The Centers can be accessed by any student or faculty member twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week, wherever Internet access is available. In addition, tutors and faculty are available at Resource Centers and campuses located around the country. The Alumni Association has recently implemented an Alumni Mentor program to assist students.
Center for Writing Excellence
The Center for Writing Excellence (CWE) provides resources to help enhance and strengthen written communication skills. The resources are divided into six main sections that include the WritePoint system, Tutor Review, the Spanish Writing Lab, Dissertation Services, Tutorials and Guides, and the Turnitin Plagiarism Checker.
sm
WritePoint is an online automated system that provides students with immediate feedback on grammar, punctuation, word usage, and some style points. In seconds, the system flags grammatical issues and inserts instructional feedback into the text of the paper. Students are directed to resources to assist them in understanding errors and how to correct them, making this a learning experience on all levels.
sm
In an average month, more than 600,000 papers are submitted to WritePoint for review. In most cases, WritePoint is able to return the paper to the student within one minute.
sm
sm
In addition to WritePoint, the University of Phoenix offers an online Tutor Review service, which gives students the opportunity to have their papers reviewed by faculty. Students receive detailed feedback on format, grammar, organization, punctuation, and usage but not on the academic content. Content feedback is the responsibility of course instructors. Tutors provide feedback within 48 hours and typically review approximately 6,000 or more
sm
 
papers per month. The Tutor Review by faculty also provides a Spanish Writing Lab for the campuses in which Spanish is the native language.
For those students who need assistance understanding what plagiarism is, the University offers a tutorial and access to a plagiarism checker, powered by Turnitin.com. Plagiarism Checker promotes originality in student work and improves student writing and research skills. Plagiarism Checker reviews almost 400,000 papers for both students and faculty each month with an average turnaround time of less than 15 minutes.
Center for Mathematics Excellence
Another manifestation of the just-in-time skills philosophy is the Center for Mathematics Excellence (CME). The CME was instituted to address the needs of all students, especially those who may not have the requisite math skills, those who have not practiced math for some time, and those who suffer from math anxiety. The CME specifically addresses these issues, dispels math anxiety myths, and suggests study and coping skills for students who dread the thought of math classes and numbers-related courses.
The CME includes Running Start, a program that is especially helpful for students in entry-level math courses. Running Start allows students to take self-assessments that result in personalized lists of topics to study. In addition, students using Running Start find that mathematic concepts are presented in multiple representations for easier comprehension. The enhanced content also includes math refresher content that many students, including those about to enter statistics courses, find extremely helpful.
Online tutoring services are also available whenever a student is enrolled in a math course. Upon entry to the tutoring site, students may either choose to work with a tutor individually or they can watch tutors work with other students in real time. Students submit questions which go into a queue and are then answered online by the tutor in the order received.
In an average month, the CME conducts almost 4,000 live tutoring sessions and approximately 10,000 students access the site for assistance.
By making remediation available online, students are able to access the services when they need them and how they need them. In addition, the stigma that sometimes accompanies remedial work is removed as the work is done in private, rather than in a formal classroom environment. Both Centers of Excellence were designed to provide as much individual assistance as possible. In both cases, the goal is to give students the tools and resources to be successful rather than simply pointing out errors.
Students use the tools appropriate for them at the time they need them. In this manner, all knowledge does not have to be gained at one time; students can progress with their educations and put the skills they learn into practice sooner rather than later when another refresher might be required. Remedial skill building is exactly that: a building process that works over a length of time.
 
ENDNOTES
 


