FILE:APOL/APOL-8K-20091210161107.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     On December 10, 2009, Apollo Group, Inc. issued a press release announcing the election of Samuel A. DiPiazza, Jr. to its Board of Directors by the holders of Class B Common Stock at a special meeting convened for such purpose. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
     The information in Item 7.01 of this Form 8-K and Exhibit 99.1 furnished herewith shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that section, nor shall they be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in any such filing.
(d) Exhibits.
The following exhibits are provided herewith:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
PHOENIX, December 10, 2009  Apollo Group, Inc. (NASDAQ: APOL) ("Apollo Group," "Apollo" or the "Company") today announced that on December 7, 2009, the Company's Class B shareholders elected Mr. Samuel A. DiPiazza, Jr., to its Board of Directors, bringing the total number of directors to 14 from 13 previously. With the election of Mr. DiPiazza, the Board now includes nine independent directors.
"In an effort to broaden the scope of expertise and leadership on the Board, we have added a new independent director," said John Sperling, executive chairman of Apollo Group, Inc. "Sam's experience leading a global organization, and his deep interest in education will add significant value to Apollo. I am very pleased to welcome Sam to the Board."
Samuel A. DiPiazza, Jr., most recently served as global chief executive officer of PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited ("PwC"), a leading provider of accounting, tax and advisory services, retiring in September 2009 after 36 years with PwC. Previously, Mr. DiPiazza was a leading tax partner with the firm, specializing in mergers and acquisitions, the financial services industry and international tax. Mr. DiPiazza held various regional leadership roles within PwC's domestic practice, eventually serving as chairman and senior partner of its U.S. operations and as a member of the global leadership team. Mr. DiPiazza began his career with PwC in 1973 and was named partner in 1979.
Mr. DiPiazza serves as a trustee of the International Accounting Standards Committee Foundation, is chairman of the Geneva-based World Business Council on Sustainable Development, serves on the USA Foundation Board of the World Economic Forum, and is a member of the executive committee and the immediate past chairman of the board of trustees of The Conference Board, Inc. Mr. DiPiazza is also the past global chairman of Junior Achievement Worldwide, and serves as a member of the executive council of the Inner-City Scholarship Fund in New York City.
Mr. DiPiazza received a Bachelor of Science degree in accounting from the University of Alabama, and a Master's of Science in tax accounting from the University of Houston.
About Apollo Group, Inc.
Apollo Group, Inc. is one of the world's largest private education providers and has been in the education business for more than 35 years. The Company offers innovative and distinctive educational programs and services both online and on-campus at the high school, undergraduate, graduate and doctoral levels through its subsidiaries: University of Phoenix, Institute for
1
 
Professional Development, College for Financial Planning, Western International University, Meritus University, Insight Schools and Apollo Global. The Company's programs and services are provided in 40 states and the District of Columbia; Puerto Rico; Canada; Latin America; and Europe, as well as online throughout the world (data as of August 31, 2009).
For more information about Apollo Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries, call (800) 990-APOL or visit the Company's website at .
www.apollogrp.edu
Allyson Pooley ~ (312) 660-2025 ~ / Jeremy Davis ~ (312) 660-2071 ~
Investor Relations Contacts:
allyson.pooley@apollogrp.edu
jeremy.davis@apollogrp.edu
Sara Jones ~ (818) 326-1871 ~
Media Contact:
sara.jones@apollogrp.edu
2


