FILE:APOL/APOL-8K-20091116072753.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
     On November 16, 2009, Apollo Group, Inc. issued a press release announcing that its subsidiary University of Phoenix has been recertified for continued participation in student financial aid programs under Title IV of the Higher Education Act. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
     The information in Item 7.01 of this Form 8-K and Exhibit 99.1 furnished herewith shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that section, nor shall they be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in any such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
The following exhibits are provided herewith:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
PHOENIX, November 16, 2009  Apollo Group, Inc. (NASDAQ: APOL) ("Apollo Group," "Apollo" or the "Company") today announced that it has been informed by the U.S. Department of Education that its University of Phoenix subsidiary has been recertified for continued participation in student financial aid programs under Title IV of the Higher Education Act. The University's new Program Participation Agreement is not provisional and expires December 31, 2012.
"We take our fiduciary duty of handling Title IV funds extremely seriously and apply the highest standards of care and diligence in administering and accounting for these funds," said Apollo Group President and Chief Operating Officer Joseph D'Amico. "We are pleased with University of Phoenix's recertification and look forward to continuing to participate in Title IV programs, which are largely responsible for enabling our students to pursue higher education and advance their careers and their lives."
University of Phoenix's prior certification for participation in Title IV programs expired in June 2007, at which time the University continued to participate in the programs on a month-to-month basis as approved by the Department of Education pending its recertification.
About Apollo Group, Inc.
Apollo Group, Inc. is one of the world's largest private education providers and has been in the education business for more than 35 years. The Company offers innovative and distinctive educational programs and services both online and on-campus at the high school, undergraduate, graduate and doctoral levels through its subsidiaries: University of Phoenix, Institute for Professional Development, College for Financial Planning, Western International University, Meritus University, Insight Schools and Apollo Global. The Company's programs and services are provided in 40 states and the District of Columbia; Puerto Rico; Canada; Latin America; and Europe, as well as online throughout the world (data as of August 31, 2009).
For more information about Apollo Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries, call (800) 990-APOL or visit the Company's website at .
www.apollogrp.edu
Forward-Looking Safe Harbor
Statements in this press release regarding Apollo Group's business outlook, future financial and operating results, future enrollment, and overall future strategy and plans, are forward-looking
1
 
statements, and are subject to the Safe Harbor provisions created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on current information and expectations and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those projected in such statements due to various factors. For a discussion of the various factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, please refer to the risk factors and other disclosures contained in Apollo Group's previously filed Form 10-K, Forms 10-Q, and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Allyson Pooley ~ (312) 660-2025 ~ / Jeremy Davis ~ (312) 660-2071 ~
Investor Relations Contacts:
allyson.pooley@apollogrp.edu
jeremy.davis@apollogrp.edu
Sara Jones ~ (818) 326-1871 ~
Media Contact:
sara.jones@apollogrp.edu
2


