FILE:APOL/APOL-8K-20090730081210.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.01 Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets.
     On July 30, 2009, Apollo UK Acquisition Company Limited ("Acquisition Company") completed the previously announced proposed acquisition (the "Acquisition") of the entire issued and to be issued ordinary share capital of BPP Holdings plc ("BPP"), a company registered in England and Wales, for a cash purchase price of 620 pence per share. Acquisition Company is a wholly-owned UK subsidiary of Apollo Global, Inc. ("Apollo Global"), which is a majority-owned subsidiary of Apollo Group, Inc. ("Apollo Group"). The Acquisition was previously described in Apollo Group's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") on June 8, 2009. In accordance with the previously announced terms of the Acquisition, Acquisition Company purchased all of the outstanding shares of BPP at 620 pence per share in cash. At current exchange rates, the purchase price for BPP, including assumed term debt and seasonally drawn revolver, as well as transaction related expenses, less cash acquired, is approximately $607 million. The Acquisition, less net debt assumed, is being funded by an intercompany loan of approximately $104 million from Apollo Group to Apollo Global, $375 million in capital contributions from Apollo Group and $55 million in capital contributions from Apollo Global's minority shareholder, the Carlyle Group ("Carlyle"). After this Acquisition and including all previous capital contributions, Apollo Group's ownership in Apollo Global has increased to approximately 86.1% from the previous 80.1%.
     On July 30, BPP issued a press release announcing that the scheme of arrangement under Part 26 of the UK Companies Act 2006 for the Acquisition became effective in accordance with its terms following registration of the order of the High Court of Justice in England and Wales and the minute of reduction by the Registrar of Companies. A copy of BPP's press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K. On July 30, 2009, Apollo Group issued a press release announcing the completion of the Acquisition. A copy of Apollo Group's press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.2 to this Form 8-K.
     Some of the matters discussed in this Report (including Exhibits 99.1, 99.2 and any other exhibits) may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on current information and expectations and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those projected in such statements due to various factors. For a discussion of the various factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, please refer to the risk factors and other disclosures contained in Apollo Group's previously filed Form 10-K, Forms 10-Q, and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
     The information in Exhibits 99.1, 99.2 and any other exhibits furnished with this Report shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in any such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a) Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired.
     The financial statements required by this Item with respect to the transaction described in Item 2.01 will be filed as soon as practicable, and in any event within 71 calendar days after the date on which this Current Report on Form 8-K is required to be filed.
(b) Pro Forma Financial Information.
     The pro forma financial information required by this Item with respect to the transaction described in Item 2.01 will be filed as soon as practicable, and in any event within 71 calendar days after the date on which this Current Report on Form 8-K is required to be filed.
Table of Contents
(d) Exhibits.
The following exhibits are provided herewith:
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
30 July 2009
Not for release, publication or distribution in whole or in part, in, into or from the United States, Canada, Australia or Japan or any other jurisdiction where it is unlawful to do so.
In relation to the recommended Acquisition by Apollo UK of BPP (which was approved by BPP Shareholders on 15 July 2009 and sanctioned by the Court on 29 July 2009), BPP is pleased to announce that the Scheme has now become effective in accordance with its terms following registration of the Court order and the minute of reduction by the Registrar of Companies today.
The listing of BPP Shares on the Official List and trading of BPP Shares on the London Stock Exchange's main market will be cancelled with effect from 8.00 a.m. (London time) on 20 August 2009.
The latest date for dispatch of cheques and the crediting of CREST accounts for cash consideration due under the Scheme will be 14 August 2009.
In accordance with Rule 19.11 of the City Code, a copy of this announcement will be published on the following websites: and .
www.bpp.com/ir/
www.apollogrp.edu
Capitalised terms used in this announcement shall, unless the context otherwise requires, have the same meanings as given to them in the announcement of 8 June 2009 and the Scheme Document.
All references to times are to London times.
PRESS ENQUIRIES
For further information contact:
Apollo Global, Inc. and Apollo Group, Inc.
 
Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Limited ("Credit Suisse"), which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority in the United Kingdom, is acting for Apollo UK and Apollo Global and for no one else in connection with the Acquisition and will not be responsible to any person other than Apollo UK and Apollo Global for providing the protections afforded to clients of Credit Suisse, nor for providing advice in relation to the Acquisition, the content of this announcement or any matter referred to herein. Neither Credit Suisse nor any of its subsidiaries, branches or affiliates owes or accepts any duty, liability or responsibility whatsoever (whether direct or indirect, whether in contract, in
 
tort, under statute or otherwise) to any person who is not a client of Credit Suisse in connection with this announcement, any statement contained herein or otherwise.
Hawkpoint Partners Limited ("Hawkpoint"), which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority, is acting for BPP and no one else in connection with the Acquisition and will not be responsible to any person other than BPP for providing the protections afforded to clients of Hawkpoint or for providing advice in relation to the Acquisition, the content of this announcement or any matter referred to herein.
This announcement does not constitute, or form part of, any offer for, or any solicitation of any offer for, securities. Any response to the Acquisition should be made only on the basis of information referred to in the Scheme Document which BPP has sent to BPP Shareholders and, for information only, to persons with information rights and to holders of options/awards under the BPP Share Schemes.
This announcement has been prepared for the purpose of complying with English law and the City Code and the information disclosed in it may not be the same as that which would have been disclosed if this announcement had been made in accordance with the laws of jurisdictions outside the United Kingdom. The availability of the Acquisition to persons who are not resident in the United Kingdom may be affected by the laws of the relevant jurisdiction in which they are located. Such persons should inform themselves of, and observe, any applicable legal or regulatory requirements of their jurisdiction. Any failure to comply with these requirements may constitute a violation of the securities laws of any such jurisdiction. Further details in relation to overseas shareholders will be contained in the Scheme Document.
The Acquisition referred to in this document will not be made available directly or indirectly, in, into or by use of the mails of, or by any means (including, without limitation, telephonically or electronically) or interstate or foreign commerce of, or any facilities of a national securities exchange of, the United States, Canada, Australia or Japan or any other jurisdiction if to do so would constitute a violation of the relevant laws of such jurisdiction. This document does not constitute an offer in the United States, Canada, Australia or Japan or any other such jurisdiction and the Acquisition will not be made available by any such use or means from or within the United States, Canada, Australia or Japan or any such other jurisdiction. Accordingly this document is not being, and should not be, mailed, transmitted or otherwise distributed, in whole or in part, in or into or from the United States, Canada, Australia or Japan or any such other jurisdiction.
DEALING DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS
Under the provisions of Rule 8.3 of the City Code, if any person is, or becomes, "interested" (directly or indirectly) in 1% or more of any class of "relevant securities" of BPP, all "dealings" in any "relevant securities" of that company (including by means of an option in respect of, or a derivative referenced to, any such "relevant securities") must be publicly disclosed by no later than 3.30 pm (London time) on the London business day
 
following the date of the relevant transaction. This requirement will continue until the date on which the offer becomes, or is declared, unconditional as to acceptances, lapses or is otherwise withdrawn or on which the "offer period" otherwise ends. If two or more persons act together pursuant to an agreement or understanding, whether formal or informal, to acquire an "interest" in "relevant securities" of BPP, they will be deemed to be a single person for the purpose of Rule 8.3.
Under the provisions of Rule 8.1 of the City Code, all "dealings" in "relevant securities" of BPP by Apollo UK, Apollo Global or BPP, or by any of their respective "associates", must be disclosed by not later than 12.00 noon (London time) on the London business day following the date of the relevant transaction.
A disclosure table, giving details of the companies in whose "relevant securities" "dealings" should be disclosed, and the number of such securities in issue, can be found on the Panel's website at
www.thetakeoverpanel.org.uk
.
"Interests in securities" arise, in summary, when a person has long economic exposure, whether conditional or absolute, to changes in the price of securities. In particular, a person will be treated as having an "interest" by virtue of the ownership or control of securities, or by virtue of any option in respect of, or derivative referenced to, securities.
Terms in quotation marks are defined in the City Code, which can also be found on the Panel's website. If you are in any doubt as to whether or not you are required to disclose a "dealing" under Rule 8, you should consult the Panel.
END

Exhibit 99.2
Phoenix, Arizona, July 30, 2009  Apollo Group, Inc. (Nasdaq: APOL) ("Apollo Group" "Apollo" or "the Company") today announced that its majority-owned subsidiary Apollo Global, Inc. has completed the previously announced acquisition of UK-based BPP Holdings plc (LSE:BPP) ("BPP").
"We are excited to welcome BPP to Apollo Global and look forward to joining together to provide enhanced educational advancement and career development opportunities to professionals in the UK and throughout Europe," said Greg Cappelli, co-chief executive officer of Apollo Group and chairman of Apollo Global.  "BPP provides us with an ideal platform from which we can expand our European presence. We have long been impressed with BPP, the reputation of its academic programs, the caliber of the faculty and employees, and the leadership and direction of its management team. Together our organizations are a good fit strategically, operationally and culturally."
In accordance with the previously announced terms of the transaction, Apollo Global purchased all of the outstanding shares of BPP at 620 pence per share in cash. At current exchange rates, the purchase price for BPP, including assumed term debt and seasonally drawn revolver, as well as transaction related expenses, less cash acquired, is approximately $607 million. The transaction, less net debt assumed, is being funded by an intercompany loan of approximately $104 million from Apollo Group to Apollo Global, $375 million in capital contributions from Apollo Group and $55 million in capital contributions from Apollo Global's minority shareholder, the Carlyle Group ("Carlyle"). After this transaction and including all previous capital contributions, Apollo Group's ownership in Apollo Global has increased to approximately 86.1% from the previous 80.1%. Based upon the preliminary purchase price allocation, the Company does not expect the acquisition to have a material impact on its earnings per share in fiscal 2010 and believes BPP will create long-term shareholder value.
Brooke Coburn, managing director and head of Carlyle Growth Partners and a member of the Board of Apollo Global, added, "We are delighted with the addition of the BPP organization into our portfolio of education investments. We are excited about the potential of the large and growing global education sector, and we are pleased to have an organization with the history and reputation of BPP as a platform to expand this mission into the European market."
"This is an exciting opportunity for BPP," said Roger Siddle, chief executive officer of BPP Holdings.  "Joining Apollo Global will provide the business with access to Apollo's substantial expertise and resources, helping us continue to innovate and deliver the high quality education
 
our students and customers expect. The combination of our leading positions in our chosen markets, breadth of teaching talent, and Apollo's deep understanding and experience in delivering a broad range of educational programs will create a stronger force in the European market and greater opportunities for BPP's students and employees. I look forward to being a part of the continuing success of the combined organization."
Founded in 1976 and based in London, England, BPP is a leading provider of education and training to professionals in the legal and finance industries. It is organized into three business divisions: (1) Professional Education, which provides certification and continuing education in accounting and tax, professional development and financial services; (2) College of Professional Studies, which operates four law schools, human resource training and a business school; and (3) Mander Portman Woodward (MPW), which operates independent fifth and sixth form colleges (similar to preparatory schools in the US). BPP is the first private sector institution to have been granted degree awarding powers in the UK.
About Apollo Group, Inc.
Apollo Group, Inc. has been an education provider for more than 30 years, providing academic access and opportunity to students through its subsidiaries, University of Phoenix, Institute for Professional Development, College for Financial Planning, Western International University, Meritus University, Insight Schools and Apollo Global. The Company's distinctive educational programs and services are provided at the high school, undergraduate, graduate and doctoral levels in 40 states and the District of Columbia; Puerto Rico; Canada; Mexico; Chile; and the Netherlands, as well as online throughout the world (data as of May 31, 2009).
For more information about Apollo Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries, call (800) 990-APOL or visit the Company's website at .
www.apollogrp.edu
About Apollo Global, Inc.
Apollo Global, Inc., formed in 2007, is a joint venture between Apollo Group, Inc. and private equity firm, The Carlyle Group. Apollo Global's vision is to broaden student opportunity, grow the knowledge base of the communities it serves and advance the educational landscape worldwide. Apollo Global is a consolidated subsidiary of Apollo Group, Inc.
Forward-Looking Safe Harbor
Statements in this press release which are not statements of historical fact, including statements regarding Apollo Group's business outlook, future financial and operating results, future enrollment, and overall future strategy and plans, are forward-looking statements, and are subject to the Safe Harbor provisions created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on current information and expectations and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those projected in such statements due to various factors. For a discussion of the various factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, please refer to the risk factors and other disclosures contained in Apollo Group's previously filed Form 10-K, Forms 10-Q, and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Investor Relations Contacts:
Allyson Pooley ~ (312) 660-2025 ~ / Jeremy Davis ~ (312) 660-2071 ~
allyson.pooley@apollogrp.edu
jeremy.davis@apollogrp.edu
US Media Contact:
Sara Jones ~ (818) 326-1871 ~
sara.jones@apollogrp.edu
UK Media Contact:
David Waller / James Devas ~ The Maitland Consultancy Ltd. ~ (44) 020-7379-5151 ~ /
dwaller@maitland.co.uk
jdevas@maitland.co.uk


