FILE:APOL/APOL-8K-20090327093017.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (480) 966-5394
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
On March 27, 2009, we issued a press release for the announcement that Frederick J. Newton has joined Apollo Group, Inc. as Senior Vice President of Human Resources. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
The following exhibit is furnished herewith:
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Phoenix, Arizona, March 27, 2009  Apollo Group, Inc. (Nasdaq: APOL) announced that Frederick J. Newton has joined the Company as Senior Vice President of Human Resources. Mr. Newton will report to the Company's Chief Executive Officer, Chas Edelstein.
Mr. Newton brings to Apollo Group over 20 years of human resources experience from a variety of industries including retail, energy and consumer products. Most recently, Mr. Newton held the position of Chief People Officer at SSC Schottenstein Stores Corporation ("SSC"), a privately held holding company consisting of numerous legal brands including DSW, Inc., American Eagle Outfitters, American Signature Furniture, Filene's Basement, Judith Leiber and Steuben Glass. In his role, Mr. Newton supported the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer on all human resources issues across the entire portfolio of businesses. Mr. Newton also spent time in senior human resources positions at Cinergy Corp, LG&E Energy Corporation, Venator Corp. (parent company of Footlocker and Champs Sports, among others) and Unilever/Lever Brothers Co. Mr. Newton began his corporate career at Pepsico/Frito-Lay, Inc. Prior to this, he spent seven years as an officer and aviator in the United States Navy.
"We are very excited to welcome an officer with such extensive human resources knowledge and experience to lead our human resources department," said Chas Edelstein. "As we continue to grow domestically as well as diversify our business outside the United States, the depth of Fred's experience will serve our employees well."
Mr. Newton has a Bachelor of Science in Business Administration from the University of Rhode Island and a MBA in Labor Relations from San Diego State University.
About Apollo Group, Inc.
Apollo Group, Inc. has been an education provider for more than 30 years, providing academic access and opportunity to students through its subsidiaries, University of Phoenix, Institute for Professional Development, College for Financial Planning, Western International University, Meritus University, Insight Schools and Apollo Global. The Company's distinctive educational programs and services are provided at the high school, undergraduate, graduate and doctoral levels in 40 states and the District of Columbia; Puerto Rico; Alberta and British Columbia, Canada; Mexico; Chile; and the Netherlands, as well as online throughout the world (data as of November 30, 2008).
For more information about Apollo Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries, call (800) 990-APOL or visit the Company's website at www.apollogrp.edu.
Allyson Pooley ~ (312) 660-2025 ~
Investor Relations Contact:
allyson.pooley@apollogrp.edu
Wendy Paul ~ (866) 222-8910 ~
Media Contact:
wendy.paul@phoenix.edu


