FILE:APOL/APOL-8K-20090622172843.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
     On June 22, 2009, Apollo UK Acquisition Company Limited ("Acquisition Company") and BPP Holdings plc ("BPP") issued a joint press release announcing that BPP is mailing to its shareholders the scheme document (the "Scheme Document") relating to the offer by Acquisition Company to acquire BPP. Acquisition Company is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Apollo Global, Inc., which is an 80.1% owned subsidiary of Apollo Group, Inc. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
     The Scheme Document contains notices of the Court Meeting and General Meeting of BPP shareholders required to approve the scheme of arrangement through which Acquisition Company's offer for BPP is being implemented (the "Scheme"), a unanimous recommendation of the directors of BPP that shareholders vote in favor of the resolutions to be proposed at the Court Meeting and the General Meeting and other information relating to the Scheme. A copy of the Scheme Document is furnished as Exhibit 99.2 to this Form 8-K.
     The information in Item 7.01of this Form 8-K and Exhibit 99.1 furnished herewith shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that section, nor shall they be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in any such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
The following exhibits are provided herewith:
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
22 June 2009
Not for release, publication or distribution in whole or in part, in, into or from the United States, Canada, Australia or Japan or any other jurisdiction where it is unlawful to do so
On 8 June 2009, the boards of Apollo UK and BPP announced that they had reached agreement on the terms of a recommended all cash offer for the entire issued and to be issued share capital of BPP by Apollo UK. The offer is being implemented by means of a scheme of arrangement under Part 26 of the Companies Act 2006.
The boards of Apollo UK and BPP are pleased to announce that the Scheme Document is being sent to BPP Shareholders today. The Scheme Document sets out, amongst other things, the full terms and conditions of the Scheme, an explanatory statement, a timetable of principal events and the actions to be taken by BPP Shareholders.
Notices convening the BPP Shareholder meetings, being the Court Meeting and the General Meeting, to be held at the offices of Macfarlanes LLP, 20 Cursitor Street, London EC4A 1LT on 15 July 2009 at 10.00 a.m. and 10.15 a.m. respectively, are contained in the Scheme Document.
Subject to the satisfaction or waiver of the conditions of the Scheme and subject to the approval of the Court and of BPP Shareholders, it is currently expected that the Scheme will become effective on or around 30 July 2009.
Further details of the Scheme are contained within the Scheme Document which is available for inspection during normal business hours at the offices of Macfarlanes LLP, 20 Cursitor Street, London EC4A 1LT. A copy of the Scheme Document will also be published on the BPP website not later than 12.00 noon (London time) on 23 June 2009.
www.bpp.com/ir/
Capitalised terms used in this announcement shall, unless the context otherwise requires, have the same meanings as given to them in the announcement of 8 June 2009 and the Scheme Document.
In accordance with Rule 19.11 of the City Code, a copy of this announcement will be published on the following websites: and .
www.bpp.com/ir/
www.apollogrp.edu
PRESS ENQUIRIES
For further information contact:
 
 
Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Limited ("Credit Suisse"), which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority in the United Kingdom, is acting for Apollo UK and Apollo Global and for no one else in connection with the Acquisition and will not be responsible to any person other than Apollo UK and Apollo Global for providing the protections afforded to clients of Credit Suisse, nor for providing advice in relation to the Acquisition, the content of this announcement or any matter referred to herein. Neither Credit Suisse nor any of its subsidiaries, branches or affiliates owes or accepts any duty, liability or responsibility whatsoever (whether direct or indirect, whether in contract, in tort, under statute or otherwise) to any person who is not a client of Credit Suisse in connection with this announcement, any statement contained herein or otherwise.
Hawkpoint Partners Limited ("Hawkpoint"), which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority, is acting for BPP and no one else in connection with the Acquisition and will not be responsible to any person other than BPP for providing the protections afforded to clients of Hawkpoint or for providing advice in relation to the Acquisition, the content of this announcement or any matter referred to herein.
This announcement does not constitute, or form part of, any offer for, or any solicitation of any offer for, securities. Any response to the Acquisition should be made only on the basis of information referred to in the Scheme Document which BPP has sent to BPP Shareholders and, for information only, to persons with information rights and to holders of options/awards under the BPP Share Schemes.
This announcement has been prepared for the purpose of complying with English law and the City Code and the information disclosed in it may not be the same as that which would have been disclosed if this announcement had been made in accordance with the laws of jurisdictions outside the United Kingdom. The availability of the Acquisition to persons who are not resident in the United Kingdom may be affected by the laws of the relevant jurisdiction in which they are located. Such persons should inform themselves of, and observe, any applicable legal or regulatory requirements of their jurisdiction. Any failure to comply with these requirements may constitute a violation of the securities laws of any such jurisdiction. Further details in relation to overseas shareholders will be contained in the Scheme Document.
The Acquisition referred to in this document will not be made available directly or indirectly, in, into or by use of the mails of, or by any means (including, without limitation, telephonically or electronically) or interstate or foreign commerce of, or any facilities of a national securities exchange of, the United States, Canada, Australia or Japan or any other jurisdiction if to do so would constitute a violation of the relevant laws of such jurisdiction. This document does not constitute an offer in the United States, Canada, Australia or Japan or any other such jurisdiction and the Acquisition will not be made available by any such use or means from or within the United States, Canada, Australia or Japan or any such other jurisdiction. Accordingly this document is not being,
 
and should not be, mailed, transmitted or otherwise distributed, in whole or in part, in or into or from the United States, Canada, Australia or Japan or any such other jurisdiction.
DEALING DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS
Under the provisions of Rule 8.3 of the City Code, if any person is, or becomes, "interested" (directly or indirectly) in 1% or more of any class of "relevant securities" of BPP, all "dealings" in any "relevant securities" of that company (including by means of an option in respect of, or a derivative referenced to, any such "relevant securities") must be publicly disclosed by no later than 3.30 pm (London time) on the London business day following the date of the relevant transaction. This requirement will continue until the date on which the offer becomes, or is declared, unconditional as to acceptances, lapses or is otherwise withdrawn or on which the "offer period" otherwise ends. If two or more persons act together pursuant to an agreement or understanding, whether formal or informal, to acquire an "interest" in "relevant securities" of BPP, they will be deemed to be a single person for the purpose of Rule 8.3.
Under the provisions of Rule 8.1 of the City Code, all "dealings" in "relevant securities" of BPP by Apollo UK, Apollo Global or BPP, or by any of their respective "associates", must be disclosed by not later than 12.00 noon (London time) on the London business day following the date of the relevant transaction.
A disclosure table, giving details of the companies in whose "relevant securities" "dealings" should be disclosed, and the number of such securities in issue, can be found on the Panel's website at
www.thetakeoverpanel.org.uk
.
"Interests in securities" arise, in summary, when a person has long economic exposure, whether conditional or absolute, to changes in the price of securities. In particular, a person will be treated as having an "interest" by virtue of the ownership or control of securities, or by virtue of any option in respect of, or derivative referenced to, securities.
Terms in quotation marks are defined in the City Code, which can also be found on the Panel's website. If you are in any doubt as to whether or not you are required to disclose a "dealing" under Rule 8, you should consult the Panel.
END

Exhibit 99.2
THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION
PART II OF THIS DOCUMENT COMPRISES AN EXPLANATORY STATEMENT IN COMPLIANCE
WITH SECTION 897 OF THE COMPANIES ACT 2006. If you are in any doubt as to what action you should take, you are recommended to seek your own personal financial advice immediately from your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other independent financial adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, if you are resident in the United Kingdom, or, if not, from another appropriately authorised independent financial adviser.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all of your BPP Shares, please send this document and the accompanying documents (but not the personalised Forms of Proxy) at once to the purchaser or transferee, or to the bank, stockbroker or other agent through whom the sale or transfer was effected, for delivery to the purchaser or transferee. However, these documents must not be forwarded, distributed or transmitted in, into or from any jurisdiction where to do so would violate the laws of that jurisdiction. If you have sold or otherwise transferred only part of your holding of BPP Shares you should retain these documents.
The distribution of this document and/or the accompanying documents (in whole or in part) in jurisdictions other than the United Kingdom may be restricted by the laws of those jurisdictions and therefore persons into whose possession this document comes should inform themselves about and observe any such restrictions. Failure to comply with any such restrictions may constitute a violation of the securities laws of any such jurisdiction.
A copy of this document will be published at www.bpp.com/ir/ not later than 12.00 noon (London time) on 23 June 2009 and will continue to be made available on that website during the Offer Period.
This document should be read as a whole, in conjunction with the accompanying documents. Your attention is drawn, in particular, to the letter from the Chairman of BPP in Part I of this document, which contains the unanimous recommendation of the BPP Directors that you vote in favour of the resolutions to be proposed at the Court Meeting and General Meeting referred to below. A letter from Hawkpoint Partners Limited explaining the Scheme appears in Part II of this document.
Notices of the Court Meeting and the General Meeting, both of which will be held at the offices of Macfarlanes LLP, at 20 Cursitor Street, London EC4A 1LT on 15 July 2009, are set out at the end of this document. The Court Meeting will start at 10.00 a.m. and the General Meeting at 10.15 a.m. (London time) (or as soon thereafter as the Court Meeting shall have been concluded or adjourned).
The action to be taken by BPP Shareholders in relation to the Meetings is set out on pages 2 and 3 and paragraph 14 of Part II of this document. It is very important that BPP Shareholders use their votes so that the Court can be satisfied that there is a fair and reasonable representation of their views.
Hawkpoint Partners Limited ("Hawkpoint"), which is authorised and regulated in the United Kingdom by the Financial Services Authority, is acting exclusively for BPP and no-one else in connection with the Acquisition and this document and will not be responsible to anyone other than BPP for providing the protections afforded to clients of Hawkpoint, or for providing advice in relation to the Acquisition or the contents of, or any matter referred to in, this document.
Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Limited ("Credit Suisse"), which is authorised and regulated in the United Kingdom by the Financial Services Authority in the United Kingdom, is acting for Apollo UK and Apollo Global and for no-one else in connection with the Acquisition and will not be responsible to any person other than Apollo UK or Apollo Global for providing the protections afforded to clients of Credit Suisse, nor for providing advice in relation to the Acquisition or the content of, or any matter referred to in, this document. Neither Credit Suisse nor any of its subsidiaries, branches or affiliates owes or accepts any duty, liability or responsibility whatsoever (whether direct or indirect, whether in contract, in tort, under statute or otherwise) to any person who is not a client of Credit Suisse in connection with this document, any statement contained herein or otherwise.
Certain terms used in this document are defined in Part VII.
 
Voting at the Court Meeting and the General Meeting
The Scheme will require approval at a meeting of BPP Shareholders convened pursuant to an order of the Court to be held at the offices of Macfarlanes LLP, at 20 Cursitor Street, London EC4A 1LT at 10.00 a.m. (London time) on 15 July 2009. Implementation of the Scheme will also require approval of BPP Shareholders at the General Meeting to be held at the same place immediately thereafter.
BPP Shareholders entitled to attend and vote the Meetings are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of their rights to attend, speak and vote at the Court Meeting and/or the General Meeting. A proxy need not be a BPP Shareholder.
It is important that, for the Court Meeting in particular, as many votes as possible are cast, so that the Court may be satisfied that there is a fair and reasonable representation of the opinion of BPP Shareholders. Whether or not you intend to attend the Court Meeting and/or the General Meeting, please sign and return your Forms of Proxy, or deliver your voting instructions by one of the other methods mentioned below, as soon as possible.
 
Helpline
If you have any questions in relation to this document, the Meetings, or the completion and return of the Forms of Proxy, please telephone Capita Registrars between 9.00 a.m. and 5.00 p.m. (London time) Monday to Friday (except UK public holidays) on 0871 664 0321 from within the UK or +44 20 8639 3399 if calling from outside the UK. Calls to the 0871 664 0321 number cost 10 pence per minute (including VAT) plus your service provider's network extras. Calls to the helpline from outside the UK will be charged at applicable international rates. Different charges may apply to calls from mobile telephones and calls may be recorded and randomly monitored for security and training purposes. The helpline cannot provide advice on the merits of the Scheme nor give any financial, legal or tax advice.
 
The distribution of this document and/or the accompanying documents (in whole or in part) in jurisdictions other than the United Kingdom may be restricted by law and therefore persons into whose possession this document comes should inform themselves about, and observe, any applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Any failure to comply with any applicable requirements may constitute a violation of the securities laws of any such jurisdiction. Further details in relation to Overseas Shareholders are contained in paragraph 13 of Part II of this document.
Neither this document nor the accompanying documents are intended to, and do not, constitute an offer to sell or issue, or a solicitation of an offer to buy or subscribe for, shares or other securities, or a solicitation of any vote or approval in any jurisdiction in which such offer or solicitation is unlawful. This document and the accompanying documents have been prepared for the purposes of complying with English law, the Listing Rules and the City Code and the information disclosed may not be the same as that which would have been disclosed if this document and the accompanying documents had been prepared in accordance with the laws of any jurisdictions outside the United Kingdom. Nothing in this document should be relied upon for any other reason.
This document and, in particular, the letter from the Chairman of BPP in Part I and the Explanatory Statement in Part II of this document, have been prepared solely to assist BPP Shareholders in deciding how to vote on the Scheme. The summary of the principal provisions of the Scheme contained in this document is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Scheme itself, the full text of which is set out in Part VI of this document. BPP Shareholders are urged to read and consider carefully the text of the Scheme itself.
BPP Shareholders in the United States should note that the Acquisition relates to the shares of a UK company and will be governed by English law. Neither the proxy solicitation nor the tender offer rules under the US Securities Exchange Act 1934 will apply to the Scheme. Moreover, the Scheme will be subject to the disclosure requirements and practices applicable in the United Kingdom to schemes of arrangement, which differ from the disclosure requirements of the US proxy solicitation rules and tender offer rules. Financial information included in the relevant documentation has been prepared in accordance with accounting standards applicable in the UK that may not be comparable to financial information of US companies or companies whose financial statements are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. If Apollo UK or Apollo Global (with the consent of the Panel) exercises its right to implement the acquisition of the BPP Shares by way of a contractual takeover offer, such offer, if made into the United States, will be made in compliance with applicable US tender offer and securities laws and regulations.
No person has been authorised to make any representation(s) on behalf of BPP, Apollo UK or Apollo Global concerning the Acquisition, the Scheme or any related matter which are inconsistent with the statements contained in this document.
BPP Shareholders should not construe anything contained in this document as legal, financial or tax advice and should consult their own professional advisers for any such advice.
The statements contained herein are made as at the date of this document, unless some other time is specified in relation to them, and service of this document shall not give rise to any implication that there has been no change in the facts set forth herein since such date. Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to be a forecast, projection or estimate of the future financial performance of BPP, Apollo UK or Apollo Global except where otherwise stated.
Forward looking statements
This document contains statements about BPP, Apollo UK and Apollo Global that are or may be forward looking statements. All statements other than statements of historical facts included in this document may be forward looking statements. Without limitation, any statements preceded or followed by or that include the words "targets", "plans", "believes", "expects", "aims", "intends", "will", "may", "anticipates", "estimates", "projects" or words or terms of similar substance or the negative thereof are
 
forward looking statements. Forward looking statements include statements relating to the following: (i) future capital expenditures, expenses, revenues, earnings, synergies, economic performance, indebtedness, financial condition, dividend policy, losses and future prospects; (ii) business and management strategies and the expansion and growth of BPP's, Apollo UK's and Apollo Global's operations and potential synergies resulting from the Acquisition; and (iii) the effects of government regulation on BPP's, Apollo UK's or Apollo Global's business.
Such forward looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could significantly affect expected results and are based on certain key assumptions. Many factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected or implied in any forward looking statements. Due to such uncertainties and risks, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. BPP, Apollo UK and Apollo Global disclaim any obligation to update any forward looking or other statements contained herein, except as required by applicable law.
Electronic communications
Addresses, electronic addresses and certain other information provided by BPP Shareholders, persons with information rights and other relevant persons for the receipt of communications from BPP will be provided to Apollo UK and Apollo Global during the Offer Period as required under Section 4 of Appendix 4 to the City Code.
Dealing disclosure requirements
Under the provisions of Rule 8.3 of the City Code, if any person is, or becomes, "interested" (directly or indirectly) in one per cent. or more of any class of "relevant securities" of BPP, all "dealings" in any "relevant securities" of BPP (including by means of an option in respect of, or a derivative referenced to, any such "relevant securities") must be publicly disclosed by no later than 3.30 p.m. (London time) on the business day in London following the date of the relevant transaction. This requirement will continue until the date on which the Scheme becomes effective or lapses, or on which the "Offer Period" otherwise ends. If two or more persons act together pursuant to an agreement or understanding, whether formal or informal, to acquire an "interest" in "relevant securities" of BPP, they will be deemed to be a single person for the purpose of Rule 8.3.
Under the provisions of Rule 8.1 of the City Code, all "dealings" in "relevant securities" of BPP by BPP, Apollo UK or Apollo Global, or by any of its "associates", must be disclosed by no later than 12.00 noon (London time) on the London business day following the date of the relevant transaction.
A disclosure table, giving details of the companies in whose "relevant securities" "dealings" should be disclosed, and the number of such securities in issue, can be found on the Panel's website at www.thetakeoverpanel.org.uk.
"Interests in securities" arise, in summary, when a person has a long economic exposure, whether conditional or absolute, to changes in the price of securities. In particular, a person will be treated as having an "interest" by virtue of the ownership or control of securities or by virtue of any option in respect of, or derivative referenced to, securities.
Terms in quotation marks are defined in the City Code, which can also be found on the Panel's website. If you are in any doubt as to whether or not you are required to disclose a "dealing" under Rule 8, you should consult the Panel.
The date of posting of this document: 22 June 2009
 
The following information in the following documents, all of which has been announced through a Regulatory Information Service and is available free of charge on BPP's website at www.bpp.com/ir/, is incorporated into this document by reference:
BPP will send within two business days, without charge, to each person to whom a copy of this document has been sent, on their request, a copy of any documents incorporated by reference in this document. Requests should be addressed to Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU or made by telephoning the shareholder helpline between 9.00 a.m. and 5.00 p.m. (London time) Monday to Friday (except UK public holidays) on 0871 664 0321 from within the UK or +44 20 8639 3399 if calling from outside the UK. Calls to the 0871 664 0321 number cost 10 pence per minute (including VAT) plus your service provider's network extras. Calls to the helpline from outside the UK will be charged at applicable international rates. Different charges may apply to calls from mobile telephones and call may be recorded and randomly monitored for security and training purposes. The helpline cannot provide advice on the merits of the Scheme nor give any financial, legal or tax advice.
 
 
All times shown are London times.
The Court Meeting and the General Meeting will both be held at the offices of Macfarlanes LLP, at 20 Cursitor Street, London EC4A 1LT on 15 July 2009.
 
Notes:
 
22 June 2009
Dear Shareholder,
Recommended all cash offer for BPP by Apollo UK, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Apollo Global
On 29 April 2009, BPP announced that it had received a preliminary approach from Apollo Global which may or may not lead to an offer. On 8 June 2009, the BPP Directors and the Apollo UK Directors announced that they had reached agreement on the terms of a recommended all cash offer for the entire issued and to be issued ordinary share capital of BPP by Apollo UK, a newly-incorporated wholly-owned subsidiary of Apollo Global, at a price of 620 pence per BPP Share. Apollo UK has been formed for the purpose of making the Acquisition. The Acquisition is to be effected by means of a scheme of arrangement under Part 26 of the Companies Act 2006.
I am writing to you on behalf of the BPP Directors to explain the background to and detailed terms of the Acquisition, to encourage you to vote at the Meetings to be held on 15 July 2009, and to explain why the BPP Directors are unanimously recommending that BPP Shareholders vote at those Meetings in favour of the resolutions necessary to carry out the Acquisition.
The Acquisition is to be implemented by means of a scheme of arrangement under Part 26 of the Companies Act 2006, which requires the approval of BPP Shareholders at the Court Meeting and General Meeting and the sanction of the Court.
Under the terms of the Scheme, which is subject to the satisfaction (or, where applicable, waiver) of the Conditions and to the further terms set out in Part III of this document, the holders of Scheme Shares at the Scheme Record Time will be entitled to receive:
 
The terms of the Acquisition value the entire issued and to be issued ordinary share capital of BPP at approximately 303.5 million. The price represents a premium of:
If the Scheme becomes effective, all of the Scheme Shares will be cancelled and reissued to Apollo UK. BPP will thus become a wholly-owned subsidiary of Apollo UK.
It is currently expected that (subject to the satisfaction or, as the case may be, waiver of the Conditions) the Effective Date will be on or about 30 July 2009, although this date will depend on, among other things, the date of the Court Hearing.
If the Scheme becomes effective, it will be binding on all Scheme Shareholders, irrespective of whether or not they attend or vote at the Court Meeting and/or the General Meeting. Further details of the Scheme, including the arrangements for settlement of the consideration payable to Scheme Shareholders, are set out in the Explanatory Statement contained in Part II of this document.
Subject to satisfaction of all relevant Conditions, application will be made to the UKLA for the listing of the BPP Shares on the Official List to be cancelled and to the London Stock Exchange for such shares to cease to be admitted to trading on its main market for listed securities, in each case as at 8.00 a.m. (London time) on 20 August 2009. Delisting will occur at that time in order to potentially secure beneficial tax treatment for certain participants in the BPP Share Schemes and for BPP.
Although the BPP Board believes that BPP would have a strong future as an independent business, in assessing whether the terms of the Acquisition are fair and reasonable, it considers that the Acquisition represents an opportunity for BPP Shareholders to realise the entire value of their investment at an attractive premium to the current market value of BPP, as set out in paragraph 2 above.
In addition, the BPP Board considers that the form of consideration being offered by Apollo Global provides all BPP Shareholders with the ability to crystallise fully the value of their investment at a time of general economic uncertainty.
Furthermore, the BPP Board believes that the terms of the Acquisition fairly reflect the current market position of BPP's business, its past performance to date and its prospects.
 
Apollo UK has received irrevocable undertakings to: (i) vote in favour of the Acquisition at the Court Meeting; (ii) vote in favour of the resolutions required to implement the Acquisition to be proposed at the General Meeting; and (iii) if the Acquisition is subsequently structured as a takeover offer, accept any potential recommended takeover offer made by Apollo Global, from all of the BPP Directors who have a beneficial holding of BPP Shares in respect of their entire beneficial interest, amounting to an aggregate of 48,156 BPP Shares, representing approximately 0.1 per cent of BPP's existing issued share capital. The BPP Directors who have given such irrevocable undertakings are as follows:
The undertakings shall lapse, , if the BPP Board withdraws its recommendation of the Acquisition.
inter alia
Further details of these undertakings, including details of the circumstances in which they will cease to be binding, are set out in paragraph 5 of Part V of this document.
Apollo Global recognises the significant achievements of the management team and employees of BPP in developing the BPP business, and attaches great importance to their skills and experience. They will be integral to the success of the Acquisition and Apollo Global believes that they will benefit from greater opportunities within the combined organisation. Apollo Global intends to support them fully in developing BPP's business in future.
Apollo Global has given the BPP Board assurances that, following completion of the Acquisition, the existing employment terms of both management and employees of BPP will be fully safeguarded. Apollo Global intends to retain BPP's key employees and foresees no significant changes to the primary conditions of employment of BPP's current employees or the principal locations of BPP's business.
Appropriate proposals will be made to holders of options/awards under the BPP Share Schemes. Full details of these proposals will be set out in separate letters which are to be sent to them in due course.
Further information about the effect of the Acquisition on options and awards outstanding under the BPP Share Schemes is set out in paragraph 8 of Part II of this document.
BPP is a leader in the provision of professional education and training, developing careers by helping people to attain and build on professional qualifications.
BPP provides its training and professional education through three separate operating divisions: BPP Professional Education, BPP College of Professional Studies and Mander Portman Woodward (premium independent fifth and sixth form colleges).
For the financial year ended 31 December 2008, BPP reported profit on ordinary activities before taxation of 19.6 million (2007: 18.5 million) on turnover of 165.5 million (2007: 150.0 million). Net assets as at 31 December 2008 were 14.9 million (31 December 2007: 16.1 million). 14 per cent. of revenues in 2008 were generated from outside the UK (2007: 14 per cent.).
 
On 30 April 2009, BPP released its Interim Management Statement in which the Chairman stated that:
"We are pleased to report a good start to the year continuing the progress achieved in 2008. Group revenue for the quarter to 31 March 2009 was 42.0 million, 4 per cent. ahead of the same period last year. As expected, the performance improvement initiatives launched in 2008 are starting to have an impact.
The performance of the business in the first quarter has been broadly in line with the trends we outlined at the time of our full year results announcement in March.
Our core Examinations and Law School businesses continue to perform well, benefiting from their significant pipeline of multi year programme students and premium market positions. As highlighted in our preliminary announcement in March 2009, although they only constitute a small part of our business, revenues directly exposed to the Financial Services sector and other short term discretionary courses have continued to weaken. Our focus on margins and cost control remains strong and to date we have been able to improve our margin.
The second half of the year is always an important period for our business when our Law, MPW and Accountancy Examinations businesses take on significant new enrolments. Whilst historically these enrolments have proved resilient in difficult economic circumstances, it is difficult to predict what impact, if any, current economic conditions may have on the business in the short to medium term.
The performance improvement action programmes resulting from our Full Potential Review are being implemented with an ongoing benefit to margins. One of these is the installation of our new integrated system for managing delivery of our services from customer booking through to delivery, invoicing and accounting. We have successfully implemented our new financial general ledger system. The front end customer system has not yet achieved the user testing standards we require to ensure that it will work faultlessly during our peak booking season in August and September. Consequently, we have taken the decision not to go fully live with this system until after the peak booking period to avoid putting at risk the substantial revenue generated during this time. This delay will mean that 1m of benefits expected to be realised in 2009 will not now be realised until next year. Despite this delay we remain confident that this system will fully deliver the expected benefits in 2010.
We are, however, maintaining our focus on performance improvement and the key programmes identified by our Full Potential Review and are confident that, by executing on our clear priorities, we will continue to deliver sustainable long term growth for our shareholders."
There has been no material change in the trading or prospects for BPP since that date.
BPP and Apollo Global entered into the Inducement Fee Letter on 29 April 2009. The Inducement Fee Letter includes BPP's agreement to pay to Apollo Global, in certain circumstances, an inducement fee of one per cent. of the value of the Acquisition (inclusive of any unrecoverable VAT), calculated on a fully diluted basis.
BPP, Apollo UK and Apollo Global also entered into the Implementation Agreement on 7 June 2009. It contains certain assurances in relation to the implementation of the Scheme and certain further agreements and confirmation between the parties, including provisions intended to further the implementation of the Scheme as soon as reasonably practicable.
Further details of the Inducement Fee Letter and the Implementation Agreement, including details of the inducement fee arrangements and the circumstances in which the Implementation Agreement may be terminated, are set out in paragraphs 7.1 and 7.2 of Part V of this document.
 
A summary of the certain UK tax consequences of the Scheme is set out in paragraph 12 of Part II of this document.
This summary is intended as a general guide only and if you are in any doubt as to your tax position, or if you are subject to taxation in any jurisdiction other than the UK, you should consult an appropriate independent professional tax adviser.
Your attention is drawn to pages 2 and 3 and paragraph 14 of Part II of this document, which explain the actions you should take in respect of voting on the Acquisition.
Overseas Shareholders should refer to paragraph 13 of Part II of this document for important information.
I draw your attention to the Explanatory Statement set out in Part II of this document, the full terms of the Scheme set out in Part VI, the additional information set out in Part V and the Notices of the Meetings in Part VIII and Part IX of this document.
You should read the whole of this document and not rely solely on the information contained in this letter or the Explanatory Statement.
The BPP Board, which has been so advised by Hawkpoint, considers the terms of the Acquisition to be fair and reasonable. In providing its advice to the BPP Board, Hawkpoint has taken into account the commercial assessments of the BPP Board.
The BPP Board considers that the Acquisition is in the best interests of BPP Shareholders as a whole. Accordingly, the BPP Board unanimously recommends that BPP Shareholders vote in favour of the resolutions to be proposed at the Court Meeting and the General Meeting, as the Shareholder Directors have irrevocably undertaken to do (or directed to be done) in respect of their entire beneficial holdings of BPP Shares amounting to, in aggregate, 48,156 BPP Shares, representing approximately 0.1 per cent. of the existing issued share capital of BPP.
Yours faithfully,
David Sugden
Chairman
 
22 June 2009
Dear Shareholder,
Recommended all cash offer for BPP by Apollo UK, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Apollo Global
On 29 April 2009, BPP announced that it had received a preliminary approach from Apollo Global which may or may not lead to an offer. On 8 June 2009, the BPP Directors and the Apollo UK Directors announced that they had reached agreement on the terms of a recommended all cash offer for the entire issued and to be issued ordinary share capital of BPP by Apollo UK at a price of 620 pence per BPP Share. Apollo UK has been formed for the purposes of making the Acquisition. The Acquisition is to be effected by means of a scheme of arrangement under Part 26 of the Companies Act 2006.
Your attention is drawn to the letter from the Chairman of BPP, set out in Part I of this document, which forms part of this Explanatory Statement. That letter explains why the BPP Board, which has been so advised by Hawkpoint, considers the terms of the Acquisition to be fair and reasonable and why the BPP Board recommends that you vote in favour of the resolutions to approve and implement the Scheme which will be proposed at the Court Meeting and General Meeting to be held on 15 July 2009 as the Shareholder Directors have irrevocably undertaken to do (or directed to be done) in respect of their entire beneficial holdings of BPP Shares amounting to, in aggregate, 48,156 BPP Shares, representing approximately 0.1 per cent. of the existing issued share capital of BPP.
The BPP Board has been advised by Hawkpoint in connection with the Acquisition and the Scheme and in providing advice to the BPP Board, Hawkpoint has taken into account the commercial assessment of the BPP Board. Hawkpoint has been authorised by the BPP Board to write to you to set out the terms of the Acquisition and to provide you with other relevant information. The terms of the Scheme are set out in full in Part VI of this document. Your attention is also drawn to the other parts of this document all of which form part of this Explanatory Statement.
Statements made or referred to in this letter regarding Apollo Global's and/or Apollo UK's reasons for the Acquisition, information concerning the business of the Wider Apollo Global Group, and/or intentions or expectations concerning the Wider Apollo Global Group reflect the views of the Apollo Global Directors and Apollo UK Directors. Statements made or referred to in this letter regarding the background to and reasons for the recommendation of the BPP Board, information concerning the business of the BPP Group, and/or intentions or expectations of or concerning the BPP Group, reflect the views of the BPP Board.
Under the terms of the Scheme, which is subject to the satisfaction (or, where applicable, waiver) of the Conditions and to the further terms set out in Part III of this document, the holders of Scheme Shares at the Scheme Record Time will be entitled to receive:
 
The terms of the Acquisition value the entire issued and to be issued ordinary share capital of BPP at approximately 303.5 million. The price represents a premium of:
The Scheme will not become effective unless all the Conditions set out in Part III are satisfied or, if permitted, waived by 30 November 2009.
Information on BPP and its current trading and prospects is set out in paragraphs 7 and 8 of Part I of this document. Further information on BPP is incorporated by reference in Part IV and set out in the relevant paragraphs of Part V of this document.
Apollo UK
Apollo UK was incorporated in England and Wales as a private limited company with registered number 6920380 on 1 June 2009. Apollo UK has been formed for the purposes of making the Acquisition and has not traded since incorporation, nor has it entered into any obligations other than in connection with the Acquisition. The authorised share capital of Apollo UK as at 19 June 2009 being the last practicable date prior to the posting of this document was 1,000, divided into 1,000 ordinary shares of 1.00 each, of which two shares have been issued and are owned by Apollo Global.
Further information about Apollo UK, including a list of directors, is set out in paragraphs 2.5 and 2.6 of Part V of this document.
Apollo Global
Apollo Global, a joint venture formed in 2007, is 80.1 per cent. owned by Apollo Group and 19.9 per cent. owned by private equity firm The Carlyle Group. Apollo Global was formed with the intention of making a range of investments in the international education services sector.
Subject to the terms of the Apollo Global joint venture documents governing the relationship between Apollo Group and The Carlyle Group, Apollo Group has agreed to commit up to US$801 million in cash or contributed assets to Apollo Global and The Carlyle Group has agreed to commit up to US$199 million in cash or contributed assets to Apollo Global. The fiscal year 2008 revenue for Apollo Global was US$13.4 million.
In the third and fourth quarters of fiscal year 2008, Apollo Global completed its first two acquisitions, Universidad de Artes, Ciencias y Comunicacin ("UNIACC") and related entities on March 28, 2008, and Universidad Latinoamericana, S.C. ("ULA") and its related entity on August 4, 2008. Apollo Global purchased 100 per cent. of UNIACC for cash, assumed debt, and a future payment based on a multiple of earnings and a 65 per cent. ownership interest in ULA for cash and assumed debt.
Further information about Apollo Global, including a list of directors, is set out in paragraphs 2.3 and 2.4 of Part V of this document.
 
Apollo Group
Apollo Group has been an education provider for more than 30 years. Through its subsidiaries, the University of Phoenix, the Institute for Professional Development, the College for Financial Planning, Western International University and Meritus University, Apollo Group has established itself as a leading provider of higher education programmes in the United States primarily by focusing on meeting the needs of the working adult.
Apollo Global was formed in 2007 with the intention of making a range of investments in the international education services sector, primarily in countries outside the US with attractive demographic and economic growth characteristics.
Apollo Global believes that the opportunities provided by the UK education market and BPP's leading brand, together with the depth and breadth of talent of BPP's management team and employee base, make BPP an attractive investment. Apollo Global has noted BPP's growth profile along with its ability to enter new markets and consistently expand its course offerings.
Acquisition Rationale
The UK is an attractive market for Apollo Global. Student participation rates in both the professional and legal markets have steadily increased over time as employment opportunities in these sectors have increased. Additionally, the overall penetration rates of higher education amongst school age students have seen a steady increase and are expected to continue over time. Based largely upon the strong international reputation of UK degrees, the UK is the second largest market in the world for international students pursuing higher education qualifications. International student mobility is anticipated to continue to increase, benefiting the UK market.
The UK is also experiencing growth in the market for online educational programmes as evidenced by growth in online graduate business enrolments. Apollo Global expects that there will be increasing demand for flexible study options from working adults as well as traditional higher and secondary education students in the UK.
BPP's focus on academic quality and student outcomes has allowed it to maintain a high quality reputation amongst employers and consumers. BPP's Professional Education businesses, its Law School and the recently established Business School are well positioned to take advantage of the opportunities provided in the market.
Benefits to BPP
Apollo Global is expected to have a significant impact on the operations and educational offerings of BPP. Apollo Group has more than 30 years' experience delivering a broad range of educational programmes and curricula through various modalities.
Apollo Group has significant expertise in the development, management and delivery of both online and campus-based education. Online education has become an increasingly important delivery mechanism throughout the world as it provides greater access and flexibility for students. Apollo Group believes it is a global leader in the delivery of online education today and can assist BPP in its efforts to develop this modality further in the UK and other markets.
Apollo Group has historically focused on delivering educational solutions for the working adult. These include, but are not limited to, robust student services and support, online and on-campus course options, flexible schedules and access to significant learning resources designed around the needs of professionals. Apollo Group believes that it can assist BPP in further developing this market segment which is central to Apollo Group's strategy.
 
Additionally, through its Insight Schools Unit, Apollo Group participates in the US High School market (14-18 year-old age group). Insight Schools offers curriculum and administrative services to public schools to operate full-time online programmes. Currently Insight Schools serves students in 10 states in the US. Apollo Group believes that it is in a unique position to assist BPP in further growing and developing its schools business in a variety of ways.
Apollo Global appreciates the importance of the key safeguards which ensure that high quality education and training are provided to BPP's customers, and plans to uphold the integrity and quality of the educational products at BPP. Apollo is committed to supporting the key processes and procedures put in place to safeguard delivery of BPP's educational programmes, especially the independent Academic Council for the College and understands the need to comply with the various applicable external educational and training regulatory frameworks.
Benefits to Apollo Global
The acquisition of BPP would provide Apollo Global with access to life-long learning products in the professional education sector. It would establish a significant UK and pan-European platform for Apollo Global, enabling it to expand the range of advanced degrees and cross-border educational opportunities it offers its students.
The Acquisition will be funded by cash provided by Apollo Global.
As required by the City Code, Credit Suisse, as financial adviser to Apollo UK, has confirmed that it is satisfied that sufficient resources are available to Apollo UK to satisfy in full the cash consideration payable to BPP Shareholders under the terms of the Acquisition.
Details of the interests of the BPP Directors in the share capital of BPP, and options and awards in respect of such share capital, are set out in paragraph 4.2 of Part V of this document. BPP Shares held by the BPP Directors will be subject to the Scheme.
As outlined in paragraph 4 of Part I, the Shareholder Directors have undertaken to vote their BPP Shares in favour of the resolutions to be proposed at the General Meeting and the Court Meeting.
Particulars of the service contracts (including termination provisions) and letters of appointment of the BPP Directors are set out in paragraph 8 of Part V of this document. No amendments to such service contracts or letters of appointment have been agreed in connection with the Acquisition.
No agreement or undertaking has been reached as to the position of the BPP Directors once the Scheme becomes effective.
The effect of the Scheme on the options and awards held by the BPP Directors and other participants in the BPP Share Schemes is summarised in paragraph 8 of this Part II.
Save as set out below, the effect of the Scheme on the interests of the BPP Directors does not differ from its effect on the like interests of any other person.
For regulatory reasons connected with the current transaction BPP was unable to grant the awards which the Remuneration Committee had resolved should be made to the BPP Executive Directors under the BPP Share Schemes for the current financial year (the "2009 Awards"). It is therefore proposed to pay to such BPP Executive Directors upon the Scheme becoming effective a cash amount equal to the amount which they would have realised had BPP been able to grant the 2009 Awards at the normal time. The aggregate amount of the payments is 740,252 (which assumes the Scheme become effective on 30 July 2009 as currently expected). Further details of these payments are set out in paragraph 4.2(b) of Part V of this document.
 
In recognition of the satisfaction of certain of the targets set for them, BPP also proposes to pay out an amount in respect of the BPP Executive Directors' discretionary annual bonuses upon the Scheme becoming effective. The amount payable is equal to 50 per cent of their maximum bonus opportunity. The aggregate amount of these accelerated bonus payments is 372,844. Further details of these payments are set out in paragraph 8.2(b) of Part V of this document.
In addition, an aggregate payment of 244,500 retained by BPP from the BPP Executive Directors' annual bonuses for the previous financial year will be released to them. Further details of this payment are set out in paragraph 8.2(b) of Part V of this document.
The terms of the Scheme, if it becomes effective, will bind all BPP Shareholders, including persons acquiring BPP Shares prior to the Scheme Record Time under the terms of the BPP Share Schemes.
Appropriate proposals will be made to holders of options and awards under the BPP Share Schemes. Full details of these proposals will be set out in separate letters which are to be sent to them in due course.
 
 
 
 
The last day of dealings in, and for registration of transfers of, BPP Shares is expected to be the business day before the Court Hearing. Accordingly, the last day of dealings in BPP Shares is expected to be 29 July 2009, following which BPP Shares will be suspended from trading on the London Stock Exchange's main market for listed securities with effect from 5:30 p.m. (London time).
BPP intends that, prior to the Scheme becoming effective, applications will be made to the FSA for the listing of the BPP Shares to be cancelled and to the London Stock Exchange for the BPP Shares to cease to be admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange's main market for listed securities with effect on the Effective Date. Accordingly, it is intended that, if the Court sanctions the Scheme and confirms the Capital Reduction on 29 July 2009, the delisting will become effective at 8.00 a.m. (London time) on 20 August 2009. Delisting will occur at that time in order to potentially secure beneficial tax treatment for certain participants in the BPP Share Schemes and for BPP.
 
The following paragraphs, which are intended as a general guide only, are based on current UK tax legislation and what is understood to be the current HMRC practice, all of which is subject to change, possibly with retrospective effect. They summarise certain limited aspects of the UK taxation treatment of the Scheme for Scheme Shareholders and do not purport to be a complete analysis of all tax considerations relating to the Acquisition. The following paragraphs do not constitute tax advice and relate only to the position of Scheme Shareholders who are resident and, in the case of individuals, ordinarily resident and domiciled in the UK for taxation purposes, who hold their Scheme Shares as an investment (other than under a personal equity plan or an individual savings account), who are the absolute beneficial owners of their Scheme
 
Shares, and who have not (and are not deemed to have) acquired their Scheme Shares by virtue of an office or employment. Further, the comments in the following paragraphs may not apply to certain classes of Scheme Shareholders such as collective investment schemes and insurance companies. For the avoidance of doubt, the comments in the following paragraphs do not apply to any intermediate holding vehicles such as trusts, pensions etc. If you are in any doubt about the tax consequences of the Scheme in your own particular circumstances, you should consult an appropriate independent professional tax adviser. The following paragraphs do not consider the UK taxation consequences should Apollo Global and/or Apollo UK (with the consent of the Panel) elect to implement the Acquisition by way of a contractual takeover offer. Such consequences would be set out in a separate offer document.
Special tax provisions may apply to BPP Shareholders who have acquired or who acquire their Shares by exercising options or receiving vested BPP Shares under the BPP Share Schemes. The UK tax treatment of such BPP Shareholders will be summarised in separate communications to such BPP Shareholders, but such BPP Shareholders who are in any doubt as to their taxation position should consult an independent professional tax adviser.
The implications (and availability) of the Scheme and the Acquisition for Overseas Shareholders may be affected by the laws of the relevant jurisdictions. Overseas Shareholders should inform themselves about and observe any applicable requirements in those jurisdictions. It is the responsibility of each Overseas Shareholder to satisfy himself/herself as to the full observance of the laws of the relevant jurisdiction in connection therewith, including the obtaining of any governmental, exchange control or other consents which may be required, or the compliance with other necessary formalities which are required to be observed and the payment of any issue, transfer or other taxes due in such jurisdiction.
The distribution of this document and the accompanying documents in jurisdictions outside the United Kingdom may be restricted by law and therefore persons in such jurisdictions into whose possession this document comes should inform themselves about and observe such restrictions. Any failure to comply with the applicable restrictions may constitute a violation of the securities laws of any such jurisdiction.
This document and the accompanying documents have been prepared for the purposes of complying with English law, the Listing Rules and the City Code, and the information disclosed may not be the same as that which would have been disclosed if this document had been prepared in accordance with the laws of jurisdictions outside the United Kingdom. Nothing in this document should be relied upon for any other reason.
 
Neither this document nor the accompanying documents are intended to, and do not, constitute an offer or invitation to sell, purchase, subscribe for or issue any securities or the solicitation of an offer to buy or subscribe for securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer or solicitation is unlawful.
BPP Shareholders in the United States should note that the Acquisition relates to the shares of a UK company and will be governed by English law. Neither the proxy solicitation nor the tender offer rules under the US Securities Exchange Act 1934, will apply to the Scheme. Moreover, the Scheme will be subject to the disclosure requirements and practices applicable in the United Kingdom to schemes of arrangement, which differ from the disclosure requirements of the US proxy solicitation rules and tender offer rules. Financial information included in the relevant documentation has been prepared in accordance with accounting standards applicable in the UK that may not be comparable to financial information to US companies or companies whose financial statements are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. If Apollo UK (with the consent of the Panel) exercises its rights to implement the Acquisition by way of a contractual takeover offer, such offer, if made into the United States, will be made in compliance with applicable US tender offer and securities laws and regulations.
To become effective, the Scheme requires, among other things, the approval by a majority in number of the Scheme Shareholders who vote, representing at least 75 per cent. in value of the Scheme Shares voted, either in person or by proxy, at the Court Meeting.
The Scheme also requires the sanction of the Court and the passing of the Special Resolution, which requires the approval of at least 75 per cent. of the votes cast at the General Meeting. Upon the Scheme becoming effective, it will be binding on all BPP Shareholders, irrespective of whether or not they attended or voted at the Court Meeting or the General Meeting and whether they voted for or against, or abstained from voting on, the resolutions proposed at such Meetings.
Forms of Proxy for the Court Meeting and the General Meeting should be returned, in the pre-paid envelope provided (for use in the UK only) or by post or (during business hours only) by hand to Capita Registrars, Proxy Department, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU as soon as possible and, in any event, so as to be received no later than 48 hours before the time appointed for the relevant Meeting (or, in the case of adjournment(s), not later than 48 hours before the time fixed for the holding of the adjourned Meeting(s)). If the blue Form of Proxy for use at the Court Meeting is not returned by the above time, it may be handed to a representative of Capita Registrars, on behalf of the chairman of the Court Meeting, before the start of that Meeting. However, in the case of the General Meeting, the white Form of Proxy must be returned by the time mentioned above or it will be invalid. The completion and return of a Form of Proxy will not prevent you from attending and voting in person at either the Court Meeting or the General Meeting, or at any adjournment thereof, if you so wish and are so entitled.
It is important that, for the Court Meeting, as many votes as possible are cast so that the Court may be satisfied that there is a fair representation of Scheme Shareholder opinion. You are therefore strongly urged to complete and return both of your Forms of Proxy as soon as possible.
If you have any questions in relation to this document, the Meetings, or the completion and return of the Forms of Proxy, please telephone Capita Registrars between 9.00 a.m. and 5.00 p.m. (London time) Monday to Friday (except UK public holidays) on 0871 664 0321 from within the UK or +44 20 8639 3399 if calling from outside the UK. Calls to the 0871 664 0321 number cost 10 pence per minute (including VAT) plus your service provider's network extras. Calls to the helpline from outside the UK will be charged at applicable international rates. Different charges may apply to calls from mobile telephones and call may be recorded and randomly monitored for security and training purposes. The helpline cannot provide advice on the merits of the Scheme nor give any financial, legal or tax advice.
 
The terms of the Scheme are set out in full in Part VI of this document. Your attention is also drawn to the further information contained in this document, all of which forms part of this Explanatory Statement, and, in particular, to the Conditions set out in Part III, the financial information on BPP incorporated by reference in Part IV and the additional information set out in Part V of this document.
Yours faithfully
Paul Baines , for and on behalf of Hawkpoint Partners Limited
Managing Partner
 
The Acquisition is subject to the following Conditions:
 
 
 
 
 
in each case which is material in the context of the Wider BPP Group taken as a whole; or
Information
Accounts
Intellectual property
and, in either case, the absence of which, individually or in the aggregate, would be material in the context of the Wider BPP Group taken as a whole; or
and no such claims are material in the context of the Wider BPP Group taken as a whole; or
 
Criminal property
The Conditions are inserted for the benefit of Apollo UK and no BPP Shareholder shall be entitled to waive any of the Conditions without the prior consent of Apollo UK.
Subject to the requirements of the Panel, Apollo UK reserves the right in its sole discretion to waive all or any of the above Conditions, in whole or in part except Condition 1 which cannot be waived. Apollo shall be under no obligation to waive (if capable of waiver) or to determine to be satisfied, or to treat as fulfilled, any of Conditions 2 to 8 inclusive by a date earlier than that date specified in Condition 1 for the fulfilment thereof. The Conditions must each be waived or satisfied (as the case may be) by not later than 30 November 2009 or such later date (if any) as Apollo UK and BPP may, with the consent of the Panel, agree and (if required) the Court may allow, otherwise the Scheme will lapse.
Apollo UK reserves the right to elect to implement the Acquisition by way of a takeover offer (subject to the Panel's consent). In such event, such offer will be implemented on the same terms and conditions (subject to appropriate amendments, including (without limitation) an acceptance condition set at seventy five per cent. (or such percentage (being more than fifty per cent.))) as Apollo UK may decide (in each case, subject to the Panel's consent) of the shares to which such offer relates, so far as applicable, as those which would apply to the Scheme.
If the Panel requires Apollo UK to make an offer or offers for any BPP Shares under the provisions of Rule 9 of the City Code, Apollo UK may make such alterations to the Conditions of the Acquisition, including to Condition 1, as are necessary to comply with the provisions of that Rule.
The Acquisition will be on the terms and will be subject to, , the Conditions and such further terms as may be required to comply with the Listing Rules and the provisions of the City Code.
inter alia
The Acquisition will lapse and the Scheme will not proceed (unless the Panel otherwise consents) if before the date of the Court Meeting the Office of Fair Trading has referred the Acquisition to the Competition Commission.
The Acquisition and the Scheme will be governed by English law and will be subject to the jurisdiction of the English courts.
The availability of the Acquisition to persons not resident in the United Kingdom may be affected by the laws of the relevant jurisdictions. Persons who are not resident in the United Kingdom should inform themselves about and observe any applicable requirements.
Each of Conditions 1 to 8 shall be regarded as a separate Condition and shall not be limited by reference to any other Condition.
 
Basis of financial information
The financial statements of the BPP Group included in its Annual Report and Accounts for the financial years ended 31 December 2006, 2007 and 2008, together with the audit reports on them, and the Interim Management Statement for the 4 months ended 30 April 2009, including the information set out below, are incorporated by reference into this document and are available in "read only" format for viewing or downloading, free of charge, on the company website at www.bpp.com/ir/. The audit reports for each of the financial years ended 31 December 2006, 2007 and 2008 were unqualified. The financial statements were prepared in accordance with IFRS.
Incorporation of information by reference
 
The information referred to in paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 above has not been published in an inflation adjusted form.
BPP will send within two business days, without charge, to each person to whom a copy of this document has been sent, on their request, a copy of any documents incorporated by reference in this document. Requests should be addressed to Capita Registrars at The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU or made by telephoning the shareholder helpline on between 9.00 a.m. and 5.00 p.m. (London time) Monday to Friday (except UK public holidays) on 0871 664 0321 from within the UK or on +44 20 8639 3399 if calling from outside the UK. Calls to the 0871 664 0321 number cost 10 pence per minute (including VAT) plus your service provider's network extras. Calls to the helpline from outside the UK will be charged at applicable international rates. Different charges may apply to calls from mobile telephones and call may be recorded and randomly monitored for security and training purposes. The helpline cannot provide advice on the merits of the Scheme nor give any financial, legal or tax advice.
 
 
 
"" in relation to a director of Apollo Global, Apollo UK or BPP includes (a) such director's spouse or civil partner and children or step-children under the age of 18; (b) the trustee(s) of any trust for the benefit of such director and/or any person mentioned in (a); (c) any company in which such director and/or any person mentioned in (a) or (b) is entitled to exercise or control the exercise of one-third or more of the voting power, or which is accustomed to act in accordance with the directions of such director or any such person; and (d) any other person whose interests in shares are taken to be interests of such director pursuant to Part 22 of the Companies Act 2006;
connected person
"" means an interest, or interests, in shares carrying in aggregate 30 per cent. or more of the voting rights attributable to the share capital of a company which are currently exercisable at a general meeting, irrespective of whether such interest(s) give(s) control;
control
de facto
"" has the meaning given to it in the City Code and "" has the corresponding meaning;
dealing
dealt
"" means the close of business on 19 June 2009, being the latest practicable date prior to the posting of this document;
Disclosure Date
"" means the period commencing on 29 April 2008 (being the date 12 months prior to the date of commencement of the Offer Period) and ending on the Disclosure Date;
Disclosure Period
"" and "" have the meanings given to them in the City Code;
exempt fund manager
exempt principal trader
"" in relevant securities has the meaning given to it in the City Code;
interest
"" means in this context the period commencing on 29 April 2009 and ending on the Disclosure Date;
Offer Period
"" means shares in the capital of Apollo Global or Apollo UK and securities of Apollo Global or Apollo UK carrying conversion or subscription rights into such shares;
relevant securities of Apollo Global
"" means BPP Shares and securities of BPP carrying conversion or subscription rights into BPP Shares; and
relevant securities of BPP
"" means any short position (whether conditional or absolute and whether in the money or otherwise), including any short position under a derivative, any agreement to sell or any delivery obligation or right to require another person to purchase or take delivery.
short position
 
 
Options and awards under the BPP Share Schemes
Key for BPP Share Schemes:
 
 
 
The following contracts, being contracts entered into not in the ordinary course of business, have been entered into by BPP and its subsidiaries since 29 April 2007 (being the date two years prior to the commencement of the Offer Period) and are or may be material:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Copies of the following documents will be available for inspection at the offices of Macfarlanes LLP, at 20 Cursitor Street, London EC4A 1LT, during normal business hours on any business day up to and including the Effective Date:
 
Apollo Global, Inc. a company incorporated under the laws of Delaware whose principal executive offices are at 4025 S. Riverpoint Parkway, Phoenix, Arizona 85040
Apollo Global:
Apollo Global and its subsidiaries and subsidiary undertakings and, where the context permits, each of them
Apollo Global Group:
Apollo UK Acquisition Company Limited, a private limited company incorporated in England and Wales with registered number 6920380
Apollo UK:
or the BPP Holdings Plc, a public company incorporated in England and Wales with registered number 1245304
BPP
Company:
ordinary shares of 10 pence each in the capital of BPP
BPP Shares:
or not in uncertificated form (that is, not in CREST)
certificated
in certificated form:
the Companies Act 1985 (as amended from time to time), to the extent that it is in force as at the date of this amendment
Companies Act 1985:
the Companies Act 2006 (as amended from time to time), to the extent that it is in force as at the date of this amendment
Companies Act 2006:
the High Court of Justice in England and Wales
Court:
the hearing by the Court of the application to sanction this Scheme under Part 26 of the Companies Act 2006 and to confirm the reduction of capital provided for under Section 137 of the Companies Act 1985
Court Hearing:
 
the meeting or meetings of Scheme Shareholders (and any adjournment thereof) convened pursuant to an order of the Court under section 896 of the Companies Act 2006 for the purpose of considering and, if thought fit, approving the Scheme (with or without amendment), notice of which is set out in the Scheme Document
Court Meeting:
the order of the Court sanctioning the Scheme under Part 26 of the Companies Act 2006 and confirming the reduction of share capital under section 137 of the Companies Act 1985 provided for in the Scheme
Court Order:
the relevant system (as defined in the CREST Regulations), in respect of which Euroclear is the Operator (as defined in the CREST Regulations)
CREST:
the CREST Manual published by Euroclear, as amended from time to time
CREST Manual:
the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 (as amended from time to time)
CREST Regulations:
the date on which this Scheme becomes effective in accordance with clause 5 of this Scheme
Effective Date:
Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited
Euroclear:
a registered holder (including any person(s) entitled by transmission)
holder:
this scheme of arrangement in its present form or with or subject to any modification, addition or condition approved or imposed by the Court
Scheme:
the circular to holders of BPP Shares, of which this Scheme forms part
Scheme Document:
11:59 p.m. (London time) on the day on which the Court Order is made
Scheme Record Time:
holder(s) of Scheme Shares
Scheme Shareholder(s):
Scheme Shares:
in each case other than any BPP Shares held or beneficially owned by any member of the Apollo Global Group
a transfer to escrow instruction as defined in the CREST Manual
TTE Instruction:
or recorded on the relevant register of members as being held in uncertificated form and title to which may, by virtue of the CREST Regulations, be transferred by means of CREST
uncertificated
in uncertificated form:
or the United States of America
United States
US:
6:00 p.m. (London time) on the day which is two days before the date of the Court Meeting or, if the Court Meeting is adjourned, 6:00 p.m. (London time) on the day which is two days before the date of such adjourned meeting
Voting Record Time:
and references to clauses are to clauses of this Scheme and all times referred to in this Scheme are London times unless otherwise specified.
 
In consideration for the cancellation of the Scheme Shares and the allotment and issue of new BPP Shares as provided in clause 1, Apollo UK shall pay or procure to be paid to or for the account of the holders of Scheme Shares (as appearing in the register of members of the Company at the Scheme Record Time), in accordance with the provisions of clause 3:
 
With effect from, and including, the Effective Date:
Dated 22 June 2009
 
The following definitions apply throughout this document, unless the context requires otherwise:
31 December 2008
Accounting Date:
the proposed acquisition by Apollo UK of the entire issued and to be issued ordinary share capital of BPP (other than BPP Shares (if any) already held by Apollo Global, Apollo UK, or any member of the Wider Apollo Global Group), as described in this document
Acquisition:
arrangements, agreements, commitments, licences, permits, franchises, partnerships, joint ventures, authorisations or other instrument
agreements:
the announcement dated 8 June 2009 by Apollo UK of its firm intention to make the Acquisition
Announcement:
Apollo Global, Inc., a company incorporated under the laws of Delaware whose principal executive offices are at 4025 S. Riverpoint Parkway, Phoenix, Arizona 85040
Apollo Global:
the directors of Apollo Global, whose names are set out in paragraph 2.3 of Part V of this document
Apollo Global Directors:
Apollo Global and its subsidiaries and subsidiary undertakings and, where the context permits, each of them
Apollo Global Group:
Apollo Group, Inc., a company incorporated under the laws of Arizona whose principal executive offices are at 4025 Riverpoint Parkway, Phoenix, Arizona 85040
Apollo Group:
Apollo UK Acquisition Company Limited, a private limited company incorporated in England with registered number 6920380
Apollo UK:
the directors of Apollo UK, whose names are set out in paragraph 2.5 of Part V of this document
Apollo UK Directors:
shall be construed in accordance with section 988(1) of the Companies Act 2006
associate:
authorisations, orders, recognitions, grants, consents, licences, confirmations, clearances, permissions and approvals
authorisations:
or BPP Holdings plc, a public company incorporated in England and Wales with registered number 1245304
BPP
the Company:
or the directors of BPP, whose names are set out in paragraph 2.1 of Part V of this document
BPP Directors
the BPP Board:
the executive directors of BPP as listed as Chief Executive or Executive Director in paragraph 2.1 of Part V
BPP Executive Directors:
: BPP and its subsidiaries and subsidiary undertakings and, where the context permits, each of them
BPP Group
the BPP Directors other than the Executive Directors
BPP Non-Executive Directors:
the holder(s) of BPP Shares
BPP Shareholder(s):
ordinary shares of 10 pence each in the capital of BPP
BPP Shares:
the PSP, the SMP, the ESOS and the Sharesave Scheme
BPP Share Schemes:
a day which is not a Saturday, Sunday or public holiday in England
business day:
a trading name for Capita Registrars Limited
Capita Registrars:
 
the proposed reduction of BPP's share capital provided for by the Scheme under section 137 of the Companies Act 1985
Capital Reduction:
or not in uncertificated form (that is, not in CREST)
certificated
in certificated form:
the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers (as amended from time to time)
City Code:
the closing middle-market quotation for a BPP Share, as derived from the Daily Official List
Closing Price:
the Companies Act 1985 (as amended from time to time) to the extent that it is in force at the date of this document
Companies Act 1985:
the Companies Act 2006 (as amended from time to time) to the extent that it is in force at the date of this document
Companies Act 2006:
the conditions to the implementation of the Acquisition (including the Scheme) set out in Part III of this document
Conditions:
the High Court of Justice in England and Wales
Court:
the hearing by the Court of the application to sanction the Scheme under Part 26 of the Companies Act 2006 and to confirm the Capital Reduction under Section 137 of the Companies Act 1985
Court Hearing:
the meeting or meetings of Scheme Shareholders (and any adjournment thereof) convened pursuant to an order of the Court under Part 26 of the Companies Act 2006 for the purpose of considering and, if thought fit, approving the Scheme (with or without amendment), notice of which is set out in Part VIII of this document
Court Meeting:
the order of the Court sanctioning the Scheme under Part 26 of the Companies Act 2006 and confirming the Capital Reduction under Section 137 of the Companies Act 1985
Court Order:
Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Limited, the financial adviser to Apollo Global and Apollo UK in connection with the Acquisition
Credit Suisse:
the relevant system (as defined in the CREST Regulations), in respect of which Euroclear is the Operator (as defined in the CREST Regulations)
CREST:
the CREST Manual published by Euroclear, as amended from time to time
CREST Manual:
the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 (as amended from time to time)
CREST Regulations:
the daily official list of the London Stock Exchange
Daily Official List:
Disclosed:
the date on which the Scheme becomes effective in accordance with its terms
Effective Date:
together the BPP 2003 Executive Share Option Scheme, the BPP 2003 Executive Share Option Scheme (Unapproved) and the BPP 1996 Executive Share Option Scheme
ESOS:
Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited
Euroclear:
 
the blue Form of Proxy for use at the Court Meeting and the white Form of Proxy for use at the General Meeting (or either of them as the context may require), which are being sent to BPP Shareholders with this document
Form(s) of Proxy:
or the Financial Services Authority acting in its capacity as the competent authority for the purposes of Part VI of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000
FSA
Financial Services Authority:
the extraordinary general meeting of BPP convened in connection with the Scheme by the notice set out in Part IX of this document (and any adjournment thereof)
General Meeting:
Hawkpoint Partners Limited
Hawkpoint:
HM Revenue & Customs
HMRC:
a registered holder (including any person(s) entitled by transmission)
holder:
the implementation agreement dated 7 June 2009 between BPP, Apollo Global and Apollo UK relating, among other things, to the implementation of the Acquisition
Implementation Agreement:
either:
Independent Inconsistent Transaction:
which is in each case to be made or entered into by or with a third party which is not acting in concert (as defined in the City Code) with Apollo UK
the inducement fee letter dated 29 April 2009 between BPP and Apollo Global
Inducement Fee Letter:
all patents, trademarks, trade names, service marks, copyrights, designs, databases and any applications therefore, schematics, technology, know how, computer software, programmes or applications (in both source code and object code form), and tangible or intangible proprietary information or material
intellectual property:
actions, suits, proceedings, investigations, references or enquiries
legal proceedings:
the listing rules of the Financial Services Authority in its capacity as the UK Listing Authority under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 as amended from time to time and contained in the Financial Services Authority's publication of the same name
Listing Rules:
London Stock Exchange plc
London Stock Exchange:
or Mander Portman Woodward Limited, a company incorporated in England and Wales with registered number 1280778
Mander Portman Woodward
MPW:
the Court Meeting and/or the General Meeting, as the case may be
Meeting(s):
the period commencing on 29 April 2009 and ending on the Effective Date (or such other date as the Panel may determine), provided that references to the Offer Period in paragraph 4 of Part V of this document are to the Offer Period up to the close of business on 19 June 2009 (being the latest practicable date before the posting of this document)
Offer Period:
the Official List of the FSA
Official List:
Scheme Shareholders who are resident in or nationals or citizens of jurisdictions outside the United Kingdom or who are nominees of, or custodians or trustees for, citizens or nationals of countries other than the United Kingdom
Overseas Shareholders:
the Panel on Takeovers and Mergers
Panel:
 
or UK pounds sterling (and references to "pence" or "p" shall be construed accordingly)
Pounds sterling
:
the BPP 2007 Performance Share Plan
PSP:
the Registrar of Companies in England and Wales
Registrar of Companies:
any of the services set out in Appendix 3 of the Listing Rules
Regulatory Information Service:
land, property or other asset now or previously owned, occupied or made use of by any past or present member of the Wider BPP Group
relevant asset:
governments, governmental, quasi-governmental, supranational, statutory, investigative, regulatory or administrative bodies or trade agencies, associations, institutions or courts, or professional or environmental bodies, or any other persons or bodies whatsoever in any jurisdiction
relevant persons:
the remuneration committee of BPP
Remuneration Committee:
or the scheme of arrangement proposed to be made under Part 26 of the Companies Act 2006 between BPP and the Scheme Shareholders, as set out in Part VI of this document, in its present form or with or subject to any modification, addition or condition approved or imposed by the Court and agreed to by BPP and Apollo UK
Scheme
Scheme of Arrangement:
this document
Scheme Document:
11:59 p.m. (London time) on the day on which the Court Order is made
Scheme Record Time:
holder(s) of Scheme Shares
Scheme Shareholder(s):
Scheme Shares:
in each case other than any BPP Shares held or beneficially owned by any member of the Wider Apollo Global Group
those BPP Directors listed in paragraph 5.1 of Part V of this document
Shareholder Directors:
the BPP 2000 Sharesave Scheme
Sharesave Scheme:
and have the meanings given by the Companies Act 2006, other than paragraph 20(1)(b) of Schedule 4A to that Act which shall be excluded for this purpose, and "" means a direct or indirect interest in 20 per cent. or more of the equity share capital (as defined in that Act) of any undertaking
"subsidiary", "subsidiary undertaking", "undertaking", "associated undertaking"
"substantial interest"
substantial interest
the BPP 2008 Share Matching Plan
SMP:
the special resolution to be proposed at the General Meeting in connection with, the Capital Reduction
Special Resolution:
inter alia,
the BPP Employee Share Ownership Trust
Trust:
the trustee of the BPP Employee Share Ownership Trust
Trustee:
a transfer to escrow instruction as defined in the CREST Manual
TTE Instruction:
or the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
UK
United Kingdom:
 
the UK Listing Authority
UKLA:
or recorded on the relevant register of members as being held in uncertificated form and title to which may, by virtue of the CREST Regulations, be transferred by means of CREST
uncertificated
in uncertificated form:
or the United States of America
United States
US:
the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (as amended) and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder
US Securities Exchange Act:
6:00 p.m. (London time) on the day which is two days before the date of the Court Meeting or, if the Court Meeting is adjourned, 6:00 p.m. (London time) on the day which is two days before the date of such adjourned meeting
Voting Record Time:
Apollo Global and its subsidiaries, subsidiary undertakings, associated undertakings and any other undertaking or joint venture or firm or partnership or company in which Apollo Global and/or such subsidiaries or undertakings (aggregating their interests) have a substantial interest
Wider Apollo Global Group:
BPP and its subsidiaries, subsidiary undertakings, associated undertakings and any other undertaking or joint venture or firm or partnership or company in which BPP and/or such subsidiaries or undertakings (aggregating their interests) have a substantial interest
Wider BPP Group:
Unless otherwise indicated, all references in this document to times are to London times.
 
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that, by an Order dated 19 June 2009 made in the above matters, the Court has directed a meeting (the "") to be convened of the holders of (as defined in the scheme of arrangement referred to below) ("") for the purpose of considering and, if thought fit, approving (with or without modification) a scheme of arrangement (the "") proposed to be made pursuant to Part 26 of the Companies Act 2006 (the "") between BPP Holdings Plc ("" or the ""), and the holders of the Scheme Shares and that the Court Meeting will be held at the offices of Macfarlanes LLP, at 20 Cursitor Street, London EC4A 1LT on 15 July 2009, at 10.00 a.m. (London time), at which place and time all holders of Scheme Shares are requested to attend. Voting will be by way of poll.
Court Meeting
Scheme Shares
Scheme Shareholders
Scheme
Act
BPP
Company
Copies of the Scheme and of the explanatory statement required to be furnished pursuant to section 897 of the Act are incorporated in the document of which this notice forms part.
Right to Appoint a Proxy; Procedure for Appointment
Scheme Shareholders entitled to attend and vote at the Court Meeting may vote in person at such meeting or they may appoint another person or persons, whether a member of the Company or not, as their proxy or proxies, to exercise all or any of their rights to attend, speak and vote at the Court Meeting.
A blue form of proxy ("Form of Proxy"), for use at the Court Meeting, is enclosed with this notice. Instructions for its use are set out on the form. It is requested that the blue Form of Proxy (together with any power of attorney or other authority, if any, under which it is signed, or a duly certified copy thereof) be lodged with Capita Registrars, Proxy Department, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU by post or (during normal business hours only) by hand, not later than 10.00 a.m. (London time) on 13 July 2009 or, in the case of an adjournment of the Court Meeting, 48 hours before the time appointed for the adjourned meeting. However, if not so lodged, blue Forms of Proxy (together with any such authority, if applicable) may be handed to a representative of Capita Registrars, on behalf of the chairman of the Court Meeting, at the Court Meeting.
Scheme Shareholders are entitled to appoint a proxy in respect of some or all of their Scheme Shares and may also appoint more than one proxy, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by such holder. Scheme Shareholders who wish to appoint more than one proxy in respect of their holding of Scheme Shares should contact Capita Registrars for further Forms of Proxy.
Completion and return of a Form of Proxy will not prevent a holder of Scheme Shares from attending, speaking and voting in person at the Court Meeting, or any adjournment thereof, if such Shareholder wishes and is entitled to do so.
 
Voting Record Time
Entitlement to attend, speak and vote at the Court Meeting or any adjournment thereof and the number of votes which may be cast at the Court Meeting, will be determined by reference to the register of members of the Company at 6.00 p.m. (London time) on 13 July 2009 or, if the Court Meeting is adjourned, 6.00 p.m. (London time) on the date two days before the date fixed for the adjourned meeting. Changes to the register of members after the relevant time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend, speak and vote at the Court Meeting.
Joint Holders
In the case of joint holders of Scheme Shares, the vote of the senior who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, will be accepted to the exclusion of the vote(s) of the other joint holder(s). For this purpose, seniority will be determined by the order in which the names stand in the register of members of the Company in respect of the joint holding.
Corporate Representatives
As an alternative to appointing a proxy, any Scheme Shareholder which is a corporation may vote by a corporate representative appointed in accordance with the Act. Details of certain arrangements which will be put in place in order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the Court Meeting are set out on pages 2 and 3 of the document of which this Notice forms part.
By the said Order, the Court has appointed David Sugden or, failing him, Chris Ross-Roberts or, failing him, Michael Kirkham, to act as chairman of the Court Meeting and has directed the chairman to report the result thereof to the Court.
The Scheme will be subject to the subsequent sanction of the Court.
Dated 22 June 2009 Macfarlanes LLP 20 Cursitor Street London EC4A 1LT
Solicitors for the Company
Nominated Persons
The statements of the rights of Scheme Shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies above do not apply to a person nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights (a "Nominated Person"). Such rights can only be exercised by members of the Company. Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between such Nominated Person and the member by whom he or she was nominated, have a right to be appointed (or to have someone else appointed) as a proxy for the Court Meeting. If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he or she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights.
Nominated Persons are reminded that they should contact the registered holder(s) of the shares in respect of which they were nominated (and not the Company) on matters relating to their investments in the Company.
 
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that an Extraordinary General Meeting of BPP Holdings plc (the "") will be held at the offices of Macfarlanes LLP, at 20 Cursitor Street, London EC4A 1LT on 15 July 2009 at 10.15 a.m. (London time) (or as soon thereafter as the Court Meeting (as defined in the document of which this notice forms part) shall have been concluded or adjourned) for the purpose of considering and, if thought fit, passing the following resolution as a special resolution:
Company
THAT:
 
 
Notes:
Right to Appoint a Proxy; Procedure for Appointment
Voting Record Time
Joint Holders
Corporate Representatives
 
Nominated Persons
 


