FILE:APOL/APOL-8K-20100520160247.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(b) Retirement of P. Robert Moya
     P. Robert Moya, Apollo Group, Inc's Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary will be retiring from Apollo Group, Inc. (the "Company"). In furtherance of his retirement, the Company entered into a special transition agreement (the "Transition Agreement") with Mr. Moya on May 17, 2010. Pursuant to the Transition Agreement, Mr. Moya will resign from his current positions as of August 31, 2010 but has agreed to continue in the Company's full time employ as Executive Vice President, Special Projects, through October 31, 2010. Mr. Moya will continue to be paid base salary at his current annual rate of $400,000 during such period of full-time employment.
     Following his period of full-time employment, Mr. Moya will convert to part-time employee status in the role of Senior Advisor for which he will be paid a monthly salary of $10,000. Unless earlier terminated by either party, that arrangement will continue through August 31, 2011, with a potential extension upon mutual agreement of the parties. Mr. Moya's outstanding stock options and restricted stock unit awards will continue to vest while he remains in the Company's employ, whether as a full-time or part-time employee.
     Mr. Moya will, upon the termination of his full-time employment on October 31, 2010, become entitled to receive the severance benefits that are provided under Section 8(b) of his existing employment agreement with the Company dated August 31, 2007 (and subsequently amended as of January 1, 2009) upon certain terminations of employment during the term of that agreement. The payment of those severance benefits will commence on May 2, 2011 upon the expiration of the required six (6)-month delay period under applicable federal tax law, with the final payment being made on October 31, 2011. As set forth in his current employment agreement with the Company, the payment of those severance benefits will be subject to Mr. Moya's delivery of a general release of all claims against the Company and its affiliates and his compliance with the non-competition and non-solicitation covenants.
     Mr. Moya's vested outstanding options will in general remain exercisable until the later of (i) August 31, 2011 or (ii) the expiration of the three (3)-month period following the date his employment terminates.
     A copy of Mr. Moya's current employment agreement has been filed as Exhibit 10.26 to the Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2007, and the amendment to that agreement has been filed as Exhibit 10.9 to the Company's Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended November 30, 2008. Except as modified by the Transition Agreement, Mr. Moya's current employment agreement as so amended will continue in effect in accordance with its existing terms.
     The Company has engaged an executive search firm to identify a successor General Counsel.
(e) Execution of Amended and Restated Employment Agreement with Joseph L. D'Amico
     In addition, on May 18, 2010, the Company and Joseph L. D'Amico, the Company's President and Chief Operating Officer, entered into an amended and restated employment agreement (the "Restated Agreement") that replaces the existing employment agreement between the Company and Mr. D'Amico dated June 5, 2007 and subsequently amended on three separate occasions.
     Under the Restated Agreement, the term of Mr. D'Amico's employment agreement has been extended from June 15, 2010 to August 31, 2012. During the extended term, Mr. D'Amico will continue to serve as President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company at not less than his current $525,000 annual rate of base salary. He will also continue to participate in the Company's Executive Officer Incentive Bonus Plan for each of the Company's 2011 and 2012 fiscal years at a target bonus level equal to 100% of his annual base salary.
Table of Contents
     In addition to such cash compensation, Mr. D'Amico will receive equity grants for each of the Company's 2011 and 2012 fiscal years, made at the same time as the other regular annual grants for that fiscal year, with a grant-date fair value of at least $4 million per annual award. The awards may be made in form of stock options, restricted stock units and/or other equity-based awards covering shares of the Company's Class A common stock, as determined by the Compensation Committee in its sole discretion. The award agreements will include special vesting acceleration and continuation provisions that would allow the unvested portion of those awards, to the extent outstanding at the time, to vest in part immediately upon his death or disability while in the Company's employ or to vest in whole over the remainder of the vesting schedule should his employment terminate under certain specified circumstances. Such continued vesting would be subject to Mr. D'Amico's compliance with certain non-competition and non-solicitation covenants.
     All of the other terms and provisions that were in effect under Mr. D'Amico's employment agreement immediately prior to the execution of the Restated Agreement, including his entitlement to cash severance payments in the event his employment terminates under certain specified circumstances, will continue in effect under the Restated Agreement.
     A copy of Mr. D'Amico's employment agreement with the Company dated June 5, 2007 has been filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended May 31, 2007 and copies of the three separate amendments to that agreement have been filed as attachments to the following Form 10-Q Reports of the Company: Amendment No. 1 filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended May 31, 2007; Amendment No. 2 filed as Exhibit 10.7 to the Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended November 30, 2008; and Amendment No. 3 filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended February 28, 2009.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
The following exhibits are provided herewith:
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 10.1
Mr. P. Robert Moya Apollo Group, Inc. 4025 South Riverpoint Parkway Phoenix, AZ 85040
Dear Bob:
The purpose of this letter is to document the understanding we have reached concerning the termination of your full-time employment and transition to part-time employment with Apollo Group, Inc. (the ""). This document (the "") will supersede anything to the contrary in your existing employment agreement with the Company originally dated August 31, 2007 and subsequently amended effective January 1, 2009 (the ""). Any terms of the Employment Agreement (or any other agreement between you and the Company, including without limitation any equity award agreements) that are not superseded by the terms of this Transition Agreement shall remain unmodified and in full force and effect. The capitalized terms used in this Transition Agreement, to the extent not defined herein, shall have the meanings set forth in the Employment Agreement.
Company
Transition Agreement
Employment Agreement
     1. . Subject to the terms and conditions of this Transition Agreement, you will remain in full-time employment with the Company until the earlier of (a) October 31, 2010, or (b) the date on which your employment is sooner terminated under Section 2 below. Unless your full-time employment with the Company is terminated under Section 2 below prior to August 31, 2010, you shall resign as General Counsel and Corporate Secretary effective as of the close of business on August 31, 2010. Thereafter, you will remain employed as the Company's Executive Vice President, Special Projects until your period of part-time employment commences under Section 3 below. There will be no change in your annual rate of base salary or your eligibility for participation in the Company's employee benefit plans while you remain in full-time employment with the Company, but you will not (x) be eligible to receive any new equity awards, including any awards for the 2011 fiscal year that are expected to be made in July 2010, (y) participate in any bonus plans of the Company after August 31, 2010, or (z) otherwise be entitled to any actual or target bonus compensation for your period of service after August 31, 2010.
Continued Full-Time Employment
     Provided you continue in employment with the Company through July 2, 2010, you will vest on that date in 25% of the stock option grant made to you in July 2009 for 26,876 shares of the Company's Class A common stock. In addition, should you continue in employment through August 31, 2010, you will vest in the following installments of your other outstanding equity awards in accordance with the applicable award agreements:
 
     (i) 25% of your July 2009 restricted stock unit award for 11,058 shares of the Company's Class A common stock, provided the $350 million net book income performance goal for the 2010 fiscal year is attained, and
     (ii) the third annual installment of each of the new hire equity awards made to you on September 1, 2007, namely, the third annual installment of your stock option grant for 110,000 shares of the Company's Class A common stock and the third annual installment of your restricted stock unit award for 17,000 shares of the Company's Class A common stock.
     In addition, provided your employment with the Company continues through August 31, 2010, you will be entitled to any bonus you earn under the Executive Officer Bonus Plan for the fiscal year ending August 31, 2010 based on (i) the Company's performance for such year, as measured in terms of the revenue and operating income targets established for such year, (ii) the Compensation Committee's assessment of the Company's performance in relation to certain qualitative education initiatives and (iii) your individual performance for the year. Assessment of your achievement of performance objectives shall be in the same manner as for other executives of the Company.
     2. . Your full-time employment with the Company will continue through October 31, 2010 unless (a) the Company terminates your employment for Cause, (b) your employment terminates by reason of your death or Disability, (c) the Company terminates your employment for any reason other than for Cause or (d) you terminate your employment with or without Good Reason. Should your employment terminate for any of the foregoing reasons prior to October 31, 2010, then the provisions of your Employment Agreement will govern any rights or entitlement you may have with respect to your outstanding equity awards and any other additional severance benefits, including any potential severance benefits under Section 8(b) of your Employment Agreement.
Termination of Full-Time Employment
     Effective as of October 31, 2010, you will resign as an executive officer of the Company and will not hold any further officer positions with the Company. Following the date of such resignation, you will cease to be subject to the insider reporting and trading restrictions under Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; however, you will, during your period of continued employment with the Company, continue to be a restricted person subject to the addendum to the Company's insider trader policy through February 1, 2011, at which time the Company will determine whether you should continue to be such a restricted person or whether you should instead become subject to the Company's general insider trading policy in the same manner as any other Company employee. Any determination that you should continue to remain in restricted person status will be subject to periodic re-assessment from time to time after February 1, 2011 upon your request.
     3. . Unless your employment with the Company terminates earlier pursuant to Section 2 above, effective November 1, 2010 you will become a part-time employee of the Company and your commitment will be permanently reduced to a level not more than 20% of the average level of services provided by you during the three-year period preceding your conversion to such part-time status. During your period of
Conversion to Part-Time Employment
 
part-time employment, you will not be required to work, nor will you work, an average of more than one full day per week. Your part-time employment with the Company as described below will continue through September 1, 2011 unless (a) your part-time employment period is extended for an additional period by mutual agreement between you and the Company or (b) your employment terminates earlier by reason of any of the events specified in Section 2 above. Upon the termination of your part-time employment with the Company, you will no longer render any services in any capacity to the Company or any of its affiliates. The unvested portion of your July 2, 2009 equity awards will be cancelled upon the termination of your part-time status.
     The following provisions will govern your period of parttime employment:
          (a) Depending on your duties, as they may be agreed upon from time to time, your services as a part-time employee may be performed at the Company's offices, via telecommuting and/or while traveling on Company business. In that regard, the Company and you will take reasonable steps to ensure you maintain connectivity via VPN and Blackberry or similar personal digital assistant device. You will at all times during the part-time employment period remain subject to the control and direction of the Company as to both the work to be performed and the manner and method of performance.
          (b) You will hold the title of Senior Advisor and will report directly to Dr. John Sperling, the Company's Executive Chair, and Terri Bishop, the Company's Executive Vice President, External Affairs, and Chief of Staff to the Executive Chair. The Company, in conjunction with those two executive officers, will, from time to time, delineate the specific duties and responsibilities you will have during this period, including the provision of transitional assistance and support to your successor.
          (c) You will remain subject to all employee workplace rules and standards.
          (d) Your base salary will be $5,000 per semi-monthly pay period, subject to the Company's collection of all applicable withholding taxes. You will not be eligible for any bonus compensation during your period of part-time employment.
          (e) You will not be eligible to participate in the Company's employee benefit plans, including the group health plans, the term insurance and disability plans and the employee stock purchase plan, but you may continue to make pre-tax contributions to the Company's 401(k) plan.
          (f) You will not be eligible to receive any new equity awards, including any awards for the 2011 or 2012 fiscal years.
          (g) You will continue to accrue service vesting credit with respect to the unvested portions of your September 1, 2007 and July 2, 2009 equity awards in accordance with the terms and conditions of the applicable equity award documents.
 
          (h) You will continue to be eligible for payment or reimbursement from the Company of business expenses for all of your continuing professional dues and licenses and for the reasonable costs of attending continuing legal education courses, subject to the Company's prior approval of each such expense and up to a maximum dollar reimbursement of Three Thousand Dollars ($3,000.00) in the aggregate.
     4. . Unless your employment with the Company terminates prior to October 31, 2010 by reason of any of the events listed in Section 2 above, your full-time employment will be deemed to have been terminated by the Company without Cause effective as of the close of business on October 31, 2010, and you will therefore be entitled to receive the severance compensation described in Section 8(b) of the Employment Agreement, subject to the conditions described therein and in this Section 4 and payable in accordance with the terms of the Employment Agreement and the applicable award agreements. This Transition Agreement shall constitute the "Notice of Termination" required by Section 7(e) of the Employment Agreement and no further notice of termination without Cause shall be required. For avoidance of doubt, you and the Company agree that such severance compensation under Section 8(b) of the Employment Agreement includes the following:
Severance Package
          (a) a cash severance amount (the "Cash Severance Benefit") equal to the sum of (i) $400,000 (one times your annual rate of base salary as of the date of this Transition Agreement) and (ii) one times the average of the actual annual bonuses you earned for the 2008, 2009 and 2010 fiscal years, with such amounts to be paid as follows: on May 2, 2011 (or upon your death, if earlier), you will receive in a lump sum the semi-monthly installments for the period from November 1, 2010 through April 30, 2011 that will have been delayed pursuant to Section 13(b) of your Employment Agreement, and the balance will be paid in twelve successive equal semi-monthly installments, beginning May 15, 2011; and
          (b) accelerated vesting on May 2 , 2011 (or upon your death, if earlier) of the final installment of your September 1, 2007 option grant and restricted stock unit award (the "Equity Severance Benefit").
     Although Section 8(b) of the Employment Agreement also provides for reimbursement for COBRA continuation costs, you hereby acknowledge that you will not be eligible for such reimbursement as part of your severance package because you do not carry health care coverage through the Company's group health plan.
     All payments made pursuant to the above-described severance package will be subject to the Company's collection of all applicable withholding taxes, and you will only receive the net amount remaining after such taxes have been withheld.
     As a condition to your right to receive both the Cash Severance and Equity Severance Benefits above described, you must execute and deliver to the Company a general release in the form of attached Exhibit A to this Transition Agreement, with such release as so amended to be dated April 22, 2011, and such release must become enforceable and effective by you not revoking it within the seven-day period in which you have to revoke it after signing.
 
     5. . You will have a three-month period following the date your employment with the Company terminates, in which to exercise the outstanding vested balance of your 110,000-share hire date option grant and the vested portion of your July 2, 2009 option grant (or twelve (12)-months in the event your employment terminates by reason of your death or Disability); provided, however, that in the event your employment is terminated by the Company other than for Cause prior to September 1, 2011, you will have until the later of (i) August 31, 2011 or (ii) the expiration of the three-month period following such termination in which to exercise the outstanding vested balance of the foregoing options. In no event, however, shall any option remain outstanding or exercisable beyond its maximum term.
Exercise Period Following Termination of Employment
     6. It is intended that this Transition Agreement and the payments hereunder will either be exempt from or otherwise satisfy the requirements of Section 409A(a)(2), (3) and (4) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended ("Code"), including current and future guidance and regulations interpreting such provisions, and should be interpreted accordingly; provided, however, that the Company provides no assurances to you as to the actual treatment of those payments under Section 409A of the Code You hereby represent and acknowledge that you have retained your own legal counsel and obtained your own tax advice regarding the subject matter of this Transition Agreement and the payments to be made pursuant to it. Other than the Company's obligation to withhold federal, state and local taxes from your taxable wages, you will be responsible for any and all taxes, interest and penalties that may be imposed with respect to any of the payments and benefits that are made or provided to you in accordance with the terms of this Transition Agreement (including, without limitation, any and all tax implications under Internal Revenue Code Section 409A). You acknowledge and agree that the Company has not made any representations, and has not provided any advice, regarding the taxation of the payments and benefits that are to be provided you hereunder, including (without limitation) any potential taxes, interest and/or penalties under Internal Revenue Code Section 409A and similar liabilities under state tax laws. In no event will the Company be liable to you for any federal, state or local tax consequences you may incur with respect to any payments or benefits that are provided to you in compliance with the terms of this Transition Agreement, including (without limitation) any such consequences that may arise under Internal Revenue Code Section 409A.
. 
Independent Counsel and Tax Responsibility
     7. . The Company will pay or reimburse you for your legal fees incurred in connection with the preparation and negotiation of this Transition Agreement, up to a maximum dollar amount of $15,000.00. Such payment or reimbursement will be made within thirty (30) days after submission by you of documentation of such legal fees, but not later than December 31, 2010.
Legal Fees
     8. . Your Employment Agreement will not be renewed upon the expiration of its initial four (4)-year term on August 31, 2011, and your Employment Agreement will accordingly terminate and cease to have any force or effect at the close of business on that date, except that (a) the restrictive covenants set forth in Section 10 of your Employment Agreement will continue to be binding upon you for the one (1)-year period
Non-Renewal of Employment Agreement
 
measured from the date you cease employment with the Company and (b) Sections 9, 11 through 21 and 24 of your Employment Agreement will also survive the termination of your Employment Agreement. In addition, you will remain subject to the applicable provisions of your Proprietary Information Agreement with the Company.
     9. The Company will provide you with a reasonable opportunity to review and provide input into the 8-K filing that will be made by the Company in connection with the parties entering into this Transition Agreement, and with respect to any other public announcement made in connection with your transition and departure from the Company.
Public Announcement
.
Sincerely
/s/ Joseph L. D'Amico
Title:
President & COO
I hereby accept the foregoing terms and conditions of this Transition Agreement governing my resignation as General Counsel and Corporate Secretary effective as of the close of business on August 31, 2010, my continuation in full-time status as Executive Vice President, Special Projects through October 31, 2010 and my conversion to part-time employment with Apollo Group, Inc. as Senior Advisor, effective November 1, 2010, and agree that my existing Employment Agreement is hereby amended and modified in accordance with the foregoing terms and conditions and will terminate on August 31, 2011. I also agree that (i) the restrictive covenants set forth in Section 10 of my Employment Agreement shall continue to be binding upon me for the one (1)-year period measured from the date I cease to be an employee of the Company, (ii) Sections 9, 11 through 21 and 24 of my Employment Agreement shall survive the termination of my Employment Agreement, (iii) I shall also remain subject to the applicable provisions of my Proprietary Information Agreement with the Company, and (iv) except with respect to the Company's obligations to withhold, I am solely responsible for all federal, state and local tax consequences I incur with respect to the payments and benefits provided me in compliance with the terms of this Transition Agreement, including (without limitation) any such consequences that may arise under Internal Revenue Code Section 409A.
 
     This AGREEMENT is made as of , 2011, by and between P. Robert Moya ("Executive"), and Apollo Group, Inc. (the "Company").
                    
     In consideration for the severance benefits offered by the Company to Executive pursuant to Section 8 of his Employment Agreement with the Company dated August 31, 2007 and as subsequently amended effective January 1, 2009 (the "Employment Agreement"), Executive agrees as follows:
     1.  Executive acknowledges that his full-time employment with the Company terminated on October 31, 2010 and he currently remains in part-time employment with the Company pursuant to the terms of his Transition Agreement with the Company dated May ___, 2010 (the "Transition Agreement"), and he agrees that following the cessation of that part-time employment, he will not apply for or seek re-employment with the Company, its parent companies, subsidiaries and affiliates after that date. Executive agrees that he has received all wages and accrued but unpaid vacation pay earned by him through the date of this Agreement, other than any unpaid wages attributable to his part-time employment during the payroll period in which this Agreement is executed.
Termination of Employment.
     2. 
Waiver and Release.
          (a) Except as set forth in Section 2(b), which identifies claims expressly excluded from this release, Executive hereby releases the Company, all affiliated companies, and their respective officers, directors, agents, employees, stockholders, successors and assigns from any and all claims, liabilities, demands, causes of action, costs, expenses, attorney fees, damages, indemnities and obligations of every kind and nature, in law, equity or otherwise, known and unknown, suspected and unsuspected, disclosed and undisclosed, arising from or relating to Executive's employment with the Company through the date of this Agreement and the termination of his full-time employment with the Company and his executive officer positions, including (without limitation): claims of wrongful discharge, emotional distress, defamation, fraud, breach of contract, breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing, discrimination claims based on sex, age, race, national origin, disability or any other basis under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, as amended ("ADEA"), the Americans with Disability Act, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, as amended, the Equal Pay Act of 1963, as amended, and any similar law of any state or governmental entity, any contract claims, tort claims and wage or benefit claims, including (without limitation) claims for salary, bonuses, commissions, equity awards (including stock grants, stock options and restricted stock units), vesting acceleration, vacation pay, fringe benefits, severance pay or any other form of compensation.
          (b) The only claims that Executive is not waiving and releasing under this Agreement are claims he may have for (1) unemployment, state disability, worker's compensation, and/or paid family leave insurance benefits pursuant to the terms of applicable state law; (2) continuation of existing participation in Company-sponsored group health benefit plans under the federal law known as "COBRA" and/or under an applicable state law counterpart(s); (3) any benefits entitlements that are vested and unpaid as of his termination date pursuant to the terms of a Company-sponsored benefit plan; (4) any benefits or rights to which he is entitled pursuant to Section 8 of the Employment Agreement or pursuant to the terms of his presently-outstanding equity awards from the Company, including the future vesting of those awards that occurs in accordance with the applicable award agreements and his post-employment exercise rights under Section 5 of the Transition Agreement, or his rights to indemnification pursuant to Section 15 of the Employment Agreement, (5) violation of any federal state or local statutory
 
and/or public policy right or entitlement that, by applicable law, is not waivable; and (6) any wrongful act or omission occurring after the date he executes this Agreement. In addition, nothing in this Agreement prevents or prohibits Executive from filing a claim with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) or any other government agency that is responsible for enforcing a law on behalf of the government and deems such claims not waivable. However, because Executive is hereby waiving and releasing all claims "for monetary damages and any other form of personal relief" (per Section 2(a) above), he may only seek and receive non-personal forms of relief from the EEOC and similar government agencies.
          (c) Executive represents that he has not filed any complaints, charges, claims, grievances, or lawsuits against the Company and/or any related persons with any local, state or federal agency or court, or with any other forum.
          (d) Executive acknowledges that he may discover facts different from or in addition to those he now knows or believes to be true with respect to the claims, demands, causes of action, obligations, damages, and liabilities of any nature whatsoever that are the subject of this Agreement, and he expressly agrees to assume the risk of the possible discovery of additional or different facts, and agrees that this Agreement shall be and remain in effect in all respects regardless of such additional or different facts. Executive expressly acknowledges that this Agreement is intended to include, and does include in its effect, without limitation, all claims which Executive does not know or suspect to exist in his favor against the Company and/or any related persons at the moment of execution thereof, and that this Agreement expressly contemplates extinguishing all such claims.
          (e) Executive understands and agrees that the Company has no obligation to provide him with any severance benefits under the Employment Agreement unless he executes this Agreement. Executive also understands that he has received or will receive, regardless of the execution of this Agreement, all wages and reimbursements owed to him, together with any accrued but unpaid vacation pay, less applicable withholdings and deductions, earned through the date of this Agreement. Nothing in this Agreement shall affect, impair or waive the Executive's right to receive any wages that become due and payable to him after the date of this Agreement by reason of his continued part-time employment pursuant to the Transition Agreement.
          (f) This Agreement is binding on Executive, his heirs, legal representatives and assigns.
     3. . This Agreement, the Employment Agreement and the Transition Agreement constitute the entire understanding and agreement between Executive and the Company in connection with the matters described, and replaces and cancels all previous agreements and commitments, whether spoken or written, with respect to such matters. Nothing in this Agreement supersedes or replaces any of Executive's obligations under his Employment Agreement or Transition Agreement that survive his termination of employment, including, but not limited to (i) his (and the Company's) agreement to arbitrate disputes, (ii) his restrictive covenants under Section 10 of the Employment Agreement and (iii) his obligations under Section 9 of the Employment Agreement, his existing Proprietary Information Inventions Agreement with the Company and any other obligations not to use or disclose Company confidential and/or proprietary information.
Entire Agreement
     4.  No oral agreement, statement, promise, commitment or representation shall alter or terminate the provisions of this Agreement. This Agreement cannot be changed or modified except by written agreement signed by Executive and authorized representatives of the Company.
Modification in Writing.
 
     5.  This Agreement shall be governed by and enforced in accordance with the laws of the State of Arizona.
Governing Law; Jurisdiction.
     6.  Any term or provision of this Agreement which is invalid or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to that jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such invalidity or unenforceability without rendering invalid or unenforceable the remaining terms and provisions of this Agreement or affecting the validity or enforceability of any of the terms or provisions of this Agreement in any other jurisdiction. If any provision of this Agreement is so broad as to be unenforceable, the provision shall be interpreted to be only so broad as is enforceable.
Severability.
     7.  This Agreement does not constitute an admission of any unlawful discriminatory acts or liability of any kind by the Company or anyone acting under their supervision or on their behalf. This Agreement may not be used or introduced as evidence in any legal proceeding, except to enforce or challenge its terms.
No Admission of Liability.
     8. . Executive is advised to consult with an attorney of his choice prior to executing this Agreement. By signing below, Executive acknowledges and certifies that he:
Acknowledgements
          (a) has read and understands all of the terms of this Agreement and is not relying on any representations or statements, written or oral, not set forth in this Agreement;
          (b) has been provided a consideration period of twenty-one calendar days within which to decide whether he will execute this Agreement and that no one hurried him into executing this Agreement;
          (c) is signing this Agreement knowingly and voluntarily; and
          (d) has the right to revoke this Agreement within seven (7) days after signing it, by providing written notice of revocation via certified mail to the Company to the address specified in the Employment Agreement. Executive's written notice of revocation must be postmarked on or before the end of the eighth (8th) calendar day after he has timely signed this Agreement. This deadline will be extended to the next business day should it fall on a Saturday, Sunday or holiday recognized by the U.S. Postal Service.
     Because of the revocation period, the Company's obligations under this Agreement shall not become effective or enforceable until the eighth (8th) calendar day after the date Executive signs this Agreement provided he has delivered it to the Company without modification and not revoked it (the "Effective Date").
I HAVE READ, UNDERSTAND AND VOLUNTARILY ACCEPT AND AGREE TO THE ABOVE TERMS
P. ROBERT MOYA

Exhibit 10.2
          THIS is entered into, effective this 18 day of May 2010 (the ""), by and between Apollo Group, Inc. (the ""), and Joseph L. D'Amico (the "").
AMENDED AND RESTATED AGREEMENT
th
Effective Date
Company
Executive
          the Company currently has in effect an employment agreement with the Executive dated June 5, 2007 and subsequently modified by three separate amendments that has an initial term scheduled to expire on June 15, 2010, subject to automatic oneyear renewals unless either the Company or the Executive provides notice of non-renewal on a timely basis.
WHEREAS,
          , the Company has determined that it is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders to continue to employ the Executive upon the terms described herein for an additional term ending August 31, 2012; and the Executive is willing to continue his employment with the Company on such terms through August 31, 2012; and
WHEREAS
          the Company and the Executive desire to consolidate the Executive's existing employment agreement with the Company and the three separate amendments to that agreement into a new amended and restated agreement that effects the extension of the contract term and includes additional modifications that will be in effect during the extended term.
WHEREAS,
          in consideration of the foregoing and the respective agreements of the parties contained herein, the parties hereby agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE,
     1. The term of employment under this Amended and Restated Agreement will commence on the Effective Date and continue through August 31, 2012 (the ""); that thereafter the term of employment under this Amended and Restated Agreement will be automatically renewed for one additional year through August 31, 2012 (the ""), unless either the Company or the Executive will have given written notice to the other at least sixty (60) calendar days prior thereto that the term of employment under this Amended and Restated Agreement will not be renewed for the Additional Extension (a "").
Term
.
Extended Term
provided, however,
Additional Extension
Notice of Non-Renewal
     2. .
Employment
     (a) The Executive will continue to be employed as, and hold the title of, President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company, and will have the duties, powers, and responsibilities as are customary for such positions. The Executive will be given the authority needed to perform the duties and undertake the responsibilities assigned to his positions. The Executive will have the authority to hire appropriate personnel as may be needed to carry out his duties. The Executive will report to Mr. Gregory W. Cappelli, the Company's Co-Chief Executive Officer, or to his successor or any other individual with equivalent or greater authority.
Position.
     (b) . The Executive shall devote his full business time and attention to the business and affairs of the Company. During the term of this Amended and Restated Agreement, the Executive shall not engage in any other employment, service or consulting activity without the prior written approval of the Company's Board of Directors. The foregoing, however, shall not preclude the Executive from (i) serving on any corporate, civic or charitable boards or committees on which the Executive is serving on the Effective Date, or on which he commences service following the Effective Date with the prior written approval of the Board of Directors or (ii) managing personal investments, so long as such clause (i) and (ii) activities do not interfere with the performance of the Executive's responsibilities hereunder.
Obligations
 
     
3. 
Base Salary and Bonus
.
     (a) The Company agrees to pay or cause to be paid to the Executive an annual base salary at the rate of $525,000, less applicable withholding. This base salary will be subject to annual review and may be increased from time to time by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (the "") upon consideration of such factors as the Executive's responsibilities, compensation of similar executives within the Company and in other companies, performance of the Executive, and other pertinent factors. The Executive's annual rate of base salary, as it may be increased from time to time, will be hereinafter referred to as the "". Such Base Salary will be payable in accordance with the Company's customary practices applicable to its executives.
Base Salary.
Compensation Committee
Base Salary
     (b) For each fiscal year completed during the Extended Term, the Executive will be eligible to receive an annual cash bonus ("") based upon individual and Company performance goals that are established in good faith by the Compensation Committee and that are reasonable in comparison to the individual and Company performance goals the Compensation Committee sets for the Company's other executive officers, provided that the Executive's target Annual Bonus will be no less than 100% of his Base Salary (the ""). The Annual Bonus earned for each fiscal year shall be paid in accordance with the Company's customary practices, but in no event later than the fifteenth day of the third calendar month following the end of that fiscal year.
Bonus.
Annual Bonus
Target Bonus
     4. .
Equity Compensation Awards
     (a) . In connection with the Executive's commencement of employment with the Company in June 2007, Executive received (i) a stock option grant for 500,000 shares of Class A common stock (the "") and (ii) restricted stock units covering 60,000 shares of the Company's Class A common stock (the "). Those initial grants were each made under the Company's 2000 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated from time to time (the ""). Nothing in this Amended and Restated Agreement shall affect or in any way modify the terms and conditions in effect for those initial equity awards on the Effective Date.
Initial Equity Awards
Initial Option Grant
Initial RSU Award
Incentive Plan
     (b) During the period of the Executive's employment prior to the Effective Date of this Amended and Restated Agreement, Executive has received additional stock option grants and restricted stock unit awards under the Incentive Plan. Nothing in this Amended and Restated Agreement shall affect or in any way modify the terms and conditions in effect for those additional equity awards on the Effective Date.
Additional Equity Awards.
     (c) The Executive will be awarded additional equity grants under the Incentive Plan for each of the Company's 2011 and 2012 fiscal years as part of the regular annual grant process for the Company's executive officers (the ""). The New Equity Awards for each such fiscal year may be made before or after the start of the applicable 2010 or 2011 fiscal year, but will in all events be made at the same time as the other regular annual grants for that fiscal year. The total grant date fair value of the New Equity Awards for each such fiscal year will be at least $4 million and will be in a combination of stock options, restricted stock units and performance units/shares relating to shares of the Company's Class A common stock, as determined by the Compensation Committee in its sole discretion. The New Equity Awards for each of the Company's 2011 and 2012 fiscal years will have the same effective date and pricing date in effect for the other executive officer equity awards made for each such fiscal year.
New Equity Awards.
New Equity Awards
     (d) . The following terms and provisions will govern the various components of the New Equity Awards that are to be made to the Executive for the Company's 2011 and 2012 fiscal years pursuant to Section 4(c) above:
Vesting of New Equity Awards
 
          (i) The stock option component of each New Equity Award will vest in four (4) successive equal annual installments over the Executive's period of continued employment with the Company and will have a maximum term of six (6) years. Should the Executive's employment terminate for any reason other than (i) an involuntary termination for Cause (as such term is defined in Section 7(b) below), (ii) death or Disability (as such term is defined in Section 4(e) below) or (iii) a voluntary termination prior to August 31, 2012 other than for Good Reason (as such term is defined in Section 7(c) below), then each stock option will continue to vest in accordance with the foregoing vesting schedule, as if the Executive continued in employee status with the Company, and will remain exercisable, for any shares for which such option is at the time exercisable, until the earlier of (i) the expiration of the six (6)-year maximum term or (ii) the end of the twelve (12)-month period measured from the date on which the last annual installment of that stock option vests.
          (ii) The restricted stock unit component of each New Equity Award will have a performance-vesting condition tied to the fiscal year for such grant is awarded that will be the same as the performance-vesting condition applicable to the restricted stock unit awards made to the Company's other executive officers for that fiscal year. Upon the satisfaction of the applicable performance condition for the award, 25% of that award will vest on the last day of the fiscal year for which such award is made, with the shares of the Company's Class A common stock underlying that vested portion to be issued following the Compensation Committee's certification of the attained performance condition but not later than the close of the calendar year in which fiscal year ends, and the balance of the restricted stock units will vest, and the underlying shares issued, in three (3) successive equal annual installments, provided the Executive continues in the Company's employ through each such vesting date. However, should the Executive's employment terminate prior to the completion of the vesting schedule for any reason other than (i) an involuntary termination for Cause, (ii) death or Disability or (iii) a voluntary termination prior to August 31, 2012 other than for Good Reason, then the award will continue to vest (and the underlying shares issued) incrementally in accordance with the foregoing vesting schedule, as if the Executive continued in employee status with the Company.
          (iii) The performance unit/share component of each New Equity Award will have performance-vesting conditions measured over a performance period of one or more years that will be the same as for the other performance unit/share awards made to the Company's executive officers for the fiscal year for which that New Equity Award is made. Following the completion of the applicable performance period, the total number of shares of the Company's Class A common stock (if any) issuable under the award will be determined on the basis of the levels at which the applicable performance goals have in fact been attained. The number of shares so calculated will be issued to the Executive, following the Compensation Committee's certification of the level of performance goal attainment but not later than the close of the calendar year in which the performance period ends, provided (A) he continues in the Company's employ through the completion of the performance period or (B) there is an earlier termination of the Executive's employment for any reason other than (i) an involuntary termination for Cause, (ii) death or Disability or (iii) a voluntary termination prior to August 31, 2012 other than for Good Reason. In addition, should the Company's performance unit/share program in effect at the time such award is made to the Executive include any pro-rata vesting provisions, contingent upon performance goal attainment, for individuals who voluntarily leave the Company's employ prior to the completion of the performance period, then such provisions shall also be included in any performance unit/share award made to the Executive at that time.
          (iv) The continued vesting and exercisability of the stock options, the continued vesting of the restricted stock units and the vesting of the performance shares that is to occur, in accordance with the foregoing provisions of this Section 4(d), following the Executive's termination of employment with the Company shall in each instance be subject to his compliance with the confidentiality obligations under Section 9 of this Amended and Restated Agreement and the restrictive
 
covenants set forth in Section 10 of this Amended and Restated Agreement. Upon a material breach of such obligations or covenants by the Executive, all further vesting of his equity awards pursuant to the provisions of this Section 4(d) shall cease, and the unexercised stock options granted to the Executive as part of the New Equity Awards pursuant to Section 4(c) of this Amended and Restated Agreement shall immediately terminate.
     (e) Each component of the New Equity Awards made to the Executive pursuant to Section 4(c) of this Amended and Restated Agreement will also be subject to the partial vesting acceleration provisions of this Section 4(e) should his employment terminate by reason of death or Disability (as such term is defined below).
Partial Vesting Acceleration.
          (i) Should the Executive's employment with the Company terminate by reason of his death or Disability, the stock option component of each New Equity Award will immediately vest as to a portion of the unvested shares of the Company's Class A common stock subject to that option, and the option will remain exercisable for the vested shares for a twelve (12)-month period following his death or Disability, but not beyond the maximum six (6)-year term of the option. The number of shares that would vest on such an accelerated basis would be equal to the number of additional shares (if any) in which the Executive would have vested had he completed an additional eighteen (18) months of service following his death or Disability.
          (ii) No shares will be issued under any of the performance-based restricted stock unit or performance unit/share components of the New Equity Awards until the completion of the applicable performance period. At that time there will be determined the total number of shares (if any) issuable under the award based on the levels at which the applicable performance goals have in fact been attained and assuming the Executive had continued in the Company's employ through the completion of the applicable vesting schedule. Should any earlier termination of such employment occur by reason of the Executive's death or Disability, a portion of the total number of shares as calculated in accordance with the foregoing will vest on an accelerated basis, upon the later of (A) such termination of employment or (B) the completion of the applicable performance period. The accelerated portion will be equal to the number of additional shares (if any) in which the Executive would have vested had he completed an additional eighteen (18) months of service following the date of his death or Disability, and such accelerated portion shall be issued no later than the of (x) the fifteenth day of the third calendar month following the date of the Executive's death or Disability or (y) the end of the calendar year in which such death or Disability occurs; that in the event the Executive's Disability does not satisfy the definition of Permanent Disability below and the applicable award agreement is otherwise subject to Code Section 409A, the accelerated portion shall be issued on each applicable date on which the accelerated shares would have otherwise vested and become issuable, in accordance with the terms of the applicable award agreement, had Executive continued in employee status over that eighteen (18)-month period for which service credit is given hereunder.
later
provided, however,
          (iii) Should the Company have a more liberal vesting acceleration policy for death or Permanent Disability that is in effect at the time any equity award under Section 4(c) is made to the Executive, then that award will incorporate the terms and conditions of that more liberal policy.
          (iv) For purposes of this Section 4(e), shall mean the Executive's inability, by reason of any physical or mental injury or impairment, to perform, with or without reasonable accommodation, the principal duties and responsibilities of his position with the Company for a period of six (6) consecutive months or more; and shall mean the Executive's inability to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment that can be expected to result in his death or to last for a continuous period of twelve (12) months or more.
Disability
Permanent Disability
 
     (f) Each of the new additional grants to be made to the Executive in accordance with the provisions of Sections 4(c) through (e) above will be issued pursuant and subject to the terms of the Incentive Plan and the award agreements evidencing those grants, except that in the event of any conflict between the terms of the Incentive Plan or the award agreements and this Amended and Restated Agreement, the terms of this Amended and Restatement Agreement will control.
Additional Provisions.
     (g) All shares issued to the Executive pursuant to his exercise of the stock options granted to him under the Incentive Plan and the vesting of the restricted stock unit and performance unit/share awards made to him under the Incentive Plan will be registered under an appropriate and effective registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ").
Shares to Be Registered; Stock Certificates.
1933 Act"
     5. Provided he otherwise satisfies any applicable eligibility requirements for participation, the Executive will be entitled to participate in the welfare, retirement, perquisite, and fringe benefit plans, practices, and programs maintained by the Company and made available to senior executives generally and as may be in effect from time to time. The Executive's participation in any such plans, practices and programs for which he satisfies the applicable eligibility requirements will be on the same basis and terms as are applicable to senior executives of the Company generally.
Employee Benefits
.
     
6. 
Other Benefits
.
     (a) . Subject to applicable Company policies, including (without limitation) the timely submission of appropriate documentation and expense reports, the Executive will be entitled to receive prompt reimbursement of all expenses reasonably incurred by him in connection with the performance of his duties hereunder or for promoting, pursuing or otherwise furthering the business or interests of the Company, including (without limitation) round trip first class airfare to accommodate Executive's travel to and from Phoenix, Arizona. Accordingly, the Executive shall submit appropriate evidence of each such expense within sixty (60) days after the later or (i) his incurrence of that expense or (ii) his receipt of the invoice or billing statement for such expense, and the Company shall provide the Executive with the requisite reimbursement within ten (10) business days thereafter; that (i) no expense shall be reimbursed later than the close of the calendar year following the calendar year in which that expense is incurred, (ii) the amounts eligible for reimbursement in any one calendar year shall not affect the amounts reimbursable in any other calendar year and (iii) the right to such reimbursement may not be liquidated or exchanged for any other benefit. In addition, and not in limitation of the foregoing, the Company shall provide the Executive with a monthly stipend of $2,500 during the term of this Amended and Restated Agreement for the duplicative living expenses incurred by the Executive at his minor post of duty location, including housing costs, mortgage costs, real estate taxes, utility costs and other expenses related to his residence at such location and food and other similar expenses incurred at such location. Such stipend shall be the only reimbursement to which Executive shall be entitled for such duplicative living expenses incurred by Executive at his minor post of duty location. The stipend for each such month shall be paid made in one or more installments during the period beginning with the first day of that month and ending no later than five (5) business days after the end of that month. Other reasonable travel, housing and food expenses incurred by Executive while traveling temporarily away from his tax home on business (other than the expenses subject to his monthly stipend) will also be eligible for reimbursement in accordance with the Company's standard business expense reimbursement policy and the foregoing documentation and reimbursement timing provisions.
Expenses
provided, however,
 
     (b) . The Executive's principal place of employment shall be at the Company's corporate offices in Phoenix, AZ, and at such location Executive shall be provided with appropriate offices and such secretarial and other support facilities as are commensurate with the Executive's status with the Company and adequate for the performance of his duties hereunder.
Office and Facilities
     (c) During the Term, the Executive will be eligible for paid vacation in accordance with the Company's policies, as may be in effect from time to time, for its senior executives generally; , that the Executive will be eligible for no less than four weeks of paid vacation per year.
Vacation.
provided, however
     7. Except for a Notice of Non-Renewal, as described in Section 1, the Executive's employment hereunder may only be terminated in accordance with the following terms and conditions:
Termination
.
     (a) The Company will be entitled to terminate the Executive's employment at any time by delivering a Notice of Termination to the Executive pursuant to Section 7(e); that any termination of the Executive's employment for Cause shall be governed by the provisions of Section 7(b).
Termination by the Company without Cause.
provided, however,
     
(b) Termination by the Company for Cause.
          (i) The Company may terminate the Executive's employment hereunder for "Cause" (as defined below) by delivering to him a Notice of Termination. For purposes of the foregoing, any of the following shall constitute grounds for terminating the Executive's employment for : (A) the Executive's pleading "guilty" or "no contest" to, or his conviction of, a felony or any crime involving moral turpitude, (B) his commission of any act of fraud or any act of personal dishonesty involving the property or assets of the Company intended to result in substantial financial enrichment to the Executive, (C) a material breach by the Executive of one or more of his obligations under Section 9 of this Amended and Restated Agreement or his Proprietary Information and Inventions Agreement with the Company, (D) a material breach by the Executive of any of his other obligations under this Amended and Restated Agreement or any other agreement with the Company, (E) the Executive's commission of a material violation of Company policy which would result in an employment termination if committed by any other employee of the Company or his gross misconduct, (F) the Executive's material dereliction of the major duties, functions and responsibilities of his executive position (other than a failure resulting from the Executive's incapacity due to physical or mental illness), (G) a material breach by the Executive of any of the Executive's fiduciary obligations as an officer of the Company or (H) the Executive's willful and knowing participation in the preparation or release of false or materially misleading financial statements relating to the Company's operations and financial condition or his willful and knowing submission of any false or erroneous certification required of him under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 or any securities exchange on which shares of the Company's Class A common stock are at the time listed for trading. However, prior to any termination of the Executive's employment for Cause based on any of the reasons specified in clauses (C) through (F) and the delivery of a Notice of Termination in connection therewith, the Company shall give written notice to the Executive of the actions or omissions deemed to constitute the grounds for such a termination for Cause, and the Executive shall have a period of not less than sixty (60) calendar days after the receipt of such notice in which to cure the specified default in his performance and thereby avoid a Notice of Termination under this subsection (b)(i).
Cause
          (ii) In the event the Executive is provided with a Notice of Termination under subsection (b)(i), the Notice of Termination shall specify a Termination Date that is no earlier than the third business day following the date of the Notice of Termination, and the Executive will have three (3) business days following the date of such Notice of Termination to submit a written request to the Board
 
for a meeting to review the circumstances of his termination. If the Executive timely submits such a written request to the Board, the Board or a committee of the Board shall set a meeting whereby the Executive, together with his counsel, shall be permitted to present any mitigating circumstances or other information as to why he should not be terminated for Cause, and the Executive's Termination Date shall be delayed until such meeting has occurred. Such meeting will be held, at the Executive's option, either on a mutually agreeable date prior to the Termination Date specified in the Notice of Termination or on a mutually agreeable date within fifteen (15) calendar days after his timely written notice to the Company requesting such a meeting. Within five (5) business days after the date of such meeting, the Board or committee of the Board, as applicable, shall deliver written notice to the Executive of its final determination and, if the termination decision is upheld, the final actual Termination Date, which shall not be later than ten (10) business days after the date of such meeting. During the period following the date of the Notice of Termination until the Termination Date or other resolution of the matter, the Company shall have the option to place the Executive on an unpaid leave of absence. The rights under this subsection will not be deemed to prejudice the Executive's other rights and remedies in any way or give rise to any waiver, estoppel, or other defense or bar. Without limiting the foregoing sentence and for purposes of clarification, the failure by the Executive to request a meeting under this subsection, to participate in a meeting that has been requested, or to present any evidence or argument will not prevent the Executive from making any claim against the Company, from seeking any legal or equitable remedy, or from putting forward any evidence or argument at any judicial or arbitral hearing.
     (c) The Executive may terminate his employment hereunder for "Good Reason" by delivering to the Company (1) a Preliminary Notice of Good Reason (as defined below) no later than one hundred and twenty (120) calendar days following the act or omission which the Executive sets forth in such notice as grounds for a Good Reason termination, and (2) not earlier than fourteen (14) calendar days after the delivery of such Preliminary Notice or (if later) the third business day following the Company's failure to take appropriate remedial action within the applicable sixty (60)-day cure period provided below to the Company following the receipt of such the Preliminary Notice, a Notice of Termination. The Notice of Termination must specify a Termination Date that is within thirty (30) days following the expiration of the applicable sixty (60)-day cure period below in which the Company's fails to take appropriate remedial action. For purposes of this Amended and Restated Agreement, "" means:
Termination by the Executive.
Good Reason
          (i) a material reduction in the scope of the Executive's duties, responsibilities or authority;
          (ii) the repeated assignment to the Executive of duties materially inconsistent with the Executive's positions, duties, authority or responsibilities, or a materially adverse change in Executive's reporting requirements as set forth in Section 2(a) hereof or an adverse change to his title set forth in Section 2(a) hereof: , that none of the following shall constitute Good Reason: (A) the occasional assignment of duties that are inconsistent with Section 2(a) hereof, (B) a change in the Executive's reporting requirements so that he is required to report to a person with equivalent authority of the Company's Chief Executive Officer or Co-Chief Executive Officer but without such title or (C) any change in the Executive's title which does not affect his status as one of the five (5) highest ranking officers of the Company;
provided however
          (iii) a relocation of the Executive's principal place of employment by more than fifty (50) miles from the Company's current corporate headquarters in Phoenix, AZ (other than relocation of Executive's principal place of employment in Chicago, Illinois); that travel to other locations as reasonably required to carry out the Executive's duties and responsibilities hereunder shall not be a basis for a termination for Good Reason; or
provided, however,
 
          (iv) a material breach by the Company of any of its obligations under this Amended and Restated Agreement.
     In no event will any acts or omissions of the Company which are not the result of bad faith and which are cured within sixty (60) days after receipt of written notice from the Executive identifying in reasonable detail the acts or omissions constituting "Good Reason" (a "") be deemed to constitute grounds for a Good Reason resignation. A Preliminary Notice of Good Reason will not, by itself, constitute a Notice of Termination.
Preliminary Notice of Good Reason
     A ten percent (10%) or less aggregate reduction in the Executive's base salary and Target Bonus shall constitute Good Reason if substantially all of the other executive officers of the Company are subject to the same aggregate reduction to their base salary and target bonuses.
not
     (d) . This Agreement will terminate upon the death of the Executive. The Company may terminate the Executive's employment hereunder if he is unable to perform, with or without reasonable accommodation, the principal duties and responsibilities of his position with the Company for a period of six (6) consecutive months or more by reason of any physical or mental injury or impairment; that in the event the Executive is at the time covered under any long-term disability benefit program in effect for the Company's executive officers or employees, such termination of the Executive's employment shall not occur until the earlier of (i) the date he first becomes eligible to receive benefits under such program or (ii) the date he is deemed to have a Separation from Service (as defined below) by reason of such disability. The termination of the Executive's employment under such circumstances shall, solely for purposes of Section 7 and 8 of this Amended and Restated Agreement, constitute a termination for "."
Termination due to the Executive's Death or Disability
provided, however,
Disability
     (e) Any purported termination for Cause by the Company or for Good Reason by the Executive will be communicated by a written Notice of Termination to the other at least three (3) business days prior to the Termination Date (as defined below). For purposes of this Amended and Restated Agreement, a "" will mean a notice which indicates the specific termination provision in this Amended and Restated Agreement relied upon and will, with respect to a termination for Cause or Good Reason, set forth in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances claimed to provide a basis for such termination of the Executive's employment under the provision so indicated. Any termination by the Company under this Section 7 other than for Cause or by the Executive without Good Reason will be communicated by a written Notice of Termination to the other party fourteen (14) calendar days prior to the Termination Date set forth in such notice. However, the Company may elect to pay the Executive in lieu of fourteen (14) calendar days' written notice. For purposes of this Amended and Restated Agreement, no such purported termination of employment pursuant to this Section 7 will be effective without such Notice of Termination.
Notice of Termination.
Notice of Termination
     (f) "" will mean in the case of the Executive's death, the date of death; in the case of non-renewal of the Agreement pursuant to Section 1, the date the Extended Term of this Amended and Restated Agreement expires; and in all other cases, the date specified in the Notice of Termination, subject to the applicable time limitations for such Termination Date as specified above.
Termination Date.
Termination Date
     
8. 
Compensation Upon Termination
.
     (a) Except as provided further in this Section 8(a), if the Executive's employment is terminated: (i) by the Company for Cause; (ii) by reason of the Executive's death or Disability; (iii) pursuant to a Notice of Non-Renewal delivered by the Executive; or (iv) by the Executive by delivery of a written notice of resignation without Good Reason, the Company's sole obligations hereunder will be to
 
pay the Executive or his estate on the Termination Date the following amounts earned hereunder but not paid as of the Termination Date: (i) Base Salary, (ii) reimbursement for any and all monies advanced or expenses incurred pursuant to Section 6(a) through the Termination Date, provided the Executive has submitted appropriate and timely documentation for such expenses, and (iii) the amount of the Executive's accrued but unpaid vacation time (together, these amounts will be referred to as the ""). In addition to the Accrued Obligations, should the Executive's employment terminate by reason of his death or Disability prior to the completion of the fiscal-year performance period to which his then current Target Bonus potential under Section 3(b) of this Amended and Restated Agreement is tied, then he or his estate will be entitled to a pro-rated portion of the Annual Bonus (if any) that the Executive would have earned for that period had he remained in the Company's employ until the completion of that period. The amount of the pro-rated portion of the Annual Bonus to which the Executive or his estate shall be entitled shall be determined by multiplying (x) the actual Annual Bonus the Executive would have earned for the applicable performance period, based on actual Company performance for such period and his individual performance, had he remained in the Company's employ through the end of that period by (y) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of months (rounded to the next whole month) during which the Executive remained in the Company's employ during the fiscal-year performance period in which such termination of employment occurs and the denominator of which is twelve (12). Such pro-rated Annual Bonus shall be paid to the Executive or his estate by the fifteenth day of the third calendar month following the close of the fiscal-year period, subject to any required holdback under Section 13(b). Furthermore, if the Executive's employment terminates as a result of his death or Disability, then any unvested stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units or other equity awards granted to the Executive (other than the New Equity Awards to be made to the Executive pursuant to Section 4(c) of this Amended and Restated Agreement) that would have otherwise been vested on the date of such termination of employment had the vesting schedule for each of those grants been in the form of successive equal monthly installments over the applicable vesting period will immediately vest. The shares of the Company's Class A common stock underlying any restricted stock units or other equity-based awards to which the Executive becomes entitled in accordance with the foregoing shall be issued at the time or times set forth in the applicable agreements evidencing those awards, subject to any required holdback under Section 13(b)The Executive's entitlement to any other benefits will be determined in accordance with the Company's employee benefit plans then in effect.
Accrued Obligations
.
     (b) If the Executive's employment is terminated: (i) by the Company for any reason other than for Cause; (ii) by the Executive for Good Reason; or (iii) pursuant to a Notice of Non-Renewal delivered by the Company, the Executive will, in addition to the Accrued Obligations, be entitled to the following compensation and benefits from the Company, provided and only if (x) the Executive executes and delivers to the Company a general release substantially in the form of attached Exhibit A (the "") within twenty-one (21) days (or forty-five (45) days if such longer period is required under applicable law) after such termination of employment, (y) the Required Release becomes effective and enforceable in accordance with applicable law and (z) the Executive complies with the restrictive covenants set forth in Section 10:
Required Release
          (i) an amount equal to sum of (A) two times the Executive's Base Salary at the time of the Notice of Termination and (B) two times the average of his actual Annual Bonuses for the three fiscal years immediately preceding the fiscal year in which such termination of employment occurs, with such payment to be made in successive equal increments, in accordance with the Company's normal payroll practices, over the one-year period measured from the date of the Executive's Separation from Service due to such termination of employment, beginning with the first pay day within the sixty (60) day period following the date of such Separation from Service on which the Required Release is effective following the expiration of the maximum applicable review and revocation periods to which the Executive is entitled under this Amended and Restated Agreement and applicable law with respect to the delivery of the Required Release, but subject to any required holdback under Section 13(b);
 
          (ii) accelerated vesting of the Initial Option Grant to the extent of the greater of (A) fifty percent of the then unvested portion of each such grant or (B) the portion of each such grant which would have vested had the Executive completed an additional twelve (12) months of employment with the Company prior to the Termination Date, and one hundred percent vesting of the Initial RSU Award, with any shares which so vest under the Initial RSU Award to be issued at the time or times set forth in the Initial RSU Award Agreement, subject to any required holdback under Section 13(b);
          (iii) continued vesting, in accordance with Section 4(d) of this Amended and Restated Agreement, of each New Equity Award made to the Executive pursuant to Section 4(c) of this Amended and Restated Agreement that is outstanding at the time of such termination of employment, with any shares which so vest under the restricted stock unit or performance unit/share components of those New Equity Awards to be issued after each applicable vesting date in accordance with the terms of the applicable award agreements, subject to any required holdback under Section 13(b);
          (iv) provided the Executive and/or his spouse and dependents are eligible and timely elect to continue their health care coverage under the Company's group health plan pursuant to their rights under COBRA, the Company will reimburse the Executive for the costs he incurs to obtain such continued coverage for himself and his spouse and eligible dependents (collectively, the "") until the earliest of (A) the end of the eighteen (18)-month period measured from the Termination Date, (B) the date that the Executive and/or his eligible dependents are no longer eligible for COBRA coverage and (C) the date that the Executive becomes eligible for such coverage under the health plan of any new employer (the Executive agrees to provide the Company with written notice of such eligibility within ten calendar days). In order to obtain reimbursement for such Coverage Costs, Executive must submit appropriate evidence to the Company of each periodic payment within sixty (60) days after the required payment date for those Coverage Costs, and the Company shall, within thirty (30) days after such submission, reimburse the Executive for that payment. During the period such medical care coverage remains in effect hereunder, the following provisions shall govern the arrangement: (a) the amount of Coverage Costs eligible for reimbursement in any one calendar year of such coverage shall not affect the amount of Coverage Costs eligible for reimbursement in any other calendar year for which such reimbursement is to be provided hereunder; (ii) no Coverage Costs shall be reimbursed after the close of the calendar year following the calendar year in which those Coverage Costs were incurred; and (iii) the Executive's right to the reimbursement of such Coverage Costs cannot be liquidated or exchanged for any other benefit. To the extent the reimbursed Coverage Costs constitute taxable income to the Executive, the Company shall report the reimbursement as taxable W-2 wages and collect the applicable withholding taxes, and any remaining tax liability shall be the Executive's sole responsibility; and
Coverage Costs
          (v) the Executive's entitlement to any other benefits will be determined in accordance with the Company's employee benefit plans then in effect.
     (c) The Executive shall have the right to resign, for any reason or no reason, at any time within the thirty (30) day period beginning six (6) months after the closing of a Change in Control (as defined in Section 11(a)) and to receive, in connection with such resignation, the same severance benefits to which he would be entitled under Section 8(b) above had such resignation been for Good Reason; that the Executive's entitlement to severance benefits under this Section 8(c) shall be conditioned upon the satisfaction of each of the following requirements: (i) the Executive executes and delivers to the Company the Required Release within twenty-one (21) days (or forty-five (45) days if such longer period is required under applicable law) after such resignation, (ii) the Required Release becomes effective and enforceable in accordance with applicable law and (iii) the Executive complies with the restrictive covenants set forth in Section 10 of this Agreement; and that Section 11 of this Amended and Restated Agreement shall govern the treatment of his outstanding equity awards.
provided, however,
provided, further,
 
     (d) All payments and benefits under this Section 8 shall be subject to the applicable holdback provisions of Section 13(b).
     (e) The Executive shall not be entitled to any cash severance payments under Section 8(b)(i) of this Amended and Restated Agreement or to the reimbursement of any Coverage Costs under Section 8(b)(iv) hereof should the Company offer to extend his Amended and Restated Agreement for the one-year Additional Extension following the August 31, 2012 expiration date of the Extended Term of this Amended and Restated Agreement upon substantially the same terms and provisions governing such additional period of employment and with total direct compensation for that one-year Additional Extension (Base Salary, annual cash Target Bonus and the grant-date fair value of the equity components, in such mix as the Compensation Committee deems appropriate) of not less than $5 million and the Executive does not accept such one-year Additional Extension. Such equity compensation shall have substantially the same vesting and exercisability provisions as set forth in Sections 4(d) and (e) of this Amended and Restated Agreement, but the Executive shall not be entitled to any cash severance payments under Section 8(b)(i) of this Amended and Restated Agreement upon the termination of this Amended and Restated Agreement following the expiration of the one-year Additional Extension through August 31, 2013.
     (f) The Executive will not be required to mitigate the amount of any payment provided for in this Section 8 by seeking other employment or otherwise, and no such payment or benefit will be eliminated, offset or reduced by the amount of any compensation provided to the Executive in any subsequent employment.
     (g) The exercise period with respect to the Initial Option Grant shall not be accelerated upon the Executive's termination of employment for any reason.
     
9. 
Confidentiality
.
     (a) The Executive hereby acknowledges that the Company may, from time to time during the Term, disclose to the Executive confidential information pertaining to the Company's business, strategic plans, technology or financial affairs. All information, data and know-how, whether or not in writing, of a private or confidential nature concerning the Company's trade secrets, processes, systems, marketing strategies and future marketing plans, student enrollment lists, prospective course offerings, finances and financial reports, employee and faculty member information and other organizational information (collectively, "") is and shall remain the sole and exclusive property of the Company and shall not be used or disclosed by the Executive except to the extent necessary to perform his duties and responsibilities under this Agreement. All tangible manifestations of such Proprietary Information (whether written, printed or otherwise reproduced) shall be returned by the Executive upon the termination of his employment hereunder, and the Executive shall not retain any copies or excerpts of the returned items. The foregoing restrictions on the use, disclosure and disposition of the Company's Proprietary Information shall also apply to the Executive's use, disclosure and disposition of any confidential information relating to the business or affairs of the Company's faculty, students and employees.
Proprietary Information
     (b) The Executive did, in connection with his commencement of employment with the Company, execute a Proprietary Information and Inventions Agreement, in the form attached as Exhibit B to this Agreement. The Executive shall, throughout the term of this Amended and Restated Agreement and thereafter, continue to remain subject to the terms and conditions of such Proprietary Information and Inventions Agreement.
 
     (c) The Executive shall not, in connection with his duties and responsibilities hereunder, improperly use or disclose any trade secrets or proprietary and confidential information of any former employer or other person or entity.
     10.  At all times during the Executive's employment with the Company, and for a period of one (1) year after the termination of his employment with the Company (the "), regardless of the reason or cause for such termination, the Executive shall comply with the following restrictions:
.
Restrictive Covenants
Restriction Period"
     (a) The Executive shall not directly or indirectly encourage or solicit any employee, faculty member, consultant or independent contractor to leave the employment or service of the Company (or any affiliated company) for any reason or interfere in any other manner with any employment or service relationships at the time existing between the Company (or any affiliated company) and its employees, faculty members, consultants and independent contractors.
     (b) The Executive shall not directly or indirectly solicit any vendor, supplier, licensor, licensee or other business affiliate of the Company (or any affiliated company) with respect to products or services competitive with those offered by the Company or directly or indirectly induce any such person to terminate its existing business relationship with the Company (or affiliated company) or interfere in any other manner with any existing business relationship between the Company (or any affiliated company) and any such vendor, supplier, licensor, licensee or other business affiliate.
     (c) The Executive shall not, on his own or as an employee, agent, promoter, consultant, advisor, independent contractor, general partner, officer, director, investor, lender or guarantor or in any other capacity, directly or indirectly:
          (i) conduct, engage in, be connected with, have any interest in, or assist any person or entity engaged in, any business, whether in the United States, any possession of the United States or any foreign country or territory, that competes with any of the businesses or programs conducted by the Company in the education industry during the period of his employment with the Company (hereafter collectively referred to as the ""); or
Businesses
          (ii) permit his name to be used in connection with a business which is competitive or substantially similar to the Businesses.
     Notwithstanding the foregoing: (i) the Executive may own, directly or indirectly, solely as an investment, up to one percent (1%) of any class of publicly traded securities of any business that is competitive or substantially similar to the Business and (ii) the Executive's employment with any consulting firm, investment banking firm, private equity fund, hedge fund or similar investment fund following the termination of his employment with the Company shall not be deemed a breach of his restrictive covenant under this Section 10(c).
     11. .
Change in Control
          (a) For purposes of this Amended and Restated Agreement, the term "" shall have the same meaning assigned to such term under the Incentive Plan, and upon the occurrence of such Change in Control, any unvested stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units, or other equity awards granted to the Executive and outstanding at that time, including any New Equity Awards made to the Executive pursuant to Section 4(c) of this Amended and Restated Agreement, shall vest on an accelerated basis to the same extent as all other outstanding awards under the Incentive Plan held by individuals who are executive officers of the Company at that time. However, the shares of the Company's Class A common stock subject to the restricted stock unit or performance unit/share components of the New Equity Awards that vest upon the occurrence of such Change in Control and that
Change in Control
 
are subject to Code Section 409A shall not be issued at that time unless the Change in Control also constitutes a Qualifying Change in Control as defined in Section 11(b) below. In the absence of such Qualifying Change in Control, such shares shall be issued on each applicable date on which they would have otherwise vested and become issuable, in accordance with the terms of the applicable award agreements, had there been no Change in Control and the Executive continued in the Company's employ through each such date.
          (b) The term "shall mean a change in control of ownership of the Company effected by one or more of the following transactions:
Qualifying Change in Control
"
               (i) a merger or consolidation in which the Company is not the surviving entity and in which one person or a group of related persons (other than the Company or a person that directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, the Company) acquires ownership of securities possessing more than fifty percent (50%) of the total combined voting power of the Company's outstanding securities or constituting more than fifty percent (50%) of the total fair market value of the Company's outstanding securities;
               (ii) the sale, transfer or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company in complete liquidation or dissolution of the Corporation;
               (iii) any reverse merger in which the Company is the surviving entity but in which one person or a group of related persons (other than the Company or a person that directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, the Company) acquires ownership of securities possessing more than fifty percent (50%) of the total combined voting power of the Company's outstanding securities or constituting more than fifty percent (50%) of the total fair market value of the Company's outstanding securities;
               (iv) the acquisition, directly or indirectly, by any person or related group of persons (other than the Company or a person that directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, the Company) of beneficial ownership of securities possessing more than fifty percent (50%) of the total combined voting power of the Company's outstanding securities or constituting more than fifty percent (50%) of the total fair market value of the Company's outstanding securities pursuant to a tender or exchange offer made directly to the Company's stockholders; or
               (v) a change in the composition of the Board over a period of twelve (12) consecutive months or less such that a majority of the Board members ceases, by reason of one or more contested elections for Board membership, to be comprised of individuals who either (A) have been Board members continuously since the beginning of such period or (B) have been elected or nominated for election as Board members during such period by at least a majority of the Board members described in clause (A) who were still in office at the time the Board approved such election or nomination.
     The foregoing definition of Qualifying Change in Control shall in all instances be applied and interpreted in such manner that the applicable Qualifying Change in Control transaction that serves as an issuance event for the shares of the Company's Class A common stock subject to the restricted stock unit or performance unit/share components of the New Equity Awards that vest upon the occurrence of a Change in Control will also qualify as: (i) a change in the ownership of the Company, as determined in accordance with Section 1.409A-3(i)(5)(v) of the Treasury Regulations, (ii) a change in the effective control of the Company, as determined in accordance with Section 1.409A-3(i)(5)(vi) of the Treasury Regulations, or (iii) a change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of the Company, as determined in accordance with Section 1.409A-3(i)(5)(vii) of the Treasury Regulations.
 
     
12. 
Benefit Limitation
.
     (a) In the event it is determined that the Total Payments (as defined below) to be made to the Executive would otherwise exceed the amount (the "") that could be received by the Executive without the imposition of an excise tax under Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the ""), then the Total Payments shall be reduced to the extent, and only to the extent, necessary to assure that their aggregate present value, as determined in accordance the applicable provisions of Code Section 280G and the regulations thereunder, does not exceed the of the following dollar amounts (the ""):
Safe Harbor Amount
Code
greater
Benefit Limit
(A) The Safe Harbor Amount, or
(B) the greatest after-tax amount payable to the Executive after taking into account any excise tax imposed under Code Section 4999 on the Total Payments.
     For purposes of this Section 12(a), the term "" shall mean any payment or distribution of any type to or for the benefit of the Executive made by the Company, any of its affiliates, any Person who acquires ownership or effective control of the Company or ownership of a substantial portion of the Company's assets (within the meaning of Code Section 280G) or any affiliate of such Person, whether paid or payable or distributed or distributable pursuant to the terms of this Amended and Restated Agreement or otherwise, that would be subject to the excise tax imposed by Code Section 4999 or any interest or penalties with respect to such excise tax
Total Payments
     All determinations under this Section 12 shall be made by an independent registered public accounting firm selected by the Company from among the largest four such accounting firms in the United States (the ""); such Accounting Firm shall not have an ongoing audit or consulting relationship with the Company at the time of its selection. In determining whether such Benefit Limit is exceeded, the Accounting Firm shall make a reasonable determination of the value to be assigned to the restrictive covenants in effect for the Executive pursuant to Section 10 of this Amended and Restated Agreement, and the amount of his potential parachute payment under Code Section 280G shall reduced by the value of those restrictive covenants to the extent consistent with Code Section 280G and the regulations thereunder.
Accounting Firm
provided, however,
     To the extent a reduction to the Total Payments is required to be made in accordance with this Section 12, the Total Payments attributable to any cash severance payments otherwise due the Executive under Section 8 of this Amended and Restated Agreement shall be reduced first (with such reduction to be applied pro-rata to each such severance payment and without any change in the applicable payment dates), then the accelerated vesting of his Initial RSU Award shall be reduced, then the accelerated vesting of any other restricted stock unit awards made to him by the Company, including (without limitation) the restricted stock unit and performance unit/share components of any New Equity Awards, shall be reduced in the same chronological order in which granted, and finally the accelerated vesting of the Executive's stock options shall be reduced (based on the amount of the parachute payment calculated for each such option in accordance with the Treasury Regulations under Code Section 280G), with such reduction to occur in the same chronological order in which those options were granted.
     13. Certain payments contemplated by this Amended and Restated Agreement may be "deferred compensation" for purposes of Section 409A of the Code. Accordingly, the following provisions shall be in effect for purposes of avoiding or mitigating any adverse tax consequences to the Executive under Code Section 409A.
Section 409A
.
 
     (a) It is the intent of the parties that the provisions of this Amended and Restated Agreement comply with all applicable requirements of Code Section 409A. Accordingly, to the extent there is any ambiguity as to whether any provision of this Amended and Restated Agreement would otherwise contravene one or more requirements or limitations of Code Section 409A, such provisions shall be construed, interpreted and applied in a manner that does not result in a violation of the applicable requirements or limitations of Code Section 409A and the Treasury Regulations thereunder.
     (b) Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in this Amended and Restated Agreement, no payments or benefits to which the Executive becomes entitled under this Amended and Restated Agreement in connection with his termination of employment with the Company (other than the reimbursement of Coverage Costs during the applicable period of COBRA coverage) shall be made or paid to the Executive prior to the of (i) the first day of the seventh (7th) month following the date of his Separation from Service due to such termination of employment or (ii) the date of his death, if the Executive is deemed, pursuant to the procedures established by the Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors in accordance with the applicable standards of Code Section 409A and the Treasury Regulations thereunder and applied on a consistent basis for all for all non-qualified deferred compensation plans of the Employer Group subject to Code Section 409A, to be a "specified employee" at the time of such Separation from Service and such delayed commencement is otherwise required in order to avoid a prohibited distribution under Code Section 409A(a)(2). Upon the expiration of the applicable deferral period, all payments deferred pursuant to this Section 13(b) shall be paid to the Executive in a lump sum, and any remaining payments due under this Amended and Restated Agreement shall be paid in accordance with the normal payment dates specified for them herein. The specified employees subject to such a delayed commencement date shall be identified on December 31 of each calendar year. If the Executive is so identified on any such December 31, he shall have specified employee status for the twelve (12)-month period beginning on April 1 of the following calendar year. For purposes of this Amended and Restated Agreement, including (without limitation) this Section 13(b), the following definitions shall be in effect:
earlier
          (i) "" shall mean the date on which the level of the Executive's bona fide services as an Employee (or non-employee consultant) permanently decreases to a level that is not more than twenty percent (20%) of the average level of services the Executive rendered as an Employee or non-employee consultant during the immediately preceding thirty-six (36) months. Any such determination, however, shall be made in accordance with the applicable standards of the Treasury Regulations issued under Code Section 409A. In addition to the foregoing, a Separation from Service will not be deemed to have occurred while the Executive is on a sick leave or other bona fide leave of absence if the period of such leave does not exceed six (6) months or any longer period for which the Executive's right to reemployment with the Company is provided either by statute or contract; that in the event of a leave of absence due to any medically determinable physical or mental impairment that can be expected to result in death or to last for a continuous period of not less than six (6) months and that causes the Executive to be unable to perform his duties as an Employee, no Separation from Service shall be deemed to occur during the first twenty-nine (29) months of such leave. If the period of the leave exceeds six (6) months (or twenty-nine (29) months in the event of disability as indicated above) and the Executive's right to reemployment is not provided either by statute or contract, then the Executive will be deemed to have Separated from Service on the first day immediately following the expiration of the applicable six (6)-month or twenty-nine (29)-month period.
Separation from Service
provided, however,
          (ii) The Executive shall be deemed to remain an "" for so long he remains in the employ of at least one member of the Employer Group, subject to the control and direction of the employer entity as to both the work to be performed and the manner and method of performance.
Employee
 
          (iii) "" shall mean the Company and each member of the group of commonly controlled corporations or other businesses that include the Company, as determined in accordance with Sections 414(b) and (c) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations thereunder, except that in applying Sections 1563(1), (2) and (3) of the Code for purposes of determining the controlled group of corporations under Section 414(b), the phrase "at least 50 percent" shall be used instead of "at least 80 percent" each place the latter phrase appears in such sections and in applying Section 1.414(c)-2 of the Treasury Regulations for purposes of determining trades or businesses that are under common control for purposes of Section 414(c), the phrase "at least 50 percent" shall be used instead of "at least 80 percent" each place the latter phrase appears in Section 1.414(c)-2 of the Treasury Regulations.
Employer Group
     (c) Should the Executive comply with the provisions of subsections 13(a) and 13(b) above but nevertheless incur the 20% penalty tax imposed under Section 409A (the "") with respect to one or more payments or benefits provided to him under this Amended and Restated Agreement, then the Executive will be entitled to receive an additional payment (the "") in an amount such that after payment by the Executive of all taxes (including any interest or penalties imposed with respect to such taxes), including any tax imposed upon the 409A Gross-Up Payment, the Executive retains an amount of the 409A Gross-Up Payment equal to the Section 409A Penalty Tax imposed upon the Executive's deferred compensation. The amount of the 409A Gross-Up Payment shall be calculated, by an Accounting Firm mutually agreeable to the Company and the Executive, within ten (10) business days after it is first determined that the Executive is subject to the Section 409A Penalty Tax, and the 409A Gross-Up Payment so calculated shall be paid to or on behalf of the Executive within five (5) business days after the completion of such determination or (if later) at the time the related Section 409A Penalty Tax is remitted to the appropriate tax authorities. In the event that the Executive's actual Section 409A Penalty Tax liability is determined by a Final Determination (as such term is defined below) to be greater than the Section 409A Penalty Tax liability taken into account for purposes of the 409A Gross-Up Payment initially made to the Executive pursuant to the provisions of this Section 13(c), then within thirty (30) days following that Final Determination, the Executive shall notify the Company of such determination, and the Accounting Firm shall, within thirty (30) days thereafter, make a new calculation of the 409A Gross-Up Payment based upon that Final Determination and provide the Company and the Executive with the supporting calculations for any supplemental 409A Gross-Up Payment attributable to that excess Section 409A Penalty Tax liability. The Company shall make the supplemental 409A Gross-Up Payment to the Executive within five (5) business days following the completion of the applicable calculations or (if later) at the time such excess Section 409A Penalty Tax liability is remitted to the appropriate tax authorities. In the event that the Executive's actual Section 409A Penalty Tax liability is determined by a Final Determination to be less than the Section 409A Penalty Tax liability taken into account for purposes of the 409A Gross-Up Payment initially made to the Executive pursuant to the provisions of this Section 13(c), then the Executive shall refund to the Company, within five (5) business days after receipt, any federal or state tax refund attributable to the overpayment of his Section 409A Penalty Tax. In no event shall any 409A Gross-Up Payment to which the Executive becomes entitled hereunder be made later than the of (i) the end of the calendar year in which the related Section 409A Penalty Tax is remitted to the appropriate tax authorities or (ii) the end of the sixty (60)-day period measured from the date such tax is so remitted.
Section 409A Penalty Tax
409A Gross-Up Payment
later
     (d) For purposes of Section 13(c), the term "" shall mean an audit adjustment by the Internal Revenue Service that is either (i) agreed to by both the Executive and the Company (such agreement by the Company to be not unreasonably withheld) or (ii) sustained by a court of competent jurisdiction in a decision with which the Executive and the Company concur or with respect to which the period within which an appeal may be filed has lapsed without a notice of appeal being filed.
Final Determination
 
     14. . Within fourteen (14) calendar days after the Effective Date of this Amended and Restated Agreement, the Company will reimburse the Executive for his legal fees incurred in connection with the Agreement's preparation and negotiation, up to a maximum dollar amount of $15,000.00.
Legal Fees
     15. . The Executive shall be covered by any policy of liability insurance which the Company maintains during the Extended Term for its officers and directors (""), to the maximum extent of such coverage provided any other executive officer of the Company. The Company agrees to provide the Executive with information about all D&O Insurance maintained during the Extended Term, including proof that such insurance is in place and the terms of coverage, upon the Executive's reasonable request. In addition to any rights the Executive may have under such D&O Insurance, applicable law, or the articles of incorporation and bylaws of the Company and except as may be prohibited by applicable law, the Company agrees to indemnify, defend, and hold the Executive harmless from and against any and all claims and/or liability arising from, as a result of, or in connection with the Executive's employment by the Company or any outside appointments and offices held at the Company's request, except to the extent such claims or liability are attributable to the Executive's gross negligence or willful misconduct.
Indemnification
D&O Insurance
     16. The Executive expressly agrees that the covenants set forth in Sections 9 and 10 of this Agreement are reasonable and necessary to protect the Company and its legitimate business interests, and to prevent the unauthorized dissemination of Proprietary Information to competitors of the Company. The Executive also agrees that the Company will be irreparably harmed and that damages alone cannot adequately compensate the Company if there is a violation of Section 9 or 10 of this Amended and Restated Agreement by the Executive, and that injunctive relief against the Executive is essential for the protection of the Company. Therefore, in the event of any such breach, it is agreed that, in addition to any other remedies available, the Company shall be entitled as a matter of right to injunctive relief in any court of competent jurisdiction, plus attorneys' fees actually incurred for the securing of such relief.
Injunctive Relief
.
     17. The provisions of Sections 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 15, 16, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 24, 25 and 26 will survive any termination of this Amended and Restated Agreement.
Survival of Certain Provisions
.
     18.  Any compensation and/or benefits provided to the Executive by the Company shall be subject to the Company's collection of all applicable payroll deductions and applicable withholding and payroll taxes.
.
Withholdings
     19. . This Amended and Restated Agreement will be binding upon and will inure to the benefit of the Company, its successors and assigns, and the Company will require any successor or assign to expressly assume and agree to perform this Amended and Restated Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform it if no such succession or assignment had taken place. The term "" as used herein will include any such successors and assigns to the Company's business and/or assets. The term "" as used herein will mean a corporation or other entity acquiring or otherwise succeeding to, directly or indirectly, all or substantially all the assets and business of the Company (including this Amended and Restated Agreement) whether by operation of law or otherwise. This Amended and Restated Agreement will inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Executive's legal personal representative.
Successors and Assigns
the Company
successors and assigns
     20. Except as otherwise provided in Section 16, any controversy or claim between the Company or any of its affiliates and the Executive arising out of or relating to this Amended and Restated Agreement or its termination or any other dispute between the parties, whether arising in tort, contract, or pursuant to a statute, regulation, or ordinance now in existence or which may in the
Arbitration
.
 
future be enacted or recognized will be settled and determined by a single arbitrator whose award will be accepted as final and binding upon the parties. The arbitration shall be conducted in Chicago, Illinois and in accordance with the American Arbitration Association (") Employment Arbitration Rules in effect at the time such arbitration is properly initiated. To the extent that any of the AAA rules or anything in the Amended and Restated Agreement conflicts with any arbitration procedures required by applicable law, the arbitration procedures required by applicable law shall govern. The costs of the arbitration, including administrative fees and fees charged by the arbitrator, will be borne by the Company. Each party will bear its or his own travel expenses and attorneys' fees; that the arbitrator (i) shall award attorneys' fees to the Executive with respect to any claim for breach of this Agreement on which he is the prevailing party and may award attorneys' fees to the Executive as otherwise allowed by law and (ii) shall award attorneys' fees to the Company with respect to any claim brought under Section 16 on which it is the prevailing party and may award attorneys' fees to the Company with respect to any other claim on which it is the prevailing party and it is determined by the arbitrator that such claim by the Executive was frivolous in that it presented no colorable arguments for recovery; but the maximum amount of attorneys' fees that may be awarded to the Company other than with respect to any claim brought under Section 16 shall not exceed one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000). In any situation in which emergency injunctive relief may be necessary, either party may seek such relief from a court until such time as the arbitrator is able to address the matter covered by this Section 20. Both parties agree that the state and federal courts located in Chicago, Illinois, will be the sole venue for any such action involving emergency injunctive relief, and the parties submit to personal jurisdiction in these courts for this purpose. Judgment upon any award rendered by the arbitrator may be entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof.
AAA"
provided, however,
The arbitration shall be instead of any civil litigation; and the Executive hereby waives any right to a jury trial. The arbitrator's decision shall be final and binding to the fullest extent permitted by law and enforceable by any court having jurisdiction thereof.
     21. For the purposes of this Amended and Restated Agreement, notices and all other communications provided for in this Amended and Restated Agreement (including the Notice of Termination) will be in writing and will be deemed to have been given when personally delivered or on the third business day following mailing if sent by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, or upon receipt if overnight delivery service is used, addressed as follows:
Notice
.
          To the Executive:
Joseph L. D'Amico 14054 W. Austrian Court Homer Glen, IL 60491
With a copy to:
Horwood Marcus & Berk Chartered 180 N. LaSalle Street, Suite 3700 Chicago, Illinois 60601 Attn: Keith H. Berk
To the Company:
Apollo Group, Inc 4025 South Riverpoint Parkway Phoenix, AZ 85040 Attention: General Counsel
 
With a copy to:
John Hartigan Morgan Lewis & Bockius LLP 300 South Grand Avenue Los Angeles, CA 90071
     22. No provision of this Amended and Restated Agreement may be modified, waived, or discharged unless such waiver, modification, or discharge is agreed to in writing and signed by the Executive and the Company. No waiver by either party hereto at any time of any breach by the other party hereto of, or compliance with, any condition or provision of this Amended and Restated Agreement to be performed by such other party will be deemed a waiver of similar or dissimilar provisions or conditions at the same or at any prior or subsequent time. No agreement or representation, oral or otherwise, express or implied, with respect to the subject matter hereof has been made by either party which is not expressly set forth in this Amended and Restated Agreement.
Miscellaneous
.
     23. This Amended and Restated Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which will be deemed an original and all of which will constitute but one and the same instrument. An electronic facsimile of a signature, when delivered by the signing party to the non-signing party, will have the same force and effect as an original.
Counterparts
.
     24. This Amended and Restated Agreement will be governed by and construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the State of Arizona without giving effect to the conflict of law principles thereof.
Governing Law
.
     25. If any provision of this Amended and Restated Agreement as applied to any party or to any circumstance should be adjudged by a court of competent jurisdiction (or determined by the arbitrator) to be void or unenforceable for any reason, the invalidity of that provision shall in no way affect (to the maximum extent permissible by law) the application of such provision under circumstances different from those adjudicated by the court or determined by the arbitrator, the application of any other provision of this Amended and Restated Agreement, or the enforceability or invalidity of this Amended and Restated Agreement as a whole. Should any provision of this Amended and Restated Agreement become or be deemed invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction by reason of the scope, extent or duration of its coverage, then such provision shall be deemed amended to the extent necessary to conform to applicable law so as to be valid and enforceable or, if such provision cannot be so amended without materially altering the intention of the parties, then such provision will be stricken, and the remainder of this Amended and Restated Agreement shall continue in full force and effect.
Severability
.
     26. This Amended and Restated Agreement, together with the Proprietary Information and Inventions Agreement referred to in Section 9 and the documentation for the equity grants and awards referred to in Section 4, shall constitute the entire agreement between the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof and shall supersede all prior agreements, if any, understandings and arrangements, oral or written, between the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof.
Entire Agreement
.
 
          the Company has caused this Amended and Restated Agreement to be executed by its duly authorized officer and the Executive has executed this Amended and Restated Agreement as of the day and year first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
 
 
          This AGREEMENT is made as of , 201___, by and between Joseph L. D'Amico ("Executive"), and Apollo Group, Inc. (the "Company").
                    
          In consideration for the severance benefits offered by the Company to Executive pursuant to Section 8 of his Amended and Restated Employment Agreement with the Company dated , 2010 (the "Employment Agreement"), Executive agree as follows:
                    
     1.  Executive acknowledges that his employment with the Company is terminated effective (the "Termination Date"), and he agrees that he will not apply for or seek re-employment with the Company, its parent companies, subsidiaries and affiliates after that date. Executive agrees that he has received and reviewed his final paycheck and he has received all wages and accrued but unpaid vacation pay earned by him through the Termination Date.
Termination of Employment.
                    
     2. 
Waiver and Release.
          (a) Except as set forth in Section 2(b), which identifies claims expressly excluded from this release, Executive hereby releases the Company, all affiliated companies, and their respective officers, directors, agents, employees, stockholders, successors and assigns from any and all claims, liabilities, demands, causes of action, costs, expenses, attorney fees, damages, indemnities and obligations of every kind and nature, in law, equity or otherwise, known and unknown, suspected and unsuspected, disclosed and undisclosed, arising from or relating to Executive's employment with the Company and the termination of that employment, including (without limitation): claims of wrongful discharge, emotional distress, defamation, fraud, breach of contract, breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing, discrimination claims based on sex, age, race, national origin, disability or any other basis under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, as amended ("ADEA"), the Americans with Disability Act, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, as amended, the Equal Pay Act of 1963, as amended, and any similar law of any state or governmental entity, any contract claims, tort claims and wage or benefit claims, including (without limitation) claims for salary, bonuses, commissions, equity awards (including stock grants, stock options and restricted stock units), vesting acceleration, vacation pay, fringe benefits, severance pay or any other form of compensation.
          (b) The only claims that Executive is not waiving and releasing under this Agreement are claims he may have for (1) unemployment, state disability, worker's compensation, and/or paid family leave insurance benefits pursuant to the terms of applicable state law; (2) continuation of existing participation in Company-sponsored group health benefit plans under the federal law known as "COBRA" and/or under an applicable state law counterpart(s); (3) any benefits entitlements that are vested and unpaid as of his termination date pursuant to the terms of a Company-sponsored benefit plan; (4) any benefits to which he is entitled pursuant to Section 8 of the Employment Agreement or his rights to indemnification pursuant to Section 15 of the Employment Agreement, (5) violation of any federal state or local statutory and/or public policy right or entitlement that, by applicable law, is not waivable; and (6) any wrongful act or omission occurring after the date he executes this Agreement. In addition, nothing in this Agreement prevents or prohibits Executive from filing a claim with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) or any other government agency that is responsible for enforcing a law on behalf of the government and deems such claims not waivable. However, because Executive is hereby waiving and releasing all claims "for monetary damages and any other form of personal relief" (per Section 2(a) above), he may only seek and receive non-personal forms of relief from the EEOC and similar government agencies.
 
          (c) Executive represents that he has not filed any complaints, charges, claims, grievances, or lawsuits against the Company and/or any related persons with any local, state or federal agency or court, or with any other forum.
          (d) Executive acknowledges that he may discover facts different from or in addition to those he now knows or believes to be true with respect to the claims, demands, causes of action, obligations, damages, and liabilities of any nature whatsoever that are the subject of this Agreement, and he expressly agrees to assume the risk of the possible discovery of additional or different facts, and agrees that this Agreement shall be and remain in effect in all respects regardless of such additional or different facts. Executive expressly acknowledges that this Agreement is intended to include, and does include in its effect, without limitation, all claims which Executive does not know or suspect to exist in his favor against the Company and/or any related persons at the moment of execution thereof, and that this Agreement expressly contemplates extinguishing all such claims.
          (e) Executive understands and agrees that the Company has no obligation to provide him with any severance benefits under the Employment Agreement unless he executes this Agreement. Executive also understands that he has received or will receive, regardless of the execution of this Agreement, all wages owed to him, together with any accrued but unpaid vacation pay, less applicable withholdings and deductions, earned through the Termination Date.
          (f) This Agreement is binding on Executive, his heirs, legal representatives and assigns.
     3. . This Agreement and the Employment Agreement constitute the entire understanding and agreement between Executive and the Company in connection with the matters described, and replaces and cancels all previous agreements and commitments, whether spoken or written, with respect to such matters. Nothing in this Agreement supersedes or replaces any of Executive's obligations under his Employment Agreement that survive termination, including, but not limited to (i) his (and the Company's) agreement to arbitrate disputes, (ii) his restrictive covenants under Section 10 of the Employment Agreement and (iii) his obligations under Section 9 of the Employment Agreement, his existing Proprietary Information Inventions Agreement with the Company and any other obligations not to use or disclose Company confidential and/or proprietary information.
Entire Agreement
     4.  No oral agreement, statement, promise, commitment or representation shall alter or terminate the provisions of this Agreement. This Agreement cannot be changed or modified except by written agreement signed by Executive and authorized representatives of the Company.
Modification in Writing.
     5.  This Agreement shall be governed by and enforced in accordance with the laws of the State of Arizona.
Governing Law; Jurisdiction.
     6.  Any term or provision of this Agreement which is invalid or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to that jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such invalidity or unenforceability without rendering invalid or unenforceable the remaining terms and provisions of this Agreement or affecting the validity or enforceability of any of the terms or provisions of this Agreement in any other jurisdiction. If any provision of this Agreement is so broad as to be unenforceable, the provision shall be interpreted to be only so broad as is enforceable.
Severability.
 
     7.  This Agreement does not constitute an admission of any unlawful discriminatory acts or liability of any kind by the Company or anyone acting under their supervision or on their behalf. This Agreement may not be used or introduced as evidence in any legal proceeding, except to enforce or challenge its terms.
No Admission of Liability.
     8. . Executive is advised to consult with an attorney of his choice prior to executing this Agreement. By signing below, Executive acknowledges and certifies that he:
Acknowledgements
          (a) has read and understands all of the terms of this Agreement and is not relying on any representations or statements, written or oral, not set forth in this Agreement;
          (b) has been provided a consideration period of twenty-one calendar days within which to decide whether he will execute this Agreement and that no one hurried him into executing this Agreement;
          (c) is signing this Agreement knowingly and voluntarily; and
          (d) has the right to revoke this Agreement within seven (7) days after signing it, by providing written notice of revocation via certified mail to the Company to the address specified in the Employment Agreement. Executive's written notice of revocation must be postmarked on or before the end of the eighth (8th) calendar day after he has timely signed this Agreement. This deadline will be extended to the next business day should it fall on a Saturday, Sunday or holiday recognized by the U.S. Postal Service.
     Because of the revocation period, the Company's obligations under this Agreement shall not become effective or enforceable until the eighth (8th) calendar day after the date Executive signs this Agreement provided he has delivered it to the Company without modification and not revoked it (the "Effective Date").
I HAVE READ, UNDERSTAND AND VOLUNTARILY ACCEPT AND AGREE TO THE ABOVE TERMS
 


