FILE:APOL/APOL-8K-20100630162803.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Registrant's telephone number, including area code:                                             (480) 966-5394
      
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
     (e) Material Compensatory Plan, Contract or Arrangement.
     1. . On June 24, 2010, the Compensation Committee (the "Compensation Committee") of the Board of Directors of Apollo Group, Inc. (the "Company") adopted and approved the Senior Executive Severance Pay Plan (the "Plan"), pursuant to which the Company's executive officers and other senior executives may become entitled to salary continuation payments and other severance benefits in the event their employment with the Company is terminated under certain defined circumstances.
Implementation of Senior Executive Severance Pay Plan
     The severance benefits to which the covered participants may become entitled upon such a termination of employment may be summarized as follows:
     (i) separation pay in the form of salary continuation payments ranging from nine (9) months for Grade Level 18 executives to twenty-four (24) months for Grade Level 22 executives;
     (ii) for executives in Grade Levels 20 or above, such separation pay will also include 100% of the average of their annual bonuses earned for the three (3) fiscal years preceding the fiscal year of their termination, and for Grade 19 Level executives, such separation pay will also include 50% of such average annual bonus;
     (iii) lump sum payment of COBRA health care coverage costs for executives at Grade Level 20 and above for a period coterminous with their salary continuation period;
     (iv) limited pro-rata vesting of equity awards made on or after the June 24, 2010 effective date of the plan to individuals who are at Grade Level 18 or above on the effective date of those awards; and
     (v) outplacement assistance for up to six (6) months.
     Each of the Company's executive officers named in the Company's Shareholders Information Statement dated December 30, 2010 and filed on Schedule 14C with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 29, 2009 (the "Named Executive Officers") is eligible to participate in the Plan. Their current Grade Levels are as follows:
     However, to the extent a covered individual is entitled to severance benefits under an employment agreement or other severance arrangement in effect with the Company at the time of his or her termination of employment, then his or her severance benefits under the Plan will be reduced by the severance benefits
 
payable under such employment agreement or other arrangement so that there will be no duplication of benefits. At present, Dr. Sperling and Messrs. Edelstein, Cappelli, D'Amico and Moya each have employment agreements with the Company that provide severance benefits in the event their employment is terminated under certain circumstances.
     The receipt of severance benefits under the Plan will be conditioned upon the executive's delivery of an effective and enforceable general release of all claims against the Company and its affiliates and his or her compliance with certain non-competition, non-solicitation and non-disparagement covenants to be set forth in the release agreement.
     A copy of the Plan is attached as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
     2. . On June 24, 2010, the Compensation Committee also authorized performance share awards under the Company's 2000 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated (the "2SIP"), to approximately forty (40) individuals, including three (3) of the Named Executive Officers. The awards will become effective at the close of business on the third business day following the Company's release of its earnings results for the quarter ended May 31, 2010 (the "Effective Date"). The number of performance shares to be awarded to each individual will be determined by dividing the dollar amount of the performance share award authorized for him or her by the closing selling price of the Company's Class A common stock on the Effective Date. The dollar amount of the performance share award authorized for each of the Named Executive Officers receiving performance share awards is as follows:
Performance Share Awards
     Such dollar value represents fifteen percent (15%) of the total value of the equity award that the Compensation Committee authorized for each such Named Executive Officer on June 24, 2010. The remaining dollar value of each equity award is allocated equally to a stock option component covering shares of the Company's Class A common stock (valued at their Black/Scholes value) and a restricted stock unit award covering additional shares of Class A common stock with performance-vesting and service-vesting requirements. The actual number of shares subject to those equity awards will not be determined until the Effective Date.
     The performance-vesting requirement for the performance share awards is tied to the average of the annual growth rates in the Company's adjusted free cash flow for each of the three fiscal years of the Company comprising the performance period (the 2011, 2012 and 2013 fiscal years). In determining the average of those annual growth rates, the growth rate of adjusted free cash flow for the 2011 fiscal year will be determined by comparing the adjusted free cash flow for that year against the adjusted free cash flow for the 2010 fiscal year. The growth in adjusted free cash flow for each of the two (2) remaining fiscal years will be calculated in comparison to the adjusted free cash flow realized for the immediately preceding fiscal year. Once the growth rate for each of the three (3) fiscal years is calculated, the simple average of those three (3) annual growth rates will be determined, and that average (rounded up to the next whole one-tenth decimal point) will represent the actual level of performance attainment.
     The calculation of adjusted free cash flow for each relevant fiscal year will be based on cash flow from operations for that fiscal year, as determined on a consolidated basis with the Company's consolidated subsidiaries for financial reporting purposes and will be subject to certain pre-specified adjustments, reductions and exclusions authorized by the Compensation Committee. Within seventy-five (75) days after the completion of the performance period, the Compensation Committee will certify the actual level of attained performance. On the basis of that certified level of attainment, the number of performance shares authorized for each performance share recipient will be multiplied by the applicable percentage determined
 
in accordance with the schedule below to determine the maximum number of shares of the Company's Class A common stock issuable on the basis of the attained performance level.
     The actual number of shares of Class A common stock in which each performance share recipient will vest is to be determined by multiplying the number of shares of Class A common stock into which his or her performance shares are converted by reason of the attained performance level by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of fiscal years of employment such individual completes with the Company within the performance period and the denominator of which is three (3). Pursuant to his existing employment agreement with the Company, the performance shares awarded to Mr. D'Amico provide certain service-vesting credits in the event his employment with the Company should terminate under certain prescribed circumstances during the performance period.
     A copy of the standard form of Performance Share Award Agreement is attached as Exhibit 10.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
     At a duly-scheduled meeting held on June 24, 2010, the holders of the Company's Class B common stock unanimously approved an amendment to the 2SIP that effected the following changes to the 2SIP:
     (i) introduced the free cash flow metric as a generic performance goal to which specific targets may be established by the Compensation Committee as a performance-vesting requirement for one or more awards made under the 2SIP, including performance share awards;
     (ii) specified the types of adjustments, reductions and exclusions that may be made in connection with the calculation of any performance goal tied to adjusted free cash flow or net income; and
 
     (iii) imposed more precise parameters upon the terms and conditions governing performance share awards authorized under the 2SIP.
     A copy of the 2000 Stock Incentive Plan Amendment is attached as Exhibit 10.3 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
(d) Exhibits.
The following exhibits are provided herewith:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
     The Apollo Group, Inc. Senior Executive Severance Pay Plan as hereinafter set forth shall be effective with respect to Eligible Employees who incur an Involuntary Termination on or after June 24, 2010 (the "Effective Date"). The right of any former Eligible Employee whose employment was terminated prior to the Effective Date to receive any severance pay or similar benefit was governed by the provisions of the severance pay, policy, program or arrangement applicable to such former Eligible Employee on the date of his termination of employment, and such former Eligible Employee shall not be entitled to any severance benefits under this Plan.
 
     The following terms as used herein shall have the meanings set forth below:
     (a) "" or "" shall mean Apollo Group, Inc.
Administrator
Plan Administrator
     (b) "" shall mean the average of the actual incentive bonuses earned by the Participant for the three (3) fiscal years (or fewer number of fiscal years of employment with the Company) immediately preceding the fiscal year in which his or her Involuntary Termination occurs.
Average Annual Bonus
     (c) "" shall mean a Participant's gross weekly base salary calculated on the basis of the annual rate of base salary in effect for him or her at the time of his or her Involuntary Termination. "Base Pay" shall not include any forms of extra compensation, such as bonuses, cost-of-living and other allowances, any award paid to the Participant under any incentive compensation plan of the Company, any compensation attributable to stock options, restricted stock units or other equity or equity-based awards and any other contribution or payment by the Company pursuant to any retirement, profit-sharing, disability or survivor income plan, health or welfare plan, life insurance plan, fringe benefits plan or similar plan.
Base Pay
     (d) "" shall mean the lump sum amount calculated and payable pursuant to Article II, Section C of the Plan to a Participant.
COBRA Coverage Costs
     (e) "" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
Code
     (f) "" shall mean Apollo Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries, including (without limitation) The University of Phoenix, Inc., The College for Financial Planning Institutes Corporation, Insight Schools, Inc., Institute for Professional Development and Western International University, Inc.
Company
     (g) "" shall mean June 24, 2010, the date on which the Plan becomes effective.
Effective Date
     (h) "" shall mean an individual who is in the employ of at least one member of the Employer Group, subject to the control and direction of the employer entity as to both the work to be performed and the manner and method of performance.
Employee
     (i) "" shall mean the Company and each member of the group of commonly controlled corporations or other businesses that include the Company, as determined in accordance with Sections 414(b) and (c) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations thereunder, except that in applying Sections 1563(1), (2) and (3) of the Code for purposes of determining the controlled group of corporations under Section 414(b) of the Code, the phrase "at least 50 percent" shall be used instead of "at least 80 percent" each place the latter phrase appears in such sections, and in applying Section 1.414(c)-2 of the Treasury Regulations for purposes of determining trades or businesses that are under common control for purposes of Section 414(c) of the Code, the phrase "at least 50 percent" shall be used instead of "at least 80 percent" each place the latter phrase appears in Section 1.4.14(c)-2 of the Treasury Regulations.
Employer Group
 
     (j) "" shall mean an Employee who is: (a) a Chief Executive or Chief Operating Officer of Apollo Group, Inc., (b) a Grade 18-22 Employee who reports directly to a Chief Executive Officer or Chief Operating Officer of Apollo Group, Inc., (c) a Grade 18-22 Employee who is an officer of a Company,
Eligible Employee
     (k) "" shall mean the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time.
ERISA
     (l) "" shall mean the unilateral termination of the Participant's employment by the Company for any reason other than a Termination for Cause; in no event shall an Involuntary Termination be deemed to incur in the event the Participant's employment terminates by reason of his or her death or disability.
Involuntary Termination
provided, however,
     (m) "" shall mean an individual who at the time of his or her Involuntary Termination is an Eligible Employee. An Eligible Employee whose employment with the Company terminates for any reason other than an Involuntary Termination, including (without limitation) any of the following reasons, shall not be a Participant in the Plan and shall not be entitled to any severance benefits hereunder: (1) transfer to employment with another member of the Employer Group, (2) a voluntary resignation, (3) a Termination for Cause, (4) death or disability, (5) retirement (other than a retirement which is a direct result of an Involuntary Termination) or (6) temporary layoff or a military leave of absence, except that if (during such absence from work) an Involuntary Termination of his or her Eligible Employee status occurs, then the Eligible Employee shall be eligible for Severance Pay as a result of such Involuntary Termination. A Participant ceases to be such on the date he or she ceases to be eligible for any further Severance Pay pursuant to the provisions of Article II hereof.
Participant
     (n) "" shall mean the Apollo Group, Inc. Senior Executive Severance Pay Plan, as amended from time to time.
Plan
     (o) "" shall mean the calendar year or such other period as the Company shall from time to time determine.
Plan Year
     (p) " shall mean the Participant's cessation of Employee status and shall be deemed to occur for purposes of the Plan at such time as the level of his or her bona fide services to be performed as an Employee (or non-employee consultant) permanently decreases to a level that is not more than twenty percent (20%) of the average level of services he or she rendered as an Employee during the immediately preceding thirty-six (36) months (or such shorter period for which he or she may have rendered such service). Any such determination as to Separation from Service, however, shall be made in accordance with the applicable standards of the Treasury Regulations issued under Code Section 409A. In addition to the foregoing, a Separation from Service will not be deemed to have occurred while an Employee is on military leave, sick leave or other bona fide leave of absence if the period of such leave does not exceed six (6) months or any longer period for which such Employee is, either by statute or contract, provided with a right to reemployment with one or more members of the Employer Group; that in the event of an Employee's leave of absence due to any medically determinable physical or mental impairment that can be expected to result in death or to last for a continuous period of not less than six (6) months and that causes such
"Separation from Service
provided, however,
 
individual to be unable to perform his or her duties as an Employee, no Separation from Service shall be deemed to occur during the first twenty-nine (29) months of such leave. If the period of leave exceeds six (6) months (or twenty-nine (29) months in the event of disability as indicated above) and the Employee is not provided with a right to reemployment either by statute or contract, then such Employee will be deemed to have a Separation from Service on the first day immediately following the expiration of such six (6)-month or twenty-nine (29)-month period.
     (q) "" shall mean the amount payable pursuant to Article II, Section A of the Plan to a Participant. Severance Pay shall be paid to a Participant in installments in accordance with the provisions of Article II, Section F.
Severance Pay
     (r) "" shall mean a Participant who is, pursuant to procedures established by the Plan Administrator in accordance with the applicable standards of Code Section 409A and the Treasury Regulations thereunder and applied on a consistent basis for all non-qualified deferred compensation plans of the Employer Group subject to Code Section 409A, deemed at the time of his or her Separation from Service to be a "specified employee" under Code Section 409A. The Specified Employees shall be identified on December 31 of each calendar year and shall include each Participant who is a "key employee" (within the meaning of that term under Code Section 416(i)) at any time during the twelve (12)-month period ending with such date. A Participant who is so identified as a Specified Employee will have that status for the twelve (12)-month period beginning on April 1 of the following calendar year.
Specified Employee
     (s) shall mean the termination of an Eligible Employee's service or employment with the Company for one or more of the following reasons
"Termination for Cause"
:
          (i) repeated dereliction of the material duties and responsibilities of his or her position with the Company;
          (ii) misconduct, insubordination or failure to comply with Company policies governing employee conduct and procedures;
          (iii) excessive lateness or absenteeism;
          (iv) conviction of or pleading guilty or to any felony involving theft, embezzlement, dishonesty or moral turpitude;
nolo contendere
          (v) commission of any act of fraud against, or the misappropriation of property belonging to, the Company;
          (vi) commission of any act of dishonesty in connection with his or her responsibilities as an Employee that is intended to result in his or her personal enrichment or the personal enrichment of his or her family or others;
          (vii) any other misconduct adversely affecting the business or affairs of the Company; or
 
          (viii) a material breach of any agreement he or she may have at the time with the Company, including (without limitation) any proprietary information, non-disclosure or confidentiality agreement.
     (t) shall mean the process set forth in Article II, Section C of the Plan pursuant to which a Participant may be eligible to vest on a limited pro-rata basis in Company stock or stock-based awards that are made to him or her with an effective grant date on or after the Effective Date of the Plan and at a time when he or she is employed in a position with the Company at Grade 18 level or above, including (without limitation) stock option grants, restricted stock unit awards, performance share awards and any other equity or equity-based awards.
"Pro-Rata Vesting of Equity Awards"
 
 
 
 
On the date of the Participant's Involuntary Termination or within fifteen (15) days thereafter, the Company shall furnish such Participant with a letter which describes the benefits of the Plan as applicable to the Participant (the "Severance Letter"). With the Severance Letter the Company shall also forward the appropriate form of Release to be executed by the Participant.
If age 40 or older, the Participant shall have twenty-one (21) calendar days from the date the Participant is provided with the form Release to review, sign and return that Release to the Company. However, if the Severance Pay is provided under this Plan in connection with an event which the Company in its discretion determines is a program affecting a group or class of Eligible Employees within the meaning of 29 USC Section 626(f)(1)(F)(ii), the Participant shall have forty-five (45) calendar days from the date the Participant is provided with the form Release to review, sign and return that Release to the Company. In either case, the Participant will have seven (7) days from the date the Participant returns the signed Release to revoke and void the Release by giving written notice of his or her intent to do so to the Company. The Release does not become effective or enforceable until the seven (7)-day revocation period has expired.
 
If under age 40, the Participant shall have fourteen (14) calendar days from the date the Participant is provided with the form Release to review, sign and return that Release to the Company, and such Release shall be effective and enforceable immediately upon delivery of the signed Release to the Company without any applicable revocation period.
Provided the Participant returns, within the applicable time period provided under Article II, Section E, the Release required to receive benefits under the Plan and does not revoke that release, the Severance Pay will be paid in successive equal installments over a period of months equal to the total number of months taken into account in calculating the Base Pay component of the Severance Pay to which such Participant is entitled. Such installments shall be payable over the applicable period on the regularly scheduled pay dates in effect for the Company's salaried employees, with the first such installment to be paid on the first such pay date within the seventy-five (75)-day period measured from the date of the Participant's Separation from Service due to his or her Involuntary Termination on which the Release delivered by the Participant in accordance with Article II, Section E is effective following the expiration of the applicable maximum review/delivery/return and revocation periods to which the Participant is entitled under the Plan and any applicable law with respect to such Release, or to begin on such subsequent date thereafter as the Company may determine in its sole discretion, but in no event shall the first such installment be paid later than the last day of the seventy-five (75)-day period measured from the date of the Participant's Separation from Service. For purposes of Section 409A of the Code, the Severance Pay payable pursuant to this Section II F shall be deemed to be a series of separate payments, with each installment of the Severance Pay to be treated as a separate payment, and any such separate payments made during the period commencing with date of the Participant's Involuntary Termination and ending with March 15 of the calendar year immediately following the calendar year in which such Involuntary Termination occurs shall constitute the Participant's "Short-Term Deferral Payments" for purposes of Article III of the Plan.
F.
Terms of Payment
.
G. In the event that the Participant violates any confidentiality, non-compete, non-solicitation or non-disparagement provisions in the Release or any other agreement between the Company and the Participant, the Participant shall not be entitled to Severance Pay, COBRA Coverage Costs, Pro-Rata Vesting of Equity Awards or Outplacement. If the Participant violates any Confidentiality, Non-Competition, Non-Solicitation or Non-Disparagement provisions in the Release or other agreement between the Company and the Participant, the Participant shall repay or return all Severance Pay, COBRA Coverage
Confidentiality, Non-Competition, Non-Solicitation and Non-Disparagement
.
 
Costs and the number of shares of the Company's common stock attributable to the Pro-Rata Vesting of Equity Awards (or the gain realized from the sale of such shares) paid or issued to the Participant, along with the value of any Outplacement provided to the Participant.
Except as provided in this Plan or to the extent required by law or the applicable provisions of an employee benefit program, coverage under all employee benefit programs maintained by Company will cease on the date of the Participant's termination of employment. The Participant shall, however, have such rights as are required by law or the applicable provision of an employee benefit program with respect to the Company's employee benefit programs, including the right to elect "COBRA" coverage under the Company health benefit programs.
H.
Other Benefits
.
 
     A. Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in Article II or any other Article of the Plan, other than Sections III B and III C below, no severance benefit payable under the Plan (or component thereof) that is deemed to constitute an item of "nonqualified deferred compensation" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code and that is otherwise payable in connection with a Participant's Separation from Service shall be paid to the Participant until the earlier of (i) the first day of the seventh (7th) month following the date of such Participant's Separation from Service or (ii) the date of his or her death, if the Participant is deemed at the time of such Separation from Service to be a Specified Employee such delayed commencement is otherwise required in order to avoid a prohibited distribution under Code Section 409A(a)(2). Upon the expiration of the applicable delay period, all payments delayed pursuant to this Section III A, whether they were otherwise payable in installments or a lump sum, shall be paid in a lump sum to the Participant, and any remaining severance benefits shall be paid in accordance with the applicable provisions of Article II.
and
     B. Notwithstanding Section A of this Article III, the delayed commencement date provisions of such Section III A shall not be applicable to (i) any severance payments under Article II that qualify as Short-Term Deferral Payments exempt from Code Section 409A or any other severance benefits hereunder that qualify for such exemption and (ii) the portion of a Participant's Severance Pay, COBRA Coverage Costs and the Pro-Vesting of Equity Awards otherwise subject to Code Section 409A that does not exceed the dollar limit described below and that is otherwise scheduled to be paid in connection with such Participant's Separation from Service but not later than the last day of the second calendar year following the calendar year in which such Separation from Service occurs. Accordingly, the foregoing clause (i) and (ii) payments shall be paid to the Participant as they become due and payable in accordance with the payment provisions of Article II. For purposes of clause (ii) of this Section III B, the applicable dollar limitation will be equal to two (2) times the lesser of (A) the Participant's annualized compensation (based on his or her annual rate of pay for the taxable year preceding the taxable year of his or her Separation from Service, adjusted to reflect any increase during that taxable year which was expected to continue indefinitely had such Separation from Service not occurred) or (B) the compensation limit under Section 401(a)(17) of the Code as in effect in the year of the Separation from Service.
     C. Section A of this Article III shall not apply to the lump sum payment of COBRA Coverage Costs to the extent the dollar amount of that payment does not exceed the applicable dollar amount in effect under Section 402(g)(1)(B) of the Code for the calendar year in which the Participant's Separation form Service occurs.
 
     D. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, no distribution shall be made from the Plan that would constitute an impermissible acceleration of payment as defined in Section 409A(3) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations thereunder.
     E. No interest shall be paid on any Severance Pay or COBRA Coverage Costs for which a delayed commencement date is required in accordance with the foregoing provisions of this Article III.
 
     Except as provided by applicable law, no Severance Pay, COBRA Coverage Costs or Pro-Rata Vesting of Equity Awards payable to any Participant under the provisions of the Plan shall be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance or charge, and any attempt so to anticipate, alienate, sell, transfer, assign, pledge, encumber, or charge the same shall be void, nor shall any such Severance Pay, COBRA Coverage Costs or Pro-Rata Vesting of Equity Awards be in any manner liable for or subject to the debts, contracts, liabilities, engagements, or torts of any Participant.
     If any Participant is, in the judgment of the Administrator, unable to take care of his or her affairs for any reason whatsoever, including mental condition, illness or accident, any Severance Pay, COBRA Coverage Costs or Pro-Rata Vesting of Equity Awards payable under the Plan may be paid to the guardian or other legal representative of such Participant or to such other person or institution who, in the opinion of the Administrator, is then maintaining or has custody of such Participant. Such payment shall constitute a full discharge with respect thereto and the Administrator shall have sole discretion in determining to whom such payment shall be made and in changing the payee from time to time.
 
     The Plan shall be unfunded. All Severance Pay and COBRA Coverage Costs intended to be provided under the Plan shall be paid from time to time from the general assets of the Company and paid in accordance with the provisions of the Plan.
 
     The plan administrator shall establish a claims procedure which satisfies the requirements of 29 CFR Section 2560.503-1 as applicable to a severance pay plan subject to ERISA. The Plan Administrator has full and complete discretionary authority to decide any matter presented through the claims procedure and the final decision by the Plan Administrator shall be binding on all parties to the maximum extent allowed by law.
 
     The general administration of the Plan shall be vested in the Administrator who shall be the Plan Administrator for purposes of ERISA.
     The Administrator may employ counsel, actuaries and agents and engage such clerical, medical and actuarial services as the Administrator deems expedient.
     All expenses incurred by the Administrator in the administration of the Plan, including compensation of the counsel, agents and agencies as the Administrator may appoint or employ, shall be paid by the Company.
 
     The Administrator shall keep such accounts and records as it may deem necessary or proper in the performance of its duties as administrator of the Plan.
 
     The Administrator shall have full and complete discretionary power and authority to determine the amount of any Severance Pay, COBRA Coverage Costs and Pro-Rata Vesting of Equity Awards, if any, payable under the Plan and all other matters arising in the administration, interpretation and application of the Plan.
     The Plan is intended to comply with the applicable requirements of Code Section 409A and the Treasury Regulations thereunder. Payments to Plan Participants are also intended, where possible, to comply with the "short term deferral exception" and the "involuntary separation pay exception" to Code Section 409A. Accordingly, the provisions of the Plan applicable to Severance Pay, COBRA Coverage Costs and Pro-Rata Vesting of Equity Awards and the determination of the Participant's Separation form Service due to his or her Involuntary Termination shall be applied, construed and administered so that those benefits qualify for one or both of those exceptions, to the maximum extent allowable. However, to the extent any payment or benefit under the Plan is deemed to constitute an item of deferred compensation subject to the requirements of Code Section 409A, the provisions of the Plan applicable to that payment or benefit shall be applied, construed and administered so that such payment or benefit is made or provided in compliance with the applicable requirements of Code Section 409A. In addition, should there arise any ambiguity as to whether any other provisions of the Plan would contravene one or more applicable requirements or limitations of Code Section 409A and the Treasury Regulations thereunder, such provisions shall be interpreted, administered and applied in a manner that complies with the applicable requirements of Code Section 409A and the Treasury Regulations thereunder.
 
     The Company's Board of Directors or an authorized Board committee may, from time to time and at any time, amend the Plan and any of the benefits set forth in the Plan.
     Any amendment to the Plan may effect a substantial change in the Plan and may include (but shall not be limited to) (1) a reduction to the level of Severance Pay, COBRA Coverage Costs, Pro-Rata Vesting of Equity Awards and/or other benefits payable under the Plan, (2) a provision for the participation in the Plan by any subsidiary of the Company, (3) a change in the class or classes of persons to whom any Severance Pay, COBRA Coverage Costs and/or Pro-Rata Vesting of Equity Awards may be or become payable, and (4) any change deemed by the Company to be necessary or desirable to make the Plan conform to, or to enable Participants to obtain tax benefits under, any existing or future laws or rules or regulations thereunder.
 
     The Plan may be terminated at any time and for any reason by action of the Company's Board of Directors or an authorized Board committee.
 
     The adoption and maintenance of the Plan shall not be deemed to constitute a contract between the Company and any Eligible Employee or to be a consideration for, or an inducement or condition of, the employment of any person. Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to give any Eligible Employee the right to be retained in the service of the Company or to interfere with the rights of the Company to discharge any Eligible Employee at any time. No Eligible Employee shall, because of the Plan, become entitled to any offer of relocation, lateral transfer, downgrade with pay protection, or any other term of employment.
 
     A. The Administrator shall provide such appropriate forms as it may deem expedient in the administration of the Plan.
     B. All communications concerning the Plan shall be in writing addressed to the Administrator at such address as the Administrator may from time to time designate, and no such communication shall be effective for any purpose unless received by the Administrator.
     C. The Administrator shall issue a summary plan description to the Eligible Employees describing the Plan. In the event of any conflict between the terms of the Plan, as set forth in the Plan and as set forth in the summary plan description, the Plan shall control.
 
     The Plan shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Arizona, except to the extent that the laws of the United States (including ERISA) take precedence and preempt state laws.

Exhibit 10.2
GRADE 18 LEVEL OR ABOVE
RECITALS
          A. The Corporation has implemented the Plan as an equity incentive program to encourage key employees and officers of the Corporation and the non-employee members of the Board to remain in the employ or service of the Corporation by providing them with an opportunity to acquire a proprietary interest in the success of the Corporation.
          B. Participant is to render valuable services to the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary), and this Agreement is executed pursuant to, and is intended to carry out the purposes of, the Plan in connection with the Corporation's issuance of shares of Class A Common Stock to Participant under the Plan.
          C. All capitalized terms in this Agreement shall have the meaning assigned to them in the attached Appendix A.
, it is hereby agreed as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
          1. . The Corporation hereby awards to Participant, as of the Award Date indicated below, an award (the "Award") of Performance Shares under the Plan. Each Performance Share which vests pursuant to the terms of this Agreement shall provide Participant with the right to receive one or more shares of Class A Common Stock on the designated issuance date. The number of shares of Class A Common Stock subject to the awarded Performance Shares, the applicable performance vesting requirement for the Performance Shares, the rate at which the vested Performance Shares are to convert into shares of Class A Common Stock, the date on which the converted shares of Class A Common Stock shall become issuable and the remaining terms and conditions governing the Award, including the applicable service vesting requirement, shall be as set forth in this Agreement.
Grant of Performance Shares
 
 
          2. . Prior to the actual issuance of the shares of Class A Common Stock which vest hereunder, Participant may not transfer any interest in the performance shares subject to the Award or the underlying shares of Class A Common Stock or pledge or otherwise hedge the sale of those performance shares or the underlying shares of Class A Common Stock, including (without limitation) any short sale or any acquisition or disposition of any put or call option or other instrument tied to the value of the Class A Common Stock. However, any shares of Class A Common Stock which vest hereunder but otherwise remain unissued at the time of Participant's death may be transferred pursuant to the provisions of Participant's will or the laws of inheritance or to Participant's designated beneficiary or beneficiaries of this Award. Participant may make such a beneficiary designation at any time by filing the appropriate form with the Plan Administrator or its designate.
Limited Transferability
          3. .
Service Requirement
          (a) The number of Performance-Qualified Shares calculated in accordance with the Performance-Vesting provisions of Paragraph 1 and attached Schedule I represent the maximum number of shares of Class A Common Stock in which Participant can vest hereunder. The actual number of shares of Class A Common Stock in which Participant shall vest shall be determined by multiplying that number of Performance-Qualified Shares by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of full fiscal years of Service completed by the Participant within the Performance Period and the denominator of which is the total number of fiscal years within that Performance Period.
          (b) Should the Participant cease Service prior to the completion of a particular fiscal year included within the Performance Period by reason of an Involuntary Termination, then following the completion of the Performance Period and the required certification of the number of Performance-Qualified Shares subject to this Award, Participant shall, with respect to such partial fiscal year of Service, vest in that additional number of shares of Class A Common Stock (if any) determined by multiplying the certified number of Performance-Qualified Shares by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of months of Service actually completed by the Participant during that particular fiscal year (rounded up to the next whole month), and the denominator of which is the total number of months constituting the entire Performance Period.
          (c) Should the Participant's Service cease for any reason other than an Involuntary Termination prior to the completion of the Performance Period, then the Participant shall not vest in any additional Performance-Qualified Shares following such cessation of Service, and all of Participant's right, title and interest to any unvested Performance-Qualified Shares subject to this Award shall immediately terminate.
 
          4. The holder of this Award shall not have any stockholder rights, including voting, dividend or liquidation rights, with respect to the shares of Class A Common Stock underlying the Award until Participant becomes the record holder of those shares upon their actual issuance following the Corporation's collection of the applicable Withholding Taxes.
Stockholder Rights
.
          5. . The following provisions shall apply only to the extent a Change in Control is consummated prior to the completion of the Performance Period and shall have no force or effect in the event the effective date of the Change in Control occurs after the completion of such Performance Period.
Change in Control
               (a) Should (i) the Change in Control occur during the first eighteen (18) months of the Performance Period and (ii) the Participant continue in Service through the effective date of that Change in Control, then the Participant shall immediately vest in that number of shares of Class A Common Stock equal to the Target Number of Performance Shares set forth in Paragraph 1, without any measurement of Performance Goal attainment to date.
               (b) Should (i) the Change in Control occur at any time on or after the completion of the first eighteen (18) months of the Performance Period and (ii) the Participant continues in Service through the effective date of that Change in Control, then the Participant shall immediately vest in that number of shares of Class A Common Stock equal to the of:
greater
               (i) the Target Number of Performance Shares set forth in Paragraph 1, or
               (ii) the number of Performance-Qualified Shares determined by multiplying (A) the Target Number of Performance Shares set forth in Paragraph 1 by (B) the applicable percentage (determined in accordance with attached Schedule I) for the level at which the Performance Goal is attained and certified by the Plan Administrator for an abbreviated Performance Period ending with the close of the Corporation's fiscal quarter coincident with or immediately preceding the effective date of the Change in Control, with the applicable financial metric for the fiscal year in which the Change in Control is effected to be calculated and measured as of the close of the fiscal quarter coincident with or immediately preceding such effective date and compared to the applicable financial metric for the immediately preceding fiscal year calculated and measured over the same abbreviated time period within that fiscal year.
               (c) The share calculation procedures set forth in subparagraphs (a) and (b) of this Paragraph 5 shall also apply for purposes of determining the number of shares to which the Service-vesting provisions of Paragraph 3(a) and (if applicable) Paragraph 3(b) are to be applied in the event the Participant ceases Service during the Performance Period and prior to the effective date of the Change in Control, and the resulting number of shares shall be subject to the provisions of Paragraph 5(d) below.
 
               (d) The number of shares of Class A Common Stock in which Participant vests on the basis of the Performance Shares or Performance-Qualified Shares determined in accordance with the foregoing provisions of this Paragraph 5 shall be converted into the right to receive for each such share the same consideration per share of Class A Common Stock payable to the other holders of such Class A Common Stock in consummation of that Change in Control, and such consideration per share shall be distributed to the Participant at the same time as such stockholder payments, but in no event shall such distribution to the Participant be completed later than the of (i) the end of the calendar year in which such Change in Control is effected or (ii) the fifteenth (15th) day of the third (3rd) calendar month following the effective date of that Change in Control. The distribution shall be subject to the Corporation's collection of the applicable Withholding Taxes.
later
               (e) Except for the actual number of shares of Class A Common Stock in which the Participant vests in accordance with this Paragraph 5, the Participant shall cease to have any further right or entitlement to any additional shares of Class A Common Stock under this Agreement following the effective date of the Change in Control.
               (f) This Agreement shall not in any way affect the right of the Corporation to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate or sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets.
          6. . Should any change be made to the Class A Common Stock by reason of any stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization, combination of shares, exchange of shares, spin-off transaction, extraordinary dividend or distribution or other change affecting the outstanding Common Stock as a class without the Corporation's receipt of consideration, or should the value of the outstanding shares of Common Stock be substantially reduced as a result of a spin-off transaction or an extraordinary dividend or distribution, or should there occur any merger, consolidation or other reorganization, then equitable adjustments shall be made by the Plan Administrator to the total number and/or class of securities issuable pursuant to this Award in order to reflect such change. The determination of the Plan Administrator shall be final, binding and conclusive. In the event of any Change in Control transaction, the provisions of Paragraph 5 shall be controlling.
Adjustment in Shares
          7.
Issuance or Distribution of Vested Shares or Other Amounts.
               (a) Except as otherwise provided in Paragraph 5, the shares of Class A Common Stock in which Participant vests pursuant to the Performance and Service vesting provisions of Paragraphs 1 and 3 shall be issued following the completion of the Performance Period, in accordance with the following provisions:
          (i) If the applicable Performance Period is coincidental with one or more successive fiscal years of the Corporation, the issuance shall be effected as soon as administratively practicable following the completion of that Performance Period, but no later than the of (A)
later
 
the last day of the calendar year in which such Performance Period ends or (B) the fifteenth (15th) day of third (3rd) calendar month following the last day of such Performance Period.
          (ii) If the applicable Performance Period is coincidental with one or more successive complete calendar years, the issuance shall be effected during the period beginning with the first business day of the calendar year immediately succeeding the end of the Performance Period and ending no later than March 15 of that year.
               (b) The Corporation shall, on the applicable issuance date, issue to or on behalf of Participant a certificate (which may be in electronic form) for the shares of Class A Common Stock in which Participant vests pursuant to the Performance and Service vesting provisions of Paragraphs 1 and 3 or the special vesting provisions of Paragraph 5.
               (c) Except as otherwise provided in Paragraph 5, no shares of Class A Common Stock shall be issued prior to the completion of the Performance Period. No fractional share of Class A Common Stock shall be issued pursuant to this Award, and any fractional share resulting from any calculation made in accordance with the terms of this Agreement shall be rounded down to the next whole share of Class A Common Stock.
               (d) The Corporation shall collect the applicable Withholding Taxes with respect to all shares of Class A Common Stock which vest and become issuable pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement through the following automatic share withholding method:
               - On the applicable issuance date, the Corporation shall withhold, from the vested shares of Class A Common Stock otherwise issuable to the Participant at that time, a portion of those shares with a Fair Market Value (measured as of the issuance date) equal to the applicable Withholding Taxes; , that the number of shares of Class A Common Stock which the Corporation shall be required to so withhold shall not exceed in Fair Market Value (other than by reason of the rounding up of any fractional share to the next whole share) the amount necessary to satisfy the Corporation's required tax withholding obligations using the minimum statutory withholding rates for federal and state tax purposes, including payroll taxes, that are applicable to supplemental taxable income. The Participant hereby expressly authorizes the Corporation to withhold any such additional fractional share that is needed to round up the share withholding to the next whole share of Class A Common Stock, with the Fair Market Value of that additional fractional share to be added to the amount of taxes withheld by the Corporation from his or her wages for the calendar year in which the issuance date occurs, and to report that additional tax withholding as part of his or her W-2 tax withholdings for such year.
provided, however
 
               (e) Except as otherwise provided in Paragraph 5 or this Paragraph 7, the settlement of all Performance or Performance-Qualified Shares which vest under the Award shall be made solely in shares of Class A Common Stock.
          8.
Code Section 409A
               (a) It is the intention of the parties that the provisions of this Agreement shall comply with the requirements of the short-term deferral exception to Section 409A of the Code and Treasury Regulations Section 1.409A-1(b)(4). Accordingly, to the extent there is any ambiguity as to whether one or more provisions of this Agreement would otherwise contravene the requirements or limitations of Code Section 409A applicable to such short-term deferral exception, then those provisions shall be interpreted and applied in a manner that does not result in a violation of the requirements or limitations of Code Section 409A and the Treasury Regulations thereunder that apply to such exception.
               (b) If and to the extent this Agreement may be deemed to create an arrangement subject to the requirements of Code Section 409A, then the following provisions shall apply:
          - No shares of Class A Common Stock or other amounts which become issuable or distributable under this Agreement by reason of Participant's cessation of Service shall actually be issued or distributed to Participant until the date of Participant's separation from service (as determined in accordance with the applicable provisions of Code Section 409A and the Treasury Regulations thereunder) or as soon thereafter as administratively practicable, but in no event later than the of (i) the close of the calendar year in which such separation from service occurs or (ii) the fifteenth day of the third calendar month following the date of such separation from service.
later
          - No shares of Class A Common Stock or other amounts which become issuable or distributable under this Agreement by reason of Participant's cessation of Service shall actually be issued or distributed to Participant prior to the of (i) the first day of the seventh (7th) month following the date of the Participant's separation from service or (ii) the date of Participant's death, if Participant is deemed at the time of such separation from service to be a specified employee under Section 1.409A-1(i) of the Treasury Regulations issued under Code Section 409A, as determined by the Plan Administrator in accordance with consistent and uniform standards applied to all other Code Section 409A arrangements of the Corporation, and such delayed commencement is otherwise required in order to avoid a prohibited distribution under Code Section 409A(a)(2). The deferred shares or other distributable amount shall be issued or distributed in a lump sum on the first day of the seventh (7th) month following the date of Participant's separation from service or, if earlier, the first day of the month immediately following the date the Corporation receives proof of Participant's death.
earlier
 
          - No amounts that vest and become payable under Paragraph 5 of this Agreement by reason of a Change in Control shall be distributed to the Participant at the time of such Change in Control, unless that transaction also qualifies as a change in control event under Code Section 409A and the Treasury Regulations thereunder. In the absence of such a qualifying change in control, the distribution shall not be made until the specified completion date of the three (3)-year Performance Period or as soon as administratively practicable following thereafter, but in no event later than the fifteenth (15th) day of the third (3rd) calendar month following that date.
          9. . The issuance of shares of Class A Common Stock pursuant to the Award shall be subject to compliance by the Corporation and Participant with all applicable requirements of law relating thereto and with all applicable regulations of any Stock Exchange on which the Class A Common Stock may be listed for trading at the time of such issuance.
Compliance with Laws and Regulations
          10. . Any notice required to be given or delivered to the Corporation under the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and addressed to the Corporation at its principal corporate offices or shall be effected by properly addressed electronic mail delivery. Any notice required to be given or delivered to the Participant shall be in writing and addressed to the Participant at the most recent address then on file for the Participant in the Corporation's Human Resources Department. All notices shall be deemed effective upon personal delivery or upon deposit in the U.S. mail, postage prepaid and properly addressed to the party to be notified.
Notices
          11. . Except to the extent otherwise provided in this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and be binding upon, the Corporation and its successors and assigns and the Participant and the legal representatives, heirs and legatees of the Participant's estate and any beneficiaries of the Award designated by the Participant.
Successors and Assigns
          12. . This Agreement and the Award evidenced hereby are made and granted pursuant to the Plan and are in all respects limited by and subject to the terms of the Plan. All decisions of the Plan Administrator with respect to any question or issue arising under the Plan or this Agreement shall be conclusive and binding on all persons having an interest in the Award.
Construction
          13. . The interpretation, performance and enforcement of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Arizona without resort to that State's conflict-of-laws rules.
Governing Law
          14. . Nothing in this Agreement or in the Plan shall confer upon the Participant any right to remain in Service for any period of specific duration or interfere with or otherwise restrict in any way the rights of the Corporation or of then Participant, which rights are hereby expressly reserved by each, to terminate Participant's Service at any time for any reason, with or without cause.
Employment at Will
 
          15. . The Participant must accept the terms and conditions of this Agreement either electronically through the electronic acceptance procedure established by the Corporation or through a written acceptance delivered to the Corporation in a form satisfactory to the Corporation. In no event shall any shares of Class A Common Stock be issued under this Agreement in the absence of such acceptance.
Participant Acceptance
          , Apollo Group, Inc. has caused this Agreement to be executed on its behalf by its duly-authorized officer on the day and year first indicated above.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
          The following definitions shall be in effect under the Agreement:
          A. shall mean this Performance Share Award Agreement.
Agreement
          B. shall mean the award of Performance Shares made to the Participant pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.
Award
          C. shall mean the date the award of Performance Shares is made to the Participant pursuant to the Agreement and shall be the date indicated in Paragraph 1 of the Agreement.
Award Date
          D. shall mean the Corporation's Board of Directors.
Board
          E. shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 3.1(e) of the Plan.
Change in Control
          F. shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
          G. shall mean shares of the Corporation's Class A common stock.
Class A Common Stock
          H. shall mean Apollo Group, Inc., an Arizona corporation, and any successor corporation to Apollo Group, Inc. which shall by appropriate action adopt the Plan.
Corporation
          I. shall mean an individual who is in the employ of the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary), subject to the control and direction of the employer entity as to both the work to be performed and the manner and method of performance.
Employee
          J. per share of Class A Common Stock on any relevant date shall be the closing price per share of such Class A Common Stock on the date in question on the Stock Exchange serving as the primary market for the Class A Common Stock, as such price is reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers (if primarily traded on the Nasdaq Global or Global Select Market) or as officially quoted in the composite tape of transactions on any other Stock Exchange on which the Class A Common Stock is then primarily traded. If there is no closing selling price for the Class A Common Stock on the date in question, then the Fair Market Value shall be the closing price on the last preceding date for which such quotation exists.
Fair Market Value
 
          K. shall mean the unilateral termination of the Participant's Service by the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary employing Participant) for any reason other than a Termination for Cause; in no event shall an Involuntary Termination be deemed to incur in the event the Participant's Service terminates by reason of his or her death or disability.
Involuntary Termination
provided, however,
          L. shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time.
1934 Act
          M. shall mean the person to whom the Award is made pursuant to the Agreement.
Participant
          N. shall mean any corporation (other than the Corporation) in an unbroken chain of corporations ending with the Corporation, provided each corporation in the unbroken chain (other than the Corporation) owns, at the time of the determination, stock possessing fifty percent (50%) or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock in one of the other corporations in such chain.
Parent
          O. shall mean the performance goal specified in Schedule I to this Agreement.
Performance Goal
          P. shall mean the period specified on attached Schedule I to this Agreement over which the attainment of the Performance Goal is to be measured.
Performance Period
          Q. shall mean the maximum number of shares of Class A Common Stock in which Participant can vest based on the level at which the Performance Goal for the Performance Period is attained and shall be calculated in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement. In no event shall the number of such Performance-Qualified Shares exceed two hundred percent (200%) of the Target Number of Performance Shares set forth in Paragraph 1 of this Agreement.
Performance-Qualified Shares
          R. shall mean the phantom shares of Class A Common Stock awarded under this Agreement which will entitle Participant to receive one or more actual shares of Class A Common Stock pursuant to this Award upon the satisfaction of the performance and Service vesting requirements applicable to such Award.
Performance Share
          S. shall mean the Corporation's 2000 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended or restated from time to time.
Plan
          T. shall mean the Compensation Committee of the Board acting in its capacity as administrator of the Plan.
Plan Administrator
 
          U. shall mean Participant's performance of services for the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary) in the capacity of an Employee. For purposes of this Agreement, Participant shall be deemed to cease Service immediately upon the occurrence of the either of the following events: (i) Participant no longer performs services in an Employee capacity for the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary) or (ii) the entity for which Participant performs services in an Employee capacity ceases to remain a Parent or Subsidiary of the Corporation, even though Participant may subsequently continue to perform services for that entity. Service as an Employee shall not be deemed to cease during a period of military leave, sick leave or other personal leave approved by the Corporation; , that except to the extent otherwise required by law or expressly authorized by the Plan Administrator or by the Corporation's written policy on leaves of absence, no Service credit shall be given for vesting purposes for any period Participant is on a leave of absence.
Service
provided, however
          V. shall mean the American Stock Exchange, the Nasdaq Global or Global Select Market or the New York Stock Exchange.
Stock Exchange
          W. shall mean any corporation (other than the Corporation) in an unbroken chain of corporations beginning with the Corporation, provided each corporation (other than the last corporation) in the unbroken chain owns, at the time of the determination, stock possessing fifty percent (50%) or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock in one of the other corporations in such chain.
Subsidiary
          X. shall mean the number of Performance Shares that will be converted into actual shares of Class A Common Stock on a one-for-one basis if the Performance Goal is attained at the Target Level specified in attached Schedule I.
Target Number of Performance Shares
          Y. shall mean the termination of the Participant's Service by the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary employing Participant) for one or more of the following reasons
Termination for Cause
:
          (ii) repeated dereliction of the material duties and responsibilities of his or her position with the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary);
          (iii) misconduct, insubordination or failure to comply with the policies of the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary employing the Participant) governing employee conduct and procedures;
          (iv) excessive lateness or absenteeism;
          (v) conviction of or pleading guilty or to any felony involving theft, embezzlement, dishonesty or moral turpitude;
nolo contendere
 
          (vi) commission of any act of fraud against, or the misappropriation of property belonging to, the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary);
          (vii) commission of any act of dishonesty in connection with his or her responsibilities as an Employee that is intended to result in his or her personal enrichment or the personal enrichment of his or her family or others;
          (viii) any other misconduct adversely affecting the business or affairs of the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary); or
          (ix) a material breach of any agreement the Participant may have at the time with the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary employing the Participant), including (without limitation) any proprietary information, non-disclosure or confidentiality agreement.
          DD. shall mean the federal, state and local income taxes and the employee portion of the federal, state and local employment taxes required to be withheld by the Corporation in connection with the vesting and issuance of the shares of Common Stock which vest under of the Award and any phantom dividend equivalents distributed with respect to those shares.
Withholding Taxes
 
PERFORMANCE PERIOD
The measurement period for the Performance Shares awarded to Participant shall be the three (3) fiscal-year period beginning September 1, 2010 and ending August 31, 2013 (the "Performance Period").
PERFORMANCE GOAL FOR PERFORMANCE VESTING
The Performance Goal shall be tied to the average of the actual annual growth rates of Adjusted Free Cash Flow (as defined and adjusted in accordance with the provisions set forth below) for each of the three (3) fiscal years comprising the Performance Period. In determining the average of those annual growth rates, the growth rate of defined Adjusted Free Cash Flow for the 2011 fiscal year will be determined by comparing the defined Adjusted Free Cash Flow for that year against the defined Adjusted Free Cash Flow for the 2010 fiscal year ending August 31, 2010. The growth in defined Adjusted Free Cash Flow for each of the two (2) remaining fiscal years in the Performance Period shall be calculated in comparison to the defined Adjusted Free Cash Flow realized for the immediately preceding fiscal year in that Performance Period. Once the growth rate in defined Adjusted Free Cash for each of the three (3) fiscal years in the Performance Period is calculated, the simple average of those three (3) annual growth rates will be determined, and that average (rounded up to the next whole one-tenth decimal point) will represent the actual level at which the Performance Goal has been attained.
Performance Goal  Adjusted Free Cash Flow:
     The threshold (40% conversion factor), target (100% conversion factor) and maximum (200% conversion factor) levels of the average of the annual growth rates of Adjusted Free Cash Flow for the Performance Period shall be as follows:
     Adjusted Free Cash Flow for each applicable fiscal year (whether the 2010 fiscal year or any fiscal year in the Performance Period) shall be calculated in accordance with the following parameters:
          First, the cash flow from operations for such fiscal year shall be determined on a consolidated basis with the Corporation's consolidated subsidiaries for financial reporting purposes and in accordance with current United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("U.S. GAAP") and shall be confirmed on the basis of the Corporation's audited
 
financial statements for that fiscal year. To the extent there are any other changes in U.S. GAAP during the Performance Period, the U.S. GAAP rules in effect on the Award Date shall continue to be utilized throughout the entire Performance Period.
          Then, the cash flow from operations as so determined for the relevant fiscal year shall be reduced by the following amounts:
          (i) cash amounts expended during that fiscal year in the acquisition of property, plant and equipment; and
          (ii) cash amounts paid during that fiscal year in the acquisition of businesses or assets whose primary function is other than the education of an enrolled student population.
          Next, the cash flow from operations for such fiscal year as so reduced shall be adjusted as follows: any increases during that fiscal year in restricted cash attributable to Title IV student funding shall be deducted from such cash flow, and any decreases during that fiscal year in such restricted cash shall added to that cash flow.
          The amount of cash flow resulting from the foregoing reductions and adjustments shall constitute the Adjusted Free Cash Flow for such fiscal year. However, in measuring the applicable growth rate in Adjusted Cash Flow for each of the fiscal years within the Performance Period for purposes of determining the level at which the Performance Goal is attained, such Adjusted Free Cash Flow shall, with respect to each fiscal year within the Performance Period, be subject to further adjustment by excluding each of the following amounts in the calculation of the defined Adjusted Free Cash Flow for that fiscal year:
          (i) cash amounts paid during that fiscal year for any costs related to an acquisition of businesses or assets within the Performance Period whose primary function is the education of an enrolled student population;
          (ii) cash amounts paid during that fiscal year as interest expense;
          (iii) cash amounts received during that fiscal year as interest income;
          (iv) cash amounts paid during that fiscal year in connection with judgments, verdicts and settlements with respect to the following litigation matters listed in the Commitments and Contingencies footnote of the Corporation's Consolidated Financial Statements for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2009, as set forth in the Form 10-K for that fiscal year filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission:
Litigation Matter
 
     Incentive Compensation False Claims Act Lawsuit filed March 7, 2003 in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of California
     In re Apollo Group, Inc. Securities Litigation, Case No. CV04-2147-PHX-JAT
     Equal Employment Opportunity Commission v. University of Phoenix, No. CV-06-2303-PHX-MHM
     Barnett v. John Blair et al., Case No. CV2006-051558
     Bamboo Partners v. Nelson et al., Case No. CIV-06-1973-PHX-SRB
     Teamsters Local 617 Pension & Welfare Funds v. Apollo Group, Inc. et. al., Case Number 06-CV-02674-RCB; and
          (v) adjusted free cash flows (as calculated above) for that fiscal year attributable to any businesses or assets acquired within the Performance Period whose primary function is the education of an enrolled student population.
     The actual number of Performance-Qualified Shares may range from 0% to 200% of the Target Number of Performance Shares designated in Paragraph 1 of this Agreement, with the actual percentage to be determined on the basis of the simple average of the annual growth rates of Adjusted Free Cash Flow realized for each of the three (3) fiscal years included within the Performance Period, as certified by the Plan Administrator. Accordingly, the Performance Shares subject to this Award shall convert into a number of Performance-Qualified Shares determined by multiplying the Target Number of Performance Shares set forth in Paragraph 1 of this Agreement by the percentage in the schedule below that corresponds to the average of the actual annual growth rates of Adjusted Free Cash Flow certified by the Plan Administrator for each of the three (3) fiscal years comprising the Performance Period. In no event, however, shall the maximum number of the shares of the Corporation's Class A Common Stock that may qualify as Performance-Qualified Shares exceed 200% of the Target Number of Performance Shares set forth in Paragraph 1 of this Agreement.
Performance-Qualified Shares:
     The number of shares of the Corporation's Class A Common Stock that may qualify as Performance-Qualified Shares on the basis of the certified simple average of the annual growth rates of Adjusted Free Cash Flow for each of the three fiscal years in the Performance Period shall be calculated by multiplying the Target Number of Performance Shares designated in Paragraph 1 of this Agreement by the applicable percentage for that average annual growth rate determined in accordance with the following schedule:
Schedule for Determining Number of Performance-Qualified Shares Based on Attained Average of the Annual Growth Rates of Adjusted Free Cash Flow:
 

Exhibit 10.3
     The Apollo Group, Inc. 2000 Stock Incentive Plan, as previously amended and restated (the "Plan"), is hereby further amended, effective June 24, 2010, as follows:
     1. Section 3.1(r) of the Plan is hereby amended in its entirety to read as follows:
     (r) "Performance Criteria" means the criteria that the Committee selects for purposes of establishing the Performance Goals for a Participant for a Performance Period. The Performance Criteria that will be used to establish Performance Goals are limited to the following: pre-tax or after-tax net earnings or net income, sales or revenue growth, operating earnings, cash flow objectives, operating cash flows, free cash flow (operating cash flow less capital expenditures and adjusted for increases or decreases in restricted cash), return on net assets, return on stockholders' equity, return on assets, return on capital or invested capital, Stock price growth, stockholder returns, gross or net profit margin, earnings per share, price per share of Stock, market share, operating income, net operating income or net operating income after tax, operating profit or net operating profit, operating margin, earnings before interest and taxes, earnings before taxes, earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and charges for stock-based compensation, earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, economic value-added models, cost reductions, budget objectives, litigation and regulatory resolution goals, expense control goals, any of which may be measured either in absolute terms or as compared to any incremental increase or as compared to results of a peer group or as measured in terms of one or more business units or Subsidiaries of the Company. The Committee shall, within the time prescribed by Section 162(m) of the Code, define in an objective fashion the manner of calculating the Performance Criteria it selects to use for such Performance Period for such Participant.
     2. Section 3.1(s) of the Plan is hereby amended in its entirety to read as follows:
     (s) "Performance Goals" means, for a Performance Period, the goals established in writing by the Committee for the Performance Period based upon the Performance Criteria. Depending on the Performance Criteria used to establish such Performance Goals the Performance Goals may be expressed in terms of overall Company performance or the performance of a division, business unit, or an individual. The Committee, in its discretion, may, at the time the Performance Goal or Goals for the Performance Period are established, provide for one or more adjustments or modifications to the calculation of such Performance Goal or Goals in order to prevent the dilution or enlargement of the rights of Participants (i) in the event of, or in anticipation of, any unusual or extraordinary corporate item, transaction, event or development or (ii) in
 
recognition of, or in anticipation of, any other unusual or nonrecurring events affecting the Company or the financial statements of the Company, or in response to, or in anticipation of, changes in applicable laws, regulations, accounting principles or business conditions.
     In addition, should the Performance Goal be tied to operating cash flow or free cash flow objectives, then the Committee may, in establishing the applicable targets, authorize adjustments, deductions and/or exclusions with respect to one or more of the following items to the extent those items are to be utilized in the calculation of operating cash flow or free cash flow for any or all of the fiscal years within the applicable Performance Period and/or any other fiscal year that serves as a base or comparative measurement year:
          (i) cash amounts expended in the acquisition of property, plant and equipment,
          (ii) cash amounts paid in connection with actual or proposed acquisitions of one or more businesses or the assets of one or more businesses,
          (iii) cash flows or adjusted cash flows attributable to any businesses or assets acquired during the Performance Period (or other relevant measurement period),
          (iv) cash amounts paid as interest expense,
          (v) cash amounts received as interest income,
          (vi) cash amounts paid in connection with judgments, verdicts and settlements with respect to specified litigation matters, and
          (vii) increases or decreases in restricted cash attributable to Title IV student funding.
     In further clarification of the various adjustments that may be made to one or more Performance Goals in accordance with this Section 3.1(s) and without limiting the scope or generality of those permissible adjustments, should the Performance Goal be tied to any net income or operating profit objectives, then the Committee may, in establishing the applicable net income or operating profit target, authorize one or more of the following adjustments to net income or operating profit for any fiscal year within the applicable Performance Period:
     (i) the exclusion of all acquisition costs expensed for the applicable fiscal year, whether relating to acquisitions effected during that year or any prior fiscal year,
     (ii) the exclusion of all income or loss attributable to companies or other entities acquired during the applicable fiscal year,
 
     (iii) the exclusion of impairment charges related to goodwill, intangible assets or other long-lived assets,
     (iv) the exclusion of amounts expensed in connection with judgments, verdicts and settlements with respect to specified litigation matters,
     (v) the exclusion of stock-based compensation expense or costs, as computed in accordance with applicable accounting principles, and
     (vi) any other applicable adjustments authorized in accordance with the foregoing provisions of this Section 3.1(s)."
     3. Article 9 of the Plan is hereby amended in its entirety to read as follows:
     "9.1 GRANT OF PERFORMANCE SHARE AWARDS. The Committee is authorized to grant Performance Share Awards to Participants on such terms and conditions as may be selected by the Committee. The Committee shall have the complete discretion to determine the number of shares of Stock that may be issued under each such Award of Performance Shares upon the attainment of the applicable performance objectives. All Performance Share Awards shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement.
          9.2 VESTING AND ISSUANCE PROVISIONS.
          (a) Performance Shares awarded under the Plan shall be structured and implemented in accordance with the following guidelines:
          (1) The Committee shall, at the time of the Award, establish (i) the applicable performance objectives that must be attained in order for the Performance Share Award to vest, (ii) the applicable performance period (which is to be of at least one year but not more than five (5) years in duration) over which those performance objectives are to be attained, (iii) the additional service vesting requirements to be completed during the performance period and (iv) the issuance date or dates on which the shares of Stock subject to a vested Performance Share Award are to be issued. The vesting and issuance provisions applicable to each Performance Share Award, including the additional service vesting requirements set by the Committee for completion during the applicable performance period, shall be set forth in the Award Agreement.
 
          (2) At the end of the performance period, the Committee shall determine the actual level of attainment for each performance objective and the extent to which the Performance Shares awarded for that period are to vest and become payable based on the attained performance levels and the satisfaction of the applicable service vesting requirements.
          (3) The Performance Shares which so vest shall be paid as soon as practicable following the end of the performance period, unless such payment is to be deferred for the period specified by the Committee at the time the Performance Shares are awarded or the period selected by the Participant in accordance with the applicable requirements of Code Section 409A. The Committee, in its discretion, may also at the time of the Award structure one or more Performance Shares Awards so that an additional period of employment or service with the Company following the completion of the performance period is required in order for the Participant to vest in the Performance Shares.
          (4) Performance Shares shall be paid and settled shares of Stock, except to the extent (if any) otherwise set forth in the Award Agreement.
          (5) Performance Shares may also be structured so that such shares shall be converted into actual shares of Stock based on a conversion rate that varies with the level at which each applicable performance objective is actually attained.
          (b) The Committee shall also have the discretionary authority, consistent with Code Section 162(m), to structure one or more Performance Share Awards so that the shares of Stock subject to those Awards shall vest upon the achievement of pre-established corporate performance objectives based on one or more Performance Goals and measured over the performance period specified by the Committee at the time of the Award.
          (c) The Participant shall not have any stockholder rights with respect to the shares of Stock subject to a Performance Share Award until that Award vests and the shares of Stock are actually issued thereunder. However, the Committee may structure one or more Performance Share Awards so that the applicable Award Agreement provides that dividend-equivalent units shall be credited on outstanding Performance Share Awards and subsequently paid, either in cash or in actual shares of Stock, subject to such terms and conditions as the Committee may deem appropriate, but in no event shall any such dividend-equivalent units vest or otherwise become payable prior to the time the underlying Performance Share Award vests, and any such credited dividend equivalents shall accordingly be subject to cancellation and forfeiture to the same extent as the underlying Performance Share Award in the event the applicable performance objectives are not attained.
          (d) Except as otherwise set forth in Section 9(e), outstanding Performance Share Awards shall terminate, and no shares of Stock shall actually be issued in settlement of those Awards, if the performance goals established for those Awards are not attained. In no event may any vesting requirements tied to the attainment of Performance Goals be waived with
 
respect to Performance Share Awards that were intended, at the time those Awards were made, to qualify as performance-based compensation under Code Section 162(m), except as otherwise provided in Section 9.2(e) or Section 13.8.
          (e) Each Performance Share Award outstanding at the time of a Change in Control shall vest at that time, and the number of shares of Stock that would otherwise be issuable under such Award at target level attainment of the applicable performance objectives (or such other level of attainment as is specified in the Award Agreement) shall be issued as soon as administratively practicable following the closing of the Change in Control transaction, subject to the Company's collection of all applicable withholding taxes. Alternatively, the number of shares of Stock otherwise issuable under that Performance Share Award at such target or other specified level shall be converted at that applicable level into the right to receive the same consideration per share of Stock payable to the actual holders of the Stock in consummation of the Change in Control and distributed at the same time as those stockholder payments, subject to the Company's collection of the applicable withholding taxes. Such automatic vesting of the Performance Share Awards at target or other specified level attainment shall occur pursuant to this Section 9.2(e), even though such acceleration may result in their loss of performance-based status under Code Section 162(m)."
     4. Except as modified by this Plan Amendment, all the terms and provisions of the Plan as in effect immediately prior to such amendment shall continue in full force and effect.
          has caused this Plan Amendment to be executed on its behalf by its duly-authorized officers on this 24th day of June 2010.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, APOLLO GROUP, INC.


