FILE:APOL/APOL-8K-20111020160146.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
On October 18, 2011, Samuel A. DiPiazza, Jr. notified Apollo Group, Inc. (the "Company") of his resignation from the Company's Board of Directors, effective October 31, 2011. Mr. DiPiazza is a member of the Audit Committee of the Board, and will continue serving as a member of the Audit Committee until the effective date of his resignation. Mr. DiPiazza stated that there were no disagreements with the Company's operations, policies or practices that led to his decision.
On October 18, 2011, the Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors authorized an amendment to Mr. DiPiazza's outstanding July 6, 2011 restricted stock unit award covering 3,313 shares of the Company's Class A common stock. Pursuant to that amendment, the restricted stock units will vest in full, and the underlying shares of Class A common stock will be issued, upon Mr. DiPiazza's continued service on the Board of Directors through the October 31, 2011 effective date of his resignation.
Following Mr. DiPiazza's resignation, the Audit Committee will be composed of independent directors K. Sue Redman, Ann Kirschner and Manuel F. Rivelo.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


