FILE:APOL/APOL-8K-20111213160126.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
On December 7, 2011, Dino J. DeConcini, a member of the Board of Directors of Apollo Group, Inc. (the "Company") since 1992, informed the Board of Directors that he has decided not to stand for reelection as a director when his term expires at the next annual meeting of our Class B shareholders. Mr. DeConcini stated that there were no disagreements with the Company's operations, policies or practices that led to his decision.
We are grateful to Mr. DeConcini for his diligent service and valuable contributions to the Company during his tenure as a director.
 
On December 8, 2011, the Board of Directors of the Company approved an amendment to the Company's Amended and Restated 2000 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan") that increased the number of shares of the Company's Class A common stock reserved for issuance under the Plan by an additional 3,500,000 shares. On the same day, the holders of the Company's Class B common stock, the Company's only outstanding voting stock, approved such amendment. As a result of such amendment, the total number of shares of Class A common stock reserved for issuance over the term of the Plan has been increased from 25,054,709 shares to 28,554,709 shares.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


