FILE:APOL/APOL-8K-20120611090228.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
On June 8, 2012, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Apollo Group, Inc. (the "Company") appointed Margaret Spellings to fill a vacancy created by an increase in the Board from fourteen to fifteen members, effective June 9, 2012. With the appointment of Ms. Spellings, the Board contains nine independent members. Ms. Spellings was also appointed to serve on the Board's Compensation Committee.
Ms. Spellings will participate in the cash and equity compensation programs provided to and upon the same terms as our other non-employee directors, but with respect to fiscal year 2012 Board service, will receive cash compensation on a prorated basis and will not receive an equity grant. These cash and equity compensation programs are more fully described under "Director Compensation" in our Information Statement on Form 14C filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 28, 2011, which description is incorporated in this Item 5.02 by this reference. In addition, we have entered into an indemnification agreement with Ms. Spellings on substantially the same terms as for our other non-employee directors which obligates us to indemnify her in her capacity as a director to the maximum extent permitted by law.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On June 11, 2012, the Company issued a press release announcing the appointment of Margaret Spellings to its Board of Directors. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
The information in Item 7.01 of this Form 8-K and Exhibit 99.1 furnished herewith shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that section, nor shall they be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in any such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
The following exhibits are provided herewith:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Apollo Group, Inc. (NASDAQ: APOL), today announced that former United States Secretary of Education Margaret Spellings will join the company's board of directors.
PHOENIX  (June 11, 2012) 
"As a leading national expert on education, public policy and the impact both have on the U.S. economy, Margaret is uniquely qualified to help advance Apollo Group's mission and purpose," said John Sperling, founder and executive chairman of Apollo Group. "Margaret has worked tirelessly throughout her career to improve accessibility and accountability in our nation's colleges and universities, and we are fortunate to have her join the Apollo board."
Currently, Ms. Spellings serves as president and CEO of Margaret Spellings and Company, a public policy consultancy firm. In addition, Ms. Spellings is a strategic advisor to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, and serves as president of its U.S. Forum for Policy Innovation, overseeing the Chamber's nonprofit educational organizations and initiatives.
Ms. Spellings served as U.S. secretary of education from 2005 to 2009, managing all aspects of the Department of Education and its operations, including a budget of nearly $70 billion and a staff of more than 10,000 employees and contractors. As a member of the White House Cabinet, Ms. Spellings led the implementation of the historic No Child Left Behind Act (NCLB), a groundbreaking national initiative designed to provide enhanced accountability for the education of 50 million U.S. public school students.
Prior to serving as secretary of education, Ms. Spellings served as White House domestic policy advisor, with responsibility for managing the president's domestic policy agenda. In this role, Ms. Spellings oversaw the development of a number of key policy achievements, including NCLB, the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) and numerous other initiatives on health and human services, transportation, labor, justice and housing.
Previously in her career, Ms. Spellings served as senior advisor to the governor of Texas, associate executive director, Texas Association of School Boards, executive director of the governor's committee on public education and director of special projects at Austin Community College.
Ms. Spellings earned a bachelor's degree and an honorary doctorate degree from the University of Houston, and was named Distinguished Alumna by the same institution in 2006.
About Apollo Group, Inc.
Apollo Group, Inc. is one of the world's largest private education providers and has been in the education business for more than 35 years. The Company offers innovative and distinctive educational programs and services both online and on-campus at the undergraduate, master's and doctoral levels through its subsidiaries: University of Phoenix, Apollo Global, Institute for Professional Development and College for Financial Planning. The Company's programs and services are provided in 41 states and the District of Columbia; Puerto Rico; Latin America; and Europe, as well as online throughout the world. For more information about Apollo Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries, call (800) 990-APOL or visit the Company's website at http://www.apollogrp.edu.
###
: Apollo Group Media Hotline, (602) 254-0086 // media@apollogrp.edu
Media Contact
: Beth Coronelli, (312) 660-2059 // beth.coronelli@apollogrp.edu
Investor Contact


