FILE:APOL/APOL-8K-20121213171407.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
On December 13, 2012, Dr. John G. Sperling, the founder and Executive Chairman of Apollo Group, Inc. (the "Company"), notified the Company of his decision to retire as a director and an officer, effective December 31, 2012. Dr. Sperling, who is 91 years old, has served the Company as a director and in various executive capacities since founding the Company in 1972. In connection with Dr. Sperling's retirement and the termination of his employment agreement, we expect to agree to provide various additional retirement and severance benefits, which have not yet been finalized. Dr. Sperling has been conferred the honorary title of Chairman Emeritus of the Company, effective December 31, 2012.
Changes in Board Leadership
On December 13, 2012, Peter Sperling, formerly Apollo's Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors (the "Board"), was elected Chairman of the Board, and Terri C. Bishop, Apollo's Executive Vice President, Integrated Academic Strategies and Senior Advisor to the Chief Executive Officer and a director, was elected Vice Chairman of the Board. These elections will be effective December 31, 2012.
 
On December 13, 2012, the Company's Board appointed Matthew Carter, Jr. to fill a vacancy on the Board, effective December 13, 2012. With the appointment of Mr. Carter, the Board contains ten independent members. Mr. Carter was also appointed to serve on the Board's Finance Committee and Audit Committee.
Mr. Carter will participate in the cash and equity compensation programs provided to and upon the same terms as our other non-employee directors. These cash and equity compensation programs are more fully described under "Director Compensation" in our Information Statement on Form 14C filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 28, 2011, which description is incorporated in this Item 5.02 by this reference. In accordance with those programs, Mr. Carter received, at the time of his December 13, 2012 appointment to the Board, a pro-rated equity award for the balance of the 2013 fiscal year comprised of (i) an option grant covering 2,847 shares of the Company's Class A common stock with an exercise price of $21.40 per share and (ii) a restricted stock unit award covering an additional 6,231 shares of the Company's Class A common stock. Both components will vest upon his continuation in Board service through August 31, 2013. In addition, we have entered into an indemnification agreement with Mr. Carter on substantially the same terms as for our other non-employee directors that obligates us to indemnify him in his capacity as a director to the maximum extent permitted by law.
 
On December 13, 2012, the Company issued a press release announcing the retirement of Dr. John G. Sperling as a director and an officer, the election of Peter Sperling as Chairman of the Board, the election of Terri L. Bishop as Vice Chairman of the Board, and the appointment of Matthew Carter, Jr. to the Board. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
The information in Item 7.01 of this Form 8-K and Exhibit 99.1 furnished herewith shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that section, nor shall they be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in any such filing.
 
(d) Exhibits.
The following exhibits are provided herewith:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 December 13, 2012  Apollo Group, Inc. (NASDAQ: APOL) today announced that Dr. John G. Sperling will retire as executive chairman of the company's board of directors, effective December 31, 2012. Dr. Sperling, who founded Apollo Group in 1972, was named chairman emeritus by the board, in recognition of his tireless service and countless contributions to the company.
PHOENIX
Additionally, the company announced that Peter V. Sperling has been elected chairman of the board of directors. Mr. Sperling, who is the son of Dr. Sperling, most recently served as vice chairman of the board, and has held numerous management roles with Apollo Group since he joined the company in 1983. Terri Bishop, executive vice president and senior advisor to the CEO of Apollo Group, was elected vice chair of the board. Both Mr. Sperling and Ms. Bishop will assume their new roles effective December 31, 2012.
"It's nearly impossible to overstate how fully my father has devoted himself to Apollo Group and its mission since he created Apollo Group four decades ago," said Peter Sperling.
"On behalf of every employee of Apollo Group, I express my most profound gratitude to John Sperling, for his immeasurable contributions to the betterment of society through access to high quality educational programs," added Apollo Group CEO Greg Cappelli.
Separately, the company announced today that Matthew Carter, Jr. has been appointed to the company's board of directors, filling an existing vacancy. Mr. Carter will serve as an independent director of the company, and will sit on the audit and finance committees of the board of directors.
Mr. Carter currently serves as president of Sprint Nextel Corporation's Global Wholesale & Emerging Solutions business unit. Mr. Carter previously served as president of Sprint's Boost Mobile prepaid group. Before joining Sprint, Mr. Carter held leadership and management roles with Coca-Cola, PNC Financial Services Group, Leap Wireless, Royal Bank of Canada and BellSouth Corporation.
"We are very fortunate to have Matt Carter join the Apollo board," added Peter Sperling. "Matt brings deep management, operations, marketing and international business expertise to the company, along with a track record of growing and strengthening well-known consumer brands."
Widely recognized as a transformative business leader, Mr. Carter was named to magazine's 100 Most Powerful Executives in Corporate America list in 2011 and in 2012. Mr. Carter holds a bachelor's degree from Northwestern University, and an MBA degree from Harvard Business School.
Black Enterprise
About Apollo Group
Apollo Group, Inc. is one of the world's largest private education providers and has been in the education business for approximately 40 years. The Company offers innovative and distinctive educational programs and services both online and on-campus at the undergraduate, master's and doctoral levels through its subsidiaries: University of Phoenix, Apollo Global, Institute for Professional Development and College for Financial Planning. The Company offers programs and services throughout the United States and in Latin America and Europe, as well as online throughout the world.


