FILE:APOL/APOL-8K-20120202110117.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 2, 2012, University of Phoenix, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Apollo Group, Inc., issued a press release announcing key findings from its 2011 Academic Annual Report. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K. The University of Phoenix, Inc. 2011 Academic Annual Report is furnished as Exhibit 99.2 to this Form 8-K.
The information in Item 7.01 of this Form 8-K and Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 furnished herewith shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that section, nor shall they be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in any such filing.
 
 
The following exhibits are provided herewith:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
PHOENIX, Feb. 2, 2012  University of Phoenix today announced key findings from its fourth Academic Annual Report, illustrating its commitment to higher education fueled by constant innovation. The report shows an increase in modified graduation rates for associate students and positive student satisfaction. University of Phoenix is consistently working to build degree programs that directly address the shifting economic needs of a skilled workforce and the academic challenges faced by working learners.
"Education must evolve to help students succeed in the 21
st
century economy, and University of Phoenix is at the forefront of this movement," said Dr. William J. Pepicello, president of University of Phoenix. "For more than three decades we have been drivers of innovation within higher education by developing adaptive methodologies that help our students achieve their educational and professional goals. This Academic Annual Report is our own report card, providing a transparent measurement of how well we are serving our students' needs and guiding our continuous improvement."
Key Findings
University of Phoenix's degree graduation rate is assessed by the federal government's Integrated Postsecondary Education Data System (IPEDS). The University modified graduation rate, which takes into account the entire University student body, is defined as the percentage of students who completed at least three credits and went on to be degree-complete within 150 percent of normal degree completion time. Data are collected on the number of students entering the institution as degree-seeking students in a particular cohort year.
Modified Graduation Rates:
University of Phoenix's modified graduation rates for associate degrees reported in 2011 were 34 percent for those graduating within three years and 36 percent within four years, up from 32 percent and 35 percent, respectively, reported in 2010. Bachelor's degree modified graduation rates declined from the 2010 Academic Annual Report to 31 percent for students who graduate within six years and 33 percent within eight years, both down by 3 percentage points in 2011. Most of the decline can be attributed to an increase in the number of students transferring in with zero credits.
At the master's level, University of Phoenix's modified graduation rate is 60 percent for students who graduate within three years and 64 percent within four years.
The University noted that the IPEDS methodology is designed to assess the progress of "traditional students"  those who go directly from high school and study on campus. These "traditional students" make up only 27 percent of the undergraduate population. Working adults and "non-traditional students" make up nearly three-fourths of the U.S. undergraduate population and comprise the majority of the University's student body. IPEDS only considers
"first-time" college students who complete their entire college program at the same institution. However, many University of Phoenix students enter the University with transfer credits from other institutions.
The University regularly conducts student satisfaction surveys and uses the results to implement change within the school. At the end of each course, the University surveys student satisfaction with the University overall, their instructor, the feedback the instructor provided, the curriculum, and their learning experience. In surveys conducted for the 2011 academic year, using a 10-point scale, students rated all five categories higher than an eight. Additionally, indicate that students feel their experience at the University was a positive one in all services. The University also uses an external measure of student satisfaction, the National Survey of Student Engagement (NSSE).
Student Satisfaction:
End-of-Program Surveys
Using the Standardized Assessment of Information Literacy Skills (SAILS) methodology, University of Phoenix senior students compared favorably to senior students at similar institutions in all categories.
Information Literacy:
University of Phoenix senior students slightly underperformed senior students at other institutions, according to the ETS Proficiency Profile (EPP), which measures students' academic proficiency and progress.
Academic Proficiency and Progress:
Many University of Phoenix students are employed full time while enrolled. Internal research shows that University of Phoenix students' average annual salaries while they are enrolled in their program of study increase at higher rates than the overall national average salary increase.
Student Salary Increase:
Continuous Improvement
In November 2010, a free University Orientation workshop was implemented to ensure that students with limited prior college experience better understand the time and effort required to be successful in University programs prior to actually enrolling in the University. University Orientation is three weeks long and delivered in the same format as existing classes. Students must complete assignments in a manner similar to the way they will be working in class. Of those who start University Orientation, approximately 80 percent enroll in the University of Phoenix, while approximately 20 percent opt out before incurring any debt. Students who opt out are generally leaving with a positive experience. For students who went through University Orientation and then enrolled in the University, first-course completion rates were higher than prior-year levels.
Some of this retention success can be attributed to the First-Year Sequence. The First-Year Sequence was introduced in February 2010. The First-Year Sequence was designed using a laddering approach to the sequence of courses. Concepts and skills introduced in early classes are reinforced with work in later classes.
University of Phoenix's student body remains diverse; as an example, 18 percent are African American, compared to a national average of 12 percent. Additionally, female students make up two-thirds of the total enrollment at University of Phoenix, as opposed to a little over half of the overall enrollment in colleges and universities nationwide.
Diversity:
In addition, the University's more than 35,000 faculty members are more diverse than national averages for American colleges and universities. One-third of University of Phoenix's faculty is non-white. More than 18 percent of University of Phoenix's faculty is African American, compared to an average of over 6 percent at universities nationwide. Women now make up more than half of University of Phoenix's faculty. The percentage of female faculty at University of Phoenix rose to 57 percent in 2011 from almost 54 percent in 2010. In comparison, female faculty members make up approximately 47 percent of the post-secondary instructional population nationally.
University of Phoenix's complete 2011 Academic Annual Report is available at .
www.phoenix.edu/academicannualreport
About University of Phoenix
University of Phoenix is constantly innovating to help students balance education and life in a rapidly changing world. Flexible schedules, challenging courses and interactive learning can help students pursue personal and career aspirations without putting their lives on hold. As the flagship university of Apollo Group, Inc., University of Phoenix serves a diverse student population, offering associate, bachelor's, master's and doctoral degree programs from campuses and learning centers across the U.S. as well as online throughout the world. For more information, visit phoenix.edu.
Media Contact:
Media Hotline, 602-254-0086
media@phoenix.edu

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
2011 Academic Annual Report
University of Phoenix
 
2011 Academic Annual Report
University of Phoenix
 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY As technology becomes more embedded in our daily lives, higher education must adapt and evolve to keep pace. Access to information has been democratized through technological innovation while much of academia continues to cling to traditional conventions of closed sources of information. The way people work and play have changed, but the way students are expected to learn, for the most part, has not. More to the point, however, is that higher education is charged with preparing the next generation to work in a world that differs greatly from what was expected of workers in the Manufacturing Age. The current structure of higher education generally lacks the flexibility to adapt to today's economic environment. Many traditional systems are not nimble when attempting to implement new curriculum, new courses of study, or innovative technologies. Standing in the way of integrating e-learning are obstacles that include monetary considerations and the concept that e-learning is for distance education only. These must be overcome. Technology enables more engaged learning and increased access. Classrooms that truly prepare students for the new workplace must include blended learninga combination of face to face and technology. What is absolutely critical to the classroom today is a move from a teaching focus to a learning focus. This can be accomplished in a technology-enhanced environment. The challenge lies not in change per se, but in the rational implementation of transformation in ways that allow for an evolutionary rather than a revolutionary execution. The key to implementing e-learning and getting buy-in from faculty and students alike is to ensure that the integration is properly planned. Faculty need adequate training and support that goes beyond a hot- line to call when systems are down. Students need to understand how to evaluate websites and information as well as how to organize their knowledge. And most importantly, students must be skilled critical thinkers. The evolution of University of Phoenix has been inextricably linked with advances in technology from the introduction of the online campus in 1989 to the numerous technology-enhanced academic assets and student services available 24/7 anywhere Internet access is available. The discussion concerning integrating technology concludes by looking forward for what is to come next at the University the untapped potential of ambient intelligence and adaptive learning. The Scorecard section of the report details how University of Phoenix students compare demographically, as well as academically with their peers at other like institutions nationally. As in past years, the University's students rate their experience to be positive in all surveyed areas as reported on End-of-Course, End-of-Program, and Alumni surveys. This includes the quality of faculty, curriculum, and services. This year's results of the Standardized Assessment of Information Literacy Skills (SAILS), University seniors are equivalent in all eight areas as compared to seniors at other institutions. In addition, University of Phoenix seniors outperform or are equivalent to University of Phoenix freshmen in all eight areas. The ETSProficiency Profile showed a slight decline in seniors' performance to the comparison group. However, the differences between the two groups were slight and of limited significance. Finally, the graduation rates for University associate and master levels show an increase; the bachelor level declined. The University believes most of the decline can be attributed to an increase in the number of students transferring in with zero credits. 1
 
WHY HIGHER EDUCATION MUST CHANGE
Realizing the need for accessible, quality higher education that could attend to the way many prospective students lived their lives, Dr. John Sperling created University of Phoenix, a new and somewhat unorthodox approach to higher education that catered to the adult student who worked and could not attend classes during the day. Today the unorthodox has become commonplace and a new need exists, one that requires higher education to innovate and renovate to match the way our students live, and beyond that, mirror how society currently functions.
Higher education stands as a monolith in a dynamic, rapidly evolving society in which access to information has been democratized through technological innovation while much of academia clings to traditional conventions of closed sources of information. The way people work and play have changed, but the way students are expected to learn, for the most part, has not.
For academic institutions, charged with equipping graduates to compete in today's knowledge economy, the possibilities are great. Distance education, sophisticated learning-management systems and the opportunity to collaborate with research partners from around the world are just some of the transformational benefits that universities are embracing.
"The Future of Higher Education: How Technology Will Shape Learning" The Economist 2008
The skills required for today's Information Age workplace are far different than they were in the Manufacturing Age. Today's students must be prepared to work in a world that expects them to be globally aware, have financial and entrepreneurial literacy, and be information and media savvy. To accomplish that, they must be innovative and creative and have honed their abilities in critical thinking and problem solving, along with being self-directed, adaptable, and accountable.1 The traditional classroom is not designed to encourage the development of these skills.
The current structure of higher education for the most part, lacks the flexibility to adapt to today's economic environment. Traditional systems frequently are not nimble when attempting to implement new curriculum, new courses of study, or innovative technologies. In addition, higher education is severely hampered by the economic environment of our countrymost notably a lack of funding. This causes major issues for public institutions relying on state subsidies and funding. Private institutions have also seen a major decrease in donations and alumni support. Reduced funding translates into a lack of flexibility that in turn limits any desired scalability or meaningful reform.
Impediments to Integrating e-Learning
In addition to monetary considerations, other factors can impede the integration of e-learning. One is the perception that e-learning is for distance education only. In fact, e-learning is for all students. As noted in a study by Apple Corporation, "Apple Classrooms of Tomorrow  Today: Learning in the 21st Century,"2 we are at the "confluence of three influences." These include:
 -  Globalization
 -  Interdependence and competition
 -  Technology innovations in education
 
According to the report, technology enables more engaged learning and increased access. If this is so, why would those advantages be limited only to those engaging in distance learning? The classrooms of the 21st-century must include blended learning at every level.
The Apple report suggests the following six design principles for 21st century education, noting that these principles can best be accomplished with the addition of technology:
 -  Skills outcomes
 -  Relevant and applied curriculum
 -  Informative assessments
 -  Social and emotional connection
 -  Culture of creativity and innovation
 -  24/7 access to tools and resources
To educate effectively a larger number of Americans than are being educated today, education must focus on all students, not just those who are currently succeeding. In an article titled "Failure Is Not an Option," Dr. David Edyburn of the University of Wisconsin questions, "How long do we let students fail at given tasks before we get them appropriate performance support tools?"3 And while the focus on learning outcomes is usually on the positives, failure at learning tasks also produces outcomes but not the kind the institution or the student want. Too often, Dr. Edyburn suggests, the current perception is biased in favor of "naked independence."4 This refers to those students or people who can perform without assistance, and we devalue those who need the assistance in order to succeed. This is particularly evident in the sciences
and math, where we find much reluctance to allow technology into the classrooms to assist students, while the use of grammar and spell checkers is seen as totally appropriate. Dr. Edyburn concludes that "the definition of fairness is everyone gets what they need. Technology offers viable options to enhance performance by providing cognitive supports and appropriate tools."
It is insufficient for learners to merely attain concepts in isolation, yielding knowledge that frequently remains static. Rather, students must form and continually adapt their understanding of the world as they collaborate with other students to solve authentic problems presented in meaningful tasks.
Teaching Constructivist Science, Bentley, Ebert, & Ebert, 2007
If this situation is to change, traditional beliefs such as "naked independence," and what defines an educated person, will have to be challenged. Colleges and universities can no longer remain one dimensional repositories of knowledge in a three-dimensional world. They must evolve to a place where students can acquire knowledge and skills they can use to solve complex problems for the rest of their lives.5 Traditional models and roles, including the role of the faculty, will need to be re-examined.
 
Many faculty members continue to view their roles as being the locus of knowledge transfer through teaching. Many continue to believe the lecture/mid-term/final format to be an immutable standard. However, increasingly there are those who feel not only that this one-size academia does not _t all students but also is actually archaic.
the crucial element in blended learning is an appropriate balance of face-to-face teaching and technology use. Neither the computer nor the World Wide Web is meant to replace instructor both are supplements to instructor-developed lesson plans, but technology can provide a myriad of benefits including the development of independent learners, a source of instant feedback, and motivation to learners.
Blended Learning: Using technology in and beyond the language classroom, Pete Sharma and Barney Barrett 2007
Dr. Joe Redish of the University of Maryland has conducted research on the changes that need to be made to the way college students are taught. He posits that the roots of the lecture go back thousands of years. And before printing was widespread, "someone would read the books" while the listeners would copy down what was read. Professor Redish also points out that, "the word lecture comes from the Latin word meaning to read.'"6 Dr. Redish recounts that his lecture-style classes reached only those "who do really well and are motivated," so he began to seek ways to reach the students who weren't teaching themselves.7 Dr. Redish and other like-minded academics took note of the work cognitive scientists were doing that indicated people's shortterm memories were limited and could not absorb and retain all the information presented in lecture format.8 And this may be particularly true for those students who have grown up in a world of immediacy.
What is absolutely critical to the classroom today is to move from a teaching focus to a learning focus. This can be accomplished in a technology-enhanced environment. If Amazon can employ a platform that adapts to its users and anticipates their preferences, why can't educational platforms, which by doing so could reach a larger percentage of students? The challenge lies not in change, per se, but in the rational implementation of transformation in ways that allow for an evolutionary rather than a revolutionary execution.
Faculty members need to be reassured that technology is merely a tool. It is not intended to be a replacement; it is meant to empower them and to assist the student to excel. Research reported in the article, "Bring Academics On Board," reveals a range of pedagogical motivations for the development of e-learning environments, which, perhaps not surprisingly, complement the six design principles outlined by the Apple report. These include the following:
 -  Catering more effectively to the learning needs of different student groups and learning styles
 -  Improving learning outcomes
 -  Improving retention and progression rates
 -  Challenging students to become learner centred [sic] , self-directed, resourceful and independent learners
4
 
 -  Engaging students in the learning experience
 -  Revitalising [sic] and re-energising [sic] the curriculum
 -  Providing a richer learning experience9
One way to build students cognitively is through creativity. Technology is widely accepted as a way for students to think more critically during learning. This critical thinking through technology gives students opportunities to think more creatively, therefore bolstering their higher order thinking skills. One method of having students accomplish this is through design.
"Creativity in Technology Education"
Singer Science and Business Media, T. Lewis, 2008
However, in spite of these findings, the authors report that many academics still believe that e-learning can cause "limited working memory, split attention, and cognitive overload that arise from multiple representations of content." 10 This combined with the "shiny object" fascination will diminish concentration on the core content and reduce learning.11 And while this research was done in Australia and may appear to be somewhat dated, it is still relevant to many in academia today.
In a 2010 article in The Chronicle of Higher Education,12 Marc Parry interviewed Nicholas Carr, former editor of the Harvard Business
Review and author of several articles and books debating the role of computers in business and the classroom. His list of publications includes articles such as "IT Doesn't Matter" and "Is Google Making Us Stupid?" His recent book, The Shallows, is a 2011 Pulitzer Prize nominee and a New York Times bestseller. Mr. Carr believes that the Internet is "rewiring our brains and short circuiting our ability to think" and that it can "impede understanding, comprehension, and learning." In addition, Carr makes an excellent point regarding Internet research indicating that when researching online using a search engine such as Google, results shown at the top are determined by popularity, not necessarily by relevance and reliability. Researchers using these resources could end up using the same materials and as a result, all coming to the same conclusions. Finally, and perhaps the most important point, Carr believes that unless properly planned, technology can keep people from "transferring information from short-term to long-term memory."
Properly Planned Integration
The key to both implementing e-learning and getting buy-in from faculty and students alike is to ensure that it is, as Carr referenced, "properly planned." To ensure that research is not purely surface study, students need to understand how to evaluate websites and information and to organize their knowledge. They must be skilled critical thinkers. Students must have access not only to Internet research, but also to libraries containing peer-reviewed works and books. They also need to be encouraged and led toward deep learning and reflection by the faculty through deep teaching. In addition, properly planned technology always has an academic purpose and application. If it does not, if it is merely a shiny object, the faculty and the students will ultimately reject it. Properly planned technology must be aligned with strong support systems. Technology implementation can happen only if 24/7 support is reliably available. And support does not simply mean the voice at the end of a phone line at the help desk. Support,
5
 
particularly for the faculty, includes giving faculty members the time necessary to learn the new technology and how it applies to what they are teaching. Support can also mean a dedicated team of researchers, software developers, and instructional designers who work with faculty members to ensure relevance and applicability.
Virtual classrooms must also change. Frequently, online courses are created using the same pedagogies and curriculum as are used in the traditional classroom. Often courses are simply taken verbatim and taught online. Much as writing for online reading differs both in style and design from that in print, online learning has distinctive characteristics and different methodologies and techniques; consequently, classroom management tools are required to create the proper environment.
Given the increasing evidence that Internet information and communication technologies are transforming much of society, there is little reason to believe that it will not be the defining transformative innovation for higher education in the 21st century Transformation of learning environments in higher education settings for an increasingly electronic world is critical to ensure that the benefits are fully realized.
"Learning on-line: A review of recent literature in a rapidly expanding field". Journal of Further and Higher Education
Christina Williams, University of Brighton, 2002
And finally, in a properly planned blended learning environment the students must have the option, much as we all do in our daily lives, of technology when they want it and face-to-face when they want . or need that. Many organizations do quite well blending bricks and mortar with online interaction. Banks provide the convenience of self-service for basic transactions. Electronic deposits are the norm today for paychecks. Today online banking and bill paying is available through all the main and even smaller banks. Yet, if banking customers have questions or need documentation and/or services that are not available online, they can and do visit their local bank to speak with a staff member. The public does not think of one bank as an "online bank" and another as a "bricks and mortar" institution. It is inconsistent that educators persist in thinking that educational opportunities must be defined in this either/or manner.
In short, higher education must adapt to our changing society and abandon the outdated myth that knowledge is a hidden truth locked up in the institution to be revealed only by faculty. Knowledge is everywhere and we must now provide responsible and accountable access to it or be prepared for the students to find that access elsewhere. Google and Wikipedia are providing unparalleled access to information that is or may be uneven in quality in many cases; our educational system needs to provide immediate access to the skills and knowledge on how to find, validate, and manage information.
ACADEMIC TECHNOLOGY AT UNIVERSITY OF PHOENIX
As described in the opening paragraph, University of Phoenix was the product of the necessity to provide access to those who wanted to earn a degree, but who could not do so in the traditional system. Dr. Sperling recognized that in real life, designations like
 
"worker," "parent," and even "student" represented aspects of a seamless life in which these roles could and should coexist simultaneously and fluidly rather than as individual and walled facets that are each distinct and separate in their essence. Offering access to allow that coexistence was and is the goal of the University. And it is that mix of work, family, and education that is a daily reality for almost three-quarters of all students enrolled in institutions throughout the country today.
In 1989, University of Phoenix pioneered online education. It was innovative and controversial. Today, with the advent of the Internet, almost all colleges and universities offer at least some online instruction and many see it as a way into the future. In the mid-1990s, the University again sent waves through higher education by developing a virtual library, and by the start of the 21st century, had extended this digital approach to textbooks and supporting educational resources for students. Today, digitizing content is commonplace in higher education.
In order to have engaged learning, tasks need to be challenging, authentic, and multidisciplinary. Such tasks are typically complex and involve sustained amounts of time. They are authentic in that they correspond to the tasks in the home and workplaces of today and tomorrow. Collaboration around authentic tasks often takes place with peers and mentors within school as well as with family members and others in the real world outside of school. These tasks often require integrated instruction that incorporates problem-based learning and curriculum by project.
North Central Regional Educational Laboratory, 1994
Engaged Technology
The evolution of University of Phoenix has been inextricably linked with advances in technology. Computers and laptops are giving way to smartphones and tablets with previously unimagined capacities and capabilities. However, as Dr. Mark Weiser, Chief Technology Officer at Xerox Palo Alto Research Center (PARC) understood as early as 1991: The most profound technologies are those that disappear. They weave themselves into the fabric of everyday life until they are indistinguishable from it. Say goodbye to your computerit's about to disappear. That is, it will be so much a part of your life that you won't even know it's there.13 Dr. Weiser's vision is close to reality in almost every aspect of life today and that's where the University intends to take our technology systems.
At the core of providing students with an engaged learning experience is the need to provide resources that support students' success and increase their ability to interact with the faculty and with their classmates. From the outset, University of Phoenix has worked hard to meet these challenges. Today technology is embedded throughout the students' experience. Of significance is the fact that technology enables a robust array of scalable, digital resources to all students and faculty members, regardless of their primary mode of delivery.
 
It is also significant to note that technology is not just an "add on," a tool to supplement traditional curriculum. Technology is a primary means of touching and developing students from initial contact and throughout their total education experience. An example of the former is the Phoenix Prep Center, which has correlates at many institutions. Prospective students interested in the Universityin any modalitycan sign on to the Phoenix Prep Center to learn about the University and about themselves. Interested users can take a variety of assessments that include learning styles, college readiness, and technology.
In addition, there are a number of virtual student support services, learning assets, and tools available to assist and support student development and success. For example, University of Phoenix utilizes a Student and Faculty Portal. All students and faculty have access to a portal which allows them to perform a multitude of administrative and support functions, and to access academic materials, learning assets, and tools. For students and instructors involved in classes via the online modality, the portal is the entry point for their classrooms. For students and faculty attending local campuses, the portal provides learning materials and forums for collaboration in Learning Teams and the ability to submit assignments and receive graded assignments with feedback from faculty between class meetings.
Students, regardless of the modality in which they are enrolled, can also do the following via the portal:
 -  Review contact information
 -  Register for classes
 -  Pay tuition
 -  Meet with a representative online
 -  Request transcripts
 -  Submit assignments
 -  Receive graded assignments with feedback
 -  Obtain grades
Workshops are also available via the student and faculty portal that students can take to improve their basic skills in areas important for student success. Student workshops in the following areas are offered on a weekly basis:
 -  Accounting and Finance
 -  Computer Skills
 -  Math and Statistics
 -  Personal Skills
 -  Writing
University of Phoenix faculty can access an online, automated Gradebook via the student and faculty portal. The Gradebook is customizable for each course based on the faculty member's assessments. Using the Gradebook, the faculty can organize and monitor assessments, allocate grade points, and provide private quantitative and qualitative feedback to students. The faculty can also set up and assign Learning Teams. All information for students (team assignments, feedback, grades, etc.) is immediately transmitted to them, and faculty members do not have to communicate separately via email or other media.
 
In addition, faculty members can notify the administration if they note that a student is not making satisfactory progress within a course through an automated Early Alert System. The faculty members fill out Early Alert Forms and these are automatically routed to notify the appropriate academic advisors to contact students to follow up on the issue immediately.
Technology also provides a means for the faculty to access ongoing personal and professional development. For example, ongoing faculty development is available both at the local campuses and online via the student and faculty portal. Faculty members can sign up for online workshops in course-specific areas, computer skills, and facilitation skills including critical thinking, faculty tone, and handling difficult students. Faculty members also have access to numerous administrative services via the portal, related to course management and University policies.
The types of technological enhancements just described represent more recent advances among many institutions. These now supplement what have become mainstays in higher education's technology arsenal, including virtual libraries, e-book collections (and other text materials), math and writing centers, and a variety of curriculum supplements such as simulations, virtual organizations, e-portfolios, and virtual science and computer labs. When taken in totality, technology now touches all aspect of the student experience, both inside and outside the classroom.
Notable in this regard is the introduction of social media as a means of connectivity in an education environment that comes closer to mirroring that of the society in general. This phenomenon is realized at University of Phoenix through PhoenixConnectsm, which is a closed academic network of students, faculty, and alumni. Research shows social and emotional connections affect students' perceptions of relevancy, and a lack of these connections can lead to disengagement.14 Through PhoenixConnectsm, students and faculty can discuss academic topics, meet new friends with similar interests, reach out to alumni, or launch a professional group.
In a similar vein, in April 2011 the Phoenix Mobile App joined the growing list of academic applications available on iTunes for students on the go. Students with iPads, iPhones, or Androids are able to post to online forums, receive alerts when grades are posted and when the instructor posts new information, and participate in discussion forums.
Looking Forward: The Untapped Potential of Technology
What we have discussed, while representing significant advances for higher education, only scratches the surface of what current technology can offer. There is much more to be adapted from the current technological playlist for the higher education community. The most important cumulative result is that technology has the potential to increase student engagement by creating a more personalized learning environment that can incorporate adaptive features. In other words, the student learning environment can be designed to respond to the specific student.
9
 
A major source of potential here lies in ambient intelligence, that is, technology that knows the users, serves them, responds to them, and does so unnoticed. Ambient intelligence, for example, is what makes possible Amazon's recognition of users and the type of products they are interested in, and thereby puts those in front of users as soon as they login, or perhaps even emails them with updates when new, like products arrive.
Ambient intelligence is technology 
That knows you
That serves you
That responds to you
That you do not notice
Ethical Concerns in Ambient Intelligence
Elizabeth Mayernick, Magnet Lead Teacher, Duval
County Public Schools
This type of technology can be adapted to academic data sets in order to determine a student's learning profile and then adjust the learning environment to his or her needs. The more data points that can be gathered, the better the prescription is for learning. Determining the strengths and challenges of a student can then inform programs of skills enhancement, as well as appropriate levels and modes of content. In short, technology can make it possible to provide an individualized learning experience for every student.
Such technology not only serves the student directly, but also connects the student to faculty members in new ways, so they can mediate in a more deliberate manner than is currently possible. Faculty members will be able to see student information on online dashboards populated for each class. The information can include individual student needs and direct faculty members to resources to assist the students.
If courses are designed to include materials that are suited to different learning styles, faculty members no longer must teach to the middle of the class. Learning can and will adapt to each individual's needs. Faculty members will know what the students have learned and what they have missed. Faculty members can use this feedback in a variety of ways. For instance, they can assist the students in specifically identified areas of concern. They can also alter their approach to address areas in which a large number of students are showing deficiencies.
When this highly individualized and interactive learning experience is combined with social networking, new levels of interdisciplinary, inter-program, and inter-cohort dialogue and collaboration are possible. In short, adaptive technology can enhance the student's experience and it is expected to increase engagement and learning outcomes; however, technology is just the tool. The key to the successful utilization of technology is that it empowers faculty members to excel.
10
 
THE ACADEMIC SCORECARD
Summary of Results (Details in the Charts Below) University of Phoenix offers the following to its students:
 -  Associate of Arts degree with more than twenty concentrations
 -  Bachelor programs in Business, Management, Information Technology, Criminal Justice Administration, Security, Education, Nursing, Health Administration, Human Services, Communication, English, Psychology, and Environmental Science
 -  Master programs in Business Administration, Management, Public Administration, Accountancy, Information Systems, Justice and Security, Education, Nursing, Health Administration, Psychology, and Counseling
 -  Doctorate programs in Business Administration, Management, Health Administration, Education, Industrial/Organizational Psychology, and Nursing
University of Phoenix is regionally accredited by The Higher Learning Commission,15 a commission member of the North Central Association of Colleges and Schools. The University also has programmatic accreditations in nursing, counseling, education, and business.
University of Phoenix's commitment to diversity continues to be demonstrated in the ethnic diversity of its student demographics. Female students make up two thirds of the total enrollment, which is above national averages.
The ethnic diversity of the faculty at the University is greater than national averages. The majority of faculty members are women, again greater than national averages. As they have in previous years, students on End-of-Course, End-of-Program, and Alumni surveys rate their experiences to be positive in all surveyed areas, including quality of faculty, curriculum, and services.
Because University of Phoenix students did not participate this year in the National Survey of Student Engagement,16 2010 results are republished. For the questions that relate to the University's learning goals, seniors rated their satisfaction as greater on nine questions and the same as one question as compared to seniors at master's universities and colleges.
On the Standardized Assessment of Information Literacy Skills (SAILS),17 University of Phoenix seniors are equivalent in all eight areas compared to seniors at other institutions. University of Phoenix seniors outperform or are equivalent to University of Phoenix freshmen in all eight areas. These results are consistent with past years. The University's electronic library continues to grow. It now has over 105,000 periodicals and a library of books of interest. The eBook Collection contains more than 2,000 electronic textbooks.
11
 
On the ETS Proficiency Profile, University of Phoenix seniors slightly underperformed seniors in the comparison group in Critical Thinking, Reading, Writing, Mathematics, Social Sciences, and Natural Sciences. However, the differences between the two groups were slight and of limited significance. The performance of University of Phoenix seniors was equivalent to other seniors in the Humanities. The results are consistent with previous years and show a slight improvement over 2010.
The graduation rates for the University show an increase for the associate and master levels and a decline for the bachelor level. Most of the bachelor-level decline can be attributed to a corresponding increase in zero-transfer credit students in the bachelor programs. The University of Phoenix Associate Modified Graduation Rate is well above the IPEDS graduation rate for two-year institutions.
Overview Notes and Definitions
In the following tables:
 -  "UOPX" is University of Phoenix
 -  "AY2010" is the period from September 1, 2009, through August 31, 2010
 -  "AY2011" is the period from September 1, 2010, through August 31, 2011.
 -  Many employees of University of Phoenix are also students at University of Phoenix. Hence, data in the following tables will include some University of Phoenix employees.
 -  Most of the data in the following tables is the result of voluntary responses and thus may not reflect the total population.
 -  The "n" or sample size may vary by question in a survey because the respondents were not required to answer all the questions in a survey.
 -  "Master's universities and colleges" are institutions that offer both undergraduate and graduate degrees.
12
 
Programs
The University offers more than 100 programs at the associate through doctoral levels. Students can attend class online, in a bricks-and-mortar classroom, or a combination of both.
The following degree programs, majors, and concentrations are offered at the University.
Degree Programs, Majors, and Concentrations
Associate Programs
Degree Major Concentration
Associate of Arts
Accounting Communications Criminal Justice Elementary Education Financial Services Foundations of Business General Studies Health Care Administration
Health Care AdministrationMedical Records Hospitality, Travel and Tourism Human Services Management Information Technology Information Technology/Database Development Information Technology/Desktop Support Information Technology/General
Information Technology/Information Technology Support Information Technology/Network Support Information Technology/Networking Information Technology/Programming Information Technology/Visual Communication Information Technology/Web Design Paraprofessional Education Psychology
13
 
Baccalaureate Programs Degree Major Concentration
Bachelor of Arts
English
Bachelor of Science
Accounting Biological Sciences Business
Accounting Administration Communications E-Business Finance Global Management Hospitality Management Human Resource Management Information Systems
Integrated Supply Chain and Operations Management Management Marketing Organizational Innovation Project Management Public Administration Public Sector Retail Management Service Sector Small Business Management & Entrepreneurship Sustainable Enterprise Management
Communication
Communication & Technology Culture & Communication Marketing & Sales Communication
14
 
Baccalaureate Programs (continued)
Degree Major Concentration
Bachelor of Science (continued)
Criminal Justice Administration
Criminal Justice Administration with concentrations in:
Human Services
Institutional Healthcare
Management
Education
Elementary Education
Environmental Science
Health Administration
Health Administration with concentrations in:
Emergency Management
Health Information Systems
Health Management
Long Term Care
Health Administration
History
Human Services
Human Services with concentrations in:
Management
Information Technology
Advanced Networking
Business System Analysis
Database Administration
Information Systems Security
Multimedia & Visual Communication
Networking & Telecommunications
Software Engineering
Web Development
Liberal Studies
Management
Management with concentrations in:
Manufacturing Sector
Nursing
Organizational Security and Management
Psychology 15
 
Graduate Programs
Degree Major Concentration
Master
Business Administration
Business Administration with concentrations in:
Accounting
Energy Management Global Management Health Care Management Human Resources Management Marketing Project Management Technology Management
Health Administration
Health Administration with concentrations in:
Education Gerontology Informatics
Information Systems Management
Management with concentrations in:
Human Resources Management
Public Administration
16
 
Graduate Programs (continued) Degree Major Concentration
Master of Arts
Education
Administration and Supervision Adult Education & Training Curriculum & Instruction
Curriculum & InstructionComputer Education
Curriculum & InstructionEnglish and Language Arts Education Curriculum & InstructionEnglish as a Second Language Education Curriculum & InstructionMathematics Education Curriculum & InstructionReading Early Childhood Education Elementary EducationMiddle Level Elementary Teacher Education Elementary Teacher Education, Early Childhood Secondary Teacher Education Secondary Teacher Education, High School, Middle Level Special Education Teacher EducationMiddle Level Generalist Teacher EducationMiddle Level Mathematics Teacher EducationMiddle Level Science Teacher EducationSecondary Mathematics Teacher EducationSecondary Science Teacher Leadership
17
 
Graduate Programs (continued) Degree Major Concentration
Master of Science
Accountancy
Administration of Justice & Security Counseling
Clinical Mental Health Counseling Community Counseling Marriage and Family Counseling Marriage, Family, and Child Therapy School Counseling
Nursing
Nursing with concentrations in:
Family Nurse Practitioner Health Care Education Informatics
Master of Health Administration (Dual Major)
Master of Business Administration/Health Care Management (Dual Major)
Psychology
Doctoral Programs
Degree Major Concentration
Doctor Business Administration Education
Educational Leadership
Educational Leadership/Curriculum and Instruction Educational Leadership/Educational Technology
Health Administration Management
Organizational Leadership Organizational Leadership/ IS&T
Doctor of Philosophy
Higher Education Administration Industrial/Organizational Psychology Nursing
Educational Specialist
18
 
Accreditation
University of Phoenix operates campuses and learning centers in 40 states, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico. The University must conform to all state and national laws regarding licensed businesses and the regulations of various departments of education as well as higher education regulatory authorities in each jurisdiction in which the University operates.
University of Phoenix is regionally accredited by The Higher Learning Commission, a commission member of the North Central Association of Colleges and Schools. The University has held this accreditation since 1978. In addition to regional accreditation, the University holds four programmatic accreditations.
Programmatic Accreditation
Program
Nursing
Counseling
Business
Education
Accrediting Body
Commission on Collegiate
Nursing Education
Council for Accreditation of
Counseling and Related
Educational Programs
Accreditation Council for
Business Schools and Programs
Teacher Education
Accreditation Council
Acronym
CCNE
CACREP
ACBSP
TEAC
Address
www.aacn.nche.edu
American Association of
Colleges of Nursing
One Dupont Circle NW
Suite 530
Washington, DC 20036
www.cacrep.org
Council for Accreditation of Counseling
and Related Educational Programs
1001 North Fairfax Street
Suite 510
Alexandria, VA 22314
www.acbsp.org
Accreditation Council for Business
Schools and Programs
11520 West 119th Street
Overland Park, KS 66213
www.teac.org
Teacher Education Accreditation Council
One Dupont Circle NW
Suite 320
Washington, DC 20036
19
 
DEMOGRAPHICS
Students
Throughout its history, the University has sought to provide access to higher education for all those who are willing to put in the effort to earn a degree. The University's student body remains diverse; as an example, 18 percent are African American, compared to a national average of 12 percent. Undergraduate enrollment and graduate enrollment at University of Phoenix are both more ethnically diverse than national averages.
In the following tables, the source for National 2009 Fall Enrollment is Table 1, Institute of Education Services, NCES, Enrollment in Postsecondary Institutions, Fall 2009; Graduation Rates, 2003 & 2006 Cohort:
Diversity: All students
White/White non-Hispanic
Black or African American/Black non-Hispanic
Hispanic or Latino/Hispanic
Asian
Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander
American Indian/Alaskan native
Non-Resident Alien
Two or More Races
Race/Ethnicity Unknown
UOPX 2009
IPEDS Fall
Enrollment Enrollment Enrollment
35.8
18.3
7.5
2.1
0.8
2.5
33
UOPX 2010
IPEDS Fall
36.3
18.4
8.2
1.4
0.8
0.8
2.2
0.6
31.3
National
2009 Fall
56.4
12.9
11.2
5.8
0.9
3.3
0.4
9
Diversity: Undergraduate Students
White/White non-Hispanic
Black or African American/Black non-Hispanic
Hispanic or Latino/Hispanic
Asian
Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander
American Indian/Alaskan native
Non-Resident Alien
Two or More Races
Race/Ethnicity Unknown
UOPX 2009
IPEDS Fall
Enrollment Enrollment Enrollment
36
17.5
7.5
1.8
0.9
34.3
UOPX 2010
IPEDS Fall
36.8
17.7
8.4
1.1
0.7
0.8
1.9
0.7
31.9
National
2009 Fall
56.6
13.3
12.1
5.8
2.1
0.5
8.6
20
 
Diversity: Graduate Students
White/White non-Hispanic
Black or African American/Black non-Hispanic
Hispanic or Latino/Hispanic
Asian
Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander
American Indian/Alaskan native
Non-Resident Alien
Two or More Races
Race/Ethnicity Unknown
UOPX 2009
IPEDS Fall
Enrollment
34.9
21.6
7.3
3.3
0.7
4.8
27.4
UOPX 2010
IPEDS Fall
Enrollment
34.1
22
7.4
2.4
0.7
0.7
3.8
0.3
28.6
National
2009 Fall
Enrollment
55.5
10.4
5.6
5.9
0.6
10.7
0.2
11.3
Female students make up two thirds of the total enrollment, which is above national averages. Female enrollments at both the undergraduate level and the graduate level are also greater than national averages.
Gender: All Students
Female
Male
UOPX 2009 IPEDS Fall Enrollment
68.5
31.5
UOPX 2010 IPEDS Fall Enrollment
68.9
31.1
National 2009 Fall Enrollment
57
43
Gender: Undergraduate Students
Female
Male
UOPX 2009 IPEDS Fall Enrollment
68.5
31.5
UOPX 2010 IPEDS Fall Enrollment
68.9
31.1
National 2009 Fall Enrollment
56.7
43.3
Gender: Graduate Students
Female
Male
UOPX 2009 IPEDS Fall Enrollment
68.4
31.6
UOPX 2010 IPEDS Fall Enrollment
69
31
National 2009 Fall Enrollment
59
41
21
 
Faculty
The ethnic diversity of the faculty at the University is greater than national averages. Both the percentage of Black and Hispanic faculty had notable increases from 2010 to 2011.
The majority of faculty members are women, which is also greater than national averages. The percentage of female faculty increased from 2010 to 2011.
In the following tables, the source for National Fall 2009 is the Digest of Education Statistics, Table 256, Employees in degree granting institutionsFall 2009.
Diversity: Faculty
White/White non-Hispanic
Black or African American/Black non-Hispanic
Hispanic or Latino/Hispanic
Asian
Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander
American Indian/Alaskan native
Non-Resident Alien
Two or More Races
Race/Ethnicity Unknown
UOPX 2009 IPEDS HR
69.1
17.9
4.8
3.4
0.6
1.5
2.7
UOPX 2010 IPEDS HR
66.6
18.6
5.6
3.5
0.1
0.6
0.1
0
4.9
National Fall 2009
74.9
6.6
0.5
2.8
0
5.2
Gender: Faculty
Female
Male
UOPX 2009 IPEDS HR
53.5
46.5
UOPX 2010 IPEDS HR
57
43
National Fall 2009
47.1
52.9
22
 
Student Satisfaction
The University regularly conducts student satisfaction surveys and uses the results to implement change within the organization.
Student End-of-Course Survey
An internal Student End-of-Course Survey (SEOCS) is administered at the end of every course at University of Phoenix. On these surveys, students rate faculty, curriculum, and services positively. The scale was changed this year to allow a Net Promoter Score to be calculated in the future.
Student End-of-Course Surveys (SEOCS)
Recommend UOPX
Recommend Instructor
Helpful Instructor Feedback
Satisfied with Curriculum
Satisfied with Learning Experience
Academic Advisor
Financial Advisor
8.53
8.4
8.4
8.29
8.33
8.53
8.2
End-of-Program Survey
On an internal End-of-Program Survey (EOP), students rate all services and categories positively.
End-of-Program Survey (EOPS)
End-of-Program Survey Scale 1-5*
Enrollment Counseling
Academic Advising
Financial Aid Services
Quality of Instruction
Availability of Faculty
UOPX AY2010 n = 24,753
4.29
4.2
3.86
4.37
3.75
UOPX Sept  Nov, 2011** n = 5,394
4.26
4.18
3.87
4.32
3.79
** Due to system issues, data collection was limited to a three-month period. The prior year data covered a
twelve-month period.
23
 
Alumni Survey
On an internal Alumni Survey, alumni rate their University of Phoenix education positively. Because the Alumni Survey is conducted every other year, 2010 results are being republished.
Alumni Survey
Alumni Survey Scale 1-5*
Would recommend UOPX
Education met expectations
UOPX offers high quality education
UOPX education is useful in career
UOPX degree comparable to similar degrees from other institutions
UOPX AY2010 n =5,978
4.05
4.02
4.1
3.99
3.75
National Survey of Student Engagement
University of Phoenix also uses an external measure of student satisfaction, the National Survey of Student Engagement (NSSE).
Because University of Phoenix students did not participate this year in the National Survey of Student Engagement,18 2010 results are being republished. For the questions that relate to the University's learning goals, seniors rated their satisfaction as greater on nine questions and the same on one question as compared to seniors at master's universities and colleges.
National Survey of Student Engagement (NSSE)
NSEE Questions that relate to UOPX Learning Goals Percentage of seniors who felt their college/university contributed "quite a bit" or "very much" to their knowledge, skills, and personal development in the following areas:
Acquiring a broad general education
Acquiring job or work-related knowledge and skills
Developing a personal code of values and ethics
Thinking critically and analytically
Analyzing quantitative problems
Solving complex real-world problems
Writing clearly and effectively
Speaking clearly and effectively
Using computing and information technology
Working effectively with others
UOPX AY2009 n = 781
84%
82%
67%
91%
82%
75%
90%
87%
84%
89%
Master's Universities and Colleges
84%
77%
63%
88%
75%
64%
79%
75%
80%
81%
24
 
Information Literacy
The skills required to become successful in the digital workplace are woven throughout the five Learning Goals required for all University of Phoenix courses and programs: professional competence and values, critical thinking and problem solving, communication, information utilization, and collaboration.
The University has taken steps to ensure that the way students learn emulates the way professionals work. The University Library houses more than 105,000 electronic periodicals as well as e-books of interest. The eBook Collection is made up of 2,000 electronic books. Students and faculty have access to the entire eBook Collection throughout their degree programs. The University Library and eBook Collection are available to users seven days a week from anywhere there is an Internet connection. In addition to math and writing tutorials, the University also utilizes simulations, virtual laboratories and virtual organizations in courses. Virtual organizations are realistic web-based businesses, schools, health care and government organizations that promote authentic assessment by immersing students into problem-based learning environments. Nursing utilizes simulation laboratory mannequins.
Standardized Assessment of Information Literacy Skills
In an effort to benchmark student achievement in information literacy as compared to students from other institutions, the University uses the Standardized Assessment of Information Literacy Skills (SAILS), originally developed by Kent State University.15 The SAILS is based on the following Association of College and Research Libraries (ACRL)19 Information Literacy Competency Standards for Higher Education:
 -  Standard I: The information literate student determines the nature and extent of the information needed.
 -  Standard II: The information literate student accesses needed information effectively and efficiently.
 -  Standard III: The information literate student evaluates information and its sources critically and incorporates selected information into his or her knowledge base and value system.
 -  Standard V:* The information literate student understands many of the economic, legal, and social issues surrounding the use of information and accesses and uses information ethically and legally.
*ACRL Standard IV is not used in the SAILS assessment.
On the SAILS, University of Phoenix freshmen are equivalent in seven of the eight areas compared to freshmen at master's universities and colleges. In the eighth area, Evaluating Sources, University of Phoenix freshmen outperform other freshmen at master's universities and colleges.
University of Phoenix seniors are equivalent in all eight areas compared to seniors at master's universities and colleges. University of Phoenix seniors outperform University of Phoenix freshmen in five of the eight areas. Seniors and freshmen performed equivalently in the other three areas.
25
 
In the following tables:
 -  Outperformed = UOPX students had a significantly higher mean score on the skill set compared to their peers in the comparison group.
 -  Equivalent = the mean scores for UOPX students and their peers in the comparison group were statistically equivalent.
 -  Underperformed = UOPX students had a significantly lower mean score than their peers in the comparison group.
 -  Alpha (a) =.05 for all significance tests.
 -  Std. Error = Standard Error
 -  Scores range from 0 to 1,000
SAILS: Freshmen
Skill Set
UOPX AY2011 n =327
Master's Universities & Colleges n = 9,965
UOPX Performance Comparison Group
vs.
Mean
Std. Error
Mean
Std. Error
Developing Research Strategy
492
12
485
2
Equivalent
Selecting Finding Tools
520
16
505
3
Equivalent
Searching
477
14
465
3
Equivalent
Using Finding Tools Features
530
18
528
4
Equivalent
Retrieving Sources
551
19
535
4
Equivalent
Evaluating Sources
503
14
470
3
Outperformed
Documenting Sources
416
19
438
4
Equivalent
Understanding Economic,
Legal, Social Issues
445
14
432
3
Equivalent
SAILS: Seniors
Skill Set
UOPX AY2011 n =124
Master's Universities & Colleges n = 2,881
UOPX Performance Comparison Group
vs
Mean
Std. Error
Mean
Std. Error
Developing Research Strategy
536
19
525
5
Equivalent
Selecting Finding Tools
548
25
547
6
Equivalent
Searching
525
24
510
5
Equivalent
Using Finding Tools Features
572
28
572
6
Equivalent
Retrieving Sources
601
27
597
7
Equivalent
Evaluating Sources
535
23
512
5
Equivalent
Documenting Sources
478
28
503
6
Equivalent
Understanding Economic,
Legal, Social Issues
496
24
480
5
Equivalent
26
 
SAILS: Seniors vs. Freshmen
Skill Set
UOPX Freshmen n =327
UOPX Seniors n =124
UOPX Seniors UOPX
vs. Freshmen
Mean
Std. Error
Mean
Std. Error
Developing Research Strategy
492
12
536
19
Outperformed
Selecting Finding Tools
520
16
548
25
Equivalent
Searching
477
14
525
24
Outperformed
Using Finding Tools Features
530
18
572
28
Equivalent
Retrieving Sources
551
19
601
27
Outperformed
Evaluating Sources
503
14
535
23
Equivalent
Documenting Sources
416
19
478
28
Outperformed
Understanding Economic,
Legal, Social Issues
445
14
496
24
Outperformed
Academic Proficiency and Progress
In the last twenty years, the accreditation community has placed significantly greater emphasis on the importance of assessing student learning.
ETSR Proficiency Profile
As a part of its assessment process, University of Phoenix uses the ETS Proficiency Profile developed by the Educational Testing Service (ETS).20 The tool measures college-level skills in critical thinking, reading, writing, mathematics, humanities, social sciences, and natural sciences for undergraduate students. The assessment provides comparative data for more than 375,000 students nationwide at 380 institutions. For academic year 2011: Compared to freshmen at master's universities and colleges:
 -  University of Phoenix freshmen performed equivalently in Humanities and Social Sciences.
 -  University of Phoenix freshmen slightly underperformed in Critical Thinking, Reading, Writing, and Natural Sciences. However, the differences between the two groups were slight and of limited practical significance.
 -  University of Phoenix freshmen moderately underperformed in Mathematics.
Compared to seniors at master's universities and colleges:
 -  University of Phoenix seniors slightly underperformed in Critical Thinking, Reading, Writing, Mathematics, Social Sciences, and Natural Sciences. However, the differences between the two groups were slight and of limited practical significance.
 -  University of Phoenix seniors performed equivalently in Humanities.
University seniors slightly outperformed University freshmen in all skill sets.
27
 
In the following tables:
 -  Strongly Outperformed = UOPX had a significantly higher mean score than the comparison group with an absolute effect size of greater than
0.80.
 -  Moderately Outperformed = UOPX had a significantly higher mean score than the comparison group with an absolute effect size of 0.51_0.80.
 -  Slightly Outperformed = UOPX had a significantly higher mean score than the comparison group with an absolute effect size of 0.20_0.50.
 -  Equivalent = there was a non-significant difference between UOPX and the comparison group mean scores or a significant difference with an absolute effect size of less than 0.20.
 -  Slightly Underperformed = UOPX had a significantly lower mean score than the comparison group with an absolute effect size of 0.20_0.50.
 -  Moderately Underperformed = UOPX had a significantly lower mean score than the comparison group_ with an absolute effect size of 0.51_0.80
 -  Strongly Underperformed = UOPX had a significantly lower mean score than the comparison group with an absolute effect size of greater than 0.80.
 -  Std. Dev. = Standard Deviation.
 -  Alpha(a) = .05 for all significance tests.
 -  Scores range from 100 to 130.
Skill Set
UOPX AY2011 n = 2,661
Master's Universities and Colleges n = 6,985 (weighted)
UOPX Performance vs. Comparison Group
Mean
Std. Dev.
Mean
Std. Dev.
Critical Thinking
108.1
5.1
109.6
5.9
Slightly Underperformed
Reading
113.7
6.9
115.3
6.9
Slightly Underperformed
Writing
110.7
4.8
112.5
5
Slightly Underperformed
Mathematics
108.1
4.4
111.2
5.9
Moderately Underperformed
Humanities
112.5
5.8
112.7
6.2
Equivalent
Social Sciences
110.8
5.7
111.5
5.8
Equivalent
Natural Sciences
111.7
5.7
113.3
5.7
Slightly Underperformed
28
 
ETS: Seniors
Skill Set
UOPX AY2011 n =2,984 (weighted)
Master's Universities and Colleges n =34,387 (weighted)
UOPX Performance vs. Comparison Group
Mean
Std. Dev.
Mean
Std. Dev.
Critical Thinking
109.6
5.9
112.5
6.5
Slightly Underperformed
Reading
116
7.2
118.6
6.8
Slightly Underperformed
Writing
112.9
5.2
114.5
4.9
Slightly Underperformed
Mathematics
110.4
5.5
113.3
6.2
Slightly Underperformed
Humanities
114.2
6.3
115.4
6.5
Equivalent
Social Sciences
112.4
6.2
114.2
6.2
Slightly Underperformed
Natural Sciences
113.5
6
115.8
5.8
Slightly Underperformed
ETS: Seniors vs. Freshmen
Skill Set
UOPX Freshmen
UOPX Seniors (weighted)
UOPX Seniors vs. UOPX Freshmen
Critical Thinking
108.1
109.6
Slightly Outperformed
Reading
113.7
116
Slightly Outperformed
Writing
110.7
112.9
Slightly Outperformed
Mathematics
108.1
110.4
Slightly Outperformed
Humanities
112.5
114.2
Slightly Outperformed
Social Sciences
110.8
112.4
Slightly Outperformed
Natural Sciences
111.7
113.5
Slightly Outperformed
29
 
Graduation Rates
The graduation rate is specified by the National Center for Education Statistics (NCES)21 to be calculated for ".students entering the institution as full-time, first-time, degree/ certificate-seeking undergraduate students in a particular year (cohort)." In this report, the "modified graduation rate" is for all enrolled students, including first-time attendees as well as those with prior college experience. This "modified" rate is defined as the percentage of students who completed at least three University of Phoenix credits and went on to be degree-complete. Data are for the number of students entering the University as degree-seeking students in a particular cohort year. Thus, the calculation in this report is a modification and includes more types of students than does the NCES graduation rate calculation.
The modified graduation rates for the University show an increase for the associate and master levels and a decline for the bachelor level. Most of the bachelor-level decline can be attributed to an increase in zero-transfer credit students. There is a high correlation between more transfer credits and higher graduation rates for non-traditional students. University of Phoenix associate modified graduation rate is well above the IPEDS graduation rates for two-year institutions.
University of Phoenix Modified Graduation Rate Table
Program Level
3 year
4 year
6 year
8 year
Revised Associate 2005 cohort*
32%
35%
Associate 2006 cohort
34%
36%
Bachelor 2002 cohort
34%
36%
Bachelor 2003 cohort
31%
33%
Graduate 2005 cohort**
55%
63%
Master 2006 cohort
60%
64%
Doctorate 2003 cohort
36%
*In the 2010 Academic Annual Report, the Associate 2005 cohort completion rate was reported as 23% for
3 Years and 24% for >3 Years. Historically, University of Phoenix had a limited number of Associate students.
A large number of Associate students transferred from Western International University (WIU) to the University of Phoenix in 2006. The Associate 2005 cohort reported in the 2010 Academic Annual Report included all students that potentially could transfer to University of Phoenix from WIU and those students that enrolled directly as Associate students into University of Phoenix. The Revised Associate 2005 cohort that is being reported is the Associate students that actually did transfer to University of Phoenix from WIU and those students that enrolled directly as Associate students into University of Phoenix.
**In the 2010 Academic Report, the Graduate 2005 cohort included both Master and Doctorate students. This year, "Graduate" is being broken into separate "Master" and "Doctorate" cohorts.
30
 
In the following table, the source is Table 7, Institute of Educational Services, NCES, Enrollment in Postsecondary Institutions, Fall 2009; Graduation Rates, 2003 & 2006 Cohorts Public Title IV Institutions IPEDS Graduation Rates Program Level 3 year 4 year 6 year 8 year Associate 2006 cohort 22% Bachelor 2003 cohort 56% Master n/a n/a Doctorate n/a University Orientation and First Year Sequence In November 2010, a free University Orientation workshop was implemented to ensure that students with limited prior college experience better understand the time and effort required to be successful in University programs prior to actually enrolling in the University. University Orientation is three weeks long and delivered in the same format as in existing classes. Students must complete assignments in a manner similar in nature to the way they will be working in class. Of those who start Orientation, approximately 80 percent enroll in University of Phoenix, while approximately 20 percent opt out before incurring any debt. Students who opt out are generally leaving with a positive experience. For students who went through Orientation and then enrolled in the University, first-course completion rates were higher than prior-year levels. Some of this retention success can be attributed to the First-Year Sequence, which was introduced in February 2010. The First-Year Sequence was designed using a laddering approach to the sequence of courses. Concepts and skills introduced in early classes are reinforced with work in later classes. Student Salary Increases While Enrolled Many University of Phoenix students are employed full time while enrolled. Internal research has shown that University of Phoenix students' average annual salaries for the time they are enrolled in their program of study increase at higher rates than the national average salary increase for the same time period. In addition to the figures the University has compiled, in June 2011 the Center for College Affordability and Productivity noted the following on their website, "the typical University of Phoenix alumni earns slightly more than those from the traditional competitive schools at every level of experience throughout their career."22 31
 
1 Partnership for 21st Century Skills (March 2011), Framework for 21st Century Learning http://p21.
org/documents/1.__p21_framework_2-pager.pdf
2 "Apple Classrooms of TomorrowToday: Learning for the 21st Century." 2008 http://ali.apple.
com/acot2/
3 Edyburn, Dave. "Failure Is Not an Option." Learning & Leading with Technology. September 2006.
pp. 20-23
4 Ibid
5 "Apple Classrooms of Tomorrow Today" 2008 http://ali.apple.com/acot2/
6 Redish, Joe. University of Maryland. As cited in "Don't Lecture Me: Rethinking How College
Students Learn.: Hanford, Emily. 2011. http://mindshift.kqed.org/2011/09/dont-lecture-me-rethinkinghow-
college-students-learn/
7 Ibid
8 Hanford, Emily. "Don't Lecture Me: Rethinking How College Students Learn. 2011. http://
mindshift.kqed.org/2011/09/dont-lecture-me-rethinking-how-college-students-learn/
9 Birch& Sankey 2008; Sankey & St Hill 2005 as reported by Dawn Birch, Bruce Burnett in
"Brining Academics on Board: Encouraging Institution-Wide Diffusion of E-Learning Environments."
Australasian Journal of Educational Technology 2009. pp. 117-134
10 Jochems, et al., 2004; Sankey & St Hill, 2005; Sweller, 1999 as reported by Dawn Birch, Bruce
Burnett in "Brining Academics on Board: Encouraging Institution-Wide Diffusion of E-Learning
Environments." Australasian Journal of Educational Technology 2009. pp. 117-134
11 Moreno and Mayer, 2007 as reported by Dawn Birch, Bruce Burnett in "Brining Academics on
Board: Encouraging Institution-Wide Diffusion of E-Learning Environments." Australasian Journal of
Educational Technology 2009. pp. 117-134
12 Parry, Marc. "Linked In With: a Writer Who Questions the Wisdom of Teaching With
Technology." The Chronicle of Higher Education. July 2010.
13 http://www.ubiq.com/hypertext/weiser/WeiserNewsQuotes.html
14 "Partnership for 21st Century Skills." March 2011. Framework for 21st Century Learning. http://p21.
org/documents/1.__p21_framework_2-pager.pdf
15 The Higher Learning Commission, 230 South LaSalle Street, Suite 7-500, Chicago, Illinois
60604-1413. http://www.ncahlc.org
16 National Survey of Student Engagement. http://www.nsse.iub.edu
17 Project SAILS. https://www.projectsails.org
18 National Survey of Student Engagement. http://www.nsse.iub.edu
19 Association of College and Research Libraries. http://www.ala.org/ala/mgrps/divs/acrl/
standards/informationliteracycompetency.cfm
20 Educational Testing Service. http://www.ets.org/about/who
21 National Center for Education Statistics. http://nces.ed.gov/ipeds
22 The Center for College Affordability and Productivity. Chart of the Week: Alumni
32
 


