FILE:ROP/ROP-8K-20030529081118.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
     
ITEM 7.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
     
ITEM 9.
REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
The information contained in this Item 9 is being furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Item 12 of Form 8-K, "Disclosure of Results of Operation and Financial Condition," as directed in Release No. 34-47583.
On May 28, 2003, the Company issued a press release containing information about the Company's results of operations for the quarter ended April 30, 2003. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The press release presented non-GAAP financial information that the Company believes is useful because it allows investors to perform meaningful comparisons of the Company's results for 2002 and 2003.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

EXHIBIT 99.1 CONTACT INFORMATION: Chris Hix Director of Investor Relations +1 (770) 495-5100 investor-relations@roperind.com FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE ROPER INDUSTRIES ANNOUNCES SECOND QUARTER 2003 RESULTS, DIVIDEND RECORD SECOND QUARTER CASH FLOW; STRONG SEQUENTIAL IMPROVEMENTS; CONSIDERABLE PROGRESS MADE ON RESTRUCTURING ACTIVITIES DULUTH, GEORGIA, MAY 28, 2003 ... ROPER INDUSTRIES, INC. (NYSE: ROP) announced diluted earnings per share (DEPS) from continuing operations for its second fiscal quarter ended April 30, 2003 of $0.47, and net DEPS (including discontinued operations) of $0.45. This is less than prior year DEPS from continuing operations of $0.54, due largely to $8 million lower net sales to Gazprom, the large Russian natural gas company, and restructuring activities costing over $2 million during the quarter. The Company reported second quarter net sales of $166 million, 10% higher than net sales of $151 million in the second quarter of the previous year. Excluding acquisitions made in 2002, net sales declined 1% (see Table 1 for a list of acquired companies), but increased 5% excluding the Company's net sales to Gazprom (see Table 2 for a reconciliation of net sales). "We were pleased to see the 20% sequential improvement in our net sales from the first quarter," said Mr. Brian Jellison, President and Chief Executive Officer. "At the same time, our business units continue to make substantial progress improving operations and working capital." Roper's second quarter cash flow from operating activities grew 10% from the prior year's quarter to a record $23 million, including substantial improvements in net working capital performance. The Company announced that it has reduced its net debt-to-capital ratio from 46% at the beginning of the year to 42% at quarter end. As previously announced this year, the Company launched restructuring activities designed to generate as much as $15 million in annualized cost savings. Mr. Jellison commented, "Our new, strengthened segment leadership has accelerated the pace of our restructuring efforts, and we are now expecting to complete all of the planned activity prior to the end of this fiscal year." The Company reported progress on several key initiatives: - Largely completed the integration of its Acton Research and Integrated Design business units. - Made considerable progress on the integration of Qualitek into the Uson business unit, which will be completed in the third quarter. - Began integrating the production operations of its Redlake business unit into other Company facilities, scheduled to be substantially completed in the third quarter. - Opened a new production facility in China. 1
- Announced that the production operations of its Dynamco business unit will be moved into a new operation in Mexico in the third quarter. "These actions will help to lower manufacturing costs and enhance margins," stated Mr. Jellison. "Overall, we anticipate a rapid payback for our restructuring initiatives, with the benefits becoming particularly evident in 2004." The Company earlier received indication of Gazprom's intention to release $36 million of total orders in calendar 2003; however, based on recent information, it does not expect to convert the total amount into net sales in the current fiscal year. The Company now expects fiscal 2003 net sales to Gazprom of $25 to $30 million, or $10 million less than previous expectations. Accordingly, the Company now forecasts DEPS from continuing operations to be in the range of $2.00 to $2.11 for the 2003 fiscal year, compared to previous expectations of $2.11 to $2.26. DEPS from continuing operations for the second half of fiscal 2003 is expected to be $1.24 to $1.35, with expected DEPS in the third quarter of $0.50 to $0.55 and exceeding $0.70 in the fourth quarter. Mr. Jellison commented, "Given the decrease in net sales to Gazprom this year of up to $31 million, generally soft market conditions, and full year restructuring investments of at least $6 million, our cash generation and earnings performance remains strong. We see continued earnings improvement throughout fiscal 2003, and this momentum will carry forward throughout fiscal 2004. With the benefits of our restructuring in front of us and a strong acquisition pipeline, we see substantial opportunities ahead." CASH DIVIDEND The Company announced that its Board of Directors approved a cash dividend of $0.0875 per common share payable on July 31, 2003, to shareholders of record on July 17, 2003. RESULTS BY SEGMENT ENERGY SYSTEMS & CONTROLS segment second quarter net sales of $38 million were 27% higher than the prior year period, principally as a result of the 2002 acquisition of Zetec and higher net sales for non-Gazprom oil & gas applications, somewhat offset by a 48% reduction in net sales to Gazprom. Net orders of $40 million in the quarter were 23% higher than the prior year quarter. Operating profit improved 4% to $7 million. INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY segment net sales were $41 million in the second quarter, or 1% higher than in the year-ago period. Quarterly net orders improved 5% to $42 million. Second quarter operating profit decreased 11% to $9 million primarily as a result of higher European sourcing and production costs due to adverse currency exchange rates and the start-up of a new production facility in China. INSTRUMENTATION segment second quarter net sales increased 2% from the prior year period to $44 million, with the fall-off in net sales at the Company's Logitech business unit more than offset by the 2002 acquisition of Qualitek and favorable currency benefits. Net orders increased 2% with acquisition contributions and currency benefits making up for lower activity in refining, semiconductor and telecom markets. Second quarter 2003 operating profit decreased $3 million compared with the same period last year as a result of $1.9 million of restructuring charges, higher European sourcing and production 2
costs due to currency exchange rate changes, and lower margins from the Qualitek acquisition prior to completing its full integration into Uson. SCIENTIFIC & INDUSTRIAL IMAGING segment second quarter net sales of $44 million were 14% higher than in the year-ago quarter due to the strong backlog for electron microscopy applications, initial shipments of the new motion imaging products and the inclusion of results from 2002 acquisitions. Net orders declined 11% as a result of reduced Japanese government spending, reduced economic activity in Asia relating to the outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome, declining industrial camera orders, and the uneven timing of large project orders. Second quarter operating profits declined nearly 6% versus the second quarter of 2002, including the impact of restructuring costs. However, segment performance has nearly doubled compared with the first quarter of 2003, with operating profits increasing $5 million. CONFERENCE CALL TO BE HELD AT 10:00 AM (EDT) TOMORROW The Company will conduct a webcasted conference call at 10:00 AM EDT on Thursday, May 29, 2003. To access the webcast, and to obtain copies of the slides, please visit the Investor Information section of the Company's web site at www.roperind.com. Telephonic replays of the conference call will be available for two weeks by calling +1 (402) 220-3007 and using the passcode 1323. Table 1: Acquisitions Qualitek, Instrumentation Segment, July 2002 Zetec, Energy Systems & Controls Segment, August 2002 QImaging, Scientific & Industrial Imaging Segment, August 2002 Duncan Technologies, Scientific & Industrial Imaging Segment, August 2002 Definitive Imaging, Scientific & Industrial Imaging Segment, September 2002 Table 2: Reconciliation of Net Sales (Millions) Additional information about Roper Industries, including a glossary for terms used by the Company, and registration for Company press releases via email, are also available on the Company's website. Roper Industries is a diversified provider of engineered products and solutions for global niche markets. # # # The information provided in this news release, in Company filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended October 31, 2002, and in other press releases and public disclosures, contain forward looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, including statements regarding our expected business outlook and strategies. These statements reflect management's current beliefs, but are not guarantees of performance. They involve risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ materially 3
from those contained in any forward looking statement. Such risks and uncertainties include reductions in our business with Gazprom; unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates; difficulties associated with exports, risks associated with our international operations, difficulty making acquisitions and successfully integrating acquired business, increased product liability and insurance costs, increased warranty exposure, future competition, changes in the supply of, or price for, parts and components, environmental compliance costs and liabilities, risks and cost associated with asbestos related litigation and potential write-offs of our substantial intangible assets. Other important risk factors are discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2002, and may be discussed in subsequent filings with the SEC. Readers should not place undue reliance on any forward looking statements. These statements speak only as of the date of this document, and we undertake no obligation to update publicly any of them in light of new information or future events. 4
ROPER INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (UNAUDITED) (AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS)
ROPER INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS (UNAUDITED) (AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)
ROPER INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES SELECTED SEGMENT FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED) (AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS AND PERCENTS OF NET SALES) * Operating profit is before unallocated corporate general and administrative expenses. Such expenses were $3,243 and $3,108 for the three months ended April 30, 2003 and 2002, respectively, and $6,132 and $6,544 for the six months ended April 30, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
ROPER INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (UNAUDITED) (Amounts in thousands)


