FILE:ROP/ROP-8K-20031105170241.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
     
ITEM 9.
REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
The Company is furnishing in this current report on Form 8-K certain unaudited financial information for its 2001, 2002 and 2003 calendar-year quarters, which information is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 which is incorporated herein in its entirety by this reference.
The financial information set forth in Exhibit 99.1 hereto includes the same information for the Company's calendar-year quarters preceding its 2003 third quarter which was previously disclosed in a current report on Form 8-K filed September 3, 2003, except that amounts shown in Exhibit 99.1 hereto for such preceding calendar quarters reflect offsetting corrections (i) to "other current assets" and "other assets" related to deferred taxes and (ii) to "accrued liabilities" and "retained earnings" related to accrued dividends.
     
ITEM 7.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
Roper Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (unaudited) Calendar Period Presentation
(Amounts in thousands)
Roper Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings (unaudited) Calendar Period Presentation
(Amounts in thousands, except per share data)
The line items titled "Restructuring" and "Income before restructuring" are not U.S. GAAP financial disclosures but are presented for informational purposes only to show the impact of these charges on income from operations.
(1)
Roper Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries Selected Segment Financial Data (unaudited) Calendar Period Presentation
(Amounts in thousands)
Roper Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (unaudited) Calendar Period Presentation
(Amounts in thousands)
Roper Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries Supplemental Financial Data (unaudited) Calendar Period Presentation
(Amounts in thousands)


