FILE:ROP/ROP-8K-20040728211107.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
     
ITEM 7.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
     
ITEM 12.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
On July 28, 2004, Roper Industries, Inc. ("the Company") issued the press release containing information about the Company's results of operations for the second quarter ended June 30, 2004. A copy of the press release is furnished as
Exhibit 99.1
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Roper Industries, Inc.
Contact Information: Chris Hix Director of Investor Relations +1 (770) 495-5100 investor-relations@roperind.com
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
reported record diluted earnings per share (DEPS) of $0.63 in the second quarter of 2004, 58% higher than the prior-year quarter DEPS of $0.40 and at the high end of previously-issued guidance of $0.57-$0.63. The Company also reported record net sales of $232 million, an increase of 40%, from continued favorable organic growth trends and the December 2003 Neptune Technology Group Holdings (NTGH) acquisition.
Duluth, Georgia, July 28, 2004 ... Roper Industries, Inc. (NYSE: ROP)
"Second quarter results demonstrate the success of our growth strategy, with significant contributions from both existing businesses and acquisitions," said Brian Jellison, Chairman, President and CEO of Roper Industries. "Our Neptune business had another strong quarter with double-digit revenue growth, and we continue to make important progress in our organic growth initiatives. Excluding net sales to Gazprom, we achieved our 6th consecutive quarter of organic growth, with double-digit performance in the second quarter."
Leverage from revenue increases and the completion of restructuring activities earlier this year both contributed to significant margin expansion in the quarter. Operating margins increased over the prior-year quarter by 370 basis points to 17.5%, and EBITDA margins grew 560 basis points to 21.8%. Roper produced $41 million of operating profit and $51 million of EBITDA in this year's second quarter.
Roper achieved record cash flow from operating activities of $40 million during the quarter, 62% higher than the prior year. These results included approximately $5 million from working capital improvements. The Company now expects full year cash flow of $150-$160 million versus its previous forecast of $140-$160 million. "Our focus on cash returns is driving exceptional cash flow performance," said Mr. Jellison. "We could achieve even greater results depending on the pace of our continued working capital success. We are also well-positioned to produce as much as $3.74 of cash DEPS this year."
As previously reported, late in the second quarter the Company acquired the power generation test business from R/D Tech, complementing Roper's existing non-destructive evaluation systems business. This acquisition is expected to be accretive in 2005 after the completion of integration activities. Partly as a result of this acquisition and foreign currency exchange effects, the Company expects 2004 net sales to exceed its previous revenue guidance of $900-$925 million, even with a recent reduction in expected sales to Gazprom. Roper announced that it raised the lower end of its DEPS guidance range for the second consecutive quarter, increasing its estimates from $2.50-$2.70 to $2.58-$2.70, excluding inventory revaluation costs from recent acquisitions. The Company expects continued sequential strengthening in the third and fourth quarters of 2004, forecasting $0.68-$0.73 of DEPS in its third quarter and $0.75-$0.82 of DEPS in its fourth quarter.
Mr.     Jellison commented, "Despite lower sales to Gazprom, which now represents 1% or less of our expected net sales this year, we remain on track to achieve our plans for record sales, cash flow and earnings this year. Favorable market conditions and organic growth initiatives should produce sequentially higher revenues throughout the remainder of the year, further expanding our already high margins. Cash flows are expected to continue to grow, increasing the financial resources available to support our full pipeline of acquisition opportunities."
Second Quarter Results by Segment
All comparisons are made against the year-ago period unless otherwise stated.
The Instrumentation segment posted $50 million of net sales in the second quarter, a 15% increase, driven by continued strength in petroleum analysis and materials testing markets. Operating profits increased 61% to over $8 million due to higher sales and benefits from restructuring activities completed in the prior year. Operating margins improved 490 basis points to 17%.
Excluding sales to Gazprom, second quarter net sales increased 31% in the Energy Systems & Controls segment due to strong activity with oil & gas and power utility maintenance customers. Total net sales increased 1% to $36 million. Operating profit grew 27% to $7 million in the quarter and operating margins improved 390 basis points to 19% as the segment realized the benefits of restructuring activities.
The Industrial Technology segment reported net sales of $101 million in the second quarter, 132% higher, due primarily to contributions from Neptune and organic sales gains throughout the segment. The segment produced a record $22 million of operating profit during the quarter and an operating margin of 22%.
Scientific & Industrial Imaging segment net sales rose 5% to $46 million, including sales of handheld instruments acquired as part of the NTGH transaction. Net orders increased 29%, supporting the Company's expectations for a stronger second half for the segment. Operating profits increased 16% to $7 million, and operating margins increased 150 basis points to 16%.
Conference Call to be Held at 10:00 AM (ET) Tomorrow
A conference call to discuss these results has been scheduled for 10:00 AM ET on Thursday, July 29, 2004. The call can be accessed via webcast or by dialing (800) 811-0667 (US/Canada) or +1 (913) 981-4901, using confirmation code 555496. Webcast information and conference call materials will be made available in the "Investor Information" section of Roper's website ) prior to the start of the call. Telephonic replays will be available for up to two weeks by calling +1 (719) 457-0820 and using the passcode 555496.
(www.roperind.com
Table 1: EBITDA (millions)
Table 2: Cash DEPS
Table 3: Sales to Gazprom (Millions)
About Roper Industries
Roper Industries is a diversified industrial growth company providing engineered products and solutions for global niche markets. Additional information about Roper Industries, including registration for Company's press releases via email, is available on the Company's website, www.roperind.com.
The information provided in this press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. These statements reflect management's current beliefs and are not guarantees of performance. They involve risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. Important risk factors include those discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003, and may be discussed in subsequent filings with the SEC. You should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. These statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update publicly any of them in light of new information or future events.
Roper Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (unaudited)
(Amounts in thousands)
Roper Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings (unaudited)
(Amounts in thousands, except per share data)
Roper Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries Selected Segment Financial Data (unaudited)
(Amounts in thousands and percents of net sales)
Roper Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (unaudited)
(Amounts in thousands)


