FILE:ROP/ROP-8K-20041028172640.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 28, 2004, Roper Industries, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release containing information about the Company's results of operations for the third quarter ended September 30, 2004. A copy of the press release is furnished as .
Exhibit 99.1
The Company uses certain non-GAAP financial measures in the press release. A description of these measures and the reasons why the Company believes such measures are useful are set forth below.
In the press release, the Company gives its projections for adjusted diluted earnings per share for fiscal 2004 excluding inventory revaluation costs from the acquisition of Neptune Technology Group Holdings, Inc. ("Neptune") and the effects from the acquisition of TransCore Holdings, Inc. ("TransCore") and related financing initiatives. The Company believes it is appropriate add back inventory revaluation costs from the acquisition of Neptune and the effects from the acquisition of TransCore and related financing initiatives to diluted earnings per share because these items are not indicative of the Company's core operating performance.   In addition, there is uncertainty as to the precise timing of the completion of the TransCore acquisition and related financing initiatives and management is not currently able to estimate the contributions (which are expected to be immaterial) that the ownership of TransCore during the later part of December could have on diluted earnings per share.   Management has used this adjusted measure of diluted earnings per share during fiscal 2004 to assess the Company's performance and believes it is important for investors to be able to evaluate the Company using the same measures used by management.  The Company also believes that analysts and other investors have used similar measures to value the Company and its performance during 2004.  The Company believes that diluted earnings per share is the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure to adjusted diluted earnings per share excluding inventory revaluation costs from the acquisition of Neptune and the effects from the acquisition of TransCore and related financing initiatives. 
In the press release, the Company also uses the supplemental non-GAAP financial measure EBITDA. EBITDA is defined as net earnings plus (a) interest expense, (b) income taxes and (c) depreciation and amortization. The Company believes EBITDA is an important indicator of operational strength and performance of the Company's business because it provides a link between profitability and operating cash flow. EBITDA as calculated by the Company is not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. In addition, EBITDA: (a) does not represent net income or cash flows from operations as defined by GAAP; (b) is not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund the Company's cash flow needs; and (c) should not be considered as an alternative to net earnings, operating income, cash flows from operating activities or the Company's other financial information determined under GAAP. The Company believes that the line on the Company's consolidated statement of operations entitled net earnings is the most directly comparable GAAP measure to EBITDA.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a)     .
Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired
(b)     .
Pro Forma Financial Information
(c)     .
Exhibits
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Roper Industries, Inc.
Contact Information: Chris Hix Director of Investor Relations +1 (770) 495-5100 investor-relations@roperind.com
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
reported record diluted earnings per share (DEPS) of $0.73 in the third quarter of 2004, as compared with $0.56 reported in the prior year period. Net earnings grew 53% to a record $27 million on record net sales of $240 million, a 40% increase. Net orders increased 53% in the quarter to $248 million.
Duluth, Georgia, October 28, 2004 .... Roper Industries, Inc. (NYSE: ROP)
"Our record results in the third quarter demonstrate our progress in developing our operational and strategic growth capabilities," said Brian Jellison, Chairman, President and CEO of Roper Industries. "The Neptune business acquired at the end of 2003 continues to perform strongly. We are on pace to achieve our integration plans with the power generation business acquired from RD Tech earlier this year. Our operations posted 11% organic order growth during the third quarter. Margins have strengthened throughout the year, and cash flow performance is very strong."
Roper reported record EBITDA of $56 million in the third quarter, 61% higher than the prior year, and EBITDA margins of 23.2%, a 320 basis point improvement. The Company converted 130% of third quarter net earnings into cash flow from operating activities, demonstrating its successful focus on cash generation. Net working capital efficiency improved sequentially from the second quarter. The Company reported $36 million of cash flow from operating activities in the third quarter, 68% higher than the prior year quarter, and continues to expect to achieve cash flow from operating activities of $150-$160 million in 2004 with record performance in the fourth quarter.
The Company expects 2004 net sales of $940-$945 million and affirmed its adjusted DEPS guidance of $2.58-$2.70, excluding inventory revaluation costs from the acquisition of Neptune Technology Group Holdings (NTGH) and any effects from the acquisition of TransCore and related financing initiatives.
Mr. Jellison said, "Over the past few years, we have accelerated our successful growth strategy with the acquisition of new growth platforms, such as Neptune and the recently announced agreement to acquire TransCore Holdings. TransCore clearly meets all of our disciplined criteria, with high levels of recurring revenue, multiple growth paths and scale advantages. The acquisition is expected to close in December, and we look forward to the TransCore team joining us." TransCore provides technologies and related services in areas such as radio frequency identification (RFID), satellite-based communication, mobile asset tracking, security applications and comprehensive toll system and processing services.
Third Quarter Results by Segment
All comparisons are made against the year-ago period unless otherwise stated.
In the Industrial Technology segment, net sales increased 133% to $101 million in the third quarter due primarily to contributions from the Neptune acquisition and organic sales gains. Net orders increased 153%. The segment produced a record $22 million of operating profit during the quarter and an operating margin of 22%.
Third quarter net sales in the Energy Systems & Controls segment improved 3% to $43 million. Excluding sales to Gazprom, third quarter net sales increased 22% due to strong activity with oil & gas and power utility maintenance customers, and contributions from the power generation business of RD Tech acquired in this year's second quarter. Excluding Gazprom, third quarter net orders increased 73%; the segment reported total net orders increased 27% to $48 million. The segment reported operating profit of $10 million and operating margins of 23%.
Instrumentation segment net sales grew 14% to $51 million in the third quarter, experiencing continued strength in petroleum analysis and materials testing markets. The segment earned $9 million of operating profit, and operating margins held steady at 18%. Net orders increased 22% to $55 million in the third quarter.
The Scientific & Industrial Imaging segment reported a net sales increase of 8% to $46 million, including sales of handheld instruments acquired as part of the NTGH transaction. Net orders increased 11%. The segment posted operating profit of $8 million with an 18% operating margin.
Conference Call to be Held at 10:00 AM (ET) Tomorrow
A conference call to discuss these results has been scheduled for 10:00 AM ET on Friday, October 29, 2004. The call can be accessed via webcast or by dialing (800) 289-0569 (US/Canada) or +1 (913) 981-5542, using confirmation code 880914. Webcast information and conference call materials will be made available in the "Investor Information" section of Roper's website () prior to the start of the call. Telephonic replays will be available for up to two weeks by calling +1 (719) 457-0820 and using the passcode 880914.
www.roperind.com
Table 1: EBITDA (Millions)
Table 2: Adjusted Diluted Earnings per Share
About Roper Industries
Roper Industries is a diversified industrial growth company providing engineered products and solutions for global niche markets. Additional information about Roper Industries, including registration to receive press releases via email, is available on the Company's website, .
www.roperind.com
The information provided in this press release contains forward looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. These forward looking statements include, among others, statements regarding our proposed acquisition of TransCore (the acquisition), the terms of our financing plan, the prospects for TransCore to compete in its market and achieve future growth and profit expectations, and the impact of the acquisition on our future results of operations and cash flows, and may be indicated by words or phrases such as "anticipate," "estimate," "plans," "expects," "projects," "should," "will," "believes" or "intends" and similar words and phrases. These statements reflect management's current beliefs and are not guarantees of performance. They involve risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward looking statement. Such risks and uncertainties include our ability to complete the acquisition, secure financing on favorable terms and through the facility and issuance currently anticipated, integrate the acquisition and realize expected synergies. We also face other general risks, including further reductions in our business with Gazprom, our ability to realize cost savings from our restructuring initiatives, unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates, difficulties associated with exports, risks associated with our international operations, difficulties in making and integrating acquisitions, risks associated with TransCore's business, increased product liability and insurance costs, increased warranty exposure, future competition, changes in the supply of, or price for, parts and components, environmental compliance costs and liabilities, risks and cost associated with asbestos related litigation and potential write-offs of our substantial intangible assets. Important risk factors include those discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003, and may be discussed in subsequent filings with the SEC. You should not place undue reliance on any forward looking statements. These statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update publicly any of them in light of new information or future events.
We refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures in this press release. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found within this press release.
Roper Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (unaudited)
(Amounts in thousands)
Roper Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings (unaudited)
(Amounts in thousands, except per share data)
Roper Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (unaudited)
(Amounts in thousands)
Roper Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries Selected Segment Financial Data (unaudited)
(Amounts in thousands and percents of net sales)


