FILE:ROP/ROP-8K-20041006195728.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
ITEM 1.01     ENTRY INTO A MATERIAL DEFINITIVE AGREEMENT
On October 6, 2004, Roper Industries, Inc. (the "Company") entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement") with TransCore Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("TransCore"), pursuant to which the Company will acquire TransCore by merging a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company with and into TransCore, with TransCore continuing as the surviving corporation of the merger and a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. The aggregate purchase price is $600 million, approximately $10 million of which is payable by issuance of Company stock options in exchange for certain TransCore stock options and approximately $590 million of which is payable in cash. The aggregate purchase price is subject to certain adjustments as set forth in the Merger Agreement including a net working capital adjustment. There are no material relationships between TransCore and the Company or any of its affiliates, other than in respect of the Merger Agreement. The merger is expected to close during the fourth quarter of 2004. Consummation of the Merger Agreement is subject to approval by regulatory authorities and certain other conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement. The merger is not conditioned upon receipt of financing by the Company. The foregoing description of the Merger Agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the complete text of the Merger Agreement. A copy of the Merger Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 2.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
ITEM 7.01     REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
As described in Item 1.01, on October 6, 2004, the Company entered into a Merger Agreement with TransCore, pursuant to which the Company will acquire TransCore by merging a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company with and into TransCore, with TransCore continuing as the surviving corporation of the merger and a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. On October 6, 2004, the Company issued a press release announcing that it had entered into the Merger Agreement. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
ITEM 9.01     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(a) Financial Statements of Business Acquired
      Not Applicable
(b) Pro Forma Financial Statements
      Not Applicable
(c) Exhibits
      2.1   Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of October 6, 2004, by and between Roper Industries, Inc. and Transcore Holdings, Inc.
      99.1   Press Release issued October 6, 2004.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Execution Version
        This AGREEMENT AND PLAN OF MERGER (this ""), dated as of October 6, 2004, is made and entered into by and between ROPER INDUSTRIES, INC., a Delaware corporation (the ""), and TRANSCORE HOLDINGS, INC., a Delaware corporation (the ""). The Purchaser and the Company are sometimes individually referred to herein as a "" and collectively as the "."
Agreement
Purchaser
Company
Party
Parties
        WHEREAS, the Parties desire to enter into this Agreement pursuant to which the Parties propose that a to-be-formed Delaware corporation that will be a wholly owned subsidiary ("") of the Purchaser will merge with and into the Company (the "") so that the Company will continue as the surviving corporation of the Merger and will become a wholly owned subsidiary of the Purchaser;
Merger Sub
Merger
        WHEREAS, the respective boards of directors of the Purchaser and the Company have approved and declared advisable the Merger, this Agreement and the other transactions contemplated hereby;
        WHEREAS, immediately following the execution of this Agreement, the Company shall obtain the approval by written consent of the requisite holders of its capital stock necessary to approve the Merger and the transactions contemplated by this Agreement;
        WHEREAS, each employee of the Company that is listed on has entered into an employment agreement (the "") with the Purchaser which becomes effective upon consummation of the Merger;
Exhibit 1.1(a)
Post-Closing Employment Agreements
        WHEREAS, in order to induce the Purchaser to enter into this Agreement, each of the Holders listed on has entered into a noncompete agreement with the Purchaser which becomes effective upon consummation of the Merger;
Exhibit 1.1(b)
        WHEREAS, in order to induce the Purchaser to enter into this Agreement, each of the Holders listed on has entered into a nondisclosure agreement with the Purchaser which becomes effective upon consummation of the Merger;
Exhibit 1.1(c)
        WHEREAS, in order to induce the Purchaser to enter into this Agreement, KRG Capital Partners, L.L.C., a Colorado limited liability company (""), has entered into a nondisclosure and nonsolicitation agreement with the Purchaser which becomes effective upon consummation of the Merger; and
KRG
        WHEREAS, the Parties desire to make certain representations, warranties and agreements in connection with the Merger.
ARTICLE I
Section 1.1 Definitions. The following terms, as used herein, have the following meanings:
        "" of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly Controlling or Controlled by or under direct or indirect common Control with such specified Person.
Affiliate
        "" means the aggregate exercise price which would be payable by all Class A Option Holders, Option IT Holders (including the Aggregate Option IT Warrant Exercise Price) and Class C-1 Option Holders if all Class A Common Stock Options, Option ITs (including Class B Common Stock Warrants underlying such Option ITs) and Class C-1 Convertible Options which are otherwise outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time were exercised in full immediately prior to the Effective Time.
Aggregate Option Exercise Price
        "" means the aggregate exercise price which would be payable by all Option IT Holders to convert all Class B Common Stock Warrants underlying all Option ITs into shares of Class A Common Stock if all such Class B Common Stock Warrants underlying such Option ITs which are otherwise outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time were converted in full immediately prior to the Effective Time.
Aggregate Option IT Warrant Exercise Price
        "" means the aggregate strike price which would be payable by all SAR Holders if all SARs which are otherwise outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time were cashed out in full immediately prior to the Effective Time.
Aggregate SAR Exercise Price
        "" means the aggregate exercise price which would be payable by all Warrant Holders if all Class A Common Stock Warrants and Class B Common Stock Warrants which are otherwise outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time were exercised in full immediately prior to the Effective Time. Aggregate Warrant Exercise Price shall not include the Aggregate Option IT Warrant Exercise Price.
Aggregate Warrant Exercise Price
        "" means the unaudited consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries as of July 31, 2004.
Balance Sheet
        "" means any bid, tender, proposal or quotation, whether oral or written, made by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries.
Bid
        "" means any day except Saturday, Sunday or any day on which banks are generally not open for business in the city of New York, New York.
Business Day
        "" means the Company's Bylaws, as amended.
Bylaws
        "" means the United States Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
CERCLA
        "" means the Company's Certificate of Incorporation and related Certificates of Designation, as amended.
Certificate of Incorporation
        "" means the aggregate amount payable (including, "success fees" or bonuses, or severance payments, and any amounts payable to offset any excise Taxes imposed under Section 4999 of the Code and any related income Taxes) by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries to any third party as a result of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, including, amounts payable to KRG pursuant to the KRG Management Agreement. Change of Control Payments shall not include amounts included as Transaction Expenses or Employee Liabilities.
Change of Control Payments
        "" means the period during which a claim for indemnification may be asserted hereunder by an Indemnified Party.
Claims Period
        "" means the Company's Class A Common Stock, $0.001 par value.
Class A Common Stock
        "" means an option to purchase Class A Common Stock issued pursuant to the Stock Option Plan (whether vested or unvested).
Class A Common Stock Option
        "" means a warrant to purchase Class A Common Stock (whether vested or unvested).
Class A Common Stock Warrant
        "" means a holder of a Class A Common Stock Option outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time.
Class A Option Holder
        "" means the aggregate cash amount required to redeem all Class A Redeemable Preferred Stock and all Class A-1 Redeemable Preferred Stock (including all accrued dividends) as of the Effective Time pursuant to the Certificate of Incorporation.
Class A Redeemable Preferred Redemption Amount
        "" means the Company's Class A Redeemable Preferred Stock, $43.89 par value.
Class A Redeemable Preferred Stock
        "" means a holder of Class A Redeemable Preferred Stock or Class A-1 Redeemable Preferred Stock outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time.
Class A Redeemable Preferred Stockholder
        "" means the Company's Class A-1 Redeemable Preferred Stock, $43.89 par value.
Class A-1 Redeemable Preferred Stock
        "" means the Company's Class B Non-Voting Convertible Common Stock, $0.001 par value.
Class B Common Stock
        "" means a warrant to purchase Class B Common Stock (whether vested or unvested).
Class B Common Stock Warrant
        "" means a holder of Class B-1 Convertible Preferred Stock outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time.
Class B Convertible Preferred Stockholder
        "" means the Company's Class B-1 Convertible Preferred Stock, $0.01 par value.
Class B-1 Convertible Preferred Stock
        "" means the aggregate amount of accrued dividends related to all Class C Convertible Preferred Stock and all Class C-1 Convertible Preferred Stock as of the Effective Time pursuant to the Certificate of Incorporation.
Class C Convertible Preferred Dividend Amount
        " means the Company's Class C Convertible Preferred Stock, $0.01 par value.
Class C Convertible Preferred Stock"
        "" means a holder of Class C Convertible Preferred Stock or Class C-1 Convertible Preferred Stock outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time.
Class C Convertible Preferred Stockholder
        "" means an option to purchase Class C-1 Convertible Preferred Stock issued pursuant to the Stock Option Plan (whether vested or unvested).
Class C-1 Convertible Option
        "" means the Company's Class C-1 Convertible Preferred Stock, $0.01 par value.
Class C-1 Convertible Preferred Stock
        "" means a holder of a Class C-1 Convertible Option outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time.
Class C-1 Option Holder
        "" means the consummation of the transactions contemplated by Article II of this Agreement, as set forth in Section 8.1 of this Agreement.
Closing
        "" means the date on which the Closing occurs.
Closing Date
        "" means all indebtedness of the Company and any of its Subsidiaries, as of the Closing Date, with respect to borrowed money (other than intercompany), notes payable and capital leases, including any interest accrued thereon and prepayment or similar penalties and expenses which would be payable if such indebtedness were paid in full as of the Closing Date. Closing Date Indebtedness shall not include any liabilities related to Company Letters of Credit and Surety Bonds which have not been drawn down upon as of the Closing Date.
Closing Date Indebtedness
        "" means the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
        "" means that letter agreement, dated the date hereof, between the Purchaser, on the one hand, and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and JPMorgan Chase Bank (collectively, ""), on the other hand, relating to certain financing commitments made by JPMorgan in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
Commitment Letter
JPMorgan
        "" means a holder of Class A Common Stock or Class B Common Stock outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time.
Common Stockholder
        "" means any certificate, agreement, document or other instrument, other than this Agreement, to be executed and delivered by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby.
Company Ancillary Documents
        "" means each Employee Benefit Plan under which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries has any liabilities directly or indirectly.
Company Benefit Plan
        "" means any Intellectual Property that is owned by or licensed to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, including the Company Software.
Company Intellectual Property
        "" means all Software (other than Company Proprietary Software) used by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries.
Company Licensed Software
        "" means all Software owned by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries.
Company Proprietary Software
        "" means all of the Registered Intellectual Property owned by or filed in the name of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries.
Company Registered Intellectual Property
        "" means the Company Licensed Software and the Company Proprietary Software.
Company Software
        "" means Class A Common Stock, Class A Redeemable Preferred Stock, Class A-1 Redeemable Preferred Stock, Class B Common Stock, Class B-1 Convertible Preferred Stock, Class C Convertible Preferred Stock and Class C-1 Convertible Preferred Stock.
Company Stock
        "" means any data or information of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries (including trade secrets) that is valuable to the operation of the Company's or any of its Subsidiaries' business and not generally known to the public or competitors.
Confidential Information
        "" means, when used with respect to any specified Person, the power to direct the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise.
Control
        "" shall mean the Class A Common Stock Options listed on which are held by the Persons and in the amounts set forth on , as such Schedule is revised and amended by the Closing Date .
Conversion Options
Schedule B
Schedule B
Schedule B
        "" means the ten largest customers of the Company and its Subsidiaries in terms of annual revenues during the Company's fiscal year ended January 31, 2004.
Customers
        "" means the Company's Deferred Option Plan.
Deferred Option Plan
        "" means the Delaware General Corporation Law.
DGCL
        "" means (a) any plan, fund, program, policy, agreement, arrangement or scheme, including each plan, fund, program, policy, agreement, arrangement or scheme maintained or required to be maintained under the Laws of a jurisdiction outside the United States of America pursuant to which a Person provides compensation or benefits (other than base salary or base hourly wages) for services rendered to such Person by employees, former employees, directors, managers, officers, consultants, independent contractors, contingent workers or leased employees or the dependents of any of them (whether written or oral), (b) any plan, program or policy described in Section 3(3) of ERISA (as determined without regard to whether such plan, program, or policy is subject to ERISA) with respect to which such Person has any liabilities, direct or indirect, and (c) any agreements or other arrangements which provide benefits upon a termination of employment with such Person or upon a change in control of such Person.
Employee Benefit Plan
        "" means the aggregate amount payable by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries to or for the benefit of employees of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries in accordance with the applicable agreement (whether written or oral) or other governing document or policy as a result of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement (including, "success fees" or bonuses, or severance payments, and any amounts payable to offset any excise Taxes imposed under Section 4999 of the Code and any related income Taxes); provided, however, that Employee Liabilities shall not include (a) amounts payable pursuant to the Stock Appreciation Rights Plan and the Employee Retention Plan and (b) amounts payable by the Company as a result of actions taken or omissions made after the Closing by the Purchaser or its Affiliates that are not expressly contemplated by this Agreement.
Employee Liabilities
        "" means the Company's Retention Plan B.
Employee Retention Plan
        "" means any employment contract, consulting agreement, termination or severance agreement, change of control agreement, non-compete agreement or any other agreement respecting the terms and conditions of employment or payment of compensation, or of a consulting or independent contractor relationship in respect to any current or former officer, employee, consultant or independent contractor.
Employment Agreement
        "" means all Laws relating to protection of surface or ground water, drinking water supply, soil, surface or subsurface strata or medium, or ambient air, pollution control, product registration and Hazardous Materials.
Environmental Laws
        "" means the Class B Convertible Preferred Stockholders, the Class C Convertible Preferred Stockholders, the Common Stockholders, the Warrant Holders, the Class A Option Holders, the Option IT Holders, the Class C-1 Option Holders and the SAR Holders.
Equity Holders
        "" means Class B-1 Convertible Preferred Stock, Class C Convertible Preferred Stock, Class C-1 Convertible Preferred Stock, Class A Common Stock, Class B Common Stock, Class A Common Stock Warrants, Class B Common Stock Warrants, Class A Common Stock Options, Option ITs, Class C-1 Convertible Options and SARs.
Equity Stock
        "" means the United States Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
ERISA
        "" means any Person (whether incorporated or unincorporated) that together with the Company or any of its Subsidiaries would be deemed a "single employer" within the meaning of Section 414 of the Code.
ERISA Affiliate
        "" means SunTrust Bank, a Georgia banking corporation.
Escrow Agent
        "" means KRG or such other Person as shall hereafter be designated in writing by the Shareholder Representative to serve as the Exchange Agent.
Exchange Agent
        "" means the Proposed Closing Statement as finally determined in accordance with Section 3.8 of this Agreement.
Final Closing Statement
        "" means (a) the audited consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries as of January 31, 2004 and the audited consolidated statements of income, stockholders' equity and cash flows of the Company and its Subsidiaries for the 12-month period then ended and (b) the unaudited consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries as of July 31, 2004 and the unaudited consolidated statements of income, stockholders' equity and cash flows of the Company and its Subsidiaries for the 6-month period then ended.
Financial Statements
        "" means an amount equal to the sum of (a) the total number of shares of Class A Common Stock outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time, (b) the total number of shares of Class A Common Stock that the shares of Class B Common Stock outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time are convertible into pursuant to the Certificate of Incorporation, (c) the total number of shares of Class A Common Stock that the shares of Class B-1 Convertible Preferred Stock outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time are convertible into pursuant to the Certificate of Incorporation, (d) the total number of shares of Class A Common Stock that the shares of Class C Convertible Preferred Stock outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time are convertible into pursuant to the Certificate of Incorporation, (e) the total number of shares of Class A Common Stock that the shares of Class C-1 Convertible Preferred Stock outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time are convertible into pursuant to the Certificate of Incorporation, (f) the total number of shares of Class A Common Stock that could be obtained through the exercise of all Class B Common Stock Warrants (and the conversion of underlying Class B Common Stock) underlying all Option ITs outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time (without any withholding of shares to pay the exercise price or Taxes), (g) the total number of shares of Class A Common Stock that could be obtained through the exercise of all Class A Common Stock Options outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time (including for this purpose the total number of such shares of Class A Common Stock that could be obtained through the exercise of the Conversion Options outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time, notwithstanding the application of the last sentence of Section 3.5(a)(vii)) (without any withholding of shares to pay the exercise price or Taxes), (h) the total number of shares of Class A Common Stock that could be obtained through the exercise and conversion of all Class C-1 Convertible Options outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time (without any withholding of shares to pay the exercise price or Taxes), (i) the total number of shares of Class A Common Stock that could be obtained through the exercise of all Class A Common Stock Warrants outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time (without any withholding of shares to pay the exercise price or Taxes), (j) the total number of shares of Class A Common Stock that could be obtained through the exercise and conversion of all Class B Common Stock Warrants outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time (without any withholding of shares to pay the exercise price or Taxes), (k) the total number of shares of Class A Common Stock underlying all SARs outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time (without any withholding of shares to pay the exercise price or Taxes).
Fully Diluted Shares
plus
plus
plus
plus
plus
plus
plus
plus
plus
plus
        "" means generally accepted accounting principles as applied in the United States of America.
GAAP
        "" means the General Escrow Agreement in the form attached hereto as to this Agreement.
General Escrow Agreement
Exhibit 1.1(d)
        "" means any Bid that if accepted or awarded would result in a contract or agreement with (a) any Governmental Entity, (b) any prime contractor to any Governmental Entity or (c) any subcontractor to any Governmental Entity or any prime contractor to any Governmental Entity.
Government Bid
        "" means any contract or agreement between the Company or any of its Subsidiaries and (a) any Governmental Entity, (b) any prime contractor to any Governmental Entity or (c) any subcontractor to any Governmental Entity or any prime contractor to any Governmental Entity.
Government Contract
        "" means any federal, state or local or foreign government, any political subdivision thereof or any court, administrative or regulatory agency, department, instrumentality, body or commission or other governmental authority or agency, domestic or foreign.
Governmental Entity
        "" means any waste, pollutant, contaminant, hazardous substance, toxic, ignitable, reactive or corrosive substance, hazardous waste, special waste, industrial substance, by-product, process-intermediate product or waste, petroleum or petroleum-derived substance or waste, chemical liquids or solids, liquid or gaseous products, or any constituent of any such substance or waste, the use, handling or disposal of which by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries is in any way governed by or subject to any applicable Law.
Hazardous Materials
        "" means the Equity Holders and the Class A Redeemable Preferred Stockholders.
Holders
        "" means the United States Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
HSR Act
        "" means a Purchaser Indemnified Party or a Shareholder Indemnified Party.
Indemnified Party
        "" means any or all of the following and all rights arising out of or associated therewith: (a) all United States and foreign patents and applications therefor and all reissues, divisions, renewals, extensions, provisionals, continuations and continuations-in-part thereof; (b) all inventions (whether patentable or not), invention disclosures, improvements, mask works, trade secrets, manufacturing processes, test and qualification processes, designs, schematics, proprietary information, know-how, technology, technical data and customer lists, and all documentation relating to any of the foregoing throughout the world; (c) all works of authorship (whether copyrightable or not), copyrights, copyright registrations and applications therefor, and all other rights corresponding thereto throughout the world; (d) all industrial designs and any registrations and applications therefor throughout the world; (e) all Software; (f) all internet uniform resource locators, domain names, trade names, logos, slogans, designs, trade dress, common law trademarks and service marks, trademark and service mark and trade dress registrations and applications therefor throughout the world; (g) all databases and data collections and all rights therein throughout the world; (h) all moral and economic rights of authors and inventors, however denominated, throughout the world; and (i) any similar or equivalent rights to any of the foregoing anywhere in the world.
Intellectual Property
        "" means the Intellectual Property Escrow Agreement in the form attached hereto as to this Agreement.
Intellectual Property Escrow Agreement
Exhibit 1.1(e)
        "" (a) with respect to the Company means all facts actually known by each of John Worthington, John Simler, Joseph Grabias, David Sparks, Kelly Gravelle, George McGraw, Claudia Wiegand, Douglas Terry, Michael Holling, Alex Allegretto, Donald Thornton, and Tim Bickmore on the date hereof and (b) with respect to the Purchaser means all facts actually known by each of Brian Jellison, Tom O'Grady, Christopher Hix, Timothy Winfrey, Will Crocker, C. Brant Sharp, Benjamin W. Wood, and Marilyn Messer on the date hereof.
Knowledge
        "" means the Management Agreement between the Company and KRG, dated September 3, 1999, as amended.
KRG Management Agreement
        "" means all statutes, rules, codes, regulations, restrictions, ordinances, orders, decrees, approvals, directives, judgments, injunctions, writs, awards and decrees of, or issued by, all Governmental Entities.
Laws
        "" means those parcels of real property or portions thereof which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries is the lessee (together with those fixtures and improvements thereon which are included in the terms of the leases therefor).
Leased Real Property
        "" means all notifications, licenses, permits (including environmental, construction and operation permits), franchises, certificates, approvals, exemptions, classifications, registrations and other similar documents and authorizations issued by any Governmental Entity, and applications therefor.
Licenses
        "" mean all mortgages, liens, pledges, security interests, charges, claims, restrictions and encumbrances of any nature whatsoever.
Liens
        "" means any state of facts (other than a state of facts existing on the date hereof which are in the Purchaser's Knowledge), change, event, effect or occurrence (when taken together with all other states of fact (other than states of facts existing on the date hereof which are in the Purchaser's Knowledge), changes, events, effects or occurrences) that is materially adverse to the financial condition, results of operations, properties, assets or liabilities of the Company and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole; provided, however, that a Material Adverse Effect shall not include (i) effects or changes that are generally applicable to the industries and markets in which the Company and its Subsidiaries operate, (ii) changes in the United States or world financial markets or general economic conditions, (iii) effects arising from war or terrorism or (iv) effects directly or primarily arising out of the execution or delivery of this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby or the public announcement thereof.
Material Adverse Effect
        "" means a deferred option to purchase mutual fund shares issued pursuant to the Deferred Option Plan (whether vested or unvested).
Mutual Fund Option IT
        "" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in the Post-Closing Employment Agreements.
New Option Closing Value
        "" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in the Post-Closing Employment Agreements.
New Options
        "" means a deferred option to purchase (a) Class A-1 Redeemable Preferred Stock and (b) Class B Common Stock Warrants issued pursuant to the Deferred Option Plan (whether vested or unvested), but specifically excludes the Mutual Fund Option ITs.
Option IT
        "" means a holder of an Option IT outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time.
Option IT Holder
        "" means the portion of Option ITs related to Class A-1 Redeemable Preferred Stock equal to (a)(i) the aggregate cash amount required to redeem all shares of Class A-1 Redeemable Preferred Stock underlying all Option ITs outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time (ii) the aggregate exercise price for all Option ITs outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time (not including the Aggregate Option IT Warrant Exercise Price) (b) the aggregate amount of accrued dividends related to all shares of Class A-1 Redeemable Preferred Stock underlying all Option ITs outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time pursuant to the Deferred Option Plan.
Option IT Redemption Amount
minus
plus
        "" means the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice of the Company and its Subsidiaries
Ordinary Course
        "" means parcels of real property owned by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries (together with all fixtures and improvements thereon).
Owned Real Property
        "" means, with respect to each Class A Common Stock Option and each Class C-1 Convertible Option, the amount, if any, by which (a)(i) the Per Share Equity Stock Closing Merger Consideration (ii) the number of shares of Class A Common Stock for which such Class A Common Stock Option or Class C-1 Convertible Option, as applicable, is exercisable into immediately prior to the Effective Time pursuant to the Certificate of Incorporation exceeds (b) the per share exercise price of such Class A Common Stock Option or Class C-1 Convertible Option, as applicable.
Per Option Closing Merger Consideration
multiplied
by
        "" means, with respect to each SAR, the amount, if any, by which (a) the Per Share Equity Stock Closing Merger Consideration exceeds (b) the per share strike price of such SAR.
Per SAR Closing Merger Consideration
        "" means an amount equal to (a)(i) the Merger Consideration (ii) the Aggregate Option Exercise Price (iii) the Aggregate Warrant Exercise Price (iv) the Aggregate SAR Exercise Price (v) the Class A Redeemable Preferred Redemption Amount (vi) the Class C Convertible Preferred Dividend Amount (vii) the Option IT Redemption Amount (b) the number of Fully Diluted Shares.
Per Share Equity Stock Closing Merger Consideration
plus
plus
plus
minus
minus
minus
divided by
        "" means, with respect to each Class A Common Stock Warrant and each Class B Common Stock Warrant, the amount, if any, by which (a)(i) the Per Share Equity Stock Closing Merger Consideration (ii) the number of shares of Class A Common Stock for which such Class A Common Stock Warrant or Class B Common Stock warrant, as applicable, is exercisable into immediately prior to the Effective Time pursuant to the Certificate of Incorporation exceeds (b) the per share exercise price of such Class A Common Stock Warrant or Class B Common Stock Warrant, as applicable.
Per Warrant Closing Merger Consideration
multiplied
by
        "" means (a) Liens for Taxes not yet due and payable, (b) statutory Liens of landlords with respect to Leased Real Property, (c) Liens of carriers, warehousemen, mechanics, materialmen and repairmen incurred in the Ordinary Course and not yet delinquent (d) in the case of Real Property, in addition to items (a) and (b), zoning, building, or other restrictions, variances, covenants, rights of way, encumbrances, easements and other minor irregularities in title, none of which, individually or in the aggregate, interfere in any material respect with the present use of or occupancy of the affected parcel by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries; and (e) liens securing the Closing Date Indebtedness as disclosed in (which liens shall be terminated on the Closing Date upon payment in full of the Closing Date Indebtedness).
Permitted Liens
Schedule 4.7
        "" means, any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company, trust, unincorporated organization, other entity or Governmental Entity.
Person
        "" means, for each Equity Holder, the total number of Fully Diluted Shares held by such Equity Holder immediately prior to the Effective Time the total number of Fully Diluted Shares.
Pro Rata Percentage
divided
by
        "" means any certificate, agreement, document or other instrument, other than this Agreement, to be executed and delivered by the Purchaser in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby.
Purchaser Ancillary Documents
        "" means the Purchaser and its Affiliates (which, following the Closing, shall include the Company and its Subsidiaries), each of their respective officers, directors, employees, agents and representatives and each of the heirs, executors, successors and assigns of any of the foregoing.
Purchaser Indemnified Parties
        "" means the Leased Real Property and the Owned Real Property.
Real Property
        "" means the Company's and its Subsidiaries' accounts receivable reflected on the Balance Sheet and the Company's and its Subsidiaries' accounts receivable outstanding as of the date hereof.
Receivables
        "" means all United States and foreign: (a) patents and patent applications (including provisional applications); (b) registered trademarks and service marks, applications to register trademarks and service marks, registered and applications to register trade dress, intent-to-use applications, or other registrations or applications for trademarks and service marks and trade dress; (c) registered copyrights and applications for copyright registration; and (d) domain name registrations.
Registered Intellectual Property
        "" means the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-1 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 10, 2004, as amended
Registration Statement
        "" means, with respect to any Hazardous Material, any spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting, emptying, discharging, injecting, escaping, leaching, dumping or disposing into any surface or ground water, drinking water supply, soil, surface or subsurface strata or medium, or the ambient air.
Release
        "" means a stock appreciation right issued pursuant to the Stock Appreciation Rights Plan (whether vested or unvested).
SAR
        "" means a holder of an SAR outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time.
SAR Holder
        "" means the Shareholder Agreement among the Company and certain of the Equity Holders dated as of September 3, 1999, as amended.
Shareholder Agreement
        "" means the Equity Holders and their respective heirs, executors, successors and assigns of any of the foregoing.
Shareholder Indemnified Parties
        "" means all computer software programs, together with any error corrections, updates, modifications, or enhancements thereto, in both machine-readable form and human-readable form, including all firmware and all comments code and any procedural code.
Software
        "" means the Company's 1999 Stock Appreciation Rights Plan.
Stock Appreciation Rights Plan
        "" means the Company's 1999 Stock Option and Incentive Plan.
Stock Option Plan
        "" means any Person of which the Company (or other specified Person) shall own directly or indirectly through a Subsidiary, a nominee arrangement or otherwise at least a majority of the outstanding capital stock (or other shares of beneficial interest) entitled to vote generally or otherwise have the power to elect a majority of the board of directors or similar governing body or the legal power to direct the business or policies of such Person. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the term Subsidiary, with respect to the Company, shall also include JHK Engineering, PC, a New York professional service corporation and TransCore ITS-Michigan, P.C., a Michigan professional service corporation; provided, however, that such term shall not include Amtech Systems (Hong Kong) Limited, a body corporate under the laws of Hong Kong.
Subsidiary
        "" means the top ten suppliers of the Company and its Subsidiaries in terms of amounts paid to such Suppliers during the Company's fiscal year ended January 31, 2004.
Supplier
        "" means the indemnification obligations described in Sections 10.1(b), 10.1(c), 10.1(d), 10.1(e), 10.1(f), and 10.1(g).
Surviving Obligations
        "" means the representations and warranties contained in Section 4.2 (Authorization), Section 4.3 (Capital Stock), Section 4.4 (Subsidiaries), Section 4.15 (Tax Returns; Taxes), Section 4.23 (Transactions with Affiliates), Section 4.26 (Ethical Practices), Section 4.28 (Brokers, Finders and Investment Bankers) and Section 4.29 (Closing Certificate and Closing Date Expense Statement).
Surviving Representations
        "" means all taxes, assessments, charges, duties, fees, levies and other governmental charges, including income, franchise, capital stock, real property, personal property, tangible, withholding, employment, payroll, social security, social contribution, unemployment compensation, disability, transfer, sales, use, excise, gross receipts, value-added and all other taxes of any kind for which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries may have any liability imposed by any Governmental Entity, whether disputed or not, and any charges, interest, additions to tax, or penalties imposed by any Governmental Entity.
Taxes
        "" means any Tax refund, Tax credit or reduction in Tax actually realized by the Purchaser (including for all periods after the Closing Date, the Company).
Tax Benefit
        "" means any report, return, declaration or other information required to be supplied to a Governmental Entity in connection with Taxes, including estimated returns and reports of every kind with respect to Taxes.
Tax Return
        "" means the date prior to the Closing when this Agreement is terminated in accordance with Article IX.
Termination Date
        "" means the legal, accounting, financial advisory and other third party advisory or consulting fees and expenses incurred by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, the transactions contemplated by the Registration Statement and other related matters (including, amounts payable to (a) Blank Rome LLP, (b) Lehman Brothers, (c) Bear Stearns & Co. Inc., (d) Ernst & Young LLP, or (e) KRG). Notwithstanding the foregoing, Transaction Expenses shall not include (i) amounts included as Change of Control Payments or Employee Liabilities and (ii) any fees or expenses incurred by the Company or its Subsidiaries in connection with the Purchaser's financing for the transaction contemplated hereby.
Transaction Expenses
        "" means the Income Tax Regulations, promulgated under the Code.
Treasury Regulations
        "" means all direct costs and expenses incurred by the Company and its Subsidiaries in connection with the Viastar Matter from and after the Closing (excluding any such amounts paid through the Viastar Funding Amount).
Viastar Costs
        "" means all Taxes (in the case of income Taxes, after taking into account any available deductions for net operating losses of the Company and its Subsidiaries for periods ending on or before the Closing Date, with such availability determined as if the Company and its Subsidiaries were not included in the Purchaser's consolidated group) and other liabilities (other than Viastar Costs) incurred by the Company and its Subsidiaries in connection with the Viastar matter or the distribution of the Viastar Proceeds to the extent not paid prior to the Closing Date or not otherwise accrued as a liability on the Final Closing Statement (excluding any such amounts paid through the Viastar Funding Amount).
Viastar Liabilities
        "" means , JAMS Case Number 1410003193.
Viastar Matter
TransCore Holdings, Inc. v. Rocky Mountain Mezzanine Fund II, LP, et al
        "" means any settlement or arbitration proceeds, if any, received after the Closing Date in connection with the Viastar Matter net of all Viastar Costs and Viastar Liabilities.
Viastar Proceeds
        "" means the United States Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
WARN
        "" means a holder of a Class A Common Stock Warrant or a Class B Common Stock Warrant outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time.
Warrant Holder
Section 1.2 . Unless the context of this Agreement otherwise clearly requires, (a) references to the plural include the singular, and references to the singular include the plural, (b) references to one gender include the other gender, (c) the words "include," "includes" and "including" do not limit the preceding terms or words and shall be deemed to be followed by the words "without limitation", (d) the terms "hereof", "herein", "hereunder", "hereto" and similar terms in this Agreement refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision of this Agreement, (e) the terms "day" and "days" mean and refer to calendar day(s) and (f) the terms "year" and "years" mean and refer to calendar year(s). Unless otherwise set forth herein, references in this Agreement to (i) any document, instrument or agreement (including this Agreement) (A) includes and incorporates all exhibits, schedules and other attachments thereto, (B) includes all documents, instruments or agreements issued or executed in replacement thereof and (C) means such document, instrument or agreement, or replacement or predecessor thereto, as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time in accordance with its terms and in effect at any given time, and (ii) a particular Law means such Law as amended, modified, supplemented or succeeded, from time to time and in effect at any given time. All Article, Section, Exhibit and Schedule references herein are to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules of this Agreement, unless otherwise specified. This Agreement shall not be construed as if prepared by one of the Parties, but rather according to its fair meaning as a whole, as if all Parties had prepared it.
Construction
Section 1.3 . Each of the following terms is defined in the Section set forth opposite such term:
Other Definitions
Section 1.4 Accounting Terms. All accounting terms not specifically defined herein shall be construed in accordance with GAAP.
ARTICLE II
Section 2.1 . Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, on the Closing Date, Merger Sub shall merge with and into the Company at theEffective Time. The Parties shall cause a certificate of merger (the "") to be properly executed and filed on the Closing Date with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware. The "" shall be the time at which the Certificate of Merger is duly filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware or such later time as may be specified in the Certificate of Merger.
Agreement to Merge
Certificate of Merger
Effective Time
Section 2.2 . At the Effective Time, the effect of the Merger shall be as provided in this Agreement and the applicable provisions of Delaware Law. Subject to the foregoing, from and after the Effective Time, the Surviving Corporation (as defined below) shall possess all rights, privileges, immunities, powers and franchises and be subject to all the obligations, restrictions, disabilities, liabilities, debts and duties of the Company and Merger Sub. From and after the Effective Time, the separate corporate existence of Merger Sub shall cease and the Company shall continue as the surviving corporation in the Merger (the Company, as the surviving corporation in the Merger, sometimes being referred to herein as the "").
Effect of the Merger
Surviving Corporation
Section 2.3 . Subject to Section 6.17 hereof, the certificate of incorporation and bylaws of the Company in effect immediately prior to the Effective Time shall be the certificate of incorporation and bylaws of the Surviving Corporation, until the same shall thereafter be altered, amended or repealed in accordance with applicable Law.
Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws
Section 2.4 . The directors and officers of Merger Sub serving in those positions immediately prior to the Effective Time shall become, as of the Effective Time, and shall remain the directors and officers of the Surviving Corporation after the Merger until their successors are duly elected and qualified.
Directors and Officers
ARTICLE III
Section 3.1 . The aggregate cash amount to be paid by the Purchaser at Closing (the ") shall be an amount equal to (a) Six Hundred Million Dollars ($600,000,000), (b) the amount of the Estimated Closing Cash, if any, determined in accordance with Section 3.8(b) of this Agreement, plus (c) the amount of any Estimated Working Capital Surplus, if any, determined in accordance with Section 3.8(b) of this Agreement, (d) the Closing Date Indebtedness, (e) the amount of any Estimated Working Capital Deficit, if any, determined in accordance with Section 3.8(b) of this Agreement, (f) Thirty Million Two Hundred Fifty-One Thousand Dollars ($30,251,000) (which represents the initial value of the General Escrow Amount), (g) the Intellectual Property Escrow Amount, (h) the aggregate amount of all Employee Liabilities (to the extent not paid prior to the Closing Date), (i) the aggregate amount of all Change of Control Payments (to the extent not paid prior to the Closing Date), (j) the aggregate amount of all Transaction Expenses (to the extent not paid prior to the Closing Date), (k) the aggregate amount payable pursuant to the Employee Retention Plan (to the extent not paid prior to the Closing Date) (l) the Viastar Funding Amount (m) the D&O Tail Premium; provided, however, there shall be no duplication in any of the reductions and there shall be no reduction as otherwise provided in this Section 3.1 to the extent such liability or obligation is reserved for in both the Estimated Closing Statement and the Final Closing Statement.
Merger Consideration
"Merger Consideration
plus
minus
minus
minus
minus
minus
minus
minus
minus
minus
minus
Section 3.2 Escrows; Viastar Funding Amount.
Section 3.3 Closing Certificate and Closing Date Expense Certificate.
Section 3.4 Payment of Merger Consideration. On the Closing Date, the Purchaser shall:
Section 3.5 . As of the Effective Time, by virtue of the Merger and without any action on the part of any Holder:
Effect on Stock
Section 3.6 Exchange of Certificates.
Section 3.7 Payment of Other Amounts Payable at Closing. On the Closing Date, the Purchaser shall:
Section 3.8 Closing Date Cash Calculation; Adjustment of Purchase Price.
Section 3.9 . At the Closing, the Purchaser shall cause the Company to remain an obligor on any letters of credit or surety bonds of the Company existing immediately prior to Closing (""). Notwithstanding anything to the contrary provided in this Agreement, the Parties hereby acknowledge that the Company Letters of Credit and Surety Bonds (to the extent not drawn upon as of the Closing) shall not be deemed to be a liability of the Company for purposes of this Agreement.
Letters of Credit
Company Letters of Credit and Surety Bonds
Section 3.10 . Prior to the Closing, the Company may distribute any Viastar Proceeds, if any, to the Equity Holders. Following the Closing, the Company shall permit the Shareholder Representative to direct attorneys to settle the Viastar Matter on terms and conditions deemed appropriate in the sole discretion of the Shareholder Representative. Within ten (10) days following receipt by the Company of any Viastar Proceeds, the Company shall deduct all Viastar Costs and Viastar Liabilities from the Viastar Proceeds and distribute such net amount of the Viastar Proceeds to an account designated to the Purchaser by the Shareholder Representative. The net proceeds of the Viastar Matter, subject to any costs and expenses incurred or anticipated to be incurred as determined in the sole discretion of the Shareholder Representative, shall be distributed by the Shareholder Representative to the Equity Holders in accordance with their Pro Rata Percentage as and when determined by the Shareholder Representative in their sole discretion. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Shareholder Representative shall not settle the Viastar Matter unless such settlement includes no payment or other obligation (other than an unconditional release of the defendants in the Viastar Matter) or restriction of any type by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates (unless paid from the Viastar Funding Amount on behalf of the Company) and an unconditional release of the Company and each of its Subsidiaries and Affiliates from all liabilities arising out of such matter.
Viastar Matter
ARTICLE IV
        The Company represents and warrants to the Purchaser as follows as of the date hereof and the Closing Date:
Section 4.1 . The Company and each of its Subsidiaries is a corporation or other entity duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation or organization set forth on . The Company and each of its Subsidiaries has all requisite power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and to carry on its business as now being conducted. The Company and each of its Subsidiaries is duly qualified to transact business as a foreign corporation or other organization, as applicable, and is in good standing in each other jurisdiction in which the ownership or leasing of its properties or assets or the conduct of its business requires such qualification, except where the failure to so qualify or to be in good standing has not had and would not have a material adverse effect on the Company or any of its Subsidiaries. lists each jurisdiction in which each of the Company and its Subsidiaries is qualified to conduct business. The Company has heretofore made available to the Purchaser correct and complete copies of the charter documents of the Company and each of its Subsidiaries as currently in effect and the corporate or other organizational record books, as applicable, with respect to actions taken by its shareholders and board of directors or other governing body, as applicable.
Organization
Schedule 4.1
Schedule 4.1
Section 4.2 Authorization.
Section 4.3 Capital Stock.
Section 4.4 . lists each Subsidiary of the Company. Except as set forth on , the Company owns, directly or indirectly, all of the issued and outstanding capital stock or other equity interests of each of its Subsidiaries, free and clear of all Liens other than Liens related to the Company's senior credit facility and limitations imposed by federal and state securities Laws. Except as set forth on , neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries has ever owned, nor does it currently own, directly or indirectly, any capital stock or other equities, securities or interests in any other corporation or in any limited liability company, partnership, joint venture or other entity.
Subsidiaries
Schedule 4.4
Schedule 4.4
Schedule 4.4
Section 4.5 . The execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and the Company Ancillary Documents, the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby, and the fulfillment of and compliance with the terms and conditions hereof and thereof, do not or will not (as the case may be), with the passing of time or the giving of notice or both, violate or conflict with, constitute a material breach of or material default under, result in the material loss of any benefit under, permit the acceleration of any material obligation under or create in any party the right to terminate, modify or cancel, (a) any term or provision of the charter documents of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, (b) except as indicated on , any Company Contract or any other contract, agreement, permit, franchise, license or other instrument applicable to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, (c) any judgment, decree or order of any Governmental Entity to which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries is a party or by which the Company, any of its Subsidiaries or any of their respective properties are bound or (d) any Law or arbitration award applicable to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries other than with respect to clause (b) above any violation, conflict, breach, default, loss, acceleration, termination, modification or cancellation that would not result in a Material Adverse Effect on the Company or any of its Subsidiaries. No material consent, approval, order or authorization of, or registration, declaration or filing with, any Governmental Entity is required with respect to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries in connection with the execution, delivery or performance of this Agreement or the Company Ancillary Documents or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, except as required by the HSR Act.
Absence of Restrictions and Conflicts
Schedule 4.14
Section 4.6 Real Property.
Section 4.7 . Except as set forth on , the Company and its Subsidiaries have good and marketable title to all of their respective property and assets, free and clear of all Liens, except Permitted Liens. All material equipment and other material items of tangible personal property and material assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries (a) are in operating condition and capable being used for their intended purposes, ordinary wear and tear excepted, (b) are usable in the Ordinary Course and (c) conform to all applicable Laws in all material respects. Except as set forth on , since January 31, 2004, neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries has sold, transferred or disposed of any assets, other than sales of inventory in the Ordinary Course.
Title to Assets; Related Matters
Schedule 4.7
Schedule 4.7
Section 4.8 . The Company's and its Subsidiaries' inventory (both as of the date hereof and on the Closing Date) (a) is sufficient for the operation of the Company's and its Subsidiaries' business in the Ordinary Course, (b) consists of items that are good and merchantable within normal trade tolerances, (c) is of a quality and quantity presently usable or saleable in the Ordinary Course (subject to applicable reserves), (d) is valued on the books and records of the Company or its Subsidiaries, as applicable, at the lower of cost or market with the cost determined under the first-in-first-out inventory valuation method consistent with past practice and (e) is subject to reserves determined in accordance with GAAP consistently applied. No previously sold inventory is subject to returns in excess of those historically experienced by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries.
Inventory
Section 4.9 Financial Statements.
Section 4.10 . Except as set forth in the Financial Statements or , neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries are subject to any material claims, obligations or liabilities of any nature (whether accrued, absolute, contingent or otherwise) of the type required to be reflected on a balance sheet prepared in accordance with GAAP, other than (a) liabilities and obligations incurred since the date of the Balance Sheet in the Ordinary Course, (b) liabilities and obligations incurred since the date of the Balance Sheet pursuant to or in connection with this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby, (c) liabilities and obligations disclosed in this Agreement (or its schedules), (d) contingent liabilities or obligations which, in accordance with GAAP, are not required to be reflected on a balance sheet, and (e) other liabilities incurred since the date of the Balance Sheet not exceeding $1,200,000 in the aggregate.
No Undisclosed Liabilities
Schedule 4.10
Section 4.11 . Since January 31, 2004 and except as set forth on or in the minutes of the meetings of the Board of Directors which have been held during the period from January 31, 2004 through September 30, 2004, there has not been (a) any Material Adverse Effect or (b) any action taken of the type described in clauses (a)(ix), (a)(x), (a)(xi), (a)(xii), (a)(xiii) or (a)(xiv) of Section 6.1, that, had such action occurred following the date hereof without the Purchaser's prior approval, would be in violation of such clauses.
Absence of Certain Changes
Schedule 4.11
Section 4.12 . Except as set forth on , there is no suit, action, claim, arbitration or proceeding pending, relating to, involving or, to the Knowledge the Company, threatened against the Company, any of its Subsidiaries or any property of any thereof which could reasonably be expected to expose the Company or any of its Subsidiaries to damages, individually or in the aggregate, in excess of $1,200,000. Neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries is subject to any material judgment, decree, injunction, rule or order of any court or arbitration panel.
Legal Proceedings
Schedule 4.12
Section 4.13 . The Company and each of its Subsidiaries are (and have been at all times since January 1, 2001) in material compliance with all applicable Laws. Except as set forth on , neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries has been charged with, has received written notice that it is under investigation with respect to, or, to the Knowledge of the Company, is otherwise now under investigation with respect to, a material violation of any applicable Law. The Company and each of its Subsidiaries have filed all reports and have all Licenses required to be filed with any Governmental Entity necessary to carry on the business and operations of the Company and its Subsidiaries as presently conducted except where the failure to make such filings or obtain such licenses would not result in fines, penalties or other corrective out-of-pocket expenditures in excess of an aggregate of $1,000,000.
Compliance with Law
Schedule 4.13
Section 4.14 Company Contracts.
Correct and complete copies of all Company Contracts have been made available to the Purchaser or are listed in a Schedule hereto. The Company Contracts are legal, valid, binding and enforceable in all material respects in accordance with their respective terms with respect to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, as applicable, and, to the Knowledge of the Company, each other party to such Company Contracts. To the Knowledge of the Company, there is no existing material default or material breach of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, as applicable, under any Company Contract (or event or condition that, with notice or lapse of time or both could constitute a material default or material breach) and there is no such material default (or event or condition that, with notice or lapse of time or both, could constitute a material default or material breach) with respect to any third party to any Company Contract described in Section 4.14(a). To the Knowledge of the Company, other than as set forth on Schedule 4.14(a), neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries is participating in any discussions or negotiations regarding any material modification of or any material amendment to any Company Contract or entry, other than in the Ordinary Course, in any new material contract applicable to the Company, any of its Subsidiaries or the real or personal property of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries. identifies with an asterisk each Company Contract set forth therein that requires the consent of or notice to the other party thereto to avoid any material breach, material default or material violation of such contract, agreement or other instrument in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby.
Schedule 4.14(a)
Section 4.15 Tax Returns; Taxes. Except as set forth on Schedule 4.15:
Section 4.16 . contains a correct and complete list of (a) all of the officers of the Company and each of its Subsidiaries, specifying their position, annual rate of compensation, work location and length of service and other benefits provided to each of them, respectively and (b) all of the other employees (whether full-time, part-time or otherwise) and independent contractors of the Company and each of its Subsidiaries as of the date hereof who have received or who are reasonably expected to receive a base salary in excess of $150,000 for the twelve month period ended January 31, 2004, specifying their position, status, annual salary, work location and length of service and with respect to employees other benefits provided to each of them, and with respect to independent contractors, consulting or other independent contractor fees, together with an appropriate notation next to the name of any officer or other employee or independent contractor on such list who is subject to any written Employment Agreement or any other written term sheet or other document describing the terms or conditions of employment of such employee or of the rendering of services by such independent contractor. Except as set forth on , neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries is a party to or bound by any Employment Agreement. The Company has provided or made available to the Purchaser correct and complete copies of each Employment Agreement to which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries is a party, or by which any of them is otherwise bound. There is no existing material default or material breach of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, as applicable, under any Employment Agreement (or event or condition that, with notice or lapse of time or both could constitute a material default or material breach) and there is no such material default (or event or condition that, with notice or lapse of time or both, could constitute a material default or material breach) with respect to any third party to any Employment Agreement. Neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries has received a claim from any Governmental Entity to the effect that the Company or any of its Subsidiaries has improperly classified as an independent contractor any Person named on . To the Knowledge of the Company, neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries has made any verbal commitments to any officer, employee, former employee, or independent contractor of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries with respect to compensation, promotion, retention, termination, severance or similar matters in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby or otherwise.
Officers and Employees
Schedule 4.16
Schedule 4.16
Schedule 4.16
Section 4.17 . Each Company Benefit Plan is identified on Schedule 4.17, and the Company has provided a correct and complete copy of each such plan to the Purchaser together with the most recent report filed with respect to such plan with any Governmental Entity. No Company Benefit Plan is subject to Title IV of ERISA, and no Company Benefit Plan is described in Section 413(c) of the Code or Section 3(40) of ERISA. The terms of each Company Benefit Plan as currently in effect that purports to be qualified under Section 401(a) of the Code and any trust which is a part of any such Company Benefit Plan are subject to a favorable determination letter or opinion letter from the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, and each such plan has been operated and administered in all material respects in accordance with all applicable Laws (including, ERISA and the Code). The terms of each other Company Benefit Plan satisfy in all material respects the requirements of applicable Laws (including, ERISA and the Code), and each such plan has been operated and administered in all material respects in accordance with all applicable Laws (including, ERISA and the Code). The Company and each Subsidiary has timely satisfied in all material respects all reporting and disclosure obligations under applicable Laws (including, ERISA and the Code) with respect to the Company Benefit Plans. Neither the Company nor an ERISA Affiliate has any liability under any Employee Benefit Plan other than a Company Benefit Plan. There have been no prohibited transactions (as described in Section 406 of ERISA or Section 4975 of the Code) with respect to any Company Benefit Plan which have not been corrected in full or with respect to which any material Tax or penalty is due. If the benefits under a Company Benefit Plan are funded through a trust, the fair market value of the assets of such trust equal or exceed the liabilities of such plan. If the benefits under a Company Benefit Plan are funded through insurance contracts, such contracts are in full force and effect and all material premiums have been paid when due. If benefits under a Company Benefit Plan are funded from the general assets of the Company or a Subsidiary, the liability for funding such benefits is shown on the books and records of the Company or the Subsidiary in accordance with GAAP and any applicable standards of the Financial Accounting Standards Board. The Company and each of its Subsidiaries has made full and timely payment of all material amounts which are required to be paid as contributions to each Company Benefit Plan. No Company Benefit Plan provides for benefits described in Section 3(1) of ERISA following a termination of employment except as required under Part 6 of Title I of ERISA, and the Company and each of its Subsidiaries has complied in all material respects with the continuation coverage requirements of Part 6 of Title I of ERISA. Except as set forth on Schedule 4.17, there is no contract, agreement, plan or arrangement with any Person which provides for any payment to any employee by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, which payment would fail to be deductible by reason of Section 280G of the Code or which would exceed the deduction limits under Section 404 of the Code. Neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries has any contractual obligation to maintain any Company Benefit Plan for any period of time or to make contributions from its general assets at a fixed rate to such plan (other than premium payments for an insurance contract which are set on a year-to-year basis and matching contributions as provided in the Company's 401(k) plan). With respect to the options to purchase mutual fund shares granted pursuant to the Deferred Option Plan, the Company, or a trust established by the Company actually owns (free of any Liens) a number of shares in each such mutual fund sufficient to cover in full the exercise of all such options without payment of any additional amount by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or the purchase by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries of any additional shares in any such mutual fund, neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries has any liability with respect to such options other than liabilities which will be accrued for on the Final Closing Statement.
Company Benefit Plans
Section 4.18 . Except as set forth on , (a) neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries is a party to any collective bargaining agreement, contract or legally binding commitment to any trade union or employee organization or group in respect of or affecting employees; (b) neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries is currently engaged in any negotiation with any trade union or employee organization; (c) neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries has engaged in any unfair labor practice within the meaning of the National Labor Relations Act, and there is no pending or, to the Knowledge of the Company, threatened complaint regarding any alleged unfair labor practices as so defined; (d) there is no strike, labor dispute, work slow down or stoppage pending or, to the Knowledge of the Company, threatened against the Company or any of its Subsidiaries; (e) there is no grievance or arbitration proceeding arising out of or under any collective bargaining agreement which is pending or, to the Knowledge of the Company, threatened against the Company or any of its Subsidiaries; (f) neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries has experienced any material work stoppage; and (g) neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries is subject of any union organization effort.
Labor Relations
Schedule 4.18
Section 4.19 . contains a correct and complete list of all insurance policies carried by or for the benefit of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, specifying the insurer, the amount of and nature of coverage, the risk insured against, the deductible amount (if any) and the date through which coverage shall continue by virtue of premiums already paid. All insurance policies and bonds with respect to the business and assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries are in full force and effect and shall be maintained by the Company and its Subsidiaries in full force and effect as they apply to any matter, action or event relating to the Company or its Subsidiaries occurring through the Closing Date and neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries has reached or exceeded its policy limits for any insurance policy in effect at any time during the past five (5) years.
Insurance Policies
Schedule 4.19
Section 4.20 Environmental, Health and Safety Matters. Except as set forth on Schedule 4.20:
Section 4.21 Intellectual Property.
Section 4.22 Software.
Section 4.23 . Except as set forth on , other than for compensation received as employees, no officer or director of the Company, any of its Subsidiaries or any Affiliate of any of them, no Person with whom any such officer or director has any direct or indirect relation by blood, marriage or adoption, no entity in which any such officer, director or Person owns any beneficial interest (other than a publicly held corporation whose stock is traded on a national securities exchange or in the over-the-counter market and less than five (5) percent of the stock of which is beneficially owned by all such officers, directors and Persons in the aggregate), no Affiliate of any of the foregoing and no current or former Affiliate of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries has any interest in: (a) any contract, arrangement or understanding with, or relating to, the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or the properties or assets of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries; (b) any loan, arrangement, understanding, agreement or contract for or relating to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or the properties or assets of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries; or (c) any property (real, personal or mixed), tangible or intangible, used or currently intended to be used by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries. also sets forth a correct and complete list of all accounts receivable, notes receivable and other receivables and accounts payable owed to or due from any Affiliate of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries. All notes receivable (the "") of the Company and its Subsidiaries owing by any director, officer, employee or Affiliate of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or by any Holder has been paid in full prior to the date hereof or shall have been paid in full prior to the Closing Date. sets forth a correct and complete list of all Shareholder Loans and the outstanding balance and applicable interest payments under each Shareholder Loan as of the date hereof.
Transactions with Affiliates
Schedule 4.23
Schedule 4.23
Shareholder Loans
Schedule 4.23
Section 4.24 . contains a correct and complete list of the names and addresses of the Customers and Suppliers, and the amount of sales to or purchases from each such Customer or Supplier during the twelve (12) month period ended the date hereof. The Company and its Subsidiaries maintain commercially reasonable relations with each of its Customers and Suppliers and, to the Knowledge of the Company, no event has occurred that could materially and adversely affect the Company's or its Subsidiaries' relations with any Customer or Supplier. Except as set forth on , no Customer or Supplier has during the last twelve (12) months cancelled, terminated or, to the Knowledge of the Company, made any threat to cancel or otherwise terminate any of its contracts with the Company or its Subsidiaries or to decrease its usage or supply of the Company's or its Subsidiaries' services or products. The Company has no Knowledge to the effect that any current Customer or Supplier may terminate or materially alter its business relations with the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, either as a result of the transactions contemplated hereby or otherwise.
Customer and Supplier Relations
Schedule 4.24(a)
Schedule 4.24(b)
Section 4.25 . is correct and complete list of all material Licenses held by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries. The Company owns or possesses all Licenses that are necessary to enable it to carry on its operations as presently conducted. The execution, delivery and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby shall not adversely affect any material License, or require consent from, or notice to, any Governmental Entity. The Company has taken all necessary action to maintain each License, except where the failure to so act shall not have a material adverse effect on the Company, any of its Subsidiaries or its respective operations. No loss or expiration of any material License is pending or, to the Knowledge of the Company, threatened (other than expiration upon the end of any term).
Licenses
Schedule 4.25
Section 4.26 . Neither the Company, any of its Subsidiaries nor any retained representative thereof has offered or given, and the Company has no Knowledge of any Person that has offered or given on its behalf, anything of value to, in violation of applicable Law: (a) any official of a Governmental Entity, any political party or official thereof or any candidate for political office; (b) any customer or member of any Governmental Entity; or (c) any other Person, in any such case while knowing or having reason to know that all or a portion of such money or thing of value may be offered, given or promised, directly or indirectly, to any customer or member of any Governmental Entity or any candidate for political office for the purpose of the following: (x) influencing any action or decision of such Person in such Person's official capacity, including a decision to fail to perform such Person's official function; (y) inducing such Person to use such Person's influence with any Governmental Entity to affect or influence any act or decision of such Governmental Entity to assist the Company or any of its Subsidiaries in obtaining or retaining business for, with, or directing business to, any Person; or (z) where such payment would constitute a bribe, kickback or illegal or improper payment to assist the Company or any of its Subsidiaries in obtaining or retaining business for, with, or directing business to, any Person, except for an immaterial political contribution (in an amount which was less than $1,000) by a political action committee which was fully disclosed to the appropriate Governmental Entity (without any resulting fine or penalty to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries).
Ethical Practices
Section 4.27 . Except as set forth on , neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries makes any express warranty or guaranty as to goods sold, or services provided by, the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, and there is no pending or, to the Knowledge of the Company, threatened claim alleging any breach of any such warranty or guaranty other than as reserved for on the Balance Sheet or for immaterial claims made in the Ordinary Course since the Balance Sheet date which do not exceed $1,200,000. Except as set forth on , neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries has liability under any such warranty that would have a material adverse effect on the Company, any of its Subsidiaries or its respective operations.
Product and Service Warranties
Schedule 4.27
Schedule 4.27
Section 4.28 . Except as set forth on , neither the Company, any of its Subsidiaries, nor any officer, member, director or employee of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries nor any Affiliate of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, has employed any broker, finder or investment banker or incurred any liability for any investment banking fees, financial advisory fees, brokerage fees or finders' fees in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby.
Brokers, Finders and Investment Bankers
Schedule 4.28
Section 4.29 . The Closing Certificate and the Closing Date Expense Statement shall be correct and complete upon delivery to the Purchaser pursuant to Section 3.3 of this Agreement.
Closing Certificate and Closing Date Expense Statement
Section 4.30 . To the Knowledge of the Company, no representation, warranty or covenant made by the Company in this Agreement or any Company Ancillary Document contains an untrue statement of a material fact or omits to state a material fact required to be stated herein or therein or necessary to make the statements contained herein or therein not misleading.
Disclosure
ARTICLE V
        The Purchaser hereby represents and warrants to the Company as follows:
Section 5.1 . The Purchaser is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware and has all requisite corporate power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and to carry on its business as now being conducted. The Purchaser has delivered to the Company true, correct and complete copies of its certificate of incorporation and bylaws as in effect on the date hereof and as proposed to be in effect immediately prior to the Closing Date.
Organization
Section 5.2 . The Purchaser has full corporate power and authority to execute and deliver this Agreement and the Purchaser Ancillary Documents, to perform its obligations hereunder and thereunder and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby. The execution and delivery of this Agreement and the Purchaser Ancillary Documents by the Purchaser, the performance by the Purchaser of its obligations hereunder and thereunder, and the consummation of the transactions provided for herein and therein have been duly and validly authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of the Purchaser. This Agreement has been and, as of the Closing Date, the Purchaser Ancillary Documents shall be, duly executed and delivered by the Purchaser and do or shall, as the case may be, constitute the valid and binding agreements of the Purchaser, enforceable against the Purchaser in accordance with their respective terms.
Authorization
Section 5.3 . The execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and the Purchaser Ancillary Documents, the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby and the fulfillment of, and compliance with, the terms and conditions hereof and thereof do not or shall not (as the case may be), with the passing of time or the giving of notice or both, violate or conflict with, constitute a breach of or default under, result in the loss of any benefit under, or permit the acceleration of any obligation under, (a) any term or provision of the charter documents of the Purchaser, (b) any contract to which the Purchaser is a party, (c) any judgment, decree or order of any Governmental Entity to which the Purchaser is a party or by which the Purchaser or any of its properties is bound or (d) any Law applicable to the Purchaser, except for compliance with the applicable requirements of the HSR Act. Except as set forth on , no material consent, approval, order or authorization of, or registration, declaration or filing with, any Governmental Entity is required with respect to the Purchaser in connection with the execution, delivery or performance of this Agreement or the documents, instruments or agreements contemplated hereby or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, except as required by the HSR Act.
Absence of Restrictions and Conflicts
Schedule 5.3
Section 5.4 Sufficient Funds; Solvency.
Section 5.5 . The Purchaser is purchasing the shares of capital stock of the Company pursuant to this Agreement solely for its own account and with no intention of distributing or reselling such shares or any part thereof, or interest therein, in any transaction that would be in violation of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), or any other securities laws of the United States of America or any state thereof.
Investment Intent
Securities Act
Section 5.6 . The Purchaser is an "accredited investor" (as that term is defined in Rule 501 of Regulation D under the Securities Act). The Purchaser has such knowledge and experience in business and financial matters so that the Purchaser is capable of evaluating the merits and risks of an investment in the shares being acquired hereunder. The Purchaser understands the full nature and risk of an investment in such shares. The Purchaser further acknowledges that it has had access to the books and records of the Company, is generally familiar with the business being conducted by the Company and has had an opportunity to ask questions concerning the Company and the Company's securities.
Status as Accredited Investor
Section 5.7 . The Purchaser has not relied on nor is it relying on any statement, representation or warranty concerning the Company, any of its Subsidiaries or its stockholders other than those expressly made in this Agreement.
No Outside Reliance
ARTICLE VI
Section 6.1 . For the period commencing on the date hereof and ending on the Closing Date, except as expressly contemplated by this Agreement, or set forth on , or otherwise consented to in advance in writing by the Purchaser (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld), the Company hereby agrees that:
Conduct of Business by the Company
Schedule 6.1
        In connection with the continued operation of the Company and its Subsidiaries during the period commencing on the date hereof and ending on the Closing Date, the Company shall confer in good faith on a regular and frequent basis with the Purchaser regarding operational matters and the general status of on-going operations of the Company and its Subsidiaries to the extent reasonably requested by the Purchaser. The Company hereby acknowledges that the Purchaser does not and shall not waive any right it may have hereunder as a result of the consultations.
Section 6.2 . During the period commencing on the date hereof and ending on the Closing Date, the Company, its Subsidiaries and their respective officers, directors, employees, auditors and agents will, upon reasonable advance notice from the Purchaser, provide the Purchaser and its accountants, investment bankers, counsel, environmental consultants and other authorized representatives full access, during reasonable hours and under reasonable circumstances, without interfering with the operation of the business of the Company and its Subsidiaries in the Ordinary Course, to any and all of its premises, employees (including executive officers), properties, contracts, commitments, books, records and other information (including Tax Returns filed and those in preparation) and shall cause the Company's officers to furnish to the Purchaser and its authorized representatives, promptly upon request therefor, any and all financial, technical and operating data and other information pertaining to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries and otherwise reasonably cooperate with the conduct of due diligence by the Purchaser and its representatives.
Inspection and Access to Information
Section 6.3 Notices of Certain Events. The Company shall promptly notify the Purchaser of:
        The Company hereby acknowledges that the Purchaser does not and shall not waive any right it may have hereunder as a result of such notifications.
Section 6.4 . Within twenty (20) days following each regular accounting period subsequent to the end of the most recent fiscal year and prior to the Closing Date, the Company shall deliver to the Purchaser periodic financial reports in the form that it customarily prepares for its internal purposes concerning the Company and its Subsidiaries and, if available, unaudited statements of the financial position of the Company and its Subsidiaries as of the last day of each accounting period and statements of income and changes in financial position of such entity for the period then ended. The Company covenants that such interim statements (a) shall fairly present in all material respects the financial condition of the Company and its Subsidiaries and the related results of its operations for the respective periods then ended, and (b) shall be prepared on a basis consistent with prior interim periods. Further, the Company and its Subsidiaries shall use commercially reasonable efforts to cooperate in connection with the arrangement of the Purchaser's financing including, without limitation (w) cooperating with the Purchaser to provide the banks and other institutions arranging or providing the Purchaser's financing all information (financial and other) with respect to the Company and its Subsidiaries and the transactions contemplated by this Agreement reasonably requested by the Purchaser (except to the extent the Company is prohibited from doing so under applicable confidentiality agreements), (x) causing the Company's senior officers and other Company representatives to be available to the Purchaser and the banks and other institutions arranging or providing the Purchaser's financing to participate in due diligence sessions and to participate in presentations related to any transaction comprising the Purchaser's financing, including "road show" presentations to rating agencies, potential lenders and other investors, (y) assisting in the preparation of one or more appropriate offering documents and assisting the Purchaser and the banks and other institutions arranging or providing the Purchaser's financing in preparing other appropriate marketing materials, in each case to be used in connection with such financing, and (z) requesting the Company's independent auditors to prepare and deliver (at the Purchaser's expense) "comfort letters", dated the date of each offering document used in connection with any transaction comprising the Purchaser's financing (with appropriate bring down comfort letters delivered on the closing date for each financing), in compliance with professional standards. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the officers of the Company shall not be required to perform services pursuant to clauses (x) or (y) above to the extent the performance of such services would materially interfere with the Ordinary Course operations of the Company.
Interim Financials; Cooperation with Financing
Section 6.5 . The Company and its Subsidiaries will not, and will cause its respective Affiliates not to, directly or indirectly, through any officer, director, manager or agent of any of them or otherwise, initiate, solicit or encourage (including by way of furnishing non-public information or assistance), or enter into negotiations or discussions of any type, directly or indirectly, or enter into a confidentiality agreement, letter of intent or purchase agreement, merger agreement or other similar agreement with any Person other than the Purchaser with respect to a sale of all or any substantial portion of the assets of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or a merger, consolidation, business combination, sale of all or any substantial portion of the capital stock of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or the liquidation or similar extraordinary transaction with respect to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries. The Company shall notify the Purchaser orally (within five (5) Business Days) and in writing (as promptly as practicable) of all relevant terms of any written proposal by a third party to do any of the foregoing that the Company or any of its respective Affiliates or any of their respective officers, directors, partners, managers, employees, investment bankers, financial advisors, attorneys, accountants or other representatives may receive relating to any of such matters. In the event such written proposal is in writing, the Company shall deliver to the Purchaser a copy of such inquiry or proposal together with such written notice. From and after the date hereof, the Company shall suspend and not take any further action in furtherance of the transaction contemplated by the Registration Statement.
No Solicitation of Transactions
Section 6.6 . Subject to the other provisions hereof, each Party shall use its reasonable, good faith efforts to perform its obligations hereunder and to take, or cause to be taken, and do, or cause to be done, all things necessary, proper or advisable under applicable Law to obtain all consents required as described on and and all regulatory approvals and to satisfy all conditions to its obligations hereunder and to cause the transactions contemplated herein to be effected as soon as practicable, but in any event on or prior to the Expiration Date, in accordance with the terms hereof and shall cooperate fully with each other Party and its officers, directors, employees, agents, counsel, accountants and other designees in connection with any step required to be taken as a part of its obligations hereunder, including the following:
Reasonable Efforts; Further Assurances; Cooperation
Schedule 4.14(a)
Schedule 5.3
Section 6.7 . Subject to its legal obligations (including requirements of stock exchanges and other similar regulatory bodies), each Party shall consult with the other Parties with respect to the timing and content of all announcements regarding this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby to the financial community, Governmental Entities, employees, customers or the general public and shall use reasonable efforts to agree upon the text of any such announcement prior to its release. Notwithstanding the foregoing, after the execution and delivery of this Agreement has been publicly announced by the Purchaser, the Company shall be permitted (without consulting with, or obtaining the consent of, the Purchaser) to make such statements and announcements to its stockholders, employees and customers as the Company shall deem to be reasonably necessary for the purpose of dealing with the relevant business issues related to those groups.
Public Announcements
Section 6.8 . From time to time up to the Closing, the Company shall promptly supplement or amend the Schedules that it has delivered with respect to any matter first existing or occurring following the date hereof that (a) if existing or occurring at or prior to the date hereof, would have been required to be set forth or described in the Schedules, or (b) is necessary to correct any information in the Schedules that has been rendered inaccurate thereby. No supplement or amendment to any Schedule shall have any effect for the purpose of determining satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 7.2 or the obligations of the Company under Section 10.1.
Supplements to Schedules
Section 6.9 Company Benefit Plans.
Section 6.10 .During the period commencing on the date hereof and ending on the Closing, and subject to reasonable limitations, the Company shall permit the Purchaser to discuss and meet, and shall cooperate and participate in such discussions and meetings, with up to 10 customers and/or vendors related to the commercial and mobile asset based business of the Company and its Subsidiaries and up to 5 customers and 5 vendors related to the infrastructure based business of the Company and its Subsidiaries. A senior executive of the Company, reasonably satisfactory to the Purchaser, shall accompany the Purchaser's representative to such meeting and shall participate with the Purchaser's representative in any such discussions. The Company shall cooperate with the Purchaser in the preparation of a presentation to such customers with respect to the Merger which presentation shall be subject to the provisions contained in this Section 6.10. The representatives of the Company and the Purchaser who are scheduled to participate in these customer meetings shall meet in advance to mutually plan the agenda and the respective roles of the participants for such meetings.
Customer/Vendor Visits
Section 6.11 . The Company shall take all actions necessary to terminate the Shareholder Agreement at or prior to Closing.
Shareholder Agreement
Section 6.12 Tax Matters.
Section 6.13 . The Company shall take all action necessary to terminate the KRG Management Agreement at or prior to Closing.
KRG Management Agreement
Section 6.14 . The Company shall promptly give the requisite notice to all Holders of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement in accordance with the DGCL, the Certificate of Incorporation, the Bylaws and other governing documents of the Company.
Notice to Holders
Section 6.15 . Prior to the Closing Date, the Company shall cause Bermuda 1 and TC (Bermuda) License, Ltd., a Bermuda corporation, to complete the transactions described or referenced in the E&Y Opinion (the "").
Bermuda Redomestication
Bermuda Redomestication
Section 6.16 . Within 30 days of the date hereof, the Company and its Subsidiaries shall take commercially reasonable actions to (i) research and confirm the proper ownership and status of each of the items of Company Registered Intellectual Property listed on , (ii) complete, where appropriate, the formal recordation of ownership in the name of the Company or its Subsidiaries of all Company Registered Intellectual Property listed on , and (iii) formally update the records of the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office, where appropriate, to reflect the release of all security interests in all Company Registered Intellectual Property listed on , including but not limited to commercially reasonable actions necessary to correct any and all deficiencies in the chain of title and recorded security interests for all such Company Registered Intellectual Property.
Intellectual Property
Schedule 6.16
Schedule 6.16
Schedule 6.16
Section 6.17 Directors' and Officers' Indemnification.
Section 6.18 . Unless the Purchaser determines it will fund the transactions contemplated hereby without using equity or public debt, as promptly as reasonably practicable but not later than October 15, 2004, the Purchaser will prepare and file with the Securities and Exchange Commission a Registration Statement on Form S-3 or any other similar form (the "") registering debt and equity securities, which may be sold by the Purchaser from time to time, and the Purchaser will use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause such Registration Statement to be declared effective as promptly as possible after filing.
Registration Statement on Form S-3
Registration Statement
Section 6.19 . Immediately following the execution of this Agreement, the Company shall (a) upon consideration of the recommendation of the Board of Directors of the Company obtain from the holders of shares Company Stock holding a majority of the outstanding shares of Company Stock entitled to vote thereon their approval of the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and the Company Ancillary Documents and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby, pursuant to written consent and in accordance with the requirements of the DGCL, the Certificate of Incorporation, the Bylaws and other governing documents of the Company and (b) provide the Purchaser a certificate of the secretary of the Company certifying the approval described in this Section 6.19 and attaching the applicable written consents (the "").
Shareholder Approval
Shareholder Approval Certificate
Section 6.20 . From and after the Closing Date and continuing for a period of fourteen (14) months following the Closing Date, the Purchaser shall cause the Company to maintain professional liability insurance coverage, which shall include acts occurring prior to the Closing Date in an amount of not less that $25,000,000 per claim and $25,000,000 in the aggregate.
Professional Liability Insurance
ARTICLE VII
Section 7.1 . The respective obligations of each Party to effect the transactions contemplated hereby shall be subject to the following conditions:
Conditions to Each Party's Obligations
Section 7.2 . The obligations of the Purchaser to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby shall be subject to the fulfillment at or prior to the Closing of each of the following additional conditions:
Conditions to Obligations of the Purchaser
Section 7.3 . The obligations of the Company to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby shall be subject to the fulfillment at or prior to the Closing of each of the following additional conditions:
Conditions to Obligations of the Company
ARTICLE VIII
Section 8.1 . Subject to the satisfaction or waiver of the conditions set forth in Article VII that are contemplated to be satisfied prior to the Closing Date, the Closing shall occur on (a)  December 17, 2004 or (b) on such other date as the Parties may agree. The Closing shall take place at the offices of King & Spalding LLP located at 1185 Avenue of the Americas, New York, NY 10036 or at such other place as the Parties may agree.
Closing
Section 8.2 . At the Closing, the Company shall deliver, or cause to be delivered, to the Purchaser the following:
Company Closing Deliveries
Section 8.3 . At the Closing, the Purchaser shall deliver, or cause to be delivered, to the Company, the Escrow Agent or the Exchange Agent, as applicable, the following:
Purchaser Closing Deliveries
ARTICLE IX
Section 9.1 Termination. This Agreement may be terminated:
Section 9.2 . Each Party hereby acknowledges that the rights of each Party to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby are special, unique and of extraordinary character and that, in the event that any Party violates or fails or refuses to perform any covenant or agreement made by it herein, the non-breaching Party may be without an adequate remedy at law. In the event that any Party violates or fails or refuses to perform any covenant or agreement made by such Party herein, the non-breaching Party or Parties may, subject to the terms hereof and in addition to any remedy at law for damages or other relief, institute and prosecute an action in any court of competent jurisdiction to enforce specific performance of such covenant or agreement or seek any other equitable relief.
Specific Performance and Other Remedies
Section 9.3 . In the event of termination of this Agreement pursuant to this Article IX, this Agreement shall forthwith become void and there shall be no obligation on the part of any Party or its partners, officers, directors or stockholders, except for obligations under Section 6.7 (Public Announcements), Section 11.1 (Notices), Section 11.5 (Controlling Law; Amendment), Section 11.6 (Arbitration; Legal Proceedings) and Section 11.13 (Transaction Costs) and this Section 9.3, all of which shall survive the Termination Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing contained herein shall relieve any Party from liability for any breach hereof.
Effect of Termination
ARTICLE X
Section 10.1 . Subject to the other provisions of this Article X, the Company shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless the Purchaser Indemnified Parties from, against, and in respect of, any and all claims, liabilities, obligations, damages, losses, costs, expenses, penalties, fines and judgments (at equity or at law, including statutory and common) and damages whenever arising or incurred (including amounts paid in settlement, costs of investigation and reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses) arising out of or relating to:
Indemnification Obligations of the Company
        The claims, liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, costs, expenses, penalties, fines and judgments of the Purchaser Indemnified Parties described in this Section 10.1 as to which the Purchaser Indemnified Parties are entitled to indemnification are collectively referred to as "".
Purchaser Losses
Section 10.2 . The Purchaser shall indemnify and hold harmless the Shareholder Indemnified Parties from, against and in respect of any and all claims, liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, costs, expenses, penalties, fines and judgments (at equity or at law, including statutory and common) and damages whenever arising or incurred (including amounts paid in settlement, costs of investigation and reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses) arising out of or relating to:
Indemnification Obligations of the Purchaser
        The claims, liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, costs, expenses, penalties, fines and judgments of the Shareholder Indemnified Parties described in this Section 10.2 as to which the Shareholder Indemnified Parties are entitled to indemnification are collectively referred to as "".
Shareholder Losses
Section 10.3 Indemnification Procedure.
Section 10.4 . The Claims Period hereunder shall begin on the Closing Date hereof and terminate on the date that is fourteen (14) months from the Closing Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if, prior to the close of business on the last day of the Claims Period, an Indemnifying Party shall have been properly notified of a claim for indemnity hereunder and such claim shall not have been finally resolved or disposed of at such date, such claim shall continue to survive and shall remain a basis for indemnity hereunder until such claim is finally resolved or disposed of in accordance with the terms hereof.
Claims Period
Section 10.5 . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth herein, the Purchaser Indemnified Parties shall not make a claim for indemnification under this Article X for Purchaser Losses unless and until the aggregate amount of such Purchaser Losses exceeds Three Million Dollars ($3,000,0000) (the "), in which event the Purchaser Indemnified Parties may only claim indemnification for Purchaser Losses exceeding the Purchaser Basket; , , the Surviving Obligations and the Surviving Representations shall not be subject to the Purchaser Basket. The amount of Purchaser Losses otherwise payable to the Purchaser Indemnified Parties pursuant to this Article X shall be net of (a) any Tax Benefits actually realized by the Purchaser or the Company directly as a result of such Purchaser Losses (any such Tax Benefit to be determined after taking into consideration any Tax effect of the indemnification payment made to the Purchaser with respect to such Purchaser Loss), (b) any insurance proceeds actually received by the Purchaser Indemnified Parties under insurance policies maintained by the Company prior to the Closing Date directly resulting from such Purchaser Losses, and (c) any insurance proceeds actually received by the Purchaser Indemnified Parties under any professional liability insurance policies (whether maintained prior to or on or after the Closing Date) directly resulting from such Purchaser Losses. No liability shall attach to the Company and its Subsidiaries in respect of any claim if such claim would not have arisen but for a change in legislation or accounting policies made after the Closing Date or a change in interpretation of the Law as determined by a court or pursuant to an administrative rule-making decision. The sole and exclusive source of funds for satisfaction of all Purchaser Losses shall be the General Escrow Fund.
Liability Limits
"Purchaser Basket
provided
however
Section 10.6 . The respective representations and warranties of the Parties contained in this Agreement or any certificate or other document delivered by any Party at or prior to the Closing and the rights to indemnification set forth in Article X shall not be deemed waived or otherwise affected by any investigation made by a Party. Notwithstanding the foregoing, to the extent the Purchaser has Knowledge on the date hereof of a breach of a representation and warranty made by the Company, it shall have waived its right to any claims or indemnification with respect to such representation or warranty.
Investigations
Section 10.7 . Without in any way limiting the last sentence of Section 10.5 hereof, the Parties agree that, excluding any claim for injunctive or other equitable relief and other than claims under the Intellectual Property Escrow Agreement (which shall be governed by the terms thereof), the indemnification provisions of this Section 10 are intended to provide the sole and exclusive remedy as to all claims either the Company, on the one hand, and the Purchaser, on the other hand, may incur arising from or relating to this Agreement and the agreements and documents contemplated hereby and the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby.
Exclusive Remedy
ARTICLE XI
Section 11.1 . All notices, communications and deliveries required or made hereunder must be made in writing signed by or on behalf of the Party making the same, shall specify the Section hereunder pursuant to which it has been given or being made, and shall be delivered personally or by a national overnight courier service or by registered or certified mail (return receipt requested) (with postage and other fees prepaid) as follows:
Notices
or to such other representative or at such other address of a Party as such Party may furnish to the other Parties in writing. Any such notice, communication or delivery shall be deemed given or made (a) on the date of delivery, if delivered in person, (b) on the first Business Day following delivery to a national overnight courier service or (c) on the fifth Business Day following it being mailed by registered or certified mail.
Section 11.2 . The Schedules and Exhibits are hereby incorporated into this Agreement and are hereby made a part hereof as if set out in full herein.
Schedules and Exhibits
Section 11.3 . No assignment or transfer by any Party of such Party's rights and obligations hereunder shall be made except with the prior written consent of the other Parties; provided that the Purchaser shall, without the obligation to obtain the prior written consent of any other Party, be entitled to assign this Agreement or all or any part of its rights or obligations hereunder to one or more Affiliates of the Purchaser (provided, however, that no such assignment by the Purchaser shall relieve it of any of its obligations hereunder). This Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of the Parties and their respective successors and permitted assigns, and any reference to a Party shall also be a reference to the successors and permitted assigns thereof.
Assignment; Successors in Interest
Section 11.4 . The titles, captions and table of contents contained herein are inserted herein only as a matter of convenience and for reference and in no way define, limit, extend or describe the scope of this Agreement or the intent of any provision hereof.
Captions
Section 11.5 . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed and enforced in accordance with the internal Laws of the State of Delaware without reference to its choice of law rules. This Agreement may not be amended, modified or supplemented except by written agreement of the Parties.
Controlling Law; Amendment
Section 11.6 Arbitration; Legal Proceedings.
Section 11.7 . Any provision hereof that is prohibited or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such prohibition or unenforceability without invalidating the remaining provisions hereof, and any such prohibition or unenforceability in any jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction. To the extent permitted by Law, each Party hereby waives any provision of Law that renders any such provision prohibited or unenforceable in any respect.
Severability
Section 11.8 . This Agreement may be executed in two (2) or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, and it shall not be necessary in making proof of this Agreement or the terms hereof to produce or account for more than one of such counterparts.
Counterparts
Section 11.9 . Nothing expressed or implied herein is intended, or shall be construed, to confer upon or give any Person other than the Parties, and their successors or permitted assigns, any right, remedy, obligation or liability under or by reason of this Agreement, or result in such Person being deemed a third-party beneficiary hereof.
Enforcement of Certain Rights
Section 11.10 . Any agreement on the part of a Party to any extension or waiver of any provision hereof shall be valid only if set forth in an instrument in writing signed on behalf of such Party. A waiver by a Party of the performance of any covenant, agreement, obligation, condition, representation or warranty shall not be construed as a waiver of any other covenant, agreement, obligation, condition, representation or warranty. A waiver by any Party of the performance of any act shall not constitute a waiver of the performance of any other act or an identical act required to be performed at a later time.
Waiver
Section 11.11 . This Agreement and the documents executed pursuant hereto supersede all negotiations, agreements and understandings among the Parties with respect to the subject matter hereof (except for that certain Confidentiality Agreement, dated as of May 12, 2004, by and between the Purchaser and the Company)and constitute the entire agreement among the Parties with respect thereto.
Integration
Section 11.12 . Following the Closing, each Party shall deliver to the other Parties such further information and documents and shall execute and deliver to the other Parties such further instruments and agreements as any other Party shall reasonably request to consummate or confirm the transactions provided for herein, to accomplish the purpose hereof or to assure to any other Party the benefits hereof.
Cooperation Following the Closing
Section 11.13 . Except as provided above or as otherwise expressly provided herein, (a) the Purchaser shall pay its own fees, costs and expenses incurred in connection herewith and the transactions contemplated hereby, including the fees, costs and expenses of its financial advisors, accountants and counsel, and (b) the fees, costs and expenses of the Company incurred in connection herewith and the transactions contemplated hereby shall be paid for pursuant to Section 3.7(d) of this Agreement if the Closing occurs and by the Company if the Closing does not occur. The fees and expenses related to any filing made pursuant to the HSR Act shall be paid 80% by the Purchaser and 20% by the Company.
Transaction Costs
Section 11.14 Shareholders' Representative.
        , the Parties have caused this Agreement to be duly executed, as of the date first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF

Roper Industries, Inc.
Contact Information: Financial Markets Chris Hix, Roper Industries, Inc. +1 (770) 495-5100 chix@roperind.com Trade and Industry Barb Catlin, TransCore Holdings, Inc. +1 (972) 733-6056 barbara.catlin@transcore.com
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 Roper Industries, Inc. (NYSE: ROP) today announced that it has signed a definitive agreement to acquire TransCore Holdings, Inc. from an investor group led by KRG Capital Partners, L.L.C. in a transaction valued at approximately $600 million. TransCore is a provider of technologies and related services in areas such as radio frequency identification (RFID), satellite-based communication, mobile asset tracking, security applications and comprehensive toll system and processing services. Roper expects the addition of TransCore and the related financing initiative discussed below to add $0.10-$0.15 to 2005 diluted earnings per share.
Duluth, Georgia, October 6, 2004
"The acquisition of TransCore will establish another powerful strategic growth platform for Roper," said Brian Jellison, Chairman, President and CEO of Roper Industries. "It has a large base of recurring business and complementary technologies and market channels that can be leveraged across our portfolio of leading RF and imaging businesses. Similar to the existing Roper businesses, TransCore is widely regarded as a leading provider of engineered products with technologies, service capabilities and application expertise to serve the growing needs of customers. As such, it has historically generated strong margins and cash flows, and established many long-standing customer relationships that generate substantial recurring revenue."
TransCore will operate as a standalone segment within Roper and continue to market its products under its current brand names. Its customer offerings include proprietary RFID tags and readers, and satellite-based communication hardware and accessories. TransCore's application expertise and technology are used to automate traffic control and toll systems, increase asset productivity, and automate business processes for customers primarily in North America. Its customers include tolling authorities and a wide range of businesses with security and asset location and tracking requirements. TransCore is currently extending its expertise into emerging opportunities such as homeland security and electronic vehicle registration. Roper expects TransCore to show total sales in its fiscal year ending January 31, 2005 of $365 million and EBITDA of $73 million.
Mr. Jellison added, "With the addition of this new strategic platform, we believe that Roper will be even better positioned to serve the needs of customers, capitalize on opportunities for profitable growth and create long-term value for shareholders. We are attracted to TransCore not only for its great leadership team and compelling financial performance, but also for the organic growth potential of its businesses, including specific initiatives to enter new markets and expand its offerings to existing customers. We believe that the addition of TransCore to Roper will accelerate the implementation of these initiatives and create other strategic benefits, such as collaborating with our imaging businesses to develop advanced solutions for security applications."
Roper also announced a financing initiative designed to enhance its balance sheet and fund the acquisition. The Company has received commitments from JPMorgan Chase Bank and Wachovia, N.A. for a senior secured credit facility consisting of term loans and a revolving credit line, which will result in lower LIBOR spreads and an improved maturity structure. In addition, Roper plans to raise approximately $250 million of cash through the issuance of common stock. The size of each of the components of this financing initiative is subject to prevailing market conditions.
The acquisition and the related financing are consistent with Roper's goal of achieving investment grade status, enhancing the Company's cash flows and lowering its overall interest rate. Roper expects to record a non-cash charge of approximately $5-6 million, net of tax, in the fourth quarter of 2004 to write-off deferred costs in connection with its existing senior credit facility.
TransCore's senior management team, under the leadership of President and CEO John Worthington, will continue to lead the business. Headquartered in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, TransCore has 1,800 employees throughout North America. Said Mr. Jellison, "We look forward to working with the outstanding TransCore team to realize our shared growth objectives."
Mr. Worthington added, "Roper's strength as a corporate parent will allow TransCore to focus on delivering value propositions to our customers, such as the deployment and advancement of our next-generation RFID tags, multi-protocol readers and satellite communications products for security and asset-tracking applications. This combination of resources will ensure the continuation of our tradition of research and innovation to better serve our customers and drive market expansion. By maintaining continuity of management and service personnel, customers will see no disruption in service and support, with day-to-day contacts remaining the same."
The acquisition is expected to close before the end of the year, subject to anti-trust review and customary closing conditions.
Investment Community Meetings on Thursday with Dial-In and Web Access
Roper Industries will hold meetings with the investment community to discuss the acquisition at 10:00 AM ET, October 7, at the St. Regis Hotel, 2 East 55th Street, New York City, and at 4:00 PM ET the same day at the Langham Hotel, 250 Franklin Street, Boston.
The morning meeting can be accessed via webcast or by calling (800) 289-0569 (US/Canada) or +1 (913) 981-5542 and using the passcode 801714. A telephonic replay will be available after the meeting by calling +1 (719) 457-0820 and using the passcode 801714. Copies of the presentation and a link to the webcast will be made available on the Company's web site at www.roperind.com.
Table 1: TransCore 2004 Estimated EBITDA (Millions)
About TransCore
For its infrastructure-based market, TransCore designs, develops, installs and maintains products and service solutions for security, toll collection and traffic monitoring/control applications. For its mobile asset-based market, TransCore provides freight matching, asset tracking products and services, logistics and operations management software for freight brokers, third-party logistics providers, shippers, railroads, marine operators and trucking companies. In this transaction, TransCore was advised by Lehman Brothers.
About Roper Industries
Roper Industries is a diversified industrial growth company providing engineered products and solutions for global niche markets. Additional information about Roper Industries, including registration to receive press releases via email, is available on the Company's website, . In this transaction, Roper was advised by Merrill Lynch and Devon Value Advisers.
www.roperind.com
The information provided in this press release contains forward looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. These forward looking statements include, among others, statements regarding our proposed acquisition of TransCore (the acquisition), the terms of our financing plan, the prospects for TransCore to compete in its market and achieve future growth and profit expectations, and the impact of the acquisition on our future results of operations and cash flows, and may be indicated by words or phrases such as "anticipate," "estimate," "plans," "expects," "projects," "should," "will," "believes" or "intends" and similar words and phrases. These statements reflect management's current beliefs and are not guarantees of performance. They involve risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward looking statement. Such risks and uncertainties include our ability to complete the acquisition, secure financing on favorable terms and through the facility and issuance currently anticipated, integrate the acquisition and realize expected synergies. We also face other general risks, including reductions in our business with Gazprom, our ability to realize cost savings from our restructuring initiatives, unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates, difficulties associated with exports, risks associated with our international operations, difficulties in making and integrating acquisitions, risks associated with TransCore's business, increased product liability and insurance costs, increased warranty exposure, future competition, changes in the supply of, or price for, parts and components, environmental compliance costs and liabilities, risks and cost associated with asbestos related litigation and potential write-offs of our substantial intangible assets. Important risk factors include those discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003, and may be discussed in subsequent filings with the SEC. You should not place undue reliance on any forward looking statements. These statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update publicly any of them in light of new information or future events.
We refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures in this press release. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found within this press release.


