FILE:ROP/ROP-8K-20041025140702.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Table of Contents
Explanatory Note:
     On December 29, 2003, Roper Industries, Inc. (the "Company", "Roper" or "we") acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of Neptune Technology Group Holdings, Inc. ("Neptune") for a cash purchase price of approximately $473 million, which is net of cash acquired and includes debt assumed. The purpose of this Current Report on Form 8-K is to update certain pro forma financial statements of Roper, which give effect to the acquisition and related transactions.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
Roper Industries, Inc. ("Roper") derived the following unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information by the application of pro forma adjustments to our historical financial statements and the historical financial statements of Neptune Technology Group Holdings, Inc. ("Neptune"). The following unaudited pro forma consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2003 reflect the following events as if each had occurred immediately prior to this period:
The foregoing are referred to herein as the "Transactions."
We do not provide an unaudited pro forma consolidated balance sheet for the year ended December 31, 2003 or an unaudited pro forma consolidated statement of operations for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2004 because the respective balance sheet and statement of operations filed in Roper's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003 and quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2004 reflects the impact of the Transactions in accordance with Article 11 of Regulation S-X.
The unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information has been prepared to reflect the application of purchase accounting under SFAS No. 141, "Business Combinations" for the Neptune and DAP Acquisitions. Under purchase accounting, the acquisition consideration is allocated to Neptune's assets and liabilities based on their relative fair values. The consideration remaining is allocated to identifiable intangibles with a finite life and amortized over that life, as well as to goodwill and identifiable intangibles with an infinite life, which will be evaluated on an annual basis to determine impairment and adjusted accordingly. The pro forma adjustments were based upon an assessment of value by management of Neptune's tangible and intangible assets, in conjunction with a formal valuation analysis performed by an outside appraisal firm, as follows (in thousands):
 
The adjustments to the unaudited pro forma consolidated statement of operations are based upon available information and certain assumptions that we believe are reasonable and exclude certain non-recurring charges that were incurred in connection with: (1) amortization of estimated inventory fair value step-up of approximately $2.2 million from the acquisition which has impacted 2004 cost of goods sold; and (2) the write-off of approximately $15.6 million of debt extinguishment costs, net of tax, related to the pay off to Roper's senior notes and related deferred financing costs. The pro forma condensed financial information should be read in conjunction with Roper's historical financial statements and the related notes thereto. The pro forma financial information is presented for informational purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of the results of operations that would have resulted had the acquisition described above been consummated at the date indicated, nor is it necessarily indicative of the results of operations of future periods.
 
 


