FILE:ROP/ROP-8K-20050728075620.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 27, 2005, Roper Industries, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release containing information about the Company's results of operations for the second quarter ended June 30, 2005. A copy of the press release is furnished as .
Exhibit 99.1
In the press release, the Company uses a non-GAAP financial measure EBITDA. EBITDA is defined as net earnings plus (a) interest expense, (b) income taxes and (c) depreciation and amortization. The Company believes EBITDA is an important indicator of operational strength and performance of the Company's business because it provides a link between profitability and operating cash flow. EBITDA as calculated by the Company is not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. In addition, EBITDA: (a) does not represent net income or cash flows from operations as defined by GAAP; (b) is not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund the Company's cash flow needs; and (c) should not be considered as an alternative to net earnings, operating income, cash flows from operating activities or the Company's other financial information determined under GAAP. The Company believes that the line on the Company's consolidated statement of operations entitled net earnings is the most directly comparable GAAP measure to EBITDA.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a)     .
Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired
(b)     .
Pro Forma Financial Information
(c)     .
Exhibits
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Roper Industries, Inc.
Contact Information: Chris Hix Director of Investor Relations +1 (770) 495-5100 investor-relations@roperind.com
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
reported record results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2005. Diluted earnings per share (DEPS) were $0.82 in the quarter. Cash flow from operating activities grew 56% over the prior year to $63 million, which represents 176% of net earnings. EBITDA improved 57% to $80 million. Second quarter 2005 results include $0.02 per diluted share of tax benefits.
Duluth, Georgia, July 27, 2005 ... Roper Industries, Inc. (NYSE: ROP)
"Our focus on cash performance has led to strong results across our businesses," said Brian Jellison, Roper's Chairman, President and CEO. "We continue to make progress in improving margins and working capital efficiency, with second quarter EBITDA margins increasing year-over-year to 22.0% and net working capital decreasing to 17.3% of sales. Our growing cash flow supports our strategic acquisition program, including the recently announced acquisition of CIVCO." CIVCO is a supplier of diagnostic and therapeutic disposable products used in conjunction with ultrasound imaging for minimally invasive procedures.
Roper reported net sales of $362 million in the second quarter, 56% higher than the prior year period. These results reflect the Company's 11% internal growth in the second quarter, including strong internal growth in each of its reporting segments. Second quarter results also include substantial contributions from Roper's recent acquisitions of two market leaders in the radio frequency (RF) market, TransCore and Inovonics. The Company achieved record orders of $364 million in the second quarter, an increase of 63%, including internal order growth of 15%.
"Our recent acquisitions are performing well," said Mr. Jellison. "At the same time, our other businesses continue to benefit from our broad-based programs to improve distribution, capture market adjacencies and create innovative customer solutions. Our internal growth produced strong operating leverage, which exceeded 40% in the second quarter. We remain confident of our growth prospects this year."
The Company raised its full year minimum EBITDA guidance from $314 million to $325 million. The Company also raised its full year DEPS guidance to $3.20-$3.35 from $3.15-$3.35, and initiated third quarter guidance of $0.84-$0.90. Today the Company separately announced a two-for-one split of its common stock in the form of a 100% stock dividend, to be distributed on August 26, 2005 to shareholders of record at the end of the day on August 12, 2005. The Company's results and projections do not include the effects of this dividend.
Conference Call to be Held at 10:00 AM (ET) Tomorrow
A conference call to discuss these results has been scheduled for 10:00 AM ET on Thursday, July 28, 2005. The call can be accessed via webcast or by dialing +1 (800) 289-0507 (US/Canada) or +1 (913) 981-5540, using access code 2784010. Webcast information and conference call materials will be made available in the "Investor Information" section of Roper's website ) prior to the start of the call. Telephonic replays will be available for up to two weeks by calling +1 (719) 457-0820 and using the access code 2784010.
(www.roperind.com
Table 1: Net Sales (Millions)
Note to Table 1: To compute internal growth, the Company excludes sales from business units not owned for the entire length of the comparative periods being presented.
Table 2: Orders (Millions)
Table 3: EBITDA (Millions)
Table 4: Tax Benefits (Millions, Except DEPS)
About Roper Industries
Roper Industries is a diversified industrial growth company with more than $1 billion of annualized revenues. Roper provides engineered products and solutions for global niche markets, including water, energy, radio frequency and research/medical applications. Additional information about Roper Industries is available on the Company's website at www.roperind.com.
The information provided in this press release contains forward looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. These forward looking statements include, among others, statements regarding year-end operating results, the success of our internal operating plans, and the prospects for newly acquired businesses to compete in their markets and contribute to future growth and profit expectations. Forward looking statements may be indicated by words or phrases such as "anticipate," "estimate," "plans," "expects," "projects," "should," "will," "believes" or "intends" and similar words and phrases. These statements reflect management's current beliefs and are not guarantees of future performance. They involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward looking statement. Such risks and uncertainties include our ability to integrate our acquisitions and realize expected synergies. We also face other general risks, including our ability to realize cost savings from our operating initiatives, unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates, difficulties associated with exports, risks associated with our international operations, difficulties in making and integrating acquisitions, risks associated with newly acquired businesses, increased product liability and insurance costs, increased warranty exposure, future competition, changes in the supply of, or price for, parts and components, environmental compliance costs and liabilities, risks and cost associated with asbestos related litigation and potential write-offs of our substantial intangible assets, and risks associated obtaining governmental approvals and maintaining regulatory compliance for new and existing products. Important risks may be discussed in current and subsequent filings with the SEC. You should not place undue reliance on any forward looking statements. These statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update publicly any of them in light of new information or future events.
Roper Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (unaudited)
(Amounts in thousands)
Roper Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings (unaudited)
(Amounts in thousands, except per share data)
Roper Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries Selected Segment Financial Data (unaudited)
(Amounts in thousands and percents of net sales)
Roper Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (unaudited)
(Amounts in thousands)


