FILE:ROP/ROP-8K-20050428164852.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 28, 2005, Roper Industries, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release containing information about the Company's results of operations for the first quarter ended March 31, 2005. A copy of the press release is furnished as .
Exhibit 99.1
In the press release, the Company uses a non-GAAP financial measure EBITDA. EBITDA is defined as net earnings plus (a) interest expense, (b) income taxes and (c) depreciation and amortization. The Company believes EBITDA is an important indicator of operational strength and performance of the Company's business because it provides a link between profitability and operating cash flow. EBITDA as calculated by the Company is not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. In addition, EBITDA: (a) does not represent net income or cash flows from operations as defined by GAAP; (b) is not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund the Company's cash flow needs; and (c) should not be considered as an alternative to net earnings, operating income, cash flows from operating activities or the Company's other financial information determined under GAAP. The Company believes that the line on the Company's consolidated statement of operations entitled net earnings is the most directly comparable GAAP measure to EBITDA.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a)     .
Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired
(b)     .
Pro Forma Financial Information
(c)     .
Exhibits
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Roper Industries, Inc.
Contact Information: Chris Hix Director of Investor Relations +1 (770) 495-5100 investor-relations@roperind.com
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
reported record first quarter results for the period ended March 31, 2005. Diluted earnings per share (DEPS) were $0.65 in the quarter, a 33% increase over the comparable period in the prior year. Net sales were a record $334 million in the first quarter, an increase of $113 million, driven by internal growth and contributions from acquisitions. The Company achieved record orders of $331 million in its first quarter, an increase of 51%.
Duluth, Georgia, April 28, 2005 .... Roper Industries, Inc. (NYSE: ROP)
First quarter 2005 results include contributions from Roper's new Radio Frequency (RF) segment businesses, TransCore and Inovonics. "We are quickly integrating these businesses into Roper and are pleased that they both performed ahead of expectations in the quarter," said Brian Jellison, Roper's Chairman, President and CEO. "We are making progress on our RF technology and market initiatives and remain excited about the growing potential for RF applications into targeted markets, such as security and asset tracking."
During the first quarter, the Company reported $39 million of cash flow from operating activities, an increase of 51% over the prior year. This performance represents 138% of first quarter net earnings. EBITDA improved 63% to a record $70 million, and EBITDA margins improved 140 basis points to 20.8%.
"We are off to a great start in 2005," said Mr. Jellison. "Our operating focus continues to produce solid results, including 7% internal sales and 10% internal order growth in the first quarter and a year-over-year decrease in net working capital from 21.2% to 17.9% of annualized quarterly net sales. These gains supported our strong margin and cash flow improvements in the quarter."
The Company also provided a financial forecast for its second quarter ended June 30, 2005, expecting DEPS of $0.74-$0.79. Full year DEPS guidance was increased from $3.10-$3.30 to $3.15-$3.35, and the Company expects to produce at least $225 million of cash flow from operating activities in 2005.
Mr. Jellison commented that the Company is well positioned to execute its growth strategy. "Roper's primary end markets  RF, energy, water and research  have attractive growth characteristics with lower cyclical risk. Our businesses are operating effectively, with a focus on growth and cash returns. We continue to see exciting opportunities for our disciplined acquisition process to supplement our growth platforms, supported by our considerable financial capacity, including $98 million of cash and our $400 million undrawn revolver."
Conference Call to be Held at 10:00 AM (ET) Tomorrow
A conference call to discuss these results has been scheduled for 10:00 AM ET on Friday, April 29, 2005. The call can be accessed via webcast or by dialing +1 (800) 289-0569 (US/Canada) or +1 (913) 981-5542, using access code 3012405. Webcast information and conference call materials will be made available in the "Investor Information" section of Roper's website () prior to the start of the call. Telephonic replays will be available for up to two weeks by calling +1 (719) 457-0820 and using the access code 3012405.
www.roperind.com
Table 1: Net Sales (Millions)
Note to Table 1: To compute internal growth, the Company excludes sales from business units not owned for the entire length of the comparative periods being presented.
Table 2: Orders (Millions)
Table 3: EBITDA (Millions)
About Roper Industries
Roper Industries is a diversified industrial growth company providing engineered products and solutions for global niche markets. Additional information about Roper Industries, including registration to receive press releases via email, is available on the Company's website, .
www.roperind.com
The information provided in this press release contains forward looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. These forward looking statements include, among others, statements regarding the prospects for newly acquired businesses to compete in their markets and contribute to future growth and profit expectations; our strategic goals, and our second quarter and full year 2005 outlook. Forward looking statements may be indicated by words or phrases such as "anticipate," "estimate," "plans," "expects," "projects," "should," "will," "believes" or "intends" and similar words and phrases. These statements reflect management's current beliefs and are not guarantees of performance. They involve risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward looking statement. Such risks and uncertainties include our ability to integrate our acquisitions and realize expected synergies. We also face other general risks, including our ability to realize cost savings from our operating initiatives, unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates, difficulties associated with exports, risks associated with our international operations, difficulties in making and integrating acquisitions, risks associated with newly acquired businesses, increased product liability and insurance costs, increased warranty exposure, future competition, changes in the supply of, or price for, parts and components, environmental compliance costs and liabilities, risks and cost associated with asbestos related litigation and potential write-offs of our substantial intangible assets. Important risk may be discussed in current and subsequent filings with the SEC. You should not place undue reliance on any forward looking statements. These statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update publicly any of them in light of new information or future events.
Roper Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (unaudited)
(Amounts in thousands)
Roper Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings (unaudited)
(Amounts in thousands, except per share data)
Roper Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries Selected Segment Financial Data (unaudited)
(Amounts in thousands and percents of net sales)
Roper Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
(Amounts in thousands and percents of net sales)


