FILE:ROP/ROP-8K-20060223175803.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On February 23, 2006, Roper Industries, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release containing information about the Company's results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2005. A copy of the press release is furnished as .
Exhibit 99.1
In the press release, the Company uses a non-GAAP financial measure EBITDA. EBITDA is defined as net earnings plus (a) interest expense, (b) income taxes and (c) depreciation and amortization. The Company believes EBITDA is an important indicator of operational strength and performance of the Company's business because it provides a link between profitability and operating cash flow. EBITDA as calculated by the Company is not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. In addition, EBITDA: (a) does not represent net income or cash flows from operations as defined by GAAP; (b) is not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund the Company's cash flow needs; and (c) should not be considered as an alternative to net earnings, operating income, cash flows from operating activities or the Company's other financial information determined under GAAP. The Company believes that the line on the Company's consolidated statement of operations entitled net earnings is the most directly comparable GAAP measure to EBITDA.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a)     .
Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired
(b)     .
Pro Forma Financial Information
(c)     .
Exhibits
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Roper Industries, Inc.
Contact Information: Investor Relations +1 (770) 495-5100 investor-relations@roperind.com
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
reported record sales, profitability and cash flow for the fourth quarter and full year ended December 31, 2005. Fourth quarter net sales were $393 million, operating cash flow was $105 million, net earnings were $50 million, and diluted earnings per share (DEPS) were $0.57. For the full year, net sales were $1.45 billion, operating cash flow was $281 million, net earnings were $153 million, and DEPS were $1.74. Fourth quarter and full year DEPS include $4 million of net earnings benefit from the repatriation of foreign earnings and the non-cash write-off of issuance costs related to the Company's senior subordinated convertible notes.
Duluth, Georgia, February 23, 2006 .... Roper Industries, Inc. (NYSE: ROP)
"We are pleased to conclude 2005 with continued record-setting performance in the fourth quarter," said Brian Jellison, Roper's Chairman, President and CEO. "All of our segments reported growth, leading to a 42% net sales increase over the same quarter last year. This reflects the benefits of our recent acquisitions. Despite unfavorable currency exchange effects that reduced internal sales growth by nearly 4%, we achieved net internal sales growth of 5% or 9% before the currency impact. We leveraged our sales growth into a 170 basis point year-over-year improvement in operating margins, achieving Q4 margins of 20.6%. Our cash flow expanded substantially demonstrating the success of our focus on growth and cash returns."
Fourth quarter operating cash flow increased 67% over the prior year comparable period and full year operating cash flow grew 71%. 2005 results include record performance in net working capital efficiency, as well as the benefits from utilizing net operating loss carryforwards from recent acquisitions. In the fourth quarter, net working capital was reduced to 13.8% of annualized quarterly sales. Fourth quarter EBITDA grew 77% to $97 million, or 24.8% of sales. The Company reported full year EBITDA of $335 million, 64% higher than the prior year.
"I am pleased that we achieved our business objectives in 2005," said Mr. Jellison. "We successfully integrated TransCore, acquired in December 2004. We continued our internal growth and cash flow momentum throughout the year. We put our expanding cash flow to work, acquiring three high-quality growth businesses in 2005. At the same time, we made progress towards our long-term objective of achieving investment grade status, reducing our net debt-to-net capital ratio to 40.2% and improving our debt-to-EBITDA ratio to 2.7x. This positions us well as we enter 2006."
In 2006, Roper expects full year EBITDA of at least $390 million and operating cash flow of at least $280 million. Full year DEPS are expected to be in the range of $1.95-$2.07. Consistent with recent year performance, the Company expects increasing quarterly performance throughout the year, with first quarter DEPS of $0.37-$0.40. 2006 DEPS guidance includes equity compensation expense related to the implementation of SFAS 123R. The Company's guidance does not include benefits from future acquisitions or the potential dilutive effects resulting from the Company's convertible notes.
Conference Call to be Held at 10:00 AM (ET) Tomorrow
A conference call to discuss these results has been scheduled for 10:00 AM ET on Friday, February 24, 2006. The call can be accessed via webcast or by dialing (800) 819-9193 (US/Canada) or +1 (913) 981-4911, using access code 3179487. Webcast information and conference call materials will be made available in the "Investor" section of Roper's website () prior to the start of the call. Telephonic replays will be available for up to two weeks by calling +1 (719) 457-0820 and using the access code 3179487.
www.roperind.com
Table 1: EBITDA (Millions)
Table 2: Net Debt-to-Net Capital Ratio (Millions)
About Roper Industries
Roper Industries is a diversified industrial growth company with more than $1.4 billion of revenues. Roper provides engineered products and solutions for global niche markets, including water, energy, radio frequency and research/medical applications. Additional information about Roper Industries is available on the Company's website at www.roperind.com.
The information provided in this press release contains forward looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. These forward looking statements include, among others, statements regarding operating results, the success of our internal operating plans, and the prospects for newly acquired businesses to be integrated and contribute to future growth and profit expectations. Forward looking statements may be indicated by words or phrases such as "anticipate," "estimate," "plans," "expects," "projects," "should," "will," "believes" or "intends" and similar words and phrases. These statements reflect management's current beliefs and are not guarantees of future performance. They involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward looking statement. Such risks and uncertainties include our ability to integrate our acquisitions and realize expected synergies. We also face other general risks, including our ability to realize cost savings from our operating initiatives, unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates, difficulties associated with exports, risks associated with our international operations, difficulties in making and integrating acquisitions, risks associated with newly acquired businesses, increased product liability and insurance costs, increased warranty exposure, future competition, changes in the supply of, or price for, parts and components, environmental compliance costs and liabilities, risks and cost associated with asbestos related litigation and potential write-offs of our substantial intangible assets, and risks associated obtaining governmental approvals and maintaining regulatory compliance for new and existing products. Important risks may be discussed in current and subsequent filings with the SEC. You should not place undue reliance on any forward looking statements. These statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update publicly any of them in light of new information or future events.
Roper Industries, Inc.and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (unaudited)
(Amounts in thousands)
At the end of the Company's third quarter ended September 30, 2005, the Company's $230 million of senior subordinated convertible notes due in 2034 was required to be classified as current debt. This resulted from the triggering of the conversion feature of the notes due to increases in the trading price of the Company's stock since the issuance of the notes in December 2003. As previously reported, upon conversion of the notes, if any, the Company would be required to pay cash for the accreted principal value of the notes. The Company does not expect noteholders to exercise their conversion rights within the next 12 months.
(1)    
Roper Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings (unaudited)
(Amounts in thousands, except per share data)
Share data adjusted for effect of 2-for-1 stock split effective August 26, 2005.
(1)    
Roper Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries Selected Segment Financial Data (unaudited)
(Amounts in thousands and percents of net sales)
        * Operating profit is before unallocated corporate general and administrative expenses. Such expenses were $8,133 and $8,030 for the three months ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, and $27,173 and $19,970 for the twelve months ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
Roper Industries, Inc.and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (unaudited)
(Amounts in thousands)


