FILE:ROP/ROP-8K-20070112161625.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
(b) On January 8, 2007, Derrick Key provided notice to Roper Industries, Inc. (the "Company") and its Board of Directors (the "Board") of his retirement, effective on January 9, 2007. Mr. Key served as a director of the Company since December 1991 and has been associated with the Company for over twenty-five years, including serving in various executive officer positions.
A copy of the press release dated January 12, 2007, announcing Mr. Key's departure is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
(d) On January 9, 2007, the Board elected Richard Wallman to serve on the Company's Board until our Annual Meeting of Shareholders in 2008, at which time the Company anticipates that Mr. Wallman will be nominated to serve for an additional term. Mr. Wallman fills a vacancy created by the retirement of Mr. Key.
The Board has determined that Mr. Wallman qualifies as an independent director under the New York Stock Exchange listing standards. There was no arrangement or understanding pursuant to which Mr. Wallman was elected as a director, and there are no related party transactions between Mr. Wallman and the Company. For accepting appointment as an outside director, Mr. Wallman will receive 2,000 shares of restricted common stock pursuant to the Company's 2006 Stock Incentive Plan.
Mr. Wallman will serve on the Company's Nominating and Governance Committee.
Mr. Wallman served in senior financial positions with IBM, AlliedSignal and Honeywell International. He presently serves as a director of Ariba, Inc., Avaya Inc., Express-Jet Airlines, Inc., Hayes-Lemmerz International, Inc., and Lear Corporation.
A copy of the press release dated January 12, 2007, announcing the election of Mr. Wallman to the Board of Directors, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: January 12, 2007
 

EXHBIT 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
, Inc. (NYSE: ROP) announced that Richard F. Wallman has been elected to its Board of Directors, effective January 9, 2007. During his career Mr. Wallman has served in senior-level financial positions with IBM, AlliedSignal and Honeywell International. Mr. Wallman fills the vacancy created by the retirement of Derrick Key, who has served as a director since December 1991.
Duluth, Georgia, January 12, 2007. . . Roper Industries
"Richard is a welcome addition to our Board," said Mr. Brian Jellison, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Roper Industries. "Our Board and management team will benefit from his deep financial knowledge and experience with global technology and industrial companies. On behalf of Roper, I thank Derrick Key for his contributions to our company and we wish him a fulfilling retirement."
Mr. Wallman will serve on Roper's Board until its 2008 Annual Meeting, at which time the Company anticipates that he will be nominated to serve for an additional term. Mr. Wallman will serve on the Company's Nominating and Governance Committee.
Mr. Wallman also serves on the Boards of Ariba, Inc., Avaya Inc., ExpressJet Airlines, Inc., Hayes-Lemmerz International, Inc. and Lear Corporation.
About Roper Industries
Roper Industries is a market-driven, diversified growth company with annual revenues of $1.5 billion, and is a component of the S&P MidCap 400 and the Russell 1000 Indexes. Roper provides engineered products and solutions for global niche markets, including water, energy, radio frequency and research/medical applications. Additional information about Roper Industries is available on the Company's website at www.roperind.com.


