FILE:ROP/ROP-8K-20071025175021.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 25, 2007, Roper Industries, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release containing information about the Company's results of operations for the second quarter ended September 30, 2007. A copy of the press release is furnished as .
Exhibit 99.1
In the press release, the Company uses a non-GAAP financial measure EBITDA. EBITDA is defined as net earnings plus (a) interest expense, (b) income taxes and (c) depreciation and amortization. The Company believes EBITDA is an important indicator of operational strength and performance of the Company's business because it provides a link between profitability and operating cash flow. EBITDA as calculated by the Company is not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. In addition, EBITDA: (a) does not represent net income or cash flows from operations as defined by GAAP; (b) is not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund the Company's cash flow needs; and (c) should not be considered as an alternative to net earnings, operating income, cash flows from operating activities or the Company's other financial information determined under GAAP. The Company believes that the line on the Company's consolidated statement of operations entitled net earnings is the most directly comparable GAAP measure to EBITDA.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a)     .
Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired
(b)     .
Pro Forma Financial Information
(c)     .
Exhibits
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Roper Industries, Inc.
reported results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2007 that again exceeded performance in any quarter in the Company's history. Diluted earnings per share (DEPS) were $0.70 compared to $0.56 in the third quarter of 2006. Net earnings were up 28% to $65 million compared to the third quarter 2006. The tax rate for the quarter was 35.0% compared to 33.8% in the third quarter 2006. Third quarter net sales were $533 million, an increase of 25% over the comparable period in the prior year. Excluding acquisitions, internal sales increased 16%, including a 2% benefit from foreign exchange. Net orders were $533 million, an increase of $97 million over the third quarter of 2006; excluding acquisitions, internal orders were up 12%.
Sarasota
, Florida
,
October 25
, 200
7
 Roper Industries, Inc.
(NYSE: ROP)
"We continue to have exceptional internal sales and orders growth, and our recent acquisitions have performed well across the board," said Brian Jellison, Roper's Chairman, President and CEO. "The combination of this growth and our strong operating performance enabled us to increase EBITDA to a record $137 million with EBITDA margins reaching 25.8%. We are pleased to have delivered operating cash flow of $91 million, which represents 17% of net sales, and cash conversion of 140%. Despite challenges in the Imaging Segment, we achieved operating margins of 21.3%, up 80 basis points from 2006. We are pleased that Roper passed two important milestones in the quarter, with trailing twelve months (TTM) EBITDA exceeding $500 million and TTM sales exceeding $2 billion for the first time in our history."
Roper's acquisition pipeline remains full and the Company has taken additional steps to refine its portfolio of businesses. The Company exercised an option to acquire Black Diamond Advanced Technology, a designer and manufacturer of rugged devices. Roper has exited Redlake Motion through a transaction involving the contribution of working capital and product lines to Integrated Design Tools, Inc., an engineering company specializing in automotive markets and motion technology, with a production hub in Shanghai, China designed to serve the Asian market. In exchange, Roper received a minority, non-controlling interest in the combined business. Roper expects to benefit from these actions in 2008.
Roper's strong order growth was led by the RF and Energy Segments. Strong growth in the Industrial Segment was partially offset by Neptune's comparison to third quarter 2006, when orders were up 38%; Neptune's backlog is 8% higher at the end of the third quarter of 2007 compared to the end of the third quarter of 2006. Continued strength in sales and orders in Roper's businesses reflect the importance of the Company's participation in many secular growth markets.
As a result of its strong third quarter performance and outlook for the remainder of the year, Roper is increasing its full year DEPS guidance from $2.60 - $2.66 to $2.63 - $2.67 and establishing fourth quarter DEPS guidance of $0.72  $0.76. Roper now expects full year EBITDA in excess of $525 million and operating cash flow of $320 million or more. The Company's guidance does not include benefits from future acquisitions, but does include the dilutive effect of the Company's senior subordinated convertible notes based on the stock price on September 30, 2007.
A conference call to discuss these results has been scheduled for 10:00 AM ET on Friday, October 26, 2007. The call can be accessed via webcast or by dialing +1 (888) 801-6506 or +1 (913) 312-0839, using access code 1997489. Webcast information and conference call materials will be made available in the "Investor" section of Roper's website (www.roperind.com) prior to the start of the call. Telephonic replays will be available for up to two weeks by calling +1 (719) 457-0820 and using the access code 1997489.
Conference Call to be Held at 10:00 AM (ET) Tomorrow
Table 1: EBITDA (Millions)
Table 2: Cash Conversion
About Roper Industries
Roper Industries is a market-driven, diversified growth company with trailing twelve month revenues of $2.0 billion, and is a component of the Fortune 1000, S&P MidCap 400 and the Russell 1000 Indexes. Roper provides engineered products and solutions for global niche markets, including water, energy, radio frequency and research/medical applications. Additional information about Roper Industries is available on the Company's website at www.roperind.com.
The information provided in this press release contains forward looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. These forward looking statements include, among others, statements regarding operating results, the success of our internal operating plans, and the prospects for newly acquired businesses to be integrated and contribute to future growth and profit expectations. Forward looking statements may be indicated by words or phrases such as "anticipate," "estimate," "plans," "expects," "projects," "should," "will," "believes" or "intends" and similar words and phrases. These statements reflect management's current beliefs and are not guarantees of future performance. They involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward looking statement. Such risks and uncertainties include our ability to integrate our acquisitions and realize expected synergies. We also face other general risks, including our ability to realize cost savings from our operating initiatives, unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates, difficulties associated with exports, risks associated with our international operations, difficulties in making and integrating acquisitions, risks associated with newly acquired businesses, increased product liability and insurance costs, increased warranty exposure, future competition, changes in the supply of, or price for, parts and components, environmental compliance costs and liabilities, risks and cost associated with asbestos related litigation and potential write-offs of our substantial intangible assets, and risks associated with obtaining governmental approvals and maintaining regulatory compliance for new and existing products. Important risks may be discussed in current and subsequent filings with the SEC. You should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. These statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update publicly any of them in light of new information or future events.
Roper Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (unaudited) (Amounts in thousands)
Roper Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings (unaudited) (Amounts in thousands, except per share data)
Roper Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Selected Segment Financial Data (unaudited)
(Amounts in thousands and percents of net sales)
* Operating
profit is before unallocated corporate general and administrative expenses. Such expenses were $11,567 and $8,511 for the three months ended September 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively, and
$31,877 and $26,249 for the nine months ended September 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
Roper Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (unaudited)
(Amounts in thousands)


