FILE:ROP/ROP-8K-20070426185506.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 26, 2007, Roper Industries, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release containing information about the Company's results of operations for the quarter ended March 31, 2007. A copy of the press release is furnished as .
Exhibit 99.1
In the press release, the Company uses a non-GAAP financial measure EBITDA. EBITDA is defined as net earnings plus (a) interest expense, (b) income taxes and (c) depreciation and amortization. The Company believes EBITDA is an important indicator of operational strength and performance of the Company's business because it provides a link between profitability and operating cash flow. EBITDA as calculated by the Company is not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. In addition, EBITDA: (a) does not represent net income or cash flows from operations as defined by GAAP; (b) is not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund the Company's cash flow needs; and (c) should not be considered as an alternative to net earnings, operating income, cash flows from operating activities or the Company's other financial information determined under GAAP. The Company believes that the line on the Company's consolidated statement of operations entitled net earnings is the most directly comparable GAAP measure to EBITDA.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a)     .
Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired
(b)     .
Pro Forma Financial Information
(c)     .
Exhibits
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Roper Industries, Inc.
Contact Information: Investor Relations +1 (941) 556-2601 investor-relations@roperind.com
reported record results for its first quarter ended March 31, 2007. Diluted earnings per share (DEPS) were $0.56, an increase of 33% over the comparable period in the prior year. Current year results include the dilutive effect from the Company's senior subordinated convertible notes. Net sales were up 25% to $478 million, which included 14% internal growth with 2% favorable foreign currency effect. Net orders increased 26% to $493 million, which included 16% internal growth with 2% favorable foreign currency effect. Net Earnings increased 36% to $51 million and EBITDA increased 33% to $115 million, or 24.1% of sales.
Sarasota, Florida, April 26, 2007 .... Roper Industries, Inc. (NYSE: ROP)
"We are pleased with the continued sales and orders growth in our businesses, reflecting strength throughout the company," said Brian Jellison, Roper's Chairman, President and CEO. "Orders once again exceeded sales and our record backlog gives us confidence as we enter the second quarter. In particular, Neptune orders and sales set records for the quarter and the RF Segment benefited from margin improvements and a better mix of product sales. Dynisco and our other acquisitions performed well in the quarter, and we continued to see the positive effects of our focus on secular, less-cyclical markets. Operating margins increased 180 basis points to 19.4%, even with the impact of acquisition accounting at Dynisco."
The Company completed three acquisitions in the first quarter: JLT, a provider of rugged computers and software for mobile computing applications; DJ Instruments, a producer of sensors for life science applications which immediately complements the Dynisco business; and Roda Deaco, a manufacturer of air cutoff valves to protect high value assets for energy customers with an existing focus on the Western Canadian oil sands development. Mr. Jellison commented, "We invested $70 million in the quarter to acquire businesses that we expect to generate EBITDA over the next twelve months in excess of $9 million on sales of $40 million. These acquisitions add growth opportunities to our existing businesses by expanding their global reach and adding key product capabilities."
"We are excited about the prospects for the year," continued Mr. Jellison. "There are growth opportunities in all our segments and the pipeline for additional acquisitions remains very active. We expect continued strong performance throughout 2007."
As a result of its strong first quarter performance, Roper is increasing its full year DEPS guidance from $2.50-$2.62 to $2.54-$2.64, and establishing second quarter DEPS guidance of $0.63-$0.65. The Company now expects full year EBITDA in excess of $510 million and operating cash flow of $310 million or more. The Company's guidance does not include benefits from future acquisitions, but does include the dilutive effect of the Company's senior subordinated convertibles notes based on the stock price on March 30, 2007.
Conference Call to be Held at 10:00 AM (ET) Tomorrow
A conference call to discuss these results has been scheduled for 10:00 AM ET on Friday, April 27, 2007. The call can be accessed via webcast or by dialing (888) 202-2422 or +1 (913) 981-5592, using access code 6303304. Webcast information and conference call materials will be made available in the "Investor" section of Roper's website (www.roperind.com) prior to the start of the call. Telephonic replays will be available for up to two weeks by calling +1 (719) 457-0820 and using the access code 6303304.
Table 1: EBITDA (Millions)
About Roper Industries
Roper Industries is a market-driven, diversified growth company with trailing twelve month revenues of $1.8 billion, and is a component of the Fortune 1000, S&P MidCap 400 and the Russell 1000 Indexes. Roper provides engineered products and solutions for global niche markets, including water, energy, radio frequency and research/medical applications. Additional information about Roper Industries is available on the Company's website at www.roperind.com.
The information provided in this press release contains forward looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. These forward looking statements include, among others, statements regarding operating results, the success of our internal operating plans, and the prospects for newly acquired businesses to be integrated and contribute to future growth and profit expectations. Forward looking statements may be indicated by words or phrases such as "anticipate," "estimate," "plans," "expects," "projects," "should," "will," "believes" or "intends" and similar words and phrases. These statements reflect management's current beliefs and are not guarantees of future performance. They involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward looking statement. Such risks and uncertainties include our ability to integrate our acquisitions and realize expected synergies. We also face other general risks, including our ability to realize cost savings from our operating initiatives, unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates, difficulties associated with exports, risks associated with our international operations, difficulties in making and integrating acquisitions, risks associated with newly acquired businesses, increased product liability and insurance costs, increased warranty exposure, future competition, changes in the supply of, or price for, parts and components, environmental compliance costs and liabilities, risks and cost associated with asbestos related litigation and potential write-offs of our substantial intangible assets, and risks associated with obtaining governmental approvals and maintaining regulatory compliance for new and existing products. Important risks may be discussed in current and subsequent filings with the SEC. You should not place undue reliance on any forward looking statements. These statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update publicly any of them in light of new information or future events.
Roper Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (unaudited)
(Amounts in thousands)
Roper Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings (unaudited)
(Amounts in thousands, except per share data)
Roper Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (unaudited)
(Amounts in thousands)
Roper Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries Selected Segment Financial Data (unaudited)
(Amounts in thousands and percents of net sales)


