FILE:ROP/ROP-8K-20080820165435.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(d) On August 14, 2008, the Board elected Robert E. Knowling, Jr. to serve on the Company's Board until our Annual Meeting of Shareholders in 2009, at which time the Company anticipates that Mr. Knowling will be nominated to serve for an additional term.
The Board has determined that Mr. Knowling qualifies as an independent director under the New York Stock Exchange listing standards. There was no arrangement or understanding pursuant to which Mr. Knowling was elected as a director, and there are no related party transactions between Mr. Knowling and the Company. Mr. Knowling will serve on the Company's Nominating and Governance Committee. Mr. Knowling serves as the Chief Executive Officer and a member of the Board of Directors of Telwares, a leading provider of telecommunications spend management solutions. He presently serves as a director of Ariba, Inc., Aprimo, Inc. and Heidrick & Struggles International. A copy of the press release dated August 20, 2008, announcing the election of Mr. Knowling to the Board of Directors, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)     .
Exhibits
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
Robert E. Knowling, Jr. Joins Roper Industries Board of Directors
 
Sarasota, Florida, August 20, 2008 ... Roper Industries, Inc.
(NYSE: ROP) announced that Robert E. Knowling, Jr. has been elected to its Board of Directors. Mr. Knowling serves as Chief Executive Officer of Telwares and was previously CEO of the NYC Leadership Academy, an independent non-profit corporation that is chartered with developing the next generation of principals in the New York City public school system.
 
"Bob is a great addition to our Board, bringing a unique mix of public and private company leadership experience," said Brian Jellison, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Roper Industries. "He adds valuable expertise in the telecommunications and networking industries, and as a result of his experience with the New York City Leadership Academy, he possesses considerable knowledge and insight into the business needs of the educational community, an important growth market for Roper."
 
Mr. Knowling will serve on the Company's Nominating and Governance Committee.
 
Mr. Knowling also serves on the boards of Ariba, Inc., Heidrick & Struggles International, Inc., and Aprimo, Inc. He is also a member of the Advisory Board for Northwestern University's Kellogg Graduate School of Management and has served as Chair of the National Services Group for the YMCA.
 
About Roper Industries
 
Roper Industries is a market-driven, diversified growth company with trailing twelve month revenues of $2.2 billion, and is a component of the Fortune 1000, S&P MidCap 400 and the Russell 1000 Indexes. Roper provides engineered products and solutions for global niche markets, including water, energy, radio frequency and research/medical applications. Additional information about Roper Industries is available on the Company's website at www.roperind.com.
 
# # #
 
 
 


