FILE:ROP/ROP-8K-20081023173438.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 23, 2008, Roper Industries, Inc. (the Company) issued a press release containing information about the Companys results of operations for the quarter ended September 30, 2008. A copy of the press release is furnished as .
Exhibit 99.1
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a)     .
Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired
(b)     .
Pro Forma Financial Information
(c)    
Shell Company Transactions.
(d)     .
Exhibits
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1  
 
Sarasota, Florida, October 23, 2008 ... Roper Industries, Inc. (NYSE: ROP)
reported results for its third quarter ended September 30, 2008.   Reported net earnings were $75 million, up from $65 million in the prior year. Results for the quarter include a previously disclosed $2 million non-cash, after-tax charge for the early termination of the Companys secured credit facility, which was replaced in July with a new senior unsecured credit facility. Excluding this charge, reported net earnings were $77 million and diluted earnings per share (DEPS) were $0.82, consistent with the Companys guidance and up from $0.70 in the prior year. Reported DEPS including the charge were $0.80.   Net sales in the quarter were $593 million, an increase of 11% compared to the 2007 third quarter. Backlog increased 16% from the prior year to $617 million, reflecting the benefit from acquisitions and continued internal growth. Net orders increased 9% to $581 million. Operating margin expanded 100 basis points to 22.3% in the quarter. Operating cash flow in the third quarter increased to $138 million, representing 184% of net earnings. Year to date operating cash flow increased 35% to $306 million.
"We are very pleased by Ropers operating performance and strategic accomplishments in the third quarter," said Brian Jellison, Roper's Chairman, President and CEO. "For the third consecutive quarter, we have increased revenue by 10%, excluding the impact of foreign exchange. Despite difficult prior year comparables and interruptions from Hurricane Ike to our Houston based Energy segment businesses we were able to generate 4% organic growth in these difficult markets. We expect this combination of organic growth and sales generated by this years acquisitions will continue to provide revenue growth in the fourth quarter. During the quarter our businesses generated record cash flow and margins continued to expand, reflecting our disciplined cost management. Although we remain focused on the macroeconomic challenges and expected weakness in the global economy, we remain optimistic that we can continue to balance growth through our organic initiatives and proven acquisition process.
Acquisitions
During the quarter, Roper acquired Technolog, the leading UK provider of specialty electronic products and services for the water, gas and electricity markets, further expanding the reach of its RF segment in the global utilities market. The Company also acquired Horizon Software International, the leading provider of comprehensive software solutions for meal planning and cashless transactions for the K-12 education market, adding to its growing CBORD business acquired in February, 2008.  
 
Balance Sheet
Strengthened
As a result of the strength of our businesses and consistent cash flow generation, we were able to strategically restructure our debt during the quarter. We negotiated an unsecured credit facility, were upgraded to investment grade and successfully completed a public debt offering, continued Mr. Jellison.
On August 4, 2008, Roper
completed the public offering of $500 million of 6.625% Notes due 2013. The net proceeds from the offering were used to repay a portion of the $750 million revolving credit line established July 7, 2008, under Ropers new senior unsecured credit facility.
Ropers ability to complete this offering in one of the most difficult credit markets we have seen reflects the considerable strength of our businesses and our balance sheet. We are very pleased to have achieved an investment grade rating and have ample financial resources to continue executing our business model despite the highly volatile environment, Mr. Jellison said. The Company ended the third quarter with $156 million cash on hand and over $435 million of undrawn capacity in its revolving credit facility.
Debt Extinguishment Charge
As previously announced, third quarter results include a $2 million non-cash after-tax charge for early termination of the Companys amended and restated secured credit facility, dated December 13, 2004, reflecting this facilitys remaining unamortized fees.  
Guidance
Roper is increasing full year operating cash flow guidance from $390 million to $410 million. In light of a higher interest rate environment and a more uncertain global economy, the Company is establishing fourth quarter DEPS guidance of $0.83 - $0.86. The Company expects full year DEPS of $3.13 - $3.16 (previously $3.16 - $3.22). The Companys guidance excludes future acquisitions and the debt extinguishment charges in the third quarter, while including the dilutive effect of the senior subordinated convertibles notes based on the stock price through October 17, 2008. Including the debt extinguishment charges described above, the Company expects full year DEPS of $3.11 - $3.14, with no effect on full year cash flow or fourth quarter DEPS guidance.
Conference call to be held at 10:00 (ET) Tomorrow  
A conference call to discuss these results has been scheduled for 10:00 AM ET on Friday, October 24, 2008. The call can be accessed via webcast or by dialing +1 (800) 239-9838 or +1 (913) 312-1264, using confirmation code 2049770. Webcast information and conference call materials will be made available in the Investor section of Ropers website (
www.roperind.com
) prior to the start of the call. Telephonic replays will be available for up to two weeks by calling +1 (719) 457-0820 and using access code 2049770.
Reconciliation to Non-GAAP Measures
Table 1: Sales Growth
Table 2: Net Earnings (Millions)
Table 3: Diluted Earnings Per Share (DEPS)
About Roper Industries  
Roper Industries is a market-driven, diversified growth company with trailing twelve month revenues of $2.3 billion, and is a component of the Fortune 1000, S&P Midcap 400 and the Russell 1000 Indexes. Roper provides engineered products and solutions for global niche markets, including water, energy, radio frequency and research/medical applications. Additional information about Roper Industries is available on the Companys website at
www.roperind.com
.  
The information provided in this press release contains forward looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. These forward looking statements include, among others, statements regarding operating results, the success of our internal operating plans, and the prospects for newly acquired businesses to be integrated and contribute to future growth and profit expectations. Forward looking statements may be indicated by words or phrases such as "anticipate," "estimate," "plans," "expects," "projects," "should," "will," "believes" or "intends" and similar words and phrases. These statements reflect management's current beliefs and are not guarantees of future performance. They involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward looking statement. Such risks and uncertainties include our ability to integrate our acquisitions and realize expected synergies. We also face other general risks, including our ability to realize cost savings from our operating initiatives, unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates, difficulties associated with exports, risks associated with our international operations, difficulties in making and integrating acquisitions, risks associated with newly acquired businesses, increased product liability and insurance costs, increased warranty exposure, future competition, changes in the supply of, or price for, parts and components, environmental compliance costs and liabilities, risks and cost associated with asbestos related litigation and potential write-offs of our substantial intangible assets, and risks associated with obtaining governmental approvals and maintaining regulatory compliance for new and existing products. Important risks may be discussed in current and subsequent filings with the SEC. You should not place undue reliance on any forward looking statements. These statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update publicly any of them in light of new information or future events.
Roper Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (unaudited)
(Amounts in thousands)
 
Roper Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings (unaudited)
(Amounts in thousands, except per share data)
 
Roper Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Selected Segment Financial Data (unaudited)
(Amounts in thousands and percents of net sales)
* Operating profit is before unallocated corporate general and administrative expenses. These expenses were $12,946 and $11,567 for the three months ended September 30, 2008 and 2007, respectively, and
$39,873 and $31,877 for the nine months ended September 30, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
 
 
Roper Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (unaudited)
(Amounts in thousands)


