FILE:ROP/ROP-8K-20080804151326.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
FORM 8-K
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01.  Other Events.
 
Issuance of $500 million of Senior Notes
 
On August 4, 2008, Roper Industries, Inc. (the Company) consummated the issuance and sale of $500,000,000 principal amount of its 6.625% Senior Notes due 2013 (the Notes) pursuant to an underwriting agreement dated July 29, 2008 between the Company and Banc of America Securities LLC, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC as representatives of the several underwriters named therein. The Notes have been issued pursuant to an Indenture dated as of August 4, 2008 (the Indenture) between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as trustee.
 
The Notes have been offered pursuant to the Companys Registration Statement on Form S-3 filed on July 29, 2008 (Reg. No. 333-152590), including the prospectus contained therein (the Registration Statement), and a related preliminary prospectus supplement and a prospectus supplement, each dated July 29, 2008.
 
The material terms and conditions of the Notes are set forth in the Form of Officers Certificate filed herewith as Exhibit 4.09 and incorporated by reference herein and in the Indenture filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Registration Statement.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
The following exhibits are filed herewith:
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

 
between Roper Industries, Inc. (the ,) and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee (the ).  The Trustee is the trustee for any and all securities issued under the Indenture.  $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount ofNotes due 2013 (the ) that the terms of the Notes are as follows:
Reference is made to the Indenture dated as of August 4
, 200
8
(the
 
Indenture
)
Issuer
Trustee
Pursuant to Section
2.01 and Section 2.03
of the
Indenture
 
the undersigned officer
do
es
hereby certify, in connection with the issuance of
 
6.625%
Notes
Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings specified in the Indenture.
 
 
 
 
 
Subject to the representations, warranties and covenants described in the Indenture, as amended or supplemented from time to time, the Issuer shall be entitled, subject to authorization by the Board of Directors of the Issuer and an Officers Certificate, to issue additional notes from time to time under each series of notes issued hereby. Any such additional notes of a series shall have identical terms as the Notes issued on the issue date, other than with respect to the date of issuance and the issue price (together the 
Additional Notes
). Any Additional Notes will be issued in accordance with Section 2.03 of the Indenture.
 
Such officer has read and understands the provisions of the Indenture and the definitions relating thereto.  The statements made in this Officers Certificate are based upon the examination of the provisions of the Indenture and upon the relevant books and records of the Issuer.  In such officers opinion, he has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable such officer to express an informed opinion as to whether or not the covenants and conditions of such Indenture relating to the issuance and authentication of the Notes have been complied with.  In such officers opinion, such covenants and conditions have been complied with.
 
 
Dated:    August 4, 2008
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A
 
 
 
UNLESS THIS NOTE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION (), TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY NOTE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS A BENEFICIAL INTEREST HEREIN.
DTC
 
TRANSFERS OF THIS NOTE ARE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS IN WHOLE, BUT NOT IN PART, TO NOMINEES OF DTC OR TO A SUCCESSOR THEREOF OR SUCH SUCCESSORS NOMINEE AND TRANSFERS OF PORTIONS OF THIS GLOBAL NOTE ARE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS MADE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE TRANSFER PROVISIONS OF THE INDENTURE.
 
IN CONNECTION WITH ANY TRANSFER, THE HOLDER WILL DELIVER TO THE REGISTRAR AND TRANSFER AGENT SUCH CERTIFICATES AND OTHER INFORMATION AS SUCH TRANSFER AGENT MAY REASONABLY REQUIRE TO CONFIRM THAT THE TRANSFER COMPLIES WITH THE FOREGOING RESTRICTIONS.
 
 
 
 
 
ROPER INDUSTRIES, INC., a Delaware corporation (the ), for value received promises to pay to CEDE & CO. or registered assigns the principal sum of _________________UNITED STATES DOLLARS onAugust 15, 2013.
Issuer
 
 
 
Interest Payment Dates:  February 15and August 15(each, an ), commencing on February 15, 2009.
 
 
Interest Payment Date
 
Interest Record Dates:  February 1and August 1(each, an ).
 
 
Interest Record Date
 
Reference is made to the further provisions of this Note contained herein, which will for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Issuer has caused this Note to be signed manually or by facsimile by its duly authorized officers.
 
This is one of the Notes of the series designated herein and referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
Dated:  August 4, 2008
 
 
(REVERSE OF NOTE)
 
 
1.
 
Interest.
 
Roper Industries, Inc. (the ) promises to pay interest on the principal amount of this Note at the rate per annum described above (the ), subject to adjustments as provided in Section 6 hereof.  Cash interest on the Notes will accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid; or, if no interest has been paid, from August 4, 2008.  Interest on this Note will be paid to but excluding the relevant Interest Payment Date or on such earlier date as the principal amount shall become due in accordance with the provisions hereof.  The Issuer will pay interest semi-annually in arrears on each Interest Payment Date, commencing February 15, 2009.  Interest will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.
Issuer
Original Interest Rate
 
The Issuer shall pay interest on overdue principal from time to time on demand at the rate borne by the Notes and on overdue installments of interest (without regard to any applicable grace periods) to the extent lawful.
 
2.
 
Paying Agent.
 
Initially, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (the ) will act as paying agent.  The Issuer may change any paying agent without notice to the Holders.
Trustee
 
3.
 
Indenture; Defined Terms.
 
This Note is one of the 6.625% Notes due 2013 (the ) issued under an indenture by and between the Issuer and the Trustee, and established pursuant to an Officers Certificate dated , 2008, issued pursuant to Section 2.01 and Section 2.03 thereof (together, the ).  This Note is a Security and the Notes are Securities under the Indenture.
Notes
dated as of August 4
, 200
8
 
(the 
Base Indenture
)
August 4
Indenture
For purposes of this Note, unless otherwise defined herein, capitalized terms herein are used as defined in the Indenture.  The terms of the Notes include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (15 U.S.C. Sections 77aaa-77bbbb) (the ) as in effect on the date on which the Indenture was qualified under the TIA.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, the Notes are subject to all such
TIA
 
 
 
 
terms, and holders of Notes are referred to the Indenture and the TIA for a statement of them.  To the extent the terms of the Indenture and this Note are inconsistent, the terms of the Indenture shall govern.
 
4.
 
Denominations; Transfer; Exchange.
 
The Notes are in registered form, without coupons, in denominations of $2,000 and multiples of $1,000 thereafter.  A Holder shall register the transfer or exchange of Notes in accordance with the Indenture.  The Issuer may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents and to pay certain transfer taxes or similar governmental charges payable in connection therewith as permitted by the Indenture.  The Issuer need not issue, authenticate, register the transfer of or exchange any Notes or portions thereof for a period of fifteen (15) days before the mailing of a notice of redemption, nor need the Issuer register the transfer or exchange of any Note selected for redemption in whole or in part.
 
5.
 
Amendment; Supplement; Waiver.
 
Subject to certain exceptions, the Notes and the provisions of the Indenture relating to the Notes may be amended or supplemented and any existing default or Event of Default or compliance with certain provisions may be waived with the written consent of the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of all series of Outstanding Securities (including the Notes) under the Indenture that are affected by such amendment, supplement or waiver (voting together as a single class).  Without notice to or consent of any Holder, the parties thereto may amend or supplement the Indenture and the Notes to, among other things, cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency or comply with any requirements of the Commission in connection with the qualification of the Indenture under the TIA, or make any other change that does not adversely affect the rights of any Holder of a Note.
 
6.
 
Interest Rate Adjustment.
 
The interest rate payable on the Notes will be subject to adjustments from time to time if Moodys Investors Service, Inc. () or Standard & Poors Rating Services, a division of the McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. (), including their respective successors, as applicable, (or, if applicable, any Substitute Rating Agency (as defined below)) downgrades (or subsequently upgrades) the rating assigned to the Notes, as set forth in this Section 6.
Moodys
S&P
 
If the ratings from Moodys or S&P (or, in either case if applicable, any Substitute Rating Agency) with respect to the Notes (each an , and collectively, the Interest Rate Rating Agencies) is decreased to a rating set forth in the following table with respect to that Interest
Interest Rate Rating Agency
 
 
 
 
Rate Rating Agency, the per annum interest rate on the Notes will increase from the Original Interest Rate by the percentage set forth opposite that rating:
 
If, at any time, the interest rate on the Notes has been adjusted upward as a result of a decrease in a rating by an Interest Rate Rating Agency and that Interest Rate Rating Agency subsequently increases its rating on the Notes to any of the threshold ratings set forth above, the per annum interest rate on the Notes will be decreased such that the per annum interest rate equals the Original Interest Rate plus the percentage set forth opposite the rating in effect immediately following the increase in the table above; that if Moodys or any Substitute Rating Agency subsequently increases its rating on the Notes to Baa3 (or its equivalent if with respect to any Substitute Rating Agency) or higher and S&P or any Substitute Rating Agency subsequently increases its rating on the Notes to BBB- (or its equivalent if with respect to any Substitute Rating Agency) or higher, or one of those ratings if the Notes are rated by only one Interest Rate Rating Agency, the per annum interest rate on the Notes will be decreased to the Original Interest Rate.
provided
 
No adjustment in the interest rate on the Notes shall be made solely as a result of an Interest Rate Rating Agency ceasing to provide a rating. If at any time less than two Interest Rate Rating Agencies provide a rating on the Notes, the Issuer will use commercially reasonable efforts to obtain a rating on the Notes from another nationally recognized statistical rating organization within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act, to the extent one exists, and if another nationally recognized statistical rating organization rates the Notes (such organization, as certified by a resolution of our board of directors, a ), for purposes of determining any increase or decrease in the per annum interest rate on the Notes pursuant to the table above, (1) such Substitute Rating Agency will be substituted for the last Interest Rate Rating Agency to provide a rating on the Notes but which has since ceased to provide such rating, (2) the relative ratings scale used by such Substitute Rating Agency to assign ratings to senior unsecured debt will be determined in good faith by an independent investment banking institution of national standing appointed
Substitute Rating Agency
 
 
 
 
by the Issuer and, for purposes of determining the applicable ratings included in the table above with respect to such Substitute Rating Agency, such ratings shall be deemed to be the equivalent ratings used by Moodys and S&P in such table, and (3) the per annum interest rate on the Notes shall increase or decrease, as the case may be, such that the interest rate per annum equals the Original Interest Rate plus the appropriate percentage, if any, set forth opposite the rating from such Substitute Rating Agency in the table above (after giving effect to the provisions of clause (2) above). For so long as (a) only one Interest Rate Rating Agency provides a rating on the Notes, any increase or decrease in the interest rate on the Notes necessitated by a reduction or increase in the rating by that Interest Rate Rating Agency shall be twice the applicable percentage set forth in the table above and (b) no Interest Rate Rating Agency provides a rating on the Notes, the per annum interest rate on the Notes will equal the Original Interest Rate plus 2.00%. If Moodys or S&P shall cease to rate the Notes or make a rating of the Notes publicly available for reasons within the Issuers control, the Issuer shall not be entitled to obtain a rating from a Substitute Rating Agency and the increase or decrease in the per annum interest rate on the Notes shall be determined in the manner described above as if either only one or no Rating Agency provides a rating on the Notes, as the case may be.
 
Each adjustment required by any decrease or increase in a rating set forth above, whether occasioned by the action of Moodys, S&P or any Substitute Rating Agency, shall be made independent of (and in addition to) any and all other adjustments. In no event shall (1) the per annum interest rate on the Notes be reduced below the Original Interest Rate or (2) the per annum interest rate on the Notes exceed the Original Interest Rate plus 2.00%.
 
Any interest rate increase or decrease described in this Section 6 shall take effect on the next Business Day after the rating change has occurred.
 
The interest rates on the Notes will permanently cease to be subject to any adjustment described above (notwithstanding any subsequent decrease in the ratings by any Rating Agency) if the Notes become rated Baa1 (or its equivalent) or higher by Moodys (or any Substitute Rating Agency) and BBB+ (or its equivalent) or higher by S&P (or any Substitute Rating Agency), or one of those ratings if the Notes are rated by only one Interest Rate Rating Agency, in each case with a stable or positive outlook.
 
7.
 
Redemption.
 
The Issuer may redeem the Notes in whole or in part, at its option, at any time or from time to time prior to maturity on at least 30 days, but not more than 60 days, prior notice mailed to the registered address of each Holder of the Notes (the ).  The redemption price will be equal to the greater of:
Redemption Date
 
 
 
 
(i) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed; or
 
(ii) the sum of the present values of the Remaining Scheduled Payments discounted to the Redemption Date, on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months), at a rate equal to the sum of the Treasury Rate  plus 50 basis points,
 
plus, in each case, accrued interest thereon to the Redemption Date.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, installments of interest on Notes that are due and payable on interest payment dates falling on or prior to a Redemption Date will be payable on the interest payment date to the registered Holders as of the close of business on the relevant record date according to the Notes and the Indenture.
 
 means, with respect to any Redemption Date, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity or interpolation (on a day count basis) of the interpolated Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption Date.
Treasury Rate
 
 means the United States Treasury security or securities selected by an Independent Investment Banker as having an actual or interpolated maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of a comparable maturity to the remaining term of such Notes.
Comparable Treasury Issue
 
 means, with respect to any Redemption Date, (1) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date after excluding the highest and lowest of such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (2) if the Trustee obtains fewer than four such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations.
Comparable Treasury Price
 
 means one of the Reference Treasury Dealers, appointed by the Trustee after consultation with the Issuer.
Independent Investment Banker
 
 means Banc of America Securities LLC, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. or one other Primary Treasury Dealer selected by Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC and their respective affiliates, and their respective successors and one other nationally recognized investment banking firm that is a primary U.S. government securities dealer in the City of New York (a ) as selected by the Issuer.  If any of the foregoing or their affiliates shall cease to be a Primary Treasury Dealer, the Issuer shall substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer.
Reference Treasury Dealer
Primary Treasury Dealer
 
 
 
 
 means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and ask prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
 
 means, with respect to each Note to be redeemed, the remaining scheduled payments of principal of and interest on the Note that would be due after the related Redemption Date but for the redemption.  If that Redemption Date is not an Interest Payment Date with respect to a Note, the amount of the next succeeding scheduled interest payment on the Note will be reduced by the amount of interest accrued on the Note to the Redemption Date.
Remaining Scheduled Payments
 
On and after the Redemption Date, interest will cease to accrue on the Notes or any portion of the Notes called for redemption, unless the Issuer defaults in the payment of the redemption price and accrued interest.  On or before the Redemption Date, the Issuer will deposit with a paying agent or the Trustee money sufficient to pay the redemption price of, and accrued interest on, the Notes to be redeemed on that date.
 
No Notes of a principal amount of $2,000 or less shall be redeemed in part.  Notice of redemption will be mailed by first-class mail at least 30 but not more than 60 days before the Redemption Date to each Holder of Notes to be redeemed at its registered address.  If any Note is to be redeemed in part only, the notice of redemption that relates to such Note shall state the portion of the principal amount thereof to be redeemed.  A new Note in principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion thereof will be issued in the name of the Holder thereof upon cancellation of the original Note.  On and after the Redemption Date, interest will cease to accrue on Notes or portions thereof called for redemption as long as the Issuer has deposited with the paying agent funds in satisfaction of the applicable redemption price.
 
Notice of any redemption will be mailed at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the redemption date to each Holder of the Notes to be redeemed. Unless the Issuer defaults in payment of the redemption price, on and after the Redemption Date, interest will cease to accrue on the Notes or portions thereof called for redemption. If less than all of the Notes are to be redeemed, selection of the Notes for redemption will be made by the Trustee in compliance with the requirements of the principal national securities exchange, if any, on which the Notes are listed; or, if the Notes are not so listed, on a basis, by lot or by such method as the Trustee shall deem fair and appropriate.
pro rata
 
8.
 
Offer to Repurchase Upon Change of Control
 
 
 
 
Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event with respect to the , unless the Issuer shall have exercised its right pursuant to Section hereof to redeem the Notes, each Holder of Notes shall have the right to require the Issuer to repurchase all or, at the Holders option, any part (equal to $2,000 and any multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof), of such Holders Notes (a ) at a repurchase price in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes repurchased plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Notes to be repurchased, to, but excluding, the repurchase date (the ).
Notes
7
Change of Control Offer
Change of Control Payment
 
Within 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event, the Issuer shall cause a notice to be mailed to Holders of the Notes, with a copy to the Trustee, describing the transaction or transactions that constitute the Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to repurchase the Notes on the date specified in the notice, which date shall be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed (the ), pursuant to the procedures required by the Indenture and described in such notice. The Issuer shall comply with the requirements of applicable securities laws and regulations in connection with the repurchase of the Notes as a result of a Change of Control Triggering Event.
Change of Control Payment Date
 
On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Issuer shall, to the extent lawful:
 
(i)    
 
accept for payment all Notes or portions of Notes properly tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer;
 
(ii)   
 
deposit with the paying agent an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all Notes or portions of Notes properly tendered; and
 
(iii)   
 
deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Notes properly accepted together with an Officers Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Notes or portions of Notes being purchased by the Issuer.
 
The paying agent shall promptly mail, to each Holder who properly tendered Notes, the repurchase price for such Notes, and the Trustee shall promptly authenticate and mail (or cause to be transferred by book entry) to each such Holder a new Note equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of the Notes surrendered, if any; provided that each new Note will be in a principal amount of $2,000 or a multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof.
 
The Issuer shall not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon a Change of Control Triggering Event if a third party makes the Change of Control Offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the
 
 
 
 
requirements set forth in the Indenture applicable to a Change of Control Offer made by the Issuer and purchases all Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under such Change of Control Offer. In the event that such third party terminates or defaults its Change of Control Offer, the Issuer shall be required to make a Change of Control Offer treating the date of such terminating or default as though it were the date of the Change of Control Triggering Event.
 
The Issuer shall comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act and any other securities laws and regulations to the extent such laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of Notes as a result of a Change of Control Triggering Event. To the extent that the provision of any such securities laws or regulations conflicts with this Section 8, the Issuer shall comply with those securities laws and regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached its obligations under this Section 8 by virtue of any such conflict.
 
For purposes of this Section 8, the following terms will be applicable:
 
means the occurrence of any one of the following: (1) the direct or indirect sale, lease, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger, amalgamation, arrangement or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the Issuers properties or assets and those of its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to one or more persons, other than to the Issuer or one of its subsidiaries; (2) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Board of Directors is not composed of Continuing Directors; (3) the consummation of any transaction including, without limitation, any merger, amalgamation, arrangement or consolidation the result of which is that any person becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Issuers Voting Stock; (4) the Issuer consolidates with, or merge with or into, any person, or any person consolidates with, or merges with or into, the Issuer, in any such event pursuant to a transaction in which any of the outstanding Voting Stock of the Issuer or of such other person is converted into or exchanged for cash, securities or other property, other than any such transaction where the shares of the Issuers Voting Stock outstanding immediately prior to such transaction constitute, or are converted into or exchanged for, a majority of the Voting Stock of the surviving person immediately after giving effect to such transaction; or (5) the adoption of a plan relating to our liquidation or dissolution.  For the purposes of this definition, person and beneficial owner have the meanings used in Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act.
Change of Control
 
means the Notes cease to be rated Investment Grade by both Rating Agencies on any date during the period (the Trigger Period) commencing 60 days prior to the first public announcement of the Change of Control or the Issuers intention to effect a Change of Control and ending 60 days following consummation of such Change of Control, which Trigger Period will be extended following consummation of a Change of Control for so long as any of the Rating Agencies has publicly announced that it is
Change of Control Triggering Event
 
 
 
 
considering a possible ratings change.  Unless at least one Rating Agency is providing a rating for the Notes at the commencement of any Trigger Period, the Notes will be deemed to have ceased to be rated Investment Grade during that Trigger Period.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Change of Control Triggering Event will be deemed to have occurred in connection with any particular Change of Control unless and until such Change of Control has actually been consummated.
 
means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Board of Directors who (1) was a member of the Board of Directors on the Issue Date; or (2) was nominated for election, elected or appointed to the Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of the Board of Directors at the time of such nomination, election or appointment (either by a specific vote or by approval by such directors of the Issuers proxy statement in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director.)
Continuing Directors
 
 means a rating equal to or higher than Baa3 (or the equivalent) by Moodys or BBB- (or the equivalent) by S&P, and the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any replacement Rating Agency or Rating Agencies selected by the Issuer.
Investment Grade
 
 means Moodys Investors Service, Inc., a subsidiary of Moodys Corporation, and it successors.
Moodys
 
 means (a) each of Moodys and S&P; and (b) if any of the Rating Agencies ceases to provide rating services to issuers or investors, and no Change of Control Triggering Event has occurred or is occurring, a nationally recognized statistical rating organization within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act that is selected by the Issuer (as certified by a resolution of the Board of Directors) as a replacement for Moodys or S&P, or both of them, as the case may be, and that is reasonably acceptable to the Trustee.
Rating Agencies
 
 means Standard & Poors Rating Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., and its successors.
S&P
 
of any specified person as of any date means the capital stock of such person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the board of directors of such person.
Voting Stock
 
9.
 
Defaults and Remedies.
 
If an Event of Default (other than certain bankruptcy Events of Default with respect to the Issuer) under the Indenture occurs with respect to the Notes and is continuing, then the Trustee may and, at the direction of the Holders of at
 
 
 
 
least 25% in principal amount of all series of Outstanding Securities (including the Notes) under the Indenture that are affected by such Event of Default (voting together as a single class), shall by written notice, require the Issuer to repay immediately the entire principal amount of the Outstanding Notes, together with all accrued and unpaid interest and premium, if any. If a bankruptcy Event of Default with respect to the Issuer occurs and is continuing, then the entire principal amount of the Outstanding Notes will automatically become due immediately and payable without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any Holder.  Holders of Notes may not enforce the Indenture or the Notes except as provided in the Indenture.  The Trustee is not obligated to enforce the Indenture or the Notes unless it has received indemnity as it reasonably requires.  The Indenture permits, subject to certain limitations therein provided, Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities (including the Notes) affected (voting together as a single class) to direct the Trustee in its exercise of any trust or power.  The Trustee may withhold from Holders of Notes notice of certain continuing defaults or Events of Default if it determines that withholding notice is in their interest.
 
10.
 
Authentication.
 
This Note shall not be valid until the Trustee manually signs the certificate of authentication on this Note.
 
11.
 
Abbreviations and Defined Terms.
 
Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder of a Note or an assignee, such as: TEN COM (= tenants in common), TEN ENT (= tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (= Custodian), and U/G/M/A (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act).
 
12.
 
CUSIP Numbers.
 
Pursuant to a recommendation promulgated by the Committee on Uniform Security Identification Procedures, the Issuer has caused CUSIP numbers to be printed on the Notes as a convenience to the Holders of the Notes.  No representation is made as to the accuracy of such numbers as printed on the Notes and reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed hereon.
 
13.
 
Governing Law.
 
The laws of the State of New York shall govern the Indenture and this Note thereof.
 
 
 
 
 
 
To assign this Note, fill in the form below:
 
I or we assign and transfer this Note to
 
(Print or type assignees name, address and zip code)
 
(Insert assignees soc. sec. or tax I.D. No.)
 
and irrevocably appoint                               agent to transfer this Note on the books of the Issuer.  The agent may substitute another to act for him.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sign exactly as your name appears on the other side of this Note.
 
 
 
Signatures must be guaranteed by an eligible guarantor institution meeting the requirements of the Registrar, which requirements include membership or participation in the Security Transfer Agent Medallion Program () or such other signature guarantee program as may be determined by the Registrar in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
STAMP
 
 
 
 
The following exchanges of a part of this Global Note for Physical Notes or a part of another Global Note have been made:
 
 
 
 
 
To: Roper Industries, Inc.
 
The undersigned registered owner of this Security hereby acknowledges receipt of a notice from Roper Industries, Inc. (the ) as to the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event with respect to the Issuer and hereby directs the Issuer to pay, or cause the Trustee to pay, an amount in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes, or the portion thereof (which is $2,000 principal amount or a multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) below designated, to be repurchased plus interest accrued to, but excluding, the repurchase date, except as provided in the Indenture.
Issuer
                                 
 
Dated: _____________________
 
Signature _____________________________________
 
Principal amount to be repurchased (at least $2,000 or a multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof): ___________________________
 
Remaining principal amount following such repurchase: ___________________________
 
By:           __________________________________
Authorized Signatory
 
 
 

 
 
[Davis Polk & Wardwell Letterhead]
 
 
August 4, 2008
 
Roper Industries, Inc.
6901 Professional Parkway East
Suite 200
Sarasota, Florida 34240
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
 
We have acted as special counsel for Roper Industries, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ), in connection with the Companys offering of $500,000,000 principal amount of its 6.625% Notes due 2013 (the ) in an underwritten public offering pursuant to an underwriting agreement dated July 29, 2008 (the ) between the Company and Banc of America Securities LLC, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC (the ), as representatives of the several underwriters listed in Schedule 1 thereto (the ). The Notes are to be issued pursuant to an Indenture dated as of August 4, 2008 (the ) by and between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (the ), and an Officers Certificate issued pursuant thereto on August 4, 2008.
Company
Notes
Underwriting Agreement
Representatives
Underwriters
Indenture
Trustee
 
We, as your counsel, have examined originals or copies, certified or otherwise identified to our satisfaction, of such documents, corporate records, certificates of public officials and other instruments as we have deemed necessary for the purposes of rendering this opinion.
 
On the basis of the foregoing, we advise you that, in our opinion, the Notes have been duly authorized in accordance with the Indenture, and, when executed and authenticated in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture and delivered to and paid for by the Underwriters in accordance with the terms of the Underwriting Agreement, will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable in accordance with their terms, subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency and similar laws affecting creditors rights generally, concepts of reasonableness and equitable principles of general applicability, provided that we express no opinion as to the validity, legally binding effect or enforceability of any provision that permits holders to collect any portion of stated principal amount upon acceleration of the Notes to the extent determined to constitute unearned interest.
 
We are members of the Bars of the States of New York and California and the foregoing opinion is limited to the laws of the State of New York and the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (including the statutory provisions, all applicable provisions of the Delaware Constitution and reported judicial decisions interpreting the foregoing).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion as an exhibit to a report on Form 8-K to be filed by the Company on the date hereof. In giving this consent, we do not admit that we are in the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act.
 
This opinion is rendered solely to you in connection with the above matter. This opinion may not be relied upon by you for any other purpose or relied upon by or furnished to any other person without our prior written consent.
 
 
 


