FILE:ROP/ROP-8K-20090206082633.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On February 5, 2009, Roper Industries, Inc. (the Company) issued a press release containing information about the Companys results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2008. A copy of the press release is furnished as .
Exhibit 99.1
 
In the press release, the Company uses a non-GAAP financial measure EBITDA. EBITDA is defined as net earnings plus (a) interest expense, (b) income taxes and (c) depreciation and amortization. The Company believes EBITDA is an important indicator of operational strength and performance of the Companys business because it provides a link between profitability and operating cash flow. EBITDA as calculated by the Company is not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. In addition, EBITDA: (a) does not represent net income or cash flows from operations as defined by GAAP; (b) is not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund the Companys cash flow needs; and (c) should not be considered as an alternative to net earnings, operating income, cash flows from operating activities or the Companys other financial information determined under GAAP. The Company believes that the line on the Companys consolidated statement of operations entitled net earnings is the most directly comparable GAAP measure to EBITDA.
 
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(a)     .
Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired
 
(b)     .
Pro Forma Financial Information
 
(c)    
Shell Company Transactions.
 
 
(d)     .
Exhibits
 
 
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
reported financial results for the fourth quarter and full year ended December 31, 2008.
Sarasota, Florida, February 5, 2009 .... Roper Industries, Inc.  (NYSE: ROP)
Fourth Quarter 2008
Net earnings for the fourth quarter were $72 million, or $0.78 per diluted share, which includes $0.02 for restructuring charges.  Excluding restructuring charges, adjusted earnings per diluted share were $0.80.  Sales in the fourth quarter were $576 million, a 3% increase over the same period in 2007, which includes 9% from acquisitions and a negative 3% each from foreign currency and organic growth.  Operating cash flow was $129 million, representing 22% of revenue and 179% of net earnings.
Full Year 2008
Full year 2008 sales increased 10% to $2.3 billion.  Operating cash flow increased 26% to $434 million, representing 19% of revenue and 152% of net earnings.  Net earnings for the full year were $287 million, or $3.06 per diluted share.  Included in the full year 2008 earnings per diluted share are the fourth quarter restructuring costs noted above, as well as the non-cash charge for the early termination of the Companys secured credit facility recorded in the third quarter.  Excluding these items, adjusted diluted earnings per share were $3.10.
We are pleased with the performance of our businesses in 2008, said Brian Jellison, Ropers Chairman, President and CEO.  Our consistent focus on growth, cash flow generation and working capital management, and lean cost structures led to record 2008 performance.  Sales for the year grew 10%, EBITDA margin expanded 50 basis points to 25.7% and operating cash flow was exceptional at $434 million.  In addition, we successfully refinanced our debt early in the third quarter, achieved investment grade credit ratings and we enter 2009 with over $700 million in cash and available liquidity.
End market and economic conditions worsened in the fourth quarter, particularly affecting order levels in our Energy Systems and Industrial Technology segments, continued Mr. Jellison. Fourth quarter results include a $3 million pre-tax charge for severance costs, affecting approximately 225 people, with annualized savings over $10 million.  The majority of these reductions have been completed.
2009 Outlook and Guidance
Mr. Jellison said, We are well positioned for what will be a difficult economy in 2009 based on the actions already completed and those underway, coupled with our asset-light business models, leading positions in niche markets, and proven ability to complete and integrate strategic acquisitions.  Our outlook for 2009 reflects growth from acquisitions completed in 2008 and benefits from completed restructuring actions, offset by 4% negative foreign currency headwinds and flat to low single digit negative organic growth.  We expect our Radio Frequency and Scientific and Industrial Imaging segments to perform well in 2009, reflecting operational improvements and growth in businesses acquired during 2008 that provide software and solutions to the education, transportation and infrastructure markets.  We expect these segments will largely offset the difficult economic environment for several end markets served by our Industrial Technology and Energy Systems segments, where our restructuring actions are driving strong operating performance, but currency translation will result in unfavorable revenue comparisons in 2009.
The Company expects full year diluted earnings per share (DEPS) to be between $2.70 and $3.00 with operating cash flow above 130% of net earnings.  First quarter DEPS are expected to be between $0.55 and $0.60.  The Companys guidance excludes restructuring costs and future acquisitions.
Throughout the year we will continually review the positioning and performance of each of our businesses to ensure that their cost structures are appropriately aligned with the realities of their markets.  We will continue to build on existing strengths across our business units and utilize our financial strength to pursue disciplined acquisition opportunities, Mr. Jellison concluded.
Table 1:  Sales Growth
 
 
 
Table 2:  EBITDA (Millions)
Conference Call to be Held at 2:00 PM (ET) Tomorrow
A conference call to discuss these results has been scheduled for 2:00 PM ET on Friday, February 6, 2009.  The call can be accessed via webcast or by dialing +1 888-262-8790 (US/Canada) or +1 913-312-1483, using confirmation code 3973242.  Webcast information and conference call materials will be made available in the Investors section of Ropers website () prior to the start of the call.  Telephonic replays will be available for up to two weeks by calling +1 (719) 457-0820 and using the access code 3973242.
www.roperind.com
About Roper Industries
Roper Industries is a diversified growth company with annual revenues of $2.3 billion, and is a component of the Fortune 1000, S&P MidCap 400 and the Russell 1000 Indexes. Roper provides engineered products and solutions for global niche markets, including water, energy, radio frequency and research/medical applications. Additional information about Roper Industries is available on the Companys website at .
www.roperind.com
The information provided in this press release contains forward looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. These forward looking statements include, among others, statements regarding operating results, the success of our internal operating plans, and the prospects for newly acquired businesses to be integrated and contribute to future growth and profit expectations.  Forward looking statements may be indicated by words or phrases such as "anticipate," "estimate," "plans," "expects," "projects," "should," "will," "believes" or "intends" and similar words and phrases.  These statements reflect management's current beliefs and are not guarantees of future performance.  They involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward looking statement. Such risks and uncertainties include our ability to integrate our acquisitions and realize expected synergies.  We also face other general risks, including our ability to realize cost savings from our operating initiatives, general economic conditions, unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates, difficulties associated with exports, risks associated with our international operations, difficulties in making and integrating acquisitions, risks associated with newly acquired businesses, increased product liability and insurance costs, increased warranty exposure, future competition, changes in the supply of, or price for, parts and components, environmental compliance costs and liabilities, risks and cost associated with asbestos related litigation and potential write-offs of our substantial intangible assets, and risks associated with obtaining governmental approvals and maintaining regulatory compliance for new and existing products.  Important risks may be discussed in current and subsequent filings with the SEC.  You should not place undue reliance on any forward looking statements.  These statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update publicly any of them in light of new information or future events.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


