FILE:ROP/ROP-8K-20091026083958.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On October 26, 2009, Roper Industries, Inc. (the Company) issued a press release containing information about the Companys results of operations for the quarter ended September 30, 2009. A copy of the press release is furnished as .
Exhibit 99.1
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(a)     .
Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired
 
(b)     .
Pro Forma Financial Information
 
(c)    
Shell Company Transactions.
 
 
(d)     .
Exhibits
 
 
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

reported financial results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2009.
Sarasota, Florida, October 26, 2009 .... Roper Industries, Inc.  (NYSE: ROP)
Net earnings for the third quarter were $56 million, or $0.61 per diluted share.  Excluding restructuring expenses, adjusted net earnings were $58 million, or $0.63 per diluted share.  Sales during the quarter were $486 million, an 18% decrease compared to the same period in 2008.  Orders were $499 million, and represented 103% of sales, marking the first time since the second quarter of 2008 that orders exceeded sales.  Operating cash flow was $87 million, or 18% of revenue, bringing year-to-date operating cash flow to $248 million.  Free cash flow (operating cash flow less capital expenditures) during the quarter was $81 million, representing 143% of net income in the quarter.  Year-to-date free cash flow is $229 million, or 137% of year-to-date net income.
More than half our businesses experienced greater than 10% growth in orders over the second quarter, and this improvement in order momentum is expected to continue in the fourth quarter, said Brian Jellison, Ropers Chairman, President and CEO.  Although sales in the quarter were 4% lower than second quarter levels, in part due to some orders shifting to the fourth quarter, we were pleased with the performance of our businesses in terms of margins, cost controls and cash flow.  In addition, we increased cash and liquidity during the quarter with a successful $500 million 10-year bond offering that increases our flexibility as we pursue strategic acquisition opportunities.
Operating margin was 18.9% in the quarter, or 19.5% excluding restructuring costs.  Decremental margin (change in operating profit divided by change in sales), excluding the RF segment was 34% in the quarter, including the cost of restructuring, and 31% excluding restructuring costs.  Our decremental margin performance again demonstrated the success of our operating model, with its focus on breakeven analysis and quick payback restructuring actions, Mr. Jellison concluded.
Outlook and Guidance
Roper expects full year operating cash flow to be in excess of $350 million.   Adjusting for the additional interest costs related to the recent bond offering, the Company now expects full-year earnings per diluted share between $2.57 and $2.63, which excludes the impact of restructuring costs and future acquisitions.
 
Table 1:  Sequential Income Statement (Millions)
Table 2:  Operating Margin (Millions)
Table 3:  Sales Growth
Conference Call to be Held at 8:30 AM (ET) October 26, 2009
A conference call to discuss these results has been scheduled for 8:30 AM ET on Monday, October 26, 2009.  The call can be accessed via webcast or by dialing +1 800-967-7141 (US/Canada) or +1 719-457-2638, using confirmation code 6889450.  Webcast information and conference call materials will be made available in the Investors section of Ropers website () prior to the start of the call.  Telephonic replays will be available for up to two weeks by calling +1 888-203-1112 (US/Canada) or +1 719-457-0820 and using the access code 6889450.
www.roperind.com
About Roper Industries
Roper Industries is a diversified growth company and is a component of the Fortune 1000, S&P MidCap 400 and the Russell 1000 Indexes. Roper provides engineered products and solutions for global niche markets, including water, energy, radio frequency and research/medical applications. Additional information about Roper Industries is available on the Companys website at .
www.roperind.com
The information provided in this press release contains forward looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. These forward looking statements include, among others, statements regarding operating results, the success of our internal operating plans, and the prospects for newly acquired businesses to be integrated and contribute to future growth and profit expectations.  Forward looking statements may be indicated by words or phrases such as "anticipate," "estimate," "plans," "expects," "projects," "should," "will," "believes" or "intends" and similar words and phrases.  These statements reflect management's current beliefs and are not guarantees of future performance.  They involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward looking statement. Such risks and uncertainties include our ability to integrate our acquisitions and realize expected synergies.  We also face other general risks, including our ability to realize cost savings from our operating initiatives, general economic conditions, unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates, difficulties associated with exports, risks associated with our international operations, difficulties in making and integrating acquisitions, risks associated with newly acquired businesses, increased product liability and insurance costs, increased warranty exposure, future competition, changes in the supply of, or price for, parts and components, environmental compliance costs and liabilities, risks and cost associated with asbestos related litigation and potential write-offs of our substantial intangible assets, and risks associated with obtaining governmental approvals and maintaining regulatory compliance for new and existing products.  Important risks may be discussed in current and subsequent filings with the SEC.  You should not place undue reliance on any forward looking statements.  These statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update publicly any of them in light of new information or future events.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


