FILE:ROP/ROP-8K-20090515143306.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
This Current Report on Form 8K is being filed to reflect changes to Roper Industries, Inc.'s (the "Company") accounting for convertible debt to retrospectively apply the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board Staff Position APB 14-1 (FSP APB 14-1), Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement).
 
The Company has revised its presentation of its convertible debt and related interest expense to reflect this change and has retrospectively adjusted all comparative prior period information on this basis. The Company is filing this Current Report on Form 8K solely to reflect the impact of the adoption of this standard on previously issued financial statements. Information in this Current Report on Form 8-K updates the following sections of the Companys 2008 Form 10K solely to reflect the adoption of FSP APB 14-1:
 
 
 
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K does not purport to modify or update disclosures in the Companys 2008 Form 10-K except as described above. Accordingly, this Current Report on Form 8-K should be read in conjunction with the Companys 2008 Form 10-K and the Companys filings made with the Securities and Exchange Commission subsequent to the filing of the Companys 2008 Form 10-K, including any amendments to those filings.
 
(a) Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired.
 
 
(b) Pro Forma Financial Information.
 
 
(c) Shell Company Transactions.
 
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
The following summary consolidated selected financial data for and as of the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, 2006, 2005 and 2004 was derived from our audited consolidated financial statements. Our consolidated financial statements for and as of the end of each of the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, 2006, 2005 and 2004 were audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm.
You should read the table below in conjunction with Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes included in this Annual Report (amounts in thousands, except per share data).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
You should read the following discussion in conjunction with Selected Financial Data and our Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes included in this Annual Report.
Overview
We are a diversified growth company that designs, manufactures and distributes energy systems and controls, scientific and industrial imaging products and software, industrial technology products and radio frequency products and services. We market these products and services to selected segments of a broad range of markets including RF applications, water, energy, research and medical, education, security and other niche markets.
We pursue consistent and sustainable growth in earnings by emphasizing continuous improvement in the operating performance of our existing businesses and by acquiring other carefully selected businesses. Our acquisitions have represented both bolt-ons and new strategic platforms. We strive for high cash and earnings returns from our acquisition investments. On February 20, 2008, we purchased CBORD Holdings Corp. (CBORD), a provider of card systems and integrated security solutions to higher education, healthcare and other markets. On March 20, 2008, we acquired Tech-Pro, Inc. (Tech-Pro), a manufacturer of physical testing instruments for the rubber and plastic industries. On June 18, 2008, we purchased Chalwyn Limited (Chalwyn), an air shut-off valve provider. On July 17, 2008, we purchased the assets, intellectual property and internet domain names of Getloaded.com, LLC (Getloaded), adding new subscribers to our existing freight matching services. On August 27, 2008, we purchased Horizon Software Holdings, Inc. (Horizon), a provider of comprehensive software solutions and related services for the K-12 education market. On September 10, 2008 we purchased Technolog Holdings Limited (Technolog), an end-to-end solutions provider for network monitoring, pressure management, automatic meter reading and smart metering solutions.
Application of Critical Accounting Policies
Our Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, (GAAP). A discussion of our significant accounting policies can also be found in the notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2008 included in this Annual Report.
GAAP offers acceptable alternative methods for accounting for certain issues affecting our financial results, such as determining inventory cost, depreciating long-lived assets and recognizing revenue. We have not changed the application of acceptable accounting methods or the significant estimates affecting the application of these principles in the last three years in a manner that had a material effect on our financial statements.
Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 123 (revised 2004), Share-Based Payment (SFAS 123R), which requires the Company to recognize expense for the grant date fair value of its employee stock option awards. The Company recognizes the expense of all share-based awards on a straight-line basis over the employees requisite service period (generally the vesting period of the award).
On January 1, 2007 the Company adopted the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation (FIN) No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes - an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 (FIN 48). This Interpretation requires the Company to recognize in the consolidated financial statements only those tax positions determined to be more likely than not of being sustained upon examination based on the technical merits of the positions.
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires the use of estimates, assumptions, judgments and interpretations that can affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities and other supplemental disclosures.
The development of accounting estimates is the responsibility of our management. Our management discusses those areas that require significant judgments with the audit committee of our Board of Directors. The audit committee has reviewed all financial disclosures in our annual filings with the SEC. Although we believe the positions we have taken with regard to uncertainties are reasonable, others might reach different conclusions and our positions can change over time as more information becomes available. If an accounting estimate changes, its effects are accounted for prospectively.
Our most significant accounting uncertainties are encountered in the areas of accounts receivable collectibility, inventory valuation, future warranty obligations, revenue recognition (percent of completion), income taxes and goodwill and indefinite-lived asset analyses. These issues, except for income taxes, which are not allocated to our business segments, affect each of our business segments. These issues are evaluated primarily using a combination of historical experience, current conditions and relatively short-term forecasting.
Accounts receivable collectibility is based on the economic circumstances of customers and credits given to customers after shipment of products, including in certain cases credits for returned products. Accounts receivable are regularly reviewed to determine customers who have not paid within agreed upon terms, whether these amounts are consistent with past experiences, what historical experience has been with amounts deemed uncollectible and the impact that current and near-term forecast economic conditions might have on collection efforts in general and with specific customers. The returns and other sales credit allowance is an estimate of customer returns, exchanges, discounts or other forms of anticipated concessions and is treated as a reduction in revenue. The returns and other sales credits histories are analyzed to determine likely future rates for such credits. At December 31, 2008, our allowance for doubtful accounts receivable was $11.2 million and our allowance for sales returns and sales credits was $1.5 million, for a total of $12.7 million, or 3.2% of total gross accounts receivable.  This percentage is influenced by the risk profile of the underlying receivables, and the timing of write-offs of accounts deemed uncollectible. The total allowance at December 31, 2008 is $0.8 million higher than at December 31, 2007 and is unchanged as a percent of sales.
We regularly compare inventory quantities on hand against anticipated future usage, which we determine as a function of historical usage or forecasts related to specific items in order to evaluate obsolescence and excessive quantities. When we use historical usage, this information is also qualitatively compared to business trends to evaluate the reasonableness of using historical information as an estimate of future usage. Business trends can change rapidly and these events can affect the evaluation of inventory balances. At December 31, 2008, inventory reserves for excess and obsolete inventory were $30.1 million, or 13.9% of gross inventory cost, as compared to $28.4 million, or 14.0% of gross inventory cost, at December 31, 2007. The inventory reserve as a percent of gross inventory cost will continue to fluctuate based upon specific identification of reserves needed based upon changes in our business as well as the physical disposal of our obsolete inventory.
Most of our sales are covered by warranty provisions that generally provide for the repair or replacement of qualifying defective items for a specified period after the time of sale, typically 12 months. Future warranty obligations are evaluated using, among other factors, historical cost experience, product evolution and customer feedback. Our expense for warranty obligations was less than 1% of net sales for each of the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006.
Revenues related to the use of the percentage-of-completion method of accounting are dependent on a comparison of total costs incurred compared with total estimated costs for a project. During the year ended December 31, 2008, we recognized revenue of approximately $127.9 million using this method, primarily for major turn-key, longer term toll and traffic and energy projects. Approximately $135.5 million and $94.8 million of revenue was recognized using this method during the years ended December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006, respectively. At December 31, 2008, approximately $206.8 million of revenue related to unfinished percentage-of-completion contracts had yet to be recognized. Contracts accounted for under this method are generally not significantly different in profitability from revenues accounted for under other methods.
Income taxes can be affected by estimates of whether and within which jurisdictions future earnings will occur and if, how and when cash is repatriated to the United States, combined with other aspects of an overall income tax strategy. Additionally, taxing jurisdictions could retroactively disagree with our tax treatment of certain items, and some historical transactions have income tax effects going forward. Accounting rules require these future effects to be evaluated using current laws, rules and regulations, each of which can change at any time and in an unpredictable manner. During 2008, our effective income tax rate was 34.3%, which was lower than the 2007 rate of 34.8%, due primarily to certain foreign tax planning initiatives.
Roper accounts for goodwill in a purchase business combination as the excess of the cost over the fair value of net assets acquired. Business combinations can also result in other intangible assets being recognized. Amortization of intangible assets, if applicable, occurs over their estimated useful lives. SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (SFAS 142) requires companies to cease amortizing goodwill that existed at June 30, 2001 and establishes a two-step method for testing goodwill for impairment on an annual basis (or an interim basis if an event occurs that might reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value). Total goodwill includes 25 different business components with individual amounts ranging from zero to approximately $502 million. SFAS 142 also requires that an identifiable intangible asset that is determined to have an indefinite useful economic life not be amortized, but separately tested for impairment using a one-step fair value based approach. Roper conducts these reviews for all of its reporting units during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year. No impairment resulted from the annual reviews performed in 2008.
Results of Operations
 The following table sets forth selected information for the years indicated. Dollar amounts are in thousands and percentages are of net sales.
 
Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007
Net sales for the year ended December 31, 2008 were $2.31 billion as compared to sales of $2.10 billion for the year ended December 31, 2007, an increase of 9.7%. This increase was the result of sales from acquired companies and internal growth. Our 2008 results included a full year of sales from our 2007 acquisitions of JLT, DJ Instruments, Roda Deaco, Dynamic Instruments and Black Diamond. These results also included ten months of sales from CBORD, nine months from Tech-Pro, six months from Chalwyn, five months from Getloaded, four months from Horizon and three months from Technolog. Net sales of these acquisitions accounted for approximately $133 million of our 2008 net sales increase over 2007 and growth of our other business accounted for $71 million of the increase, or internal growth of 3.4% including a 1% foreign currency exchange impact.
Our Scientific and Industrial Imaging segment reported a $0.6 million or 0.2% decrease in net sales for the year ended December 31, 2008 over the year ended December 31, 2007. The decrease was attributable to the year over year impact of the removal of the Redlake motion camera product line. Internal growth for 2008 was 0.8% led by increased sales in our medical businesses, partially offset by slowing sales in our industrial camera businesses.
In our Energy Systems and Controls segment, net sales for the year ended December 31, 2008 increased by $31.8 million or 6.2% over the year ended December 31, 2007. Approximately $18 million of the increase was due to full year results from the 2007 acquisitions of DJ Instruments, Roda Deaco, and Dynamic Instruments, as well as partial year results from the 2008 acquisitions of Tech-Pro and Chalwyn. Internal growth was approximately $14 million or 2.8%, led by strength in our protective technology and oil and gas pipeline controls businesses.
Net sales for our Industrial Technology segment increased by $43.2 million or 6.7% for the year ended December 31, 2008 over the year ended December 31, 2007. The increase was due to broad-based moderate growth in all businesses in this segment.
In our RF Technology segment, net sales for the year ended December 31, 2008 increased by $130.0 million or 23.0% over the year ended December 31, 2007. The partial year results from the acquisitions of CBORD, Getloaded, Horizon, and Technolog and full-year results of 2007 acquisitions accounted for approximately $119 million of the increase. Internal growth increased 1.9% due to growth in our intelligent traffic systems business, offset by anticipated declines in our large Middle East project as it transitions from the design and installation phase to operations and maintenance.
Our overall gross profit percentage was 51.5% for the year ended December 31, 2008, as compared to 50.4% for the year ended December 31, 2007 due to operating leverage on increased sales. Our Industrial Technology, Energy Systems and Controls, and Scientific and Industrial Imaging segments gross margins were relatively unchanged in 2008 as compared to 2007. Our RF Technology segment gross margins increased to 50.8% in 2008 as compared to 46.8% in 2007, due to the favorable mix within existing businesses and higher gross margins at acquired businesses.
Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses increased to 30.4% of net sales for the year ended December 31, 2008 from 29.5% of net sales for the year ended December 31, 2007. The increase is primarily due to the higher SG&A structure in our education market businesses within the RF Technology segment. In addition, corporate expenses increased due to higher equity compensation costs and the additional costs to the Company due to the increase in Ropers stock price on the grant dates of stock awards.
Interest expense increased $2.0 million, or 3.3%, for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to the year ended December 31, 2007, primarily due to higher average debt balances throughout 2008, offset by lower interest rates on our variable debt throughout the year.
The change in other income for the year ended December 31, 2008 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2007 was primarily due to foreign exchange gains at our non-U.S. based companies on U.S. dollar cash, receivables and payables balances as the U.S. dollar strengthened against most currencies in the fourth quarter of 2008. These foreign exchange gains were offset by a $3.1 million pre-tax debt restructuring charge in the third quarter of 2008 related to the refinancing of our credit facility.
During 2008, our effective income tax rate was 34.3% versus 34.8% in 2007. This decrease was due primarily to certain foreign tax planning initiatives.
At December 31, 2008, the functional currencies of our European and Canadian subsidiaries were weaker against the U.S. dollar compared to currency exchange rates at December 31, 2007. The net result of these changes led to a decrease in the foreign exchange component of comprehensive earnings of $86.7 million in the year ending December 31, 2008. Approximately $59.8 million of these adjustments related to goodwill and are not expected to directly affect our projected future cash flows. For the entire year of 2008, operating profit increased by less than 1% of sales due to fluctuations in non-U.S. currencies.
The following table summarizes our net sales order information for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 (dollar amounts in thousands).
 
The increase in sales orders is due to internal growth of 2.3% with the remainder from acquisitions. The Industrial Technology segment net orders strengthened in most markets over the prior year.  Net orders in the Energy Systems and Controls segment increased due to the 2007 and 2008 acquisitions.  Scientific and Industrial Imaging net orders increased due to strength in our medical business and camera sales into the security and teleconferencing application markets, offset by decreases in industrial cameras sales.  The RF Technology segment experienced strong order growth for projects in the tolling and traffic control businesses.
The following table summarizes sales order backlog information at December 31, 2008 and 2007 (dollar amounts in thousands). Ropers policy is to include in backlog only orders scheduled for shipment within twelve months.
 
Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006
Net sales for the year ended December 31, 2007 were $2.10 billion as compared to sales of $1.70 billion for the year ended December 31, 2006, an increase of 23.6%. This increase was the result of sales from acquired companies and strong internal growth. Our 2007 results included a full year of sales from our 2006 acquisitions of Sinmed, Intellitrans, Lumenera, AC Controls, and Dynisco. These results also included ten months of sales from JLT and DJ Instruments, nine months from Roda Deaco, six months from Dynamic Instruments and three months from Black Diamond, all purchased in 2007. Net sales of these acquisitions accounted for approximately $158 million of our 2007 net sales increase over 2006 and growth of our other business accounted for $243 million of the increase, or internal growth of 14.5% including a 2% foreign currency exchange impact.
Our Scientific and Industrial Imaging segment reported an increase in net sales of $37.3 million or 11.0% for the year ended December 31, 2007 over the year ended December 31, 2006. The increase was attributable to the full-year impact of Sinmed and Lumenera acquired in 2006, and partial year impact of JLT in 2007, which accounted for approximately $23 million of the increase over prior year. Internal growth was 4.2%, which was related to increased sales in the electron microscopy market due to higher demand from OEM customers, offset by weakness in our motion camera product line and decreased sales of handheld computers due to supplier issues encountered during the year. The supplier issues were resolved in 2007 and did not impact operations in 2008.
In our Energy Systems and Controls segment, net sales for the year ended December 31, 2007 increased by $172.7 million or 50.3% over the year ended December 31, 2006. Approximately $127 million of the increase was due to full year results from the 2006 acquisitions of AC Controls and Dynisco, as well as partial year results for DJ Instruments, Roda Deaco, and Dynamic Instruments. Internal growth was approximately $45 million or 14%, primarily from strength in the oil and gas related businesses, which have benefited from the strong global oil and gas market, as well as improved market penetration in our control valve business.
Net sales for our Industrial Technology segment increased by $94.4 million or 17.2% for the year ended December 31, 2007 over the year ended December 31, 2006. The increase was due primarily to high market penetration for our new radio-frequency integrated water meter at Neptune Technologies, accounting for 63% of the year over year growth. In addition, sales in our materials testing businesses were up $19 million over the prior year due to increased unit sales.
In our RF Technology segment, net sales for the year ended December 31, 2007 increased by $96.9 million or 20.7% over the year ended December 31, 2006. The full-year results of Intellitrans, purchased in April, 2006, and four months from the acquisition of Black Diamond on September 24, 2007, accounted for approximately $7 million of the increase. Internal growth increased 19.3% due to strong performance in our traffic and tolling business, which benefited in 2007 from a large Middle East project that continued into 2008.
Our overall gross profit percentage was 50.4% for the year ended December 31, 2007, as compared to 50.6% for the year ended December 31, 2006. Industrial Technology gross margins increased to 48.2% as compared to 47.9% in the prior year. Our Energy Systems and Controls segment gross margins decreased to 53.6% in 2007 as compared to 54.2% in 2006, due to the mix change within the segment caused by the inclusion of the lower gross margin Dynisco business.  Our Scientific and Industrial Imaging segment gross margins were 54.9% in 2007 as compared to 56.8% in 2006, due primarily to the additional costs related to the DAP touch screen quality issue. Our RF Technology segment gross margins remained constant at 46.8% in both 2007 and 2006.
Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased to 29.5% of net sales for the year ended December 31, 2007 from 30.8% of net sales for the year ended December 31, 2006. The decrease is due to leverage from higher sales while making a conscious effort to control general and administrative expenses.
Interest expense increased $7.8 million, or 15.4%, for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to the year ended December 31, 2006, primarily due to higher average debt balances throughout 2007 related to the November 30, 2006 acquisition of Dynisco, and additional borrowings throughout the year for the 2007 acquisitions offset by payments on these balances throughout the year.
The change in other income for the year ended December 31, 2007 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2006 was primarily due to foreign exchange losses at our non-U.S. based companies on U.S. dollar cash, receivables and payables balances as the U.S. dollar weakened against most currencies in 2007.
During 2007, our effective income tax rate was 34.8% versus 34.0% in 2006. This increase was due primarily to the expiration of the extraterritorial income inclusion offset somewhat by an increased benefit from our foreign rate differential.
At December 31, 2007, the functional currencies of our European and Canadian subsidiaries were stronger against the U.S. dollar compared to currency exchange rates at December 31, 2006. The net result of these changes led to an increase in the foreign exchange component of comprehensive earnings of $52.3 million in the year period ending December 31, 2007. Approximately $34.8 million of these adjustments related to goodwill and are not expected to directly affect our projected future cash flows. For the entire year of 2007, operating profit increased by approximately 1% of sales due to fluctuations in non-U.S. currencies.
The following table summarizes our net sales order information for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 (dollar amounts in thousands).
 
The increase in sales orders is due to internal growth of 9.7% with the remainder from acquisitions. The Industrial Technology segment net orders strengthened in most markets over the prior year. Net orders in the Energy Systems and Controls segment increased due to the 2006 and 2007 acquisitions, which accounted for 38.7% of the increase. In addition, there was strong internal growth in our fluid properties testing, non-destructive testing and valve and control businesses. Scientific and Industrial Imaging net orders increased from the inclusion of orders from 2006 and 2007 acquisitions, and also from stronger orders in the electron microscopy market, which led to the higher backlog at 2007 in the Scientific and Industrial Imaging segment. The RF Technology segment experienced strong order growth including a significant international project which began in the fourth quarter of 2006 and continued throughout 2007.
The following table summarizes sales order backlog information at December 31, 2007 and 2006 (dollar amounts in thousands). Ropers policy is to include in backlog only orders scheduled for shipment within twelve months.
 
Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources
Net cash provided by operating activities was $434.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, $343.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 and $262.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. The 2008 increase was primarily due to higher earnings over the prior year and improved receivables collection. Cash used by investing activities during 2008, 2007, and 2006 were primarily business acquisition costs. Cash from financing activities during each of these years was largely debt repayments and borrowings for acquisitions. Financing activities in 2008 included replacing our previous $1.355 billion secured credit facility with our current $1.1 billion unsecured credit facility and the issuance of our $500 million senior notes.
Net working capital (current assets, excluding cash, less total current liabilities, excluding debt) was $294.9 million at December 31, 2008 compared to $305.9 million at December 31, 2007. We acquired approximately $7.9 million of net current assets through business acquisitions during 2008.
Total debt was $1.3 billion at December 31, 2008 (38.7% of total capital) compared to $1.1 billion at December 31, 2007 (36.9% of total capital). Our increased debt at December 31, 2008 compared to December 31, 2007 was due to the replacement of our previous $1.355 billion secured credit facility with our current $1.1 billion unsecured credit facility and the issuance of our $500 million senior notes.
Our $1.1 billion credit facility consists of a two year $350 million term loan and a five year $750 million revolving loan. The weighted average interest rate on the borrowings under the facility at December 31, 2008 was 1.90%. At December 31, 2008, our debt consisted of $230 million in senior subordinated convertible notes due in 2034, $500 million in senior notes due 2013, the $350 million term loan due 2010 and $179 million on the revolving loan. In addition, we had $8.5 million of other debt in the form of capital leases and several smaller facilities that allow for borrowings or the issuance of letters of credit in various foreign locations to support our non-U.S. businesses. The Company had $51.1 million of outstanding letters of credit at December 31, 2008, of which $47.3 million were covered by our lending group, thereby reducing its remaining revolving credit capacity commensurately. We expect that our available borrowing capacity, combined with existing cash balances and cash flows expected to be generated from existing businesses, will be sufficient to fund normal operating requirements and finance additional acquisitions.
We were in compliance with all debt covenants related to our credit facilities throughout the year ended December 31, 2008.
Capital expenditures of $30.0 million, $30.1 million and $32.2 million were incurred during 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. In the future, we expect capital expenditures as a percentage of sales to be less than 2% of annual sales.
Description of Certain Indebtedness
On July 7, 2008, the Company entered into a new $1.1 billion unsecured credit facility with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, and a syndicate of lenders, which replaces its $1.355 billion amended and restated secured credit facility, dated as of December 13, 2004. The $1.1 billion facility is composed of a $350 million term loan facility maturing July 7, 2010 and a five year $750 million revolving credit facility maturing July 7, 2013. The Company may also, subject to compliance with specified conditions, request additional term loans or revolving credit commitments in an aggregate amount not to exceed $350 million.
Senior Unsecured Credit Facility
-
The facility contains various affirmative and negative covenants which, among other things, limit our ability to incur new debt, prepay subordinated debt, make certain investments and acquisitions, sell assets and grant liens, make restricted payments (including the payment of dividends on our common stock) and capital expenditures, or change our line of business. We also are subject to financial covenants which require us to limit our consolidated total leverage ratio and to maintain a consolidated interest coverage ratio. The most restrictive covenant is the consolidated total leverage ratio which is limited to 3.5.
On August 6, 2008, we issued $500 million aggregate principal amount of 6.625% senior notes due August 15, 2013 (the Notes).  The Notes bear interest at a fixed rate of 6.625% per year, payable semi-annually in arrears on February 15 and August 15 of each year, beginning February 15, 2009. The interest payable on the Notes is subject to adjustment if either Moodys Investors Service or Standard & Poors Ratings Services downgrades the rating assigned to the Notes.
Senior Notes -
We may redeem some or all of the Notes at any time or from time to time, at 100% of their principal amount plus a make-whole premium based on a spread to U.S. Treasury securities as described in the indenture relating to the Notes.
The Notes are unsecured senior obligations of the Company and rank equally in right of payment with all of the Companys existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness. The Notes are effectively subordinated to any of the Companys existing and future secured indebtedness to the extent of the value of the collateral securing such indebtedness. The Notes are not guaranteed by any of the Companys subsidiaries and are effectively subordinated to all existing and future indebtedness and other liabilities of the Companys subsidiaries.
In December 2003, we issued $230 million of senior subordinated convertible notes at an original issue discount of 60.498%, resulting in an effective yield of 3.75% per year to maturity. Interest on the notes is payable semiannually, beginning July 15, 2004, until January 15, 2009. After that date, we will not pay cash interest on the notes prior to maturity unless contingent cash interest becomes payable. Instead, after January 15, 2009, interest will be recognized at the effective rate of 3.75% and will represent accrual of original issue discount, excluding any contingent cash interest that may become payable. We will pay contingent cash interest to the holders of the notes during any six month period commencing after January 15, 2009 if the average trading price of a note for a five trading day measurement period preceding the applicable six month period equals 120% or more of the sum of the issue price, accrued original issue discount and accrued cash interest, if any, for such note. The contingent cash interest payable per note in respect of any six month period will equal the annual rate of 0.25%.
Senior Subordinated Convertible Notes -
The notes are unsecured senior subordinated obligations, rank junior to our existing and future senior secured indebtedness and rank equally with our existing and future senior subordinated indebtedness.
As originally issued, each $1,000 principal amount of the notes will be convertible at the option of the holder into 12.422 shares of our common stock (giving effect to the 2-for-1 stock split effective August 26, 2005 and subject to further adjustment), if (i) the sale price of our common stock reaches, or the trading price of the notes falls below, specified thresholds, (ii) if the notes are called for redemption or (iii) if specified corporate transactions have occurred. Upon conversion, we would have the right to deliver, in lieu of common stock, cash or a combination of cash and common stock. On November 19, 2004, the Company began a consent solicitation to amend the notes such that the Company would pay the same conversion value upon conversion of the notes, but would change how the conversion value is paid. In lieu of receiving exclusively shares of common stock or cash upon conversion, noteholders would receive cash up to the value of the accreted principal amount of the notes converted and, at the Companys option, any remainder of the conversion value would be paid in cash or shares of common stock. The consent solicitation was successfully completed on December 6, 2004 and the amended conversion provisions were adopted.
Holders may require us to purchase all or a portion of their notes on January 15, 2009, January 15, 2014, January 15, 2019, January 15, 2024, and January 15, 2029, at stated prices plus accrued cash interest, if any, including contingent cash interest, if any. We may only pay the purchase price of such notes in cash and not in common stock.
We may redeem for cash all or a portion of the notes at any time on or after January 15, 2009 at redemption prices equal to the sum of the issue price plus accrued original issue discount and accrued cash interest, if any, including contingent cash interest, if any, on such notes to the applicable redemption date.
As of September 30, 2005, the senior subordinated convertible notes were reclassified from long term to short term debt as the notes became convertible on October 1, 2005 based upon the Companys common stock trading above the trigger price for at least 20 trading days during the 30 consecutive trading-day period ending on September 30, 2005.
In accordance with EITF 04-8, The Effect of Contingently Convertible Debt on Diluted Earnings Per Share, the Company is required to include in its diluted weighted-average common share calculation an increase in shares based upon the difference between the Companys average closing stock price for the period and the conversion price of $31.80. This is calculated using the treasury stock method.
In accordance with FSP APB 14-1 we separately account for the liability and equity components of our 3.75% senior subordinated convertible notes in a manner that reflects our nonconvertible debt borrowing rate when interest cost is recognized.  See Note 1A of the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statement regarding the effect of the retrospective adoption of this FSP.
Contractual Cash Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments and Contingencies
The following tables quantify our contractual cash obligations and commercial commitments at December 31, 2008, as adjusted  see Note 1A (dollars in thousands).
We have excluded $26 million related to the liability for uncertain tax positions under FIN 48 from the tables as the current portion is not material, and we are not able to reasonably estimate the timing of the long term portion of the liability. See Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
At December 31, 2008, the Company had outstanding surety bonds of $239 million.
At December 31, 2008 and 2007, we did not have any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes.
We believe that internally generated cash flows and the remaining availability under our various credit facilities will be adequate to finance normal operating requirements and further acquisition activities. Although we maintain an active acquisition program, any further acquisitions will be dependent on numerous factors and it is not feasible to reasonably estimate if or when any such acquisitions will occur and what the impact will be on our activities, financial condition and results of operations. We may also explore alternatives to attract additional capital resources.
We anticipate that our recently acquired businesses as well as our other businesses will generate positive cash flows from operating activities, and that these cash flows will permit the reduction of currently outstanding debt in accordance with the repayment schedule. However, the rate at which we can reduce our debt during 2009 (and reduce the associated interest expense) will be affected by, among other things, the financing and operating requirements of any new acquisitions and the financial performance of our existing companies. None of these factors can be predicted with certainty.
Recently Issued Accounting Standards
See Notes 1 and 1A of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the effect of new accounting pronouncements on our financial statements.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Shareholders of Roper Industries, Inc.:
In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated statements of earnings, of stockholders' equity and comprehensive earnings, and of cash flows, present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Roper Industries, Inc. and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. In addition, in our opinion, the financial statement schedule (not presented herein) listed in the index appearing under Item 15(a)(2) of Roper Industries Inc.'s 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements.   Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on criteria established in issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).  The Company's management is responsible for these financial statements and financial statement schedule, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting (not presented herein) appearing under Item 9A of Roper Industries, Inc.'s 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements, financial statement schedule, and on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits.  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.  Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.  Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk.  Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.
 
Internal Control - Integrated Framework
As discussed in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed the manner in which it accounts for uncertain tax positions in 2007.
A companys internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.  A companys internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the companys assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.  Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
As described in Managements Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting (not presented herein) appearing under Item 9A of Roper Industries, Inc.'s 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K, management has excluded CBORD Holdings Corp.; Tech-Pro, Inc.; Chalwyn, Ltd.; GetLoaded.com, LLC; Horizon Software International, LLC; and Technolog Holdings Ltd. from its assessment of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, because they were acquired by the Company in purchase business combinations during 2008. We have also excluded CBORD Holdings Corp.; Tech-Pro, Inc.; Chalwyn, Ltd.; GetLoaded.com, LLC; Horizon Software International, LLC; and Technolog Holdings Ltd. from our audit of internal control over financial reporting. CBORD Holdings Corp.; Tech-Pro, Inc.; Chalwyn, Ltd.; GetLoaded.com, LLC; Horizon Software International, LLC; and Technolog Holdings Ltd. are wholly-owned subsidiaries whose aggregate total assets and aggregate total revenues represent 7.2% and 5.4%, respectively, of the related consolidated financial statement amounts as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Atlanta, GA
February 27, 2009, except as it relates to the effects of the adoption of FSP APB 14-1, "Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments that may be Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial Settlement)," as discussed in Note 1A, as to which the date is May 15, 2009.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Roperis a diversified growth company that designs, manufactures and distributes energy systems and controls, scientific and industrial imaging products and software, industrial technology products and radio frequency products and services. We market these products and services to selected segments of a broad range of markets, including radio frequency applications, water, energy, research and medical, education, security and other niche markets.
Nature of the Business
 
- Accounts receivable were stated net of an allowance for doubtful accounts and sales allowances of $12.7 million and $11.9 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Outstanding accounts receivable balances are reviewed periodically, and allowances are provided at such time that management believes reasonable doubt exists that such balances will be collected within a reasonable period of time. The returns and other sales credit allowance is an estimate of customer returns, exchanges, discounts or other forms of anticipated concessions and is treated as a reduction in revenue.
Accounts Receivable
- Roper considers highly liquid financial instruments with remaining maturities at acquisition of three months or less to be cash equivalents. Roper had no cash equivalents at December 31, 2008 and $198 million at December 31, 2007.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
 Basic earnings per share were calculated using net earnings and the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the respective year. Diluted earnings per share were calculated using net earnings and the weighted average number of shares of common stock and potential common stock outstanding during the respective year. Potentially dilutive common stock consisted of stock options, restricted stock awards and the premium over the conversion price on our senior subordinated convertible notes based upon the trading price of the companys common stock. The effects of potential common stock were determined using the treasury stock method (in thousands).
Earnings per Share
As of and for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, there were 190,000, 29,000 and 79,000 outstanding stock options that were not included in the determination of diluted earnings per share because doing so would have been antidilutive.
 The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Estimates
- Ropers long-term debt at December 31, 2008 included $500 million of fixed-rate notes, the interest rate on which was 1.8% lower than prevailing market rates which results in a valuation of approximately $465 million. Our short-term debt included $230 million of fixed-rate notes which were at fair value due to the short term nature of the debt. Most of Ropers other borrowings at December 31, 2008 were at various interest rates that adjust relatively frequently under its $1.1 billion credit facility. The fair value for each of these borrowings at December 31, 2008 was estimated to be the face value of these borrowings.
Fair Value of Financial Instruments
- Assets and liabilities of subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the U.S. dollar were translated at the exchange rate in effect at the balance sheet date, and revenues and expenses were translated at average exchange rates for the period in which those entities were included in Ropers financial results. Translation adjustments are reflected as a component of other comprehensive earnings.
Foreign Currency Translation
 The Company determines whether there has been an impairment of long-lived assets, excluding goodwill and identifiable intangible assets that are determined to have indefinite useful economic lives, when certain indicators of impairment are present. In the event that facts and circumstances indicate that the cost of any long-lived assets may be impaired, an evaluation of recoverability would be performed. If an evaluation is required, the estimated future gross, undiscounted cash flows associated with the asset would be compared to the assets carrying amount to determine if a write-down to market value is required. Future adverse changes in market conditions or poor operating results of underlying long-lived assets could result in losses or an inability to recover the carrying value of the long-lived assets that may not be reflected in the assets current carrying value, thereby possibly requiring an impairment charge in the future.
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets
 Roper is a U.S.-based multinational company and the calculation of its worldwide provision for income taxes requires analysis of many factors, including income tax systems that vary from country to country, and the United States treatment of non-U.S. earnings. The Company provides income taxes for unremitted earnings of foreign subsidiaries that are not considered permanently reinvested overseas. As of December 31, 2008, the approximate amount of earnings of foreign subsidiaries that the Company considers permanently reinvested and for which deferred taxes have not been provided was approximately $238 million. Because of the availability of U.S. foreign tax credits, it is not practicable to determine the U.S. federal income tax liability that would be payable if such earnings were not reinvested indefinitely.
Income Taxes
On January 1, 2007 the Company adopted the provisions of FIN 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes - an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109.  This Interpretation requires the Company to recognize in the consolidated financial statements only those tax positions determined to be more likely than not of being sustained upon examination based on the technical merits of the positions. As a result of the adoption of FIN 48, the Company recorded an increase of $3.3 million in the liability for unrecognized tax benefits, which was accounted for as a decrease to the January 1, 2007 balance of retained earnings.
Certain assets and liabilities have different bases for financial reporting and income tax purposes. Deferred income taxes have been provided for these differences.
 Roper accounts for goodwill in a purchase business combination as the excess of the cost over the fair value of net assets acquired. Business combinations can also result in other intangible assets being recognized. Amortization of intangible assets, if applicable, occurs over their estimated useful lives. SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, requires companies to cease amortizing goodwill that existed at June 30, 2001 and establishes a two-step method for testing goodwill for impairment on an annual basis (or an interim basis if an event occurs that might reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value). Total goodwill includes 25 different business components with individual amounts ranging from zero to approximately $502 million. SFAS 142 also requires that an identifiable intangible asset that is determined to have an indefinite useful economic life not be amortized, but separately tested for impairment using a one-step fair value based approach. Roper conducts these reviews for all of its reporting units during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year. No impairment resulted from the annual reviews performed in 2008.
Goodwill and Other Intangibles
- Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market. Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out method. The Company writes down its inventory for estimated obsolescence or excess inventory equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated market value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions.
Inventories
 Comprehensive earnings includes net earnings and all other non-owner sources of changes in a companys net assets. The differences between net earnings and comprehensive earnings were currency translation adjustments and the unrealized gain related to an interest rate swap, net of tax.
Other Comprehensive Earnings
- Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization are provided for using principally the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets as follows:
Property, Plant and Equipment and Depreciation and Amortization
 The Company accounts for capitalized software under Statement of Position (SOP) 98-1, Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use.  Among other provisions, SOP 98-1 requires that entities capitalize certain internal-use software costs once certain criteria are met. Under SOP 98-1, overhead, general and administrative and training costs are not capitalized. Capitalized software was $14.5 million and $11.3 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
Capitalized Software
 In June 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position (FSP) EITF 03-6-1, Determining Whether Instruments Granted in Share-Based Payment Transactions Are Participating Securities (FSP EITF 03-6-1). FSP EITF 03-6-1 clarified that all outstanding unvested share-based payment awards that contain rights to nonforfeitable dividends participate in undistributed earnings with common shareholders. Awards of this nature are considered participating securities and the two-class method of computing basic and diluted earnings per share must be applied. FSP EITF 03-6-1 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. The implementation of this standard will not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations.
Recently Released Accounting Pronouncements
 
In May 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 162, The Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (SFAS 162). This standard is intended to improve financial reporting by identifying a consistent framework, or hierarchy, for selecting accounting principles to be used in preparing financial statements that are presented in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States for non-governmental entities. SFAS 162 is effective 60 days following approval by the SEC of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Boards amendments to AU Section 411, The Meaning of Present Fairly in Conformity with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. We do not expect SFAS 162 to have a material impact on the preparation of our consolidated financial statements.
In April 2008, the FASB issued FSP No. 142-3, Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets (FSP 142-3). FSP 142-3 amends the factors an entity should consider in developing renewal or extension assumptions used in determining the useful life of recognized intangible assets under FASB Statement No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. This new guidance applies prospectively to intangible assets that are acquired individually or with a group of other assets in business combinations and asset acquisitions. FSP 142-3 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2008. Early adoption is prohibited. The adoption of FSP 142-3 will require certain additional disclosures beginning January 1, 2009 and application to useful life estimates prospectively for intangible assets acquired after December 31, 2008.  We are currently evaluating the impact, if any, that FSP 142-3 will have on our consolidated financial statements.
In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161, Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activitiesan amendment of FASB Statement No. 133, (SFAS 161) which requires enhanced disclosures about an entitys derivative and hedging activities. SFAS 161 is effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after November 15, 2008. This Statement will not impact the Companys consolidated financial position as it is disclosure-only in nature.
In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements, (SFAS 157) which clarifies the definition of fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands the disclosures on fair value measurements. SFAS 157 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. In February 2008, the FASB issued FSP 157-2 Partial Deferral of the Effective Date of Statement 157 (FSP 157-2). FSP 157-2 delays the effective date of SFAS 157, for all nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities, except those that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis (at least annually) to fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008. The adoption of SFAS 157 did not have a material effect on the consolidated financial position for fair value measurements made during 2008. While the Company does not expect the adoption of this Statement to have a material impact on its consolidated financial position in subsequent reporting periods, the Company continues to monitor any additional implementation guidance that is issued that addresses the fair value measurements for certain financial assets, nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities not disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on at least an annual basis.
In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007), Business Combinations (SFAS 141(R)). SFAS 141(R) establishes principles and requirements for how an acquirer in a business combination recognizes and measures the assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest (previously referred to as minority interest) in the acquiree. The provisions of SFAS 141(R) are effective for business combinations occurring on or after January 1, 2009.
In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements (SFAS 160). SFAS 160 establishes requirements for ownership interests in subsidiaries held by parties other than the Company (sometimes called minority interests) be clearly identified, presented, and disclosed in the consolidated statement of financial position within equity, but separate from the parents equity. All changes in the parents ownership interests are required to be accounted for consistently as equity transactions and any noncontrolling equity investments in deconsolidated subsidiaries must be measured initially at fair value. SFAS 160 is effective, on a prospective basis, for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. However, presentation and disclosure requirements must be retrospectively applied to comparative financial statements. The Company is currently assessing the impact of SFAS 160 on its consolidated financial position and results of operations.
- Research and development costs include salaries and benefits, rents, supplies, and other costs related to various products under development. Research and development costs are expensed in the period incurred and totaled $87.4 million, $67.9 million and $58.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
Research and Development
 The Company recognizes revenue when all of the following criteria are met:
Revenue Recognition and Product Warranties
In addition, the Company recognizes revenue from the sale of product when title and risk of loss pass to the customer, which is generally when product is shipped. The Company recognizes revenue from services rendered upon customer acceptance. Revenues under certain relatively long-term and relatively large-value construction projects are recognized under the percentage-of-completion method using the ratio of costs incurred to total estimated costs as the measure of performance. The Company recognized revenues of approximately $127.9 million, $135.5 million and $94.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, using this method. Estimated losses on any projects are recognized as soon as such losses become known.
The Company sells certain of its products to customers with a product warranty that provides that customers can return a defective product during a specified warranty period following the purchase in exchange for a replacement product, repair at no cost to the customer or the issuance of a credit to the customer. The Company accrues its estimated exposure to warranty claims based upon current and historical product sales date, warranty costs incurred and any other related information known to the Company.
 Effective January 1, 2006, Roper adopted the provisions of SFAS 123R, which requires recognition of expense for the grant date fair value of its employee stock option awards. The Company estimates the fair value of its option awards using the Black-Scholes option valuation model and recognizes the expense of all share-based awards on a straight-line basis over the employees requisite service period (generally the vesting period of the award).
Stock-Based Compensation
Effective January 1, 2006 and in accordance with SFAS 123R, the Company presents the cash flows resulting from the tax benefits arising from tax deductions in excess of the compensation cost recognized for stock award exercises (excess tax benefits) as financing cash flows.
In May 2008, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FASB Staff Position (FSP) No. APB 14-1, Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement) (FSP APB 14-1). FSP APB 14-1 clarifies that convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash upon either mandatory or optional conversion (including partial cash settlement) are not addressed by paragraph 12 of APB Opinion No. 14, Accounting for Convertible Debt and Debt issued with Stock Purchase Warrants. Additionally, FSP APB 14-1 specifies that issuers of such instruments should separately account for the liability and equity components in a manner that will reflect the entitys nonconvertible debt borrowing rate when interest cost is recognized in subsequent periods. FSP APB 14-1 requires retrospective application for all periods presented.
The adoption of FSP ABP 14-1 on January 1, 2009 impacted the historical accounting for our 3.75% senior subordinated convertible notes due 2034 as of December 6, 2004, the date that the notes were modified to allow holders to receive cash only for accreted principal upon settlement of the notes with any remainder of the conversion value payable in cash or common stock, thus qualifying the notes for treatment under FSP APB 14-1. The required retrospective adoption resulted in a decrease in long term debt (debt discount) of $26.5 million, an increase in deferred tax liabilities of $9.3 million, and an increase in additional paid in capital of $17.3 million at December 9, 2004. The debt discount was amortized using the effective interest rate method based on an annual effective rate of 7.0%, which represented a market interest rate for similar debt without a conversion option on the modification date. The debt discount was amortized through January 15, 2009, the first date that holders of the notes could exercise their put option and we could exercise our call option. See Note 9 for additional information on our senior subordinated convertible notes.
The following financial statement line items were affected by the change in accounting principle (amounts are in thousands, except per share data):
 
During the year ended December 31, 2008, Roper completed six business combinations.  The results of operations of the acquired companies have been included in Ropers consolidated results since the date of each acquisition.  Supplemental pro forma information has not been provided as the acquisitions did not have a material impact on Ropers consolidated results of operations individually or in aggregate.
2008 Acquisitions -
The largest of the 2008 acquisitions was the purchase of all outstanding shares of CBORD Holdings Corporation on February 20, 2008. CBORD, whose operations are reported in the RF Technology segment, is a provider of card systems and integrated security solutions to higher education, healthcare and other markets. CBORDs principal facilities are located in Ithaca, New York. The aggregate gross purchase price was $375 million of cash, which includes amounts incurred for direct external transaction costs associated with the acquisition.
CBORD Acquisition -
Roper acquired CBORD due to growth prospects in CBORDs end markets of education and health care. In addition, CBORD has excellent customer retention and strong recurring revenues. We also see opportunities to realize complementary technologies within our RF Technology segment to CBORDs product offerings.
The allocation of the purchase resulted in $158 million of identifiable intangible assets, and $258 million of goodwill. The following table (in thousands) summarizes the fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition.
Of the $158 million of acquired intangible assets, $28 million was assigned to trade names that are not subject to amortization. The remaining $130 million of acquired intangible assets have a weighted-average useful life of approximately 15 years. The intangible assets that make up that amount include customer relationships of $114 million (20 year weighted-average useful life), unpatented technology of $12 million (6 year weighted-average useful life), and protective rights of $4 million (5 year weighted-average useful life).
The majority of the $258 million of goodwill is not expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
The aggregate purchase price of all other acquisitions made in 2008 totaled $331 million, which includes amounts incurred for direct external transaction costs associated with the acquisitions.  We recorded approximately $219 million in goodwill and $122 million in other identifiable intangibles in connection with these acquisitions.  The majority of the goodwill is not expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
Other 2008 acquisitions -
On March 20, 2008, we acquired the assets of Tech-Pro, Inc. a provider of industrial test instruments and software in our Energy Systems & Controls segment.
On June 18, 2008, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of Chalwyn Limited, a U.K.-based air shut-off valve provider in our Energy Systems & Controls segment.
On July 17, 2008, we acquired the assets, intellectual property and domain name of Getloaded.com, LLC, which adds new subscribers for our freight matching services in the RF Technology segment.
On August 27, 2008, we acquired the assets of Horizon Software Holdings, Inc., a leading provider of comprehensive software solutions and related services that complements CBORDs higher education business to allow us to better serve the entire education spectrum. The operations of Horizon are reported in the RF Technology segment.
On September 10, 2008, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of Technolog Holdings Limited, a U.K.-based end-to-end solutions provider for network monitoring, pressure management, automatic meter reading and smart metering solutions. The operations of Technolog are reported in the RF Technology segment.
Of the $122 million of acquired intangible assets, $22 million was assigned to trade names that are not subject to amortization. The remaining $100 million of acquired intangible assets have a weighted-average useful life of approximately 13 years. The intangible assets that make up that amount include customer relationships of $82 million (14 year weighted-average useful life), unpatented technology of $14 million (9 year weighted-average useful life), protective rights of $2 million (7 year weighted-average useful life) and backlog of $2 million (1 year weighted-average useful life).
- During the year ended December 31, 2007, Roper completed six business combinations for an aggregate purchase price of $106 million, which includes amounts incurred for direct external transaction costs associated with the acquisitions.  The results of operations of the acquired companies have been included in Ropers consolidated results since the date of each acquisition.  Supplemental pro forma information has not been provided as the acquisitions did not have a material impact on Ropers consolidated results of operations individually or in aggregate.  We recorded approximately $40 million in goodwill and $50 million in other identifiable intangibles in connection with these acquisitions.  The majority of the goodwill is not expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
2007 Acquisitions
On February 21, 2007, we acquired all the outstanding shares of JLT Mobile Computers, Inc., a provider of rugged computers and software for mobile computing. The operations of JLT are included in the Scientific and Industrial Imaging segment.
On February 28, 2007, we acquired the assets of DJ Instruments, a manufacturer and provider of pressure measurement sensors. The operations of DJ Instruments are included in the Energy Systems and Controls segment.
On March 22, 2007, we acquired the assets of Roda Deaco Valve Ltd., a Canadian-based developer and manufacturer of air intake cut-off devices. The operations of Roda Deaco are included in the Energy Systems and Controls segment.
On June 21, 2007, we acquired all the outstanding shares of Dynamic Instruments, Inc., including its wholly owned subsidiary, Hardy Instruments, Inc., a provider of audio recording, vibration monitoring and process control equipment for commercial and military markets. The operations of Dynamic Instruments are included in the Energy Systems and Controls segment.
On September 24, 2007, we acquired the assets of Black Diamond Advanced Technology, LLC, a provider of rugged mobile computers. The operations of Black Diamond are included in the RF Technology segment.
Of the $50 million of acquired intangible assets, $12 million was assigned to trade names that are not subject to amortization. The remaining $38 million of acquired intangible assets have a weighted-average useful life of approximately 10 years. The intangible assets that make up that amount include customer relationships of $35 million (10 year weighted-average useful life) and unpatented technology of $3 million (11 year weighted-average useful life).
During the year ended December 31, 2006, Roper completed five business combinations.  The results of operations of the acquired companies have been included in Ropers consolidated results since the date of each acquisition.  Supplemental pro forma information has not been provided as the acquisitions did not have a material impact on Ropers consolidated results of operations individually or in aggregate.
2006 Acquisitions -
- The largest of the 2006 acquisitions was the purchase of all outstanding shares of Dynisco Parent, Inc., a provider of highly engineered sensors and software used in testing, measurement and control applications. The operations of Dynisco are included in the Energy Systems and Controls segment. Dyniscos principal facilities are located in Franklin, Massachusetts; Akron, Ohio; and Grand Island, New York. The aggregate gross purchase price of the Dynisco acquisition was approximately $247 million of cash and includes amounts incurred for direct external transaction costs associated with the acquisition.
Dynisco Acquisition
Roper acquired Dynisco as a strategic fit for our businesses which determine physical and elemental properties of various liquids and materials and to gain Dyniscos base of recurring business, technical and engineering competencies, and market channels. The purchase price reflected these factors and Dyniscos historically strong margins and operating cash flows, and its future prospects and growth potential.
The allocation of the purchase resulted in $120 million of identifiable intangible assets, and $153 million of goodwill, the majority of which is not expected to be deductible for tax purposes. The following table (in thousands) summarizes the fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition.
 
Of the $120 million of acquired intangible assets, $12 million was assigned to trade names that are not subject to amortization. The remaining $108 million of acquired intangible assets have a weighted-average useful life of approximately 17 years. The intangible assets that make up that amount include customer relationships of $89 million (19 year weighted-average useful life), unpatented technology of $11 million (9 year weighted-average useful life), software of $7 million (9 year weighted-average useful life), and patents of $1 million (8 year weighted-average useful life).
- The aggregate purchase price of all other acquisitions made in 2006 totaled $96 million, which includes amounts incurred for direct external transaction costs associated with the acquisitions.  We recorded approximately $63 million in goodwill and $26 million in other identifiable intangibles in connection with these acquisitions.  The majority of the goodwill is not expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
Other 2006 Acquisitions
On April 5, 2006, the Company acquired all the outstanding shares of Sinmed Holding International B.V., a European-based maker of medical positioning equipment. The operations of Sinmed are included in the Scientific and Industrial Imaging segment.
On April 26, 2006, the Company acquired the assets of Intellitrans, LLC, a provider of asset tracking technology. The operations of Intellitrans are included in the RF Technology segment.
On July 25, 2006, the Company acquired all the outstanding shares of Lumenera Corporation, a Canadian-based developer and manufacturer of high performance digital cameras for industrial, scientific and security markets. The operations of Lumenera are included in the Scientific and Industrial Imaging segment.
On August 8, 2006, the Company acquired all the outstanding shares of AC Analytical Controls Holding B.V., a European-based provider of chromatographic analyzers for the petrochemical industry. The operations of AC Controls are included in the Energy Systems and Controls segment.
Of the $26 million of acquired intangible assets, $3 million was assigned to trade names that are not subject to amortization. The remaining $23 million of acquired intangible assets have a weighted-average useful life of approximately 9 years. The intangible assets that make up that amount include customer relationships of $16 million (11 year weighted-average useful life), unpatented technology of $5 million (5 year weighted-average useful life) and backlog of $1 million (2 year weighted-average useful life).
The components of inventories at December 31 were as follows (in thousands):
 
The components of property, plant and equipment at December 31 were as follows (in thousands):
 
Depreciation expense was $33,900, $31,805 and $29,939 for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
Goodwill acquired during the year ended December 31, 2008 was attributable to the acquisitions of CBORD, Tech-Pro, Chalwyn, Getloaded, Horizon and Technolog. The reclassifications and other are the result of final purchase price allocations from deferred tax accounting and final asset valuations related to 2007 acquisitions.
 
Amortization expense of other intangible assets was $64,017, $55,653, and $46,756 during the years ended 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Estimated amortization expense for the five years subsequent to 2008 is $66,236, $62,078, $59,044, $56,120 and $54,565 for 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively.
Accrued liabilities at December 31 were as follows (in thousands):
 
Earnings before income taxes for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 consisted of the following components (in thousands):
Components of income tax expense for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were as follows (in thousands):
Reconciliations between the statutory federal income tax rate and the effective income tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were as follows:
 
The deferred income tax balance sheet accounts arise from temporary differences between the amount of assets and liabilities recognized for financial reporting and tax purposes.
Components of the deferred tax assets and liabilities at December 31 were as follows (in thousands):
 
At December 31, 2008, Roper had approximately $11.9 million of U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards. If not utilized, these carryforwards will expire in years 2023 through 2027. Additionally, Roper had foreign tax credit carryforwards and research and development credit carryforwards. Roper has not recognized a valuation allowance since management has determined that it is more likely than not that the results of future operations will generate sufficient taxable income to realize these deferred tax assets.
The Company provides income taxes for unremitted earnings of foreign subsidiaries that are not considered permanently reinvested overseas. As of December 31, 2008, the approximate amount of earnings of foreign subsidiaries that the Company considers permanently reinvested and for which deferred taxes have not been provided was approximately $237.8 million. Because of the availability of U.S. foreign tax credits, it is not practicable to determine the U.S. federal income tax liability that would be payable if such earnings were not reinvested indefinitely.
The Company adopted the provisions of FIN 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes-an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109, on January 1, 2007. This Interpretation requires the Company to recognize in the consolidated financial statements only those tax positions determined to be more likely than not of being sustained upon examination based on the technical merits of the positions.
A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows (in thousands):
 
The total amount of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would affect the effective tax rate is $12.0 million. Interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits are classified as a component of income tax expense and totaled $1.1 million in 2008. Accrued interest and penalties were $2.1 million at December 31, 2007 and $3.2 million at December 31, 2008. During the next twelve months, it is expected that the unrecognized tax benefits will be reduced by a net $1.1 million, due mainly to a lapse in the applicable statute of limitations.
The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to U.S. federal income tax as well as income tax of multiple state, city and foreign jurisdictions. The Companys federal income tax returns for 2005 through the current period remain subject to examination and the relevant state, city and foreign statutes vary. There are no current tax examinations in progress where the Company expects the assessment of any significant additional tax in excess of amounts reserved.
On July 7, 2008, the Company entered into a new $1.1 billion unsecured credit facility with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, and a syndicate of lenders, which replaces its $1.355 billion amended and restated secured credit facility, dated as of December 13, 2004. The $1.1 billion facility is composed of a $350.0 million term loan facility maturing July 7, 2010 and a five year $750.0 million revolving credit facility maturing July 7, 2013. The Company may also, subject to compliance with specified conditions, request additional term loans or revolving credit commitments in an aggregate amount not to exceed $350.0 million.
On August 6, 2008, we issued $500 million aggregate principal amount of 6.625% senior notes due August 15, 2013 (the Notes).  The Notes bear interest at a fixed rate of 6.625% per year, payable semi-annually in arrears on February 15 and August 15 of each year, beginning February 15, 2009. The interest payable on the Notes is subject to adjustment if either Moodys Investors Service or Standard & Poors Ratings Services downgrades the rating assigned to the Notes.
We may redeem some or all of the Notes at any time or from time to time, at 100% of their principal amount plus a make-whole premium based on a spread to U.S. Treasury securities as described in the indenture relating to the Notes.
The Notes are unsecured senior obligations of the Company and rank equally in right of payment with all of the Companys existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness. The Notes are effectively subordinated to any of the Companys existing and future secured indebtedness to the extent of the value of the collateral securing such indebtedness. The Notes are not guaranteed by any of the Companys subsidiaries and are effectively subordinated to all existing and future indebtedness and other liabilities of the Companys subsidiaries.
Other debt includes $230 million of senior subordinated convertible notes due 2034.
Total debt at December 31 consisted of the following (table amounts in thousands):
 
Our principal $1.1 billion credit facility, $500 million senior notes and $230 million senior subordinated convertible notes provide substantially all of our daily external financing requirements. The interest rate on the borrowings under the $1.1 billion credit facility is calculated based upon various recognized indices plus a margin as defined in the credit agreement. At December 31, 2008, the weighted average interest rate on the term and revolver loans was 1.90%. At December 31, 2008, our debt consisted of the $500 million senior notes, $230 million in senior subordinated convertible notes, $350 million term loans and a $179 million revolver balance. In addition, we had $8.5 million of other debt in the form of capital leases, several smaller facilities that allow for borrowings or the issuance of letters of credit in various foreign locations to support our non-U.S. businesses and $51 million of outstanding letters of credit at December 31, 2008. We expect that our available additional borrowing capacity combined with the cash flows expected to be generated from existing business will be sufficient to fund normal operating requirements and finance some additional acquisitions.
The Company recorded a $3.1 million non-cash pre-tax debt extinguishment charge in the third quarter of 2008 related to the early termination of the previous $1.355 billion secured credit facility. This charge reflects the unamortized fees associated with the $1.355 billion secured credit facility and was reported as other expense.
In December 2003, we issued through a public offering $230 million of 3.75% subordinated convertible notes due in 2034 at an original issue discount of 60.498% (the Convertible Notes). The Convertible Notes are subordinated in right of payment and collateral to all of our existing and future senior debt. Interest on the notes is payable semiannually, beginning July 15, 2004, until January 15, 2009. After that date, we will not pay cash interest on the notes prior to maturity unless contingent cash interest becomes payable. Instead, after January 15, 2009, interest will be recognized at the effective rate of 3.75% and will represent accrual of original issue discount, excluding any contingent cash interest that may become payable. We will pay contingent cash interest to the holders of the notes during any six month period commencing after January 15, 2009 if the average trading price of a note for a five trading day measurement period preceding the applicable six month period equals 120% or more of the sum of the issue price, accrued original issue discount and accrued cash interest, if any, for such note. The contingent cash interest payable per note in respect of any six month period will equal the annual rate of 0.25%. As originally issued, holders could convert their notes into 12.422 shares of our common stock (giving effect for the 2-for-1 stock split effective August 26, 2005), subject to adjustment, only (1) if the sale price of our common stock reaches, or the trading price of the notes falls below, specified thresholds, (2) if the notes are called for redemption, or (3) if specified corporate transactions have occurred. Upon conversion, we would have had the right to deliver, in lieu of our common stock, cash or common stock or a combination of cash and common stock. On December 6, 2004, the Company completed a consent solicitation to amend the notes such that the Company pays the same conversion value upon conversion of the notes, but changes how the conversion value is paid. In lieu of receiving exclusively shares of common stock or cash upon conversion, noteholders would receive cash up to the value of the accreted principal amount of the notes converted and, at the Companys option, any remainder of the conversion value would be paid in cash or shares of common stock. Holders may require us to purchase all or a portion of their notes on January 15, 2009 at a price of $395.02 per note, on January 15, 2014 at a price of $475.66 per note, on January 15, 2019 at a price of $572.76 per note, on January 15, 2024 at a price of $689.68 per note, and on January 15, 2029 at a price of $830.47 per note, in each case plus accrued cash interest, if any, and accrued contingent cash interest, if any. We may only pay the purchase price of such notes in cash and not in common stock. In addition, if we experience a change in control, each holder may require us to purchase for cash all or a portion of such holders notes at a price equal to the sum of the issue price plus accrued original issue discount for non-tax purposes, accrued cash interest, if any, and accrued contingent cash interest, if any, to the date of purchase.
As of September 30, 2005, our $230 million of senior subordinated convertible notes were reclassified from long term to short term debt as the notes became convertible on October 1, 2005 based upon the Companys common stock trading above the trigger price for at least 20 trading days during the 30 consecutive trading-day periods ending on September 30, 2005.
The adoption of FSP APB 14-1 requires us to separately account for the liability and equity components of our 3.75% senior subordinated convertible notes in a manner that reflects our nonconvertible debt borrowing rate when interest cost is recognized.  At December 31, 2008, the unamortized discount had a remaining period of 15 days.  Interest expense related to the notes was as follows (amounts in thousands):
At December 31, 2008, the conversion price on the outstanding notes was $395.02.  If converted at December 31, 2008, the value would have exceeded the $230 million principal amount of the notes by approximately $68 million and would result in the issuance of 1,650,900 shares of our common stock.
Our $1.1 billion credit facility contains various affirmative and negative covenants which, among other things, limit our ability to incur new debt, prepay subordinated debt, make certain investments and acquisitions, sell assets and grant liens, make restricted payments (including the payment of dividends on our common stock) and capital expenditures, or change our line of business. We also are subject to financial covenants which require us to limit our consolidated total leverage ratio and to maintain a consolidated interest coverage ratio. The most restrictive covenant is the consolidated total leverage ratio which is limited to 3.5.
At December 31, 2008, and 2007, the Company was in compliance with our debt covenants.
Future maturities of long-term debt during each of the next five years ending December 31 and thereafter were as follows (in thousands):
Roper maintains eight defined contribution retirement plans under the provisions of Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code covering substantially all U.S. employees not subject to collective bargaining agreements. Roper partially matches employee contributions. Its costs related to these plans were $12.9 million, $10.3 million and $9.9 million for 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
Roper also maintains various defined benefit retirement plans covering employees of non-U.S. and certain U.S. subsidiaries and a plan that supplements certain employees for the contribution ceiling applicable to the Section 401(k) plans. The costs and accumulated benefit obligations associated with each of these plans were not material.
The Roper Industries, Inc. Amended and Restated 2006 Incentive Plan (2006 Plan) is a stock-based compensation plan used to grant incentive stock options, nonqualified stock options, restricted stock, stock appreciation rights or equivalent instruments to the Companys employees, officers, directors and consultants. The 2006 Plan replaced the Amended and Restated 2000 Incentive Plan (2000 Plan), and no additional grants will be made from the 2000 Plan or the Non-employee Director Plan. The number of shares reserved for issuance under the 2006 plan is 8,000,000, plus the 17,000 remaining shares that were available to grant under the 2000 Plan at June 28, 2006, plus any shares underlying outstanding awards under the 2000 plan that terminate or expire unexercised, or are cancelled, forfeited or lapse for any reason subsequent to June 28, 2006. At December 31, 2008, 5,429,000 shares were available to grant.
In the Roper Industries, Inc., Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP), all employees in the U.S. and Canada are eligible to designate up to 10% of eligible earnings to purchase Ropers common stock at a discount to the average closing price of its common stock at the beginning and end of a quarterly offering period. Effective January 1, 2008, the ESPP was modified to change the discount from 10% to 5%. The common stock sold to the employees may be either treasury stock, stock purchased on the open market, or newly issued shares.
The Company recognized stock based compensation expense of $30.9 million and $20.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The total tax effect recognized in net income related to stock based compensation during 2008 and 2007 was $10.8 million and $7.2 million, respectively. The tax benefit from option exercises and restricted stock vesting under all plans totaled approximately $5.6 million and $5.7 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively.
 Stock options are typically granted at prices not less than 100% of market value of the underlying stock at the date of grant. Stock options typically vest over a period of up to three to five years from the grant date and generally expire seven to ten years after the grant date. The Company recorded $8.2 and $5.1 million of compensation expense relating to outstanding options during 2008 and 2007, respectively, as a component of corporate and certain segment general and administrative expenses.
Stock Options
The Company estimates the fair value of its option awards using the Black-Scholes option valuation model that uses the assumptions noted in the following table. The stock volatility for each grant is measured using the weighted average of historical daily price changes of the Companys common stock over the most recent period equal to the expected life of the grant. The expected term of options granted is derived from historical data to estimate option exercises and employee terminations, and represents the period of time that options granted are expected to be outstanding. The risk-free rate for periods within the contractual life of the option is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant. The weighted average fair value of options granted in 2008, 2007 and 2006 were calculated using the following weighted average assumptions:
The following table summarizes the Companys activities with respect to its stock option plans for the year ended December 31, 2008:
The following table summarizes information for stock options outstanding at December 31, 2008:
At December 31, 2008, there was $14.5 million of total unrecognized compensation expense related to nonvested options granted to both employees and directors under the Companys share-based payment plans. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.5 years. The total intrinsic value of options exercised in 2008 and 2007 was $16.3 million and $29.8 million, respectively. Cash received from option exercises under all plans in 2008 and 2007 was approximately $11.0 million and $15.3 million, respectively.
- During 2008 and 2007, the Company granted 610,000 and 240,000 shares, respectively, of restricted stock to certain employee and director participants under the 2006 Plan. Restricted stock awards generally vest over a period of 1 to 3 years. The weighted average fair value of the shares granted in 2008 was $55.68 per share. The Company recorded approximately $22.7 million and $15.3 million of compensation expense related to outstanding shares of restricted stock held by employees and directors during 2008 and 2007, respectively. A summary of the Companys nonvested shares activity for 2008 is as follows:
Restricted Stock Awards
At December 31, 2008, there was $25.4 million of total unrecognized compensation expense related to nonvested shares granted to both employees and directors under the Companys share-based payment plans. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 3.1 years. There were 476,000 and 231,000 shares that vested during 2008 and 2007, respectively. Unrecognized compensation expense related to nonvested shares of restricted stock awards is recorded as a reduction to additional paid-in capital in shareholders equity at December 31, 2008.
- During 2008, 2007 and 2006, participants of the ESPP purchased 34,000, 33,000 and 38,000 shares, respectively, of Ropers common stock for total consideration of $1.9 million, $1.7 million, and $1.6 million, respectively. All of these shares were purchased from Ropers treasury shares. The Company recorded $0, $250,000, and $227,000 of compensation expense relating to the stock purchase plan during 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
Employee Stock Purchase Plan
At the 2006 Shareholder Meeting, shareholders approved an amendment to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, to eliminate time phase voting and give all outstanding shares of common stock of the Company one vote on matters properly submitted to the shareholders of the Company for their vote. Previously, Ropers restated Certificate of Incorporation provided that each outstanding share of Ropers common stock entitled the holder thereof to five votes per share, except that holders of outstanding shares with respect to which there had been a change in beneficial ownership during the four years immediately preceding the applicable record date would have been entitled to one vote per share.
On January 8, 2006, the Roper Shareholder Rights Plan expired. This plan had provided that one Preferred Stock Purchase Right (a Right) accompanied each outstanding share of common stock. Such Rights only became exercisable, or transferable apart from the common stock, ten business days after a person or group acquires various specified levels of beneficial ownership.
Roper, in the ordinary course of business, is the subject of, or a party to, various pending or threatened legal actions, including those pertaining to product liability and employment practices. It is vigorously contesting all lawsuits that, in general, are based upon claims of the kind that have been customary over the past several years. After analyzing the Companys contingent liabilities on a gross basis and, based upon past experience with resolution of its product liability and employment practices claims and the limits of the primary, excess, and umbrella liability insurance coverages that are available with respect to pending claims, management believes that adequate provision has been made to cover any potential liability not covered by insurance, and that the ultimate liability, if any, arising from these actions should not have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows of Roper.
Over recent years there has been a significant increase in certain U.S. states in asbestos-related litigation claims against numerous industrial companies. Roper or its subsidiaries have been named defendants in some such cases. No significant resources have been required by Roper to respond to these cases and Roper believes it has valid defenses to such claims and, if required, intends to defend them vigorously. Given the state of these claims it is not possible to determine the potential liability, if any.
Ropers rent expense was approximately $24.8 million, $25.4 million and $21.8 million for 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Ropers future minimum property lease commitments totaled $93.6 million at December 31, 2008. These commitments included $24.2 million in 2009, $19.2 million in 2010, $13.0 million in 2011, $10.2 million in 2012, $8.0 million in 2013 and $19.0 million thereafter.
A summary of the Companys warranty accrual activity for the year ended December 31, 2008 is presented below (in thousands):
At December 31, 2008 the Company had outstanding surety bonds of $239 million.
Our operations are reported in four market-focused segments around common customers, markets, sales channels, technologies and common cost opportunities. The segments are: Industrial Technology, Energy Systems and Controls, Scientific and Industrial Imaging, and RF Technology. Products included within the Industrial Technology segment are industrial pumps, flow measurement and metering equipment, and industrial valves and controls, and equipment and consumables for materials analysis and industrial leak testing. The Energy Systems and Controls segments products include control systems, equipment and consumables for fluid properties testing, vibration and other non-destructive inspection and measurement products and services. Our Scientific and Industrial Imaging segment offers high performance digital imaging products and software, patient positioning products and software in medical applications and handheld and vehicle mounted computers and software. The RF Technology segment includes products and systems related to comprehensive toll and traffic systems and processing, security and access control, campus card systems, freight matching, mobile asset tracking and water sub-metering and remote temperature monitoring applications. Ropers management structure and internal reporting are also aligned consistent with these four segments.
There were no material transactions between Ropers business segments during 2008, 2007 and 2006. Sales between geographic areas are primarily of finished products and are accounted for at prices intended to represent third-party prices. Operating profit by business segment and by geographic area is defined as sales less operating costs and expenses. These costs and expenses do not include unallocated corporate administrative expenses. Items below income from operations on Ropers statement of earnings are not allocated to business segments.
Identifiable assets are those assets used primarily in the operations of each business segment or geographic area. Corporate assets were principally comprised of cash, recoverable insurance claims, deferred compensation assets, unamortized deferred financing costs and property and equipment.
Selected financial information by business segment for 2008, 2007 and 2006 follows (in thousands):
 
 
Summarized data for Ropers U.S. and foreign operations (principally in Canada, Europe and Asia) for 2008, 2007 and 2006, based upon the country of origin of the Roper entity making the sale, was as follows:
Export sales from the United States during the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were $358 million, $359 million and $234 million, respectively. In the year ended December 31, 2008, these exports were shipped primarily to Europe (26%), Canada (15%), Middle East (13%), Japan (7%), China (6%), South America (6%), rest of Asia (17%), and other (10%).
Sales to customers outside the United States accounted for a significant portion of Ropers revenues. Sales are attributed to geographic areas based upon the location where the product is ultimately shipped. Ropers net sales for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 are shown below by region, except for Canada, which is the only country in which we have had greater than 5% of our total sales for any of the three years presented.
Financial instruments which potentially subject the Company to credit risk consist primarily of cash, cash equivalents and trade receivables.
The Company maintains cash and cash equivalents with various major financial institutions. Cash equivalents include investments in commercial paper of companies with high credit ratings, investments in money market securities and securities backed by the U.S. Government. At times such amounts may exceed the F.D.I.C. limits. The Company limits the amount of credit exposure with any one financial institution and believes that no significant concentration of credit risk exists with respect to cash investments.
Trade receivables subject the company to the potential for credit risk with customers. To reduce credit risk, the Company performs ongoing evaluations of its customers financial condition.
The sum of the four quarters may not agree with the total for the year due to rounding.

Exhibit 23.1
 
We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-152590) and Form S-8 (Nos. 33-71094, 33-77770, 33-78026, 333-36897, 333-73139, 333-35666, 333-35672, 333-35648, 333-59130, 333-105919, 333-105920, 333-135700) of Roper Industries, Inc. of our report dated February 27, 2009, except as it relates to the effects of the adoption of FSP APB 14-1, "Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments that may be Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial Settlement)," as discussed in Note 1A, as to which the date is May 15, 2009 relating to the financial statements, financial statement schedule and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in this Form 8-K.  We also consent to the reference to us under the heading "Selected Financial Data" in this Form 8-K.
PricewaterhouseCoopers
Atlanta, GA
May 15, 2009


