FILE:ROP/ROP-8K-20100726083111.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On July 26, 2010, Roper Industries, Inc. (the Company) issued a press release containing information about the Companys results of operations for the quarter ended June 30, 2010. A copy of the press release is furnished as .
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
In the press release, the Company uses the non-GAAP financial measures EBITDA and Free Cash Flow. EBITDA is defined as net earnings plus (a) interest expense, (b) income taxes and (c) depreciation and amortization. The Company believes EBITDA is an important indicator of operational strength and performance of the Companys business because it provides a link between profitability and operating cash flow. EBITDA as calculated by the Company is not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. In addition, EBITDA: (a) does not represent net income or cash flows from operations as defined by GAAP; (b) is not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund the Companys cash flow needs; and (c) should not be considered as an alternative to net earnings, operating income, cash flows from op erating activities or the Companys other financial information determined under GAAP. The Company believes that the line on the Companys consolidated statement of operations entitled net earnings is the most directly comparable GAAP measure to EBITDA.
Free Cash Flow is defined as "Cash Provided by Operating Activities" ("Operating Cash Flow") as stated in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, reduced by capital expenditures. We believe that Free Cash Flow is useful to investors as the basis for comparing our performance and coverage ratios with other companies in our industries, although our measure of Free Cash Flow may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies.
 
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(a)     .
Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired
 
(b)     .
Pro Forma Financial Information
 
(c)    
Shell Company Transactions.
 
 
(d)     .
Exhibits
 
 
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
reported financial results for its second quarter ended June 30, 2010.
Sarasota, Florida, July 26, 2010 ... Roper Industries, Inc. (NYSE: ROP)
Net earnings for the second quarter were $71 million, a 20% increase over the second quarter of 2009, and diluted earnings per share (DEPS) were $0.74 compared to $0.64 in the prior year second quarter.  Results for the quarter include a $1.9M pre-tax loss due to foreign exchange remeasurement.  Sales increased 12% to $567 million and orders increased 27% to a record $619 million, representing a 1.09 book-to-bill ratio.  Operating Cash Flow was $110 million, bringing year-to-date operating cash flow to a record $205 million.
Second quarter gross margin expanded to 53.2% and operating margin was 21.0%, an increase of 200 basis points over the prior year.  During the quarter, EBITDA grew to $145 million, or 25.7% of sales.  Free cash flow represented 18% of sales and 144% of net earnings.
We are encouraged by the outstanding order growth in our businesses, driven by an 82% increase in Scientific Imaging/Medical, a 32% increase in Energy Systems & Controls and a 31% increase in Industrial Technology, said Brian Jellison, Ropers Chairman, President and CEO.  We were delighted to see organic sales growth return in the second quarter and, with record backlog, we now expect stronger organic sales growth in the second half.
Today, Roper announced the acquisition of iTradeNetwork, Inc. in a $525 million all-cash transaction.  iTradeNetwork provides subscription-based hosted software solutions to the food industry that facilitate transactions between retail grocers, restaurant chain operators, foodservice distributors and their respective customers.  The Companys SaaS (Software-as-a-Service) solutions serve over 6,200 customers transacting over $250 billion annually.  Roper expects iTradeNetwork to generate more than $55 million of EBITDA in 2011.
 
 
iTradeNetwork is an excellent addition to our growing SaaS businesses, complementing the outstanding software services platforms we have built with our CBORD/Horizon and Freight Matching businesses, said Mr. Jellison.  We are excited about the prospects for the year given our record backlog, strong order momentum during the first half, and the strategic acquisition of iTradeNetwork, continued Mr. Jellison.
Third Quarter and Full Year Guidance
Roper is increasing its full year DEPS guidance to $3.05-$3.15 from $2.95-$3.10, and establishing third quarter DEPS guidance of $0.75-$0.80.  The Company is increasing its guidance for operating cash flow to $425-$450 million from $400-$425 million.  The Companys guidance includes iTradeNetwork but excludes future acquisitions and the first quarter impact of acquisition-related inventory charges.
Table 1:
 
 
 
 
Table 2:  Free Cash Flow (millions)
Table 3:  EBITDA (millions)
Conference Call to be Held at 8:30 AM (ET) Today
A conference call to discuss these results has been scheduled for 8:30 AM ET on Monday, July 26, 2010.  The call can be accessed via webcast or by dialing +1 888-282-4591 (US/Canada) or +1 719-457-2665, using confirmation code 2045224.  Webcast information and conference call materials will be made available in the Investors section of Ropers website () prior to the start of the call.  Telephonic replays will be available for up to two weeks by calling +1 (719) 457-0820 and using the access code 2045224.
www.roperind.com
About Roper Industries
Roper Industries is a market-driven, diversified growth company and is a constituent of the S&P 500, Fortune 1000, and the Russell 1000 indices. Roper provides engineered products and solutions for global niche markets, including water, energy, radio frequency and research/medical applications.  Additional information about Roper Industries is available on the Companys website at .
www.roperind.com
The information provided in this press release contains forward looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. These forward looking statements include, among others, statements regarding operating results, the success of our internal operating plans, and the prospects for newly acquired businesses to be integrated and contribute to future growth and profit expectations.  Forward looking statements may be indicated by words or phrases such as "anticipate," "estimate," "plans," "expects," "projects," "should," "will," "believes" or "intends" and similar words and phrases.  These statements reflect management's current beliefs and are not guarantees of future performance.  They involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward looking statement. Such risks and uncertainties include our ability to integrate our acquisitions and realize expected synergies.  We also face other general risks, including our ability to realize cost savings from our operating initiatives, general economic conditions, unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates, difficulties associated with exports, risks associated with our international operations, difficulties in making and integrating acquisitions, risks associated with newly acquired businesses, increased product liability and insurance costs, increased warranty exposure, future competition, changes in the supply of, or price for, parts and components, environmental compliance costs and liabilities, risks and cost associated with asbestos related litigation and potential write-offs of our substantial intangible assets, and risks associated with obtaining governmental approvals and maintaining regulatory compliance for new and existing products.  I mportant risks may be discussed in current and subsequent filings with the SEC.  You should not place undue reliance on any forward looking statements.  These statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update publicly any of them in light of new information or future events.
 
 
 
 
Roper Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings (unaudited)
(Amounts in thousands, except per share data)
 
 
 
 
 
 
Roper Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Selected Segment Financial Data (unaudited)
(Amounts in thousands and percents of net sales)
 
 
*  Operating profit is before unallocated corporate general and administrative expenses.  These expenses
were $11,127 and $11,537 for the three months ended June 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively and
$22,635 and $24,311 for the six months ended June 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 
 
 
 
Roper Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (unaudited)
(Amounts in thousands)


