FILE:ROP/ROP-8K-20110131082610.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On January 31, 2011, Roper Industries, Inc. (the Company) issued a press release containing information about the Companys results of operations for the quarter  and year ended December 31, 2010. A copy of the press release is furnished as .
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
In the press release, the Company uses the non-GAAP financial measure EBITDA. EBITDA is defined as net earnings plus (a) interest expense, (b) income taxes and (c) depreciation and amortization. The Company believes EBITDA is an important indicator of operational strength and performance of the Companys business because it provides a link between profitability and operating cash flow. EBITDA as calculated by the Company is not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. In addition, EBITDA: (a) does not represent net income or cash flows from operations as defined by GAAP; (b) is not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund the Companys cash flow needs; and (c) should not be considered as an alternative to net earnings, operating income, cash flows from operating activities or the Companys other financial information determined under GAAP. The Company believes that the line on the Companys consolidated statement of operations entitled net earnings is the most directly comparable GAAP measure to EBITDA.
 
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(a)     .
Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired
 
(b)     .
Pro Forma Financial Information
 
(c)    
Shell Company Transactions.
 
 
(d)     .
Exhibits
 
 
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

 
reported financial results for the fourth quarter and full year ended December 31, 2010.
Sarasota, Florida, January 31, 2011 ... Roper Industries, Inc.  (NYSE: ROP)
Fourth Quarter 2010
Net earnings for the fourth quarter were $107 million, or $1.10 per diluted share.  Sales in the fourth quarter were $679 million, a 23% increase over the same period in 2009.  Operating income was $166 million, representing 24.5% of sales, an increase of 270 basis points over the prior year.  Operating cash flow was $155 million and represented 23% of sales.
EBITDA reached $200 million and EBITDA margin expanded to 29.4% of sales, 280 basis points over the prior year.  Our businesses performed exceptionally well in the fourth quarter, with 15% organic growth, a book-to-bill ratio of 1.02 and record margin performance, said Brian Jellison, Ropers Chairman, President and CEO.
Full Year 2010
Net earnings for 2010 were $323 million, a 35% increase over 2009.  Sales for the year were $2.4 billion, up 16% over the prior year.  Gross margin expanded 250 basis points to 53.4%.  Operating income was $514 million and operating margin increased 230 basis points to 21.6%.  EBITDA grew to $638 million, representing 26.7% of sales.
Roper achieved record performance in 2010 with the highest sales, orders, net earnings, EBITDA and cash flow in our history, said Mr. Jellison.  Our record performance reflects our strategy of growing high margin, asset light businesses with exceptional cash conversion characteristics.  Our focus on working capital management, combined with outstanding execution by our operating people, led to record operating cash flow of $500 million, representing 155% of net earnings.
2011 Outlook and Guidance
Roper expects 2011 full year diluted earnings per share (DEPS) to be between $3.82 and $4.02 with operating cash flow in excess of $550 million.  First quarter DEPS are expected to be between $0.83 and $0.87.  The Companys guidance excludes future acquisitions.
We enter 2011 with a record backlog of $785 million, and improving end markets with businesses well positioned to continue their growth in 2011, Mr. Jellison added.
Table 1:  Sales Growth
Table 2:  EBITDA and EBITDA Margins
Conference Call to be Held at 8:30 AM (ET) Today
A conference call to discuss these results has been scheduled for 8:30 AM ET on Monday, January 31, 2011.  The call can be accessed via webcast or by dialing +1 888-300-2324 (US/Canada) or +1 719-325-2426, using confirmation code 4697732.  Webcast information and conference call materials will be made available in the Investors section of Ropers website () prior to the start of the call.  Telephonic replays will be available for up to two weeks by calling +1 (719) 457-0820 and using the access code 4697732.
www.roperind.com
About Roper Industries
Roper Industries is a market-driven, diversified growth company and is a constituent of the S&P 500, Fortune 1000, and the Russell 1000 indices. Roper provides engineered products and solutions for global niche markets, including water, energy, radio frequency and research/medical applications.  Additional information about Roper Industries is available on the Companys website at .
www.roperind.com
The information provided in this press release contains forward looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. These forward looking statements include, among others, statements regarding operating results, the success of our internal operating plans, and the prospects for newly acquired businesses to be integrated and contribute to future growth and profit expectations.  Forward looking statements may be indicated by words or phrases such as "anticipate," "estimate," "plans," "expects," "projects," "should," "will," "believes" or "intends" and similar words and phrases.  These statements reflect management's current beliefs and are not guarantees of future performance.  They involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward looking statement. Such risks and uncertainties include our ability to integrate our acquisitions and realize expected synergies.  We also face other general risks, including our ability to realize cost savings from our operating initiatives, general economic conditions, unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates, difficulties associated with exports, risks associated with our international operations, difficulties in making and integrating acquisitions, risks associated with newly acquired businesses, increased product liability and insurance costs, increased warranty exposure, future competition, changes in the supply of, or price for, parts and components, environmental compliance costs and liabilities, risks and cost associated with asbestos related litigation and potential write-offs of our substantial intangible assets, and risks associated with obtaining governmental approvals and maintaining regulatory compliance for new and existing products.  Important risks may be discussed in current and subsequent filings with the SEC.  You should not place undue reliance on any forward looking statements.  These statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update publicly any of them in light of new information or future events.
 
 
 
 
Roper Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (unaudited)
(Amounts in thousands)
 
 
 
 
Roper Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings (unaudited)
(Amounts in thousands, except per share data)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Roper Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Selected Segment Financial Data (unaudited)
(Amounts in thousands and percents of net sales)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Roper Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (unaudited)
(Amounts in thousands)


