FILE:ROP/ROP-8K-20111024081958.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On October 24, 2011, Roper Industries, Inc. (the Company) issued a press release containing information about the Companys results of operations for the quarter ended September 30, 2011. A copy of the press release is furnished as .
Exhibit 99.1
 
In the press release, the Company uses the non-GAAP financial measures EBITDA, Free Cash Flow and Cash Conversion. EBITDA is defined as net earnings plus (a) interest expense, (b) income taxes and (c) depreciation and amortization. The Company believes EBITDA is an important indicator of operational strength and performance of the Companys business because it provides a link between profitability and operating cash flow. EBITDA as calculated by the Company is not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. In addition, EBITDA: (a) does not represent net income or cash flows from operations as defined by GAAP; (b) is not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund the Companys cash flow needs; and (c) should not be considered as an alternative to net earnings, operating income, cash flows from operating activities or the Companys other financial information determined under GAAP. The Company believes that the line on the Companys consolidated statement of operations entitled net earnings is the most directly comparable GAAP measure to EBITDA. Free Cash Flow is defined as "Cash Provided by Operating Activities" ("Operating Cash Flow") as stated in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, reduced by capital expenditures.  Cash Conversion is defined as Free Cash Flow divided by net earnings We believe that Free Cash Flow and Cash Conversion are useful to investors as the basis for comparing our performance and coverage ratios with other companies in our industries, although our measure of Free Cash Flow and Cash Conversion may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(a)     .
Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired
 
(b)     .
Pro Forma Financial Information
 
(c)    
Shell Company Transactions.
 
 
(d)     .
Exhibits
 
 
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 9.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
reported record financial results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2011.
Sarasota, Florida, October 24, 2011... Roper Industries, Inc.  (NYSE: ROP)
Net earnings were $110 million, a 31% increase over the third quarter of 2010, and diluted earnings per share were $1.12 versus $0.87 in the prior year.  Sales increased 18% to an all-time record of $713 million.  Orders for the quarter were a record $719 million.  Operating income was $167 million and operating margin expanded 230 basis points to 23.5% of sales.
During the quarter, EBITDA increased to $203 million or 28.6% of sales, and gross margin expanded to 53.7%.  Operating cash flow was $167 million representing 23% of sales.
We are pleased to once again deliver record results in the quarter, said Brian Jellison, Ropers Chairman, President and CEO. Our asset-light business model and continued focus on working capital resulted in free cash flow of $157 million, or 142% of net earnings.We delivered organic sales growth of 13% with strength throughout the enterprise.  This strong growth combined with outstanding operating performance drove substantial margin expansion in the quarter. We continue to see favorable trends in our businesses and we enter the fourth quarter with a record $876 million in backlog as bookings exceeded revenue for the 9 consecutive quarter.
th
2011 Outlook and Guidance
As a result of the Companys third quarter performance and outlook for the year, the Company is increasing its full year diluted earnings per share guidance to $4.29- $4.33 and establishing fourth quarter guidance of $1.18 - $1.22.  The Companys guidance excludes any future acquisitions.
Table 1:  Sales Growth
 
Table 2: EBITDA [millions]
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3:  Free Cash Flow and Cash Conversion [millions]
 
Conference Call to be Held at 8:30 AM (ET) Today
A conference call to discuss these results has been scheduled for 8:30 AM ET on Monday, October 24, 2011.  The call can be accessed via webcast or by dialing +1 888-259-8389 (US/Canada) or +1 913-312-1448, using confirmation code .  Webcast information and conference call materials will be made available in the Investors section of Ropers website () prior to the start of the call. Telephonic replays will be available for up to two weeks by calling +1 719-457-0820 and using the access code .
4786378
www.roperind.com
4786378
 
About Roper Industries
Roper Industries is a diversified growth company and is a constituent of the S&P 500, Fortune 1000, and the Russell 1000 indices. Roper provides engineered products and solutions for global niche markets, including water, energy, transportation, medical, education, and SaaS-based information networks. Additional information about Roper is available on the Companys website at .
www.roperind.com
The information provided in this press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. These forward looking statements include, among others, statements regarding operating results, the success of our internal operating plans, and the prospects for newly acquired businesses to be integrated and contribute to future growth and profit expectations.  Forward looking statements may be indicated by words or phrases such as "anticipate," "estimate," "plans," "expects," "projects," "should," "will," "believes" or "intends" and similar words and phrases.  These statements reflect management's current beliefs and are not guarantees of future performance.  They involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. Such risks and uncertainties include our ability to integrate our acquisitions and realize expected synergies.  We also face other general risks, including our ability to realize cost savings from our operating initiatives, general economic conditions, unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates, difficulties associated with exports, risks associated with our international operations, difficulties in making and integrating acquisitions, risks associated with newly acquired businesses, increased product liability and insurance costs, increased warranty exposure, future competition, changes in the supply of, or price for, parts and components, environmental compliance costs and liabilities, risks and cost associated with asbestos related litigation and potential write-offs of our substantial intangible assets, and risks associated with obtaining governmental approvals and maintaining regulatory compliance for new and existing products.  Important risks may be discussed in current and subsequent filings with the SEC.  You should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements.  These statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update publicly any of them in light of new information or future events.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


