FILE:ROP/ROP-8K-20110725075253.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On July 25, 2011, Roper Industries, Inc. (the Company) issued a press release containing information about the Companys results of operations for the quarter ended June 30, 2011. A copy of the press release is furnished as .
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
In the press release, the Company uses the non-GAAP financial measures EBITDA and Free Cash Flow. EBITDA is defined as net earnings plus (a) interest expense, (b) income taxes and (c) depreciation and amortization. The Company believes EBITDA is an important indicator of operational strength and performance of the Companys business because it provides a link between profitability and operating cash flow. EBITDA as calculated by the Company is not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. In addition, EBITDA: (a) does not represent net income or cash flows from operations as defined by GAAP; (b) is not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund the Companys cash flow needs; and (c) should not be considered as an alternative to net earnings, operating income, cash flows from operating activities or the Companys other financial information determined under GAAP. The Company believes that the line on the Companys consolidated statement of operations entitled net earnings is the most directly comparable GAAP measure to EBITDA. Free Cash Flow is defined as "Cash Provided by Operating Activities" ("Operating Cash Flow") as stated in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, reduced by capital expenditures. We believe that Free Cash Flow is useful to investors as the basis for comparing our performance and coverage ratios with other companies in our industries, although our measure of Free Cash Flow may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(a)     .
Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired
 
(b)     .
Pro Forma Financial Information
 
(c)    
Shell Company Transactions.
 
 
(d)     .
Exhibits
 
 
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
reported record financial results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2011.
Sarasota, Florida, July 25, 2011 ... Roper Industries, Inc.  (NYSE: ROP)
Net earnings were $106 million and diluted earnings per share were $1.08.  Excluding a foreign currency remeasurement gain on intercompany debt that appears in other income, diluted earnings per share were $1.03 and net earnings were $102 million, a 43% increase over the second quarter of 2010.  Sales increased 23% to an all-time record of $700 million.  Orders for the quarter were a record $708 million.  Gross margin expanded to 53.9% and operating income was $164 million, representing 23.4% of sales.
Operating cash flow was $156 million, an increase of 41% from the prior year.  Free cash flow was $145 million, representing 21% of sales.  During the quarter, EBITDA increased by $54 million to $199 million and EBITDA margin expanded 280 basis points to 28.5% of sales.
We are pleased to deliver another record quarter, with double-digit sales and orders growth in all four segments, said Brian Jellison, Ropers Chairman, President and CEO.  Operating leverage from the 16% organic sales growth combined with nimble execution throughout our businesses led to widespread margin expansion and record cash flow.  Our book-to-bill ratio exceeded 1.0 for the eighth straight quarter and we enter the second half with a record backlog of $872 million.
During the quarter, Roper invested C$200 million to acquire Northern Digital, Inc., a leading provider of optical and electromagnetic measurement systems for medical and industrial applications.  Mr. Jellison added, Northern Digital is an excellent addition to our medical platform with technology and applications to improve patient outcomes while increasing productivity for doctors and hospitals.  We have invested $725 million in acquisitions over the past twelve months and continue to have an exciting pipeline of opportunities."
2011 Outlook and Guidance
As a result of its strong first half performance and outlook for the year, Roper is increasing its operating cash flow guidance for the year to exceed $575 million and is increasing its full year guidance for diluted earnings per share to $4.20 - $4.30 from $3.97 - $4.12.
The Companys guidance includes the foreign currency remeasurement gain of $0.05 reported in the second quarter, and excludes any future acquisitions.
 
Table 1:  Sales Growth
Table 2:  Net Earnings [millions, except per share data]
 
 
 
 
Table 3:  EBITDA [millions]
Table 4:  Free Cash Flow [millions]
 
Conference Call to be Held at 8:30 AM (ET) Today
A conference call to discuss these results has been scheduled for 8:30 AM ET on Monday, July 25, 2011.  The call can be accessed via webcast or by dialing +1 888-811-5445 (US/Canada) or +1 913-312-0407, using confirmation code 2494055.  Webcast information and conference call materials will be made available in the Investors section of Ropers website () prior to the start of the call.  Telephonic replays will be available for up to two weeks by calling +1 (719) 457-0820 and using the access code 2494055.
www.roperind.com
About Roper Industries
Roper Industries is a diversified growth company and is a constituent of the S&P 500, Fortune 1000, and the Russell 1000 indices. Roper provides engineered products and solutions for global niche markets, including water, energy, transportation, medical, education, and SaaS-based information networks. Additional information about Roper is available on the Companys website at .
www.roperind.com
The information provided in this press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. These forward looking statements include, among others, statements regarding operating results, the success of our internal operating plans, and the prospects for newly acquired businesses to be integrated and contribute to future growth and profit expectations.  Forward looking statements may be indicated by words or phrases such as "anticipate," "estimate," "plans," "expects," "projects," "should," "will," "believes" or "intends" and similar words and phrases.  These statements reflect management's current beliefs and are not guarantees of future performance.  They involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. Such risks and uncertainties include our ability to integrate our acquisitions and realize expected synergies.  We also face other general risks, including our ability to realize cost savings from our operating initiatives, general economic conditions, unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates, difficulties associated with exports, risks associated with our international operations, difficulties in making and integrating acquisitions, risks associated with newly acquired businesses, increased product liability and insurance costs, increased warranty exposure, future competition, changes in the supply of, or price for, parts and components, environmental compliance costs and liabilities, risks and cost associated with asbestos related litigation and potential write-offs of our substantial intangible assets, and risks associated with obtaining governmental approvals and maintaining regulatory compliance for new and existing products.  Important risks may be discussed in current and subsequent filings with the SEC.  You should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements.  These statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update publicly any of them in light of new information or future events.
 
 
 
 
 
Roper Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (unaudited)
(Amounts in thousands)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Roper Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings (unaudited)
(Amounts in thousands, except per share data)
 
 
 
 
 
Roper Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Selected Segment Financial Data (unaudited)
(Amounts in thousands and percents of net sales)
 
 
  *  Operating profit is before unallocated corporate general and administrative expenses.  These expenses
       were $13,726 and $11,127 for the three months ended June 30, 2011 and 2010, respectively and
       $26,946 and $22,635 for the six months ended June 30, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Roper Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (unaudited)
(Amounts in thousands)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


