FILE:ROP/ROP-8K-20120423082515.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On April 23, 2012, Roper Industries, Inc. (the Company) issued a press release containing information about the Companys results of operations for the quarter ended March 31, 2012. A copy of the press release is furnished as .
Exhibit 99.1
 
In the press release, the Company uses the non-GAAP financial measures EBITDA and Free Cash Flow.  EBITDA as shown in the press release is defined as net earnings plus (a) interest expense, (b) income taxes and (c) depreciation and amortization. The Company believes EBITDA is an important indicator of operational performance of the Companys business because it provides a link between profitability and operating cash flow. EBITDA as calculated by the Company is not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. In addition, EBITDA: (a) does not represent net income or cash flows from operations as defined by GAAP; (b) is not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund the Companys cash flow needs; and (c) should not be considered as an alternative to net earnings, operating income, cash flows from operating activities or the Companys other financial information determined under GAAP. The Company believes that the line on the Companys consolidated statement of operations entitled net earnings is the most directly comparable GAAP measure to EBITDA. Free Cash Flow is defined as "Cash Provided by Operating Activities" ("Operating Cash Flow") as stated in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, reduced by capital expenditures. We believe that Free Cash Flow is useful to investors as a basis for comparing our performance with other companies.  Our measure of Free Cash Flow may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(a)     .
Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired
 
(b)     .
Pro Forma Financial Information
 
(c)    
Shell Company Transactions.
 
 
(d)     .
Exhibits
 
 
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
reported financial results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2012.
Sarasota, Florida, April 23, 2012 ... Roper Industries, Inc. (NYSE: ROP)
Net earnings for the first quarter were $108 million, a 22% increase over the first quarter of 2011.  Diluted earnings per share were $1.09 compared to $0.91 in the comparable prior year period.  Revenue increased 10% to $711 million. Orders were $729 million and represented a book-to-bill ratio of 1.03.  Operating income increased 20% to $170 million and operating margin was 24.0%, a 200 basis point increase over the prior year.
Operating cash flow increased 63% to $141 million, representing 20% of revenue.  EBITDA reached $205 million and EBITDA margin was 28.9%.  The revenue, orders, net earnings, EBITDA and cash flow performance were all records for any first quarter in Ropers history.
Our businesses performed exceptionally well in the quarter, as strong operating leverage led to double-digit operating profit growth in all four segments, said Brian Jellison, Ropers Chairman, President and CEO.  Our asset-light business model and outstanding execution across the businesses resulted in exceptional free cash flow of $131 million, up 69% from the prior year.  Gross margin reached 55.0%, reflecting growth in our medical and software platforms and our enterprise-wide focus on technology and application engineering expertise.
We are off to a strong start in 2012 with 8% organic revenue growth in the first quarter, Mr. Jellison continued.  Our balance sheet and financial capacity are in the best shape in our history, and we are excited about the prospects for the remainder of the year.
2012 Outlook and Guidance
As a result of the strong first quarter and improved visibility into the second half of the year, Roper is increasing its full year diluted earnings per share guidance to $4.75 - $4.91 from $4.67 - $4.87.  The Companys guidance excludes future acquisitions.
 
Table 1:  Revenue Growth
 
Table 2:  EBITDA and EBITDA Margin
 
Table 3:  Free Cash Flow
Conference Call to be Held at 8:30 AM (ET) Today
A conference call to discuss these results has been scheduled for 8:30 AM ET on Monday, April 23, 2012.  The call can be accessed via webcast or by dialing +888-263-2834 (US/Canada) or +1 913-312-0953, using confirmation code .  Webcast information and conference call materials will be made available in the Investors section of Ropers website () prior to the start of the call.  Telephonic replays will be available for up to two weeks by calling +1 719-457-0820 and using the access code .
7242338
www.roperind.com
7242338
About Roper Industries
Roper Industries is a diversified growth company and is a constituent of the S&P 500, Fortune 1000, and the Russell 1000 indices. Roper provides engineered products and solutions for global niche markets, including water, energy, transportation, medical, education, and SaaS-based information networks. Additional information about Roper is available on the Companys website at .
www.roperind.com
The information provided in this press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. These forward looking statements include, among others, statements regarding operating results, the success of our internal operating plans, and the prospects for newly acquired businesses to be integrated and contribute to future growth and profit expectations.  Forward looking statements may be indicated by words or phrases such as "anticipate," "estimate," "plans," "expects," "projects," "should," "will," "believes" or "intends" and similar words and phrases.  These statements reflect management's current beliefs and are not guarantees of future performance.  They involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. Such risks and uncertainties include our ability to integrate our acquisitions and realize expected synergies.  We also face other general risks, including our ability to realize cost savings from our operating initiatives, general economic conditions, unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates, difficulties associated with exports, risks associated with our international operations, difficulties in making and integrating acquisitions, risks associated with newly acquired businesses, increased product liability and insurance costs, increased warranty exposure, future competition, changes in the supply of, or price for, parts and components, environmental compliance costs and liabilities, risks and cost associated with asbestos related litigation and potential write-offs of our substantial intangible assets, and risks associated with obtaining governmental approvals and maintaining regulatory compliance for new and existing products.  Important risks may be discussed in current and subsequent filings with the SEC.  You should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements.  These statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update publicly any of them in light of new information or future events.
 
 
 
 
Roper Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (unaudited)
(Amounts in thousands)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Roper Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings (unaudited)
(Amounts in thousands, except per share data)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Roper Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Selected Segment Financial Data (unaudited)
(Amounts in thousands and percents of net sales)
 
 
*  Operating profit is before unallocated corporate general and administrative expenses.  These expenses were $16,575 and $13,220 for the three months ended March 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Roper Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (unaudited)
(Amounts in thousands)
 
 


