FILE:ROP/ROP-8K-20120824090446.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.01  Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
 
On August 22, 2012, Roper Industries, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ), completed the acquisition of Sunquest Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation (), pursuant to a Stock Purchase Agreement (the ) by and among the Company, Sunquest, Sunquest Sponsor Holdings, LLC, affiliated funds of Vista Equity Partners and individual holders of Sunquest common shares.
Company
Sunquest
Stock Purchase Agreement
 
The aggregate purchase price paid by the Company was $1.415 billion in cash, subject to adjustment reflecting that the acquisition of Sunquest was on a debt-free, cash-free basis with Sunquests transaction expenses borne by the Sellers.  The aggregate purchase price paid was also subject to adjustment to reflect the difference between estimated working capital at closing and a target working capital range.
 
A summary of the material terms of the Stock Purchase Agreement is included in the Company's Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 2, 2012.
 
A copy of the press release issued by the Company on August 23, 2012 relating to the completion of the acquisition is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(a)     .
Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired
 
(b)     .
Pro Forma Financial Information
 
(c)    
Shell Company Transactions.
 
 
(d)     .
Exhibits
 
 
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
today announced that it hascompleted its previously announced acquisition of Sunquest Information Systems for approximately $1.415 billion, including $25 million in cash tax benefits.  The company funded the acquisition from available cash and borrowings under its credit facility.  Sunquest provides a comprehensive suite of laboratory software solutions used by more than 1,700 hospitals worldwide.
Sarasota, Florida, August 23, 2012 ... Roper Industries, Inc. (NYSE: ROP)
 
About Roper Industries
Roper Industries is a diversified growth company and is a constituent of the S&P 500, Fortune 1000, and the Russell 1000 indices. Roper provides engineered products and solutions for global niche markets, including water, energy, transportation, medical, education, and SaaS-based information networks. Additional information about Roper is available on the companys website at .
www.roperind.com
About Sunquest Information Systems
Sunquest Information Systems, Inc. provides diagnostic and laboratory information systems to health care providers worldwide. For over thirty years, Sunquest has delivered interoperable solutions that optimize business resources and improve the quality of patient care. The company's pathology focused mission, outreach awareness and point of care products establish Sunquest as a leader in the health care technology industry. Headquartered in Tucson, AZ, Sunquest also has offices in Norwich, United Kingdom and Bangalore, India.


