Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis On Aug. 18, 2000, New Century Energies, Inc. (NCE) and Northern States Power Co. (NSP) merged and formed Xcel Energy Inc. (Xcel Energy). Xcel Energy, a Minnesota corporation, is a registered holding company under the Public Utility Holding Company Act (PUHCA). As part of the merger, NSP transferred its existing utility operations that were being conducted directly by NSP at the parent company level to a newly formed subsidiary of Xcel Energy named Northern States Power Co. Each share of NCE common stock was exchanged for 1.55 shares of Xcel Energy common stock. NSP shares became Xcel Energy shares on a one for one basis. As a stock for stock exchange for shareholders of both companies, the merger was accounted for as a pooling of interests and accordingly, amounts reported for periods prior to the merger have been restated for comparability with post merger results. Xcel Energy directly owns six utility subsidiaries that serve electric and natural gas customers in 12 states. These six utility subsidiaries are Northern States Power Co., a Minnesota corporation (NSP Minnesota); Northern States Power Co., a Wisconsin corporation (NSP Wisconsin); Public Service Company of Colorado (PSCo); Southwestern Public Service Co. (SPS); Black Mountain Gas Co. (BMG); and Cheyenne Light, Fuel and Power Co. (Cheyenne). Their service territories include portions of Arizona, Colorado, Kansas, Michigan, Minnesota, New Mexico, North Dakota, Oklahoma, South Dakota, Texas, Wisconsin and Wyoming. Xcel Energys regulated businesses also include Viking Gas Transmission Co. (Viking) and WestGas InterState Inc. (WGI), both interstate natural gas pipeline companies. Xcel Energy also owns or has an interest in a number of nonregulated businesses, the largest of which is NRG Energy, Inc., a publicly traded independent power producer. At Dec. 31, 2001, Xcel Energy indirectly owned approximately 74 percent of NRG. Xcel Energys ownership of NRG was 100 percent until the second quarter of 2000, when NRG completed its initial public offering, and then 82 percent until a secondary offering was completed in March 2001. See Note 19 to the Financial Statements for discussion of potential changes in NRG ownership. In addition to NRG, Xcel Energys nonregulated subsidiaries include Utility Engineering (engineering, construction and design), Seren Innovations, Inc. (broadband telecommunications services), e prime inc. (natural gas marketing and trading), Planergy International, Inc. (enterprise energy management solutions), Eloigne Co. (investments in rental housing projects that qualify for low income housing tax credits) and Xcel Energy International (an international independent power producer). XCEL ENERGYS MISSION AND GUIDING PRINCIPLES Xcel Energys mission is to provide energy and service solutions that advance the productivity and lifestyle of our customers, foster the growth of our employees and enhance value for our shareholders. Xcel Energys guiding principles include: focusing on the customer, respecting people, managing with facts, continually improving our business, focusing on the prevention of problems and promoting a safe and challenging work environment. 42 Table of Contents Xcel Energys 2002 Game Plan consists of the following elements: Grow the energy supply business; Coordinate all energy marketing capabilities; Focus retail strategy to support energy supply assets; Execute operating and regulatory strategies to unlock and retain the value of regulated businesses; Exit non strategic investments; and Deliver what we promise to stakeholders. FINANCIAL REVIEW The following discussion and analysis by management focuses on those factors that had a material effect on Xcel Energys financial condition, results of operations and cash flows during the periods presented, or are expected to have a material impact in the future. It should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Financial Statements and Notes. Except for the historical statements contained in this report, the matters discussed in the following discussion and analysis are forward looking statements that are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Such forward looking statements are intended to be identified in this document by the words anticipate, estimate, expect, objective, outlook, project, possible, potential and similar expressions. Actual results may vary materially. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include, but are not limited to: general economic conditions, including their impact on capital expenditures and the ability of Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries to obtain financing on favorable terms; business conditions in the energy industry; competitive factors, including the extent and timing of the entry of additional competition in the markets served by Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries; unusual weather; state, federal and foreign legislative and regulatory initiatives that affect cost and investment recovery or have an impact on rates; structures that affect the speed and degree to which competition enters the electric and gas markets; the higher risk associated with Xcel Energys nonregulated businesses compared with its regulated businesses; currency translation and transaction adjustments; risks associated with the California power market; the items described under Factors Affecting Results of Operations; and the other risk factors listed from time to time by Xcel Energy in reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including Exhibit 99.01 to Xcel Energys Quarterly Report on Form 10 Q for the quarter ended Sept. 30, 2001. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Xcel Energys earnings per share for the past three years were as follows: Contribution to earnings per share 2001 2000 1999 Total regulated earnings before extraordinary items $ 1.87 $ 1.26 $ 1.51 Total nonregulated/holding company 0.40 0.34 0.19 Extraordinary items (see Note 12) 0.03 (0.06 ) Total earnings per share (diluted) $ 2.30 $ 1.54 $ 1.70 For more information on significant factors that had an impact on earnings, see below. Significant Factors that Impacted 2001 Results Conservation Incentive Recovery Earnings were increased by 7 cents per share due to the reversal of a Minnesota Public Utilities Commission (MPUC) decision. 43 Table of Contents In June 1999, the MPUC denied NSP Minnesota recovery of 1998 incentives associated with state mandated programs for electric energy conservation. Xcel Energy recorded a $35 million charge in 1999, which reduced earnings by 7 cents per share, based on this action. NSP Minnesota appealed the MPUC decision and in December 2000, the Minnesota Court of Appeals reversed the MPUC decision. In January 2001, the MPUC appealed the lower court decision to the Minnesota Supreme Court. On Feb. 23, 2001, the Minnesota Supreme Court declined to hear the MPUCs appeal. During the second quarter of 2001, NSP Minnesota filed with the MPUC a plan that carried out, among other things, the courts decision. On June 28, 2001, the MPUC approved the plan and issued an order to that effect shortly thereafter. As a result, the previously recorded liabilities of approximately $41 million (including carrying charges) for potential refunds to customers were no longer required. The plan approved by the MPUC increased revenue by approximately $34 million and increased allowance for funds used during construction by approximately $7 million, increasing earnings by 7 cents per share for the second quarter of 2001. Based on the new MPUC policy and less uncertainty regarding conservation incentives to be approved, conservation incentives for 2001 are now being recorded on a current basis. Special Charges Postemployment Benefits Earnings were decreased by 4 cents per share due to a Colorado Supreme Court decision that resulted in a pretax write off of $23 million of a regulatory asset related to deferred postemployment benefit costs at PSCo. For more information, see Note 2 to the Financial Statements. Special Charges Restaffing Costs During 2001, Xcel Energy expensed pretax special charges of $39 million, or 7 cents per share, for planned staff consolidation costs. The charges related to severance costs for utility operations resulting from restaffing plans of several operating and corporate support areas of Xcel Energy. We accrued for 500 staff terminations that are expected to occur, mainly in the first quarter of 2002, across all regions of Xcel Energys service territory, but primarily in Minneapolis and Denver. For more information, see Note 2 to the Financial Statements. Extraordinary Items Electric Utility Restructuring During early 2001, legislation in both Texas and New Mexico was passed that delayed the planned implementation of restructuring within SPS service territory for at least five years. Accordingly, in the second quarter of 2001, SPS reapplied the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 71 Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation for its generation business. Based on subsequent financing and regulatory activities clarifying the expected ratemaking impacts of restructuring delays in the fourth quarter of 2001, SPS restored certain regulatory assets totaling $17.6 million as of Dec. 31, 2001, and reported related after tax extraordinary income of $11.8 million, or 3 cents per share. This represents a reversal of a portion of the 2000 write offs discussed later. Regulatory assets previously written off were restored only for items currently being recovered in rates and items where future rate recovery is considered probable. For more information, see Note 12 to the Financial Statements. Significant Factors that Impacted 2000 Results Special Charges Merger Costs During 2000, Xcel Energy expensed pretax special charges of $241 million, or 52 cents per share, for costs related to the merger between NSP and NCE. Of these special charges, approximately 44 cents per share were associated with the costs of merging regulated operations and 8 cents per share were associated with merger impacts on nonregulated activities. See Note 2 to the Financial Statements for more information on these charges. Extraordinary Items Electric Utility Restructuring Xcel Energys earnings for 2000 were reduced by 6 cents per share for two extraordinary items related to the expected discontinuation of regulatory accounting for SPS generation business. Based on expectations at that time for SPS restructuring, during the second quarter of 2000, SPS wrote off its generation related regulatory assets and other deferred costs for an extraordinary charge of approximately $19.3 million before tax, or $13.7 million after tax. During the third quarter of 2000, SPS recorded an additional extraordinary charge of $8.2 million before tax, or $5.3 million 44 Table of Contents after tax, related to the tender offer and defeasance of approximately $295 million of first mortgage bonds, again based on expected restructuring. For more information, see Note 12 to the Financial Statements. Significant Factors that Impacted 1999 Results Conservation Incentive Recovery Earnings for 1999 were reduced by 7 cents per share due to the disallowance of 1998 conservation incentives for NSP Minnesota. In June 1999, the MPUC denied NSP Minnesota recovery of 1998 lost margins, load management discounts and incentives associated with state mandated programs for electric energy conservation. Xcel Energy recorded a $35 million reduction to pretax income in 1999 based on this action, primarily as a reduction of electric utility revenue. As discussed previously under Significant Factors that Impacted 2001 Results, this decision and the related charge were ultimately reversed. In addition, based on the 1999 change in the MPUC policy on conservation incentives and regulatory uncertainty, in 1999 and 2000 management did not record conservation incentives until they were approved by the MPUC the following year. Special Charges During 1999, Xcel Energy expensed pretax special charges of $31 million, or 7 cents per share, stemming from asset impairments related to goodwill and marketable securities associated with nonregulated activities. See Note 2 to the Financial Statements for more information on these charges. Nonregulated Subsidiaries and Holding Company Contribution to Xcel Energys earnings per share 2001 2000 1999 NRG* $ 0.58 $ 0.46 $ 0.17 Yorkshire Power 0.01 0.13 0.13 Seren Innovations (0.08 ) (0.07 ) (0.03 ) Planergy International (0.04 ) (0.08 ) (0.06 ) e prime 0.02 (0.02 ) (0.01 ) Financing costs and preferred dividends (0.11 ) (0.07 ) (0.03 ) Other nonregulated 0.02 (0.01 ) 0.02 Total nonregulated/holding co. earnings per share $ 0.40 $ 0.34 $ 0.19 * NRGs earnings for 2001 and 2000 in this report exclude earnings of 19 cents per share and 8 cents per share, respectively, related to minority shareholder interests. NRG NRGs earnings for 2001 increased primarily due to new acquisitions in Europe and North America, as well as a full year of operation in 2001 of acquisitions made in the fourth quarter of 2000. In addition, NRGs earnings reflected a reduction in the overall effective tax rate and mark to market gains related to SFAS No. 133 Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activity. The overall reduction in tax rates was primarily due to higher energy credits, the implementation of state tax planning strategies and a higher percentage of NRGs overall earnings derived from foreign projects in lower tax jurisdictions. NRGs earnings for 2000 reflected increased electric revenues resulting from acquired generation assets. During 2000, NRG increased its megawatt ownership interest in generating facilities in operation by more than 4,000 megawatts. NRGs earnings for 2000 also were influenced by favorable weather conditions that increased demand for electricity in the northeast and western United States, market dynamics, strong performance from existing assets and higher market prices for electricity. Yorkshire Power During February 2001, Xcel Energy reached an agreement to sell the majority of its investment in Yorkshire Power to Innogy Holdings plc. As a result of this sales agreement, Xcel Energy did 45 Table of Contents not record any equity earnings from Yorkshire Power after January 2001. For more information, see Note 11 to the Financial Statements. Seren Innovations Construction of its broadband communications network in Minnesota and California resulted in losses for 2001, 2000 and 1999. Seren is constructing a combination cable television, telephone and high speed Internet access system in two locations: St. Cloud, Minn., and Contra Costa county in the East Bay area of northern California. For more information see Note 15 to the Financial Statements. Planergy International Competitive markets and delays in government contracts have resulted in continued low margins and losses for Planergys energy management business in 2001. Planergys results for 2000 were reduced by special charges of 4 cents per share for the write offs of goodwill and project development costs. As a part of the Xcel Energy merger in 2000, Planergy and Energy Masters International (EMI), both wholly owned subsidiaries of Xcel Energy, were combined to form Planergy International. As a result of this combination, Planergy reassessed its business model and made a strategic realignment, which resulted in the write off of $22 million (before tax) of goodwill and project development costs. In addition, Planergys results for 1999 were reduced by a special charge of 4 cents per share to write off approximately $17 million (before tax) of goodwill. e prime e primes results for the year ended Dec. 31, 2001, reflect the favorable structure of its contractual portfolio, including gas storage and transportation positions, structured products and proprietary trading in natural gas markets. e primes results for 2000 were reduced by special charges of 2 cents per share for contractual obligations and other costs associated with post merger changes in the strategic operations and related revaluations of e primes energy marketing business. Financing Costs and Preferred Dividends Nonregulated results include interest expense and preferred dividends, which are incurred at the Xcel Energy and intermediate holding company levels and are not directly assigned to individual subsidiaries. Other Other nonregulated results for 2000, which include the activity of several nonregulated subsidiaries, were reduced by special charges of 2 cents per share recorded during the third quarter. These special charges include $10 million in asset write downs and losses resulting from various other nonregulated business ventures that are no longer being pursued after the merger. In addition, other nonregulated results for 1999 were reduced by special charges of 3 cents per share for a valuation write down of Xcel Energys investment in the publicly traded common stock of CellNet Data Systems, Inc. Income Statement Analysis Electric Utility and Commodity Trading Margins Electric fuel and purchased power expense tend to vary with changing retail and wholesale sales requirements and unit cost changes in fuel and purchased power. Due to fuel cost recovery mechanisms for retail customers in several states, most fluctuations in energy costs do not materially affect electric utility margin. However, certain fuel cost recovery mechanisms in various jurisdictions do not allow for complete recovery of all variable production expenses. Therefore, higher costs can result in adverse margin and earnings impacts. Electric utility margins reflect the impact of sharing energy costs and savings relative to a target cost per delivered kilowatt hour and certain trading margins under the incentive cost adjustment (ICA) ratemaking mechanism in Colorado. Xcel Energys commodity trading operations are conducted mainly by PSCo (electric) and e prime (gas). Electric trading activity, initially recorded at PSCo, is partially redistributed to NSP Minnesota and SPS pursuant to a Joint Operating Agreement approved by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). Trading revenue and costs do not include the revenue and production costs associated with energy produced from Xcel Energys generation assets or energy and capacity purchased to serve native load. Trading 46 Table of Contents revenue and costs associated with NRGs operations are included in nonregulated margins. Margins from these generating assets for utility operations are included in short term wholesale amounts, discussed later. Trading margins reflect the impact of sharing certain trading margins under the ICA. The following table details electric utility, short term wholesale and electric and gas trading revenue and margin. Electric Gas Electric Short Term Commodity Commodity Intercompany Consolidated Utility Wholesale Trading Trading Eliminations Totals (Millions of dollars) 2001 Electric utility revenue $ 5,607 $ 788 $ $ $ $ 6,395 Electric and gas trading revenue 1,337 1,938 (88 ) 3,187 Electric fuel and purchased power utility (2,559 ) (613 ) (3,172 ) Electric and gas trading costs (1,268 ) (1,918 ) 88 (3,098 ) Gross margin before operating expenses $ 3,048 $ 175 $ 69 $ 20 $ $ 3,312 Margin as a percentage of revenue 54.4 % 22.2 % 5.2% 1.0 % 34.6% 2000 Electric utility revenue $ 5,107 $ 567 $ $ $ $ 5,674 Electric and gas trading revenue 819 1,297 (54 ) 2,062 Electric fuel and purchased power utility (2,106 ) (475 ) (2,581 ) Electric and gas trading costs (788 ) (1,287 ) 54 (2,021 ) Gross margin before operating expenses $ 3,001 $ 92 $ 31 $ 10 $ $ 3,134 Margin as a percentage of revenue 58.8 % 16.2 % 3.8% 0.8 % 40.5% 1999 Electric utility revenue $ 4,242 $ 680 $ $ $ $ 4,922 Electric and gas trading revenue 534 419 (2 ) 951 Electric fuel and purchased power utility (1,329 ) (638 ) (1,967 ) Electric and gas trading costs (532 ) (417 ) 2 (947 ) Gross margin before operating expenses $ 2,913 $ 42 $ 2 $ 2 $ $ 2,959 Margin as a percentage of revenue 68.7 % 6.2 % 0.4% 0.5 % 50.4% 2001 Comparison to 2000 Electric utility revenue increased by approximately $500 million, or 9.8 percent, in 2001. Electric utility margin increased by approximately $47 million, or 1.6 percent, in 2001. These revenue and margin increases were due to sales growth, weather conditions in 2001 and the recovery of conservation incentives in Minnesota. Increased conservation incentives, including the resolution of the 1998 dispute (as discussed previously) and accrued 2001 incentives, increased revenue and margin by $49 million. Temperatures during 2001 increased revenue by approximately $23 million and margin by approximately $13 million. These increases were partially offset by increases in fuel and purchased power costs, which are not completely recoverable from customers in Colorado due to various cost sharing mechanisms. Revenue and margin also were reduced in 2001 by approximately $30 million due to rate reductions in various jurisdictions agreed to as part of the merger approval process, in comparison to approximately $10 million in 2000. 47 Table of Contents Short term wholesale revenue increased by approximately $221 million, or 39.0 percent, in 2001. Short term wholesale margin increased $83 million, or 90.2 percent, in 2001. These increases are due to the expansion of Xcel Energys wholesale marketing operations and favorable market conditions for the first six months of 2001, including strong prices in the Western markets, particularly before the establishment of price caps and other market changes. Electric and gas commodity trading margins, including proprietary (i.e. non asset based) electric trading and natural gas trading, increased approximately $48 million for the year ended Dec. 31, 2001, compared with the same period in 2000. The increase reflects an expansion of Xcel Energys trading operations and favorable market conditions, including strong prices in the Western markets, particularly before the establishment of pricing caps and other market changes. Short term wholesale margins and electric commodity trading margins for 2002 are not expected to be as strong as margins in 2001 due to declines in energy prices. Margins for the second half of 2001 are more indicative of expected trends in 2002. During 2001, in some Western markets, publicly available power prices ranged from $80 to more than $350 per megawatt hour on a monthly average. Currently, publicly available forward price information for 2002 for these same areas ranges from $60 to $110 per megawatt hour on a monthly average. 2000 Comparison to 1999 Electric utility revenue increased by approximately $865 million, or 20.4 percent, in 2000. Electric utility margin increased by approximately $88 million, or 3.0 percent, in 2000. Electric margins reflect the impact of customer sharing due to the ICA mechanism. Weather normalized retail sales increased by 3.6 percent in 2000, increasing retail revenue by approximately $153 million and retail margin by approximately $88 million. More favorable temperatures during 2000 increased retail revenue by approximately $36 million and retail margin by approximately $22 million. These retail margin increases were partially offset by regulatory adjustments relating to the earnings test in Texas and system reliability and availability in Colorado, and to rate reductions agreed to as part of the merger approval process. Short term wholesale margin increased due to the expansion of Xcel Energys wholesale marketing operations and favorable market conditions. Electric and gas commodity trading revenue increased by a total of approximately $1.2 billion, and the combined trading margin increased by approximately $37 million in 2000. The increase in trading revenue and margin is a result of the expansion of electric and natural gas trading. Gas Utility Margins The following table details the changes in gas utility revenue and margin. The cost of gas tends to vary with changing sales requirements and the unit cost of gas purchases. However, due to purchased gas cost recovery mechanisms for retail customers, fluctuations in the cost of gas have little effect on natural gas margin. 2001 2000 1999 (Millions of dollars) Gas revenue $ 2,053 $ 1,469 $ 1,141 Cost of gas purchased and transported (1,518 ) (948 ) (683 ) Gas margin $ 535 $ 521 $ 458 2001 Comparison to 2000 Gas revenue increased by approximately $584 million, or 39.8 percent, for 2001, primarily due to increases in the cost of natural gas, which are largely passed on to customers and recovered through various rate adjustment clauses in most of the jurisdictions in which Xcel Energy operates. Gas margin increased by approximately $14 million, or 2.7 percent, for 2001 due to sales growth and a rate increase in Colorado. These gas revenue and margin increases were partially offset by the impact of warmer temperatures in 2001, which decreased gas revenue by approximately $38 million and gas margin by approximately $16 million. 2000 Comparison to 1999 Gas revenue increased by approximately $328 million, or 28.7 percent, in 2000, primarily due to increases in the cost of natural gas, which are largely recovered through various 48 Table of Contents adjustment clauses in most of the jurisdictions in which Xcel Energy operates. Gas margin increased by approximately $63 million, or 13.8 percent, in 2000. Temperatures during 2000 compared with 1999 increased gas revenue by $82 million and gas margins by $33 million. Customer growth also contributed to margin increases in 2000. Nonregulated Operating Margins The following table details the changes in nonregulated revenue and margin. 2001 2000 1999 (Millions of dollars) Nonregulated and other revenue $ 3,177 $ 2,204 $ 711 Earnings from equity investments 217 183 112 Nonregulated cost of goods sold (1,657 ) (1,007 ) (310 ) Nonregulated margin $ 1,737 $ 1,380 $ 513 2001 Comparison to 2000 Nonregulated revenue and margin increased for 2001, largely due to NRGs acquisition of generating facilities, increased demand for electricity, market dynamics, strong performance from existing assets and higher market prices for electricity. Earnings from equity investments for 2001 increased compared with 2000, primarily due to increased equity earnings from NRG projects, which offset lower equity earnings from Yorkshire Power. As a result of a sales agreement to sell the majority of its investment in Yorkshire Power, Xcel Energy did not record any equity earnings from Yorkshire Power after January 2001. 2000 Comparison to 1999 Nonregulated and other revenue increased by approximately $1.5 billion in 2000, largely due to NRGs acquisition of generation facilities during 2000 and the full year impact of generating assets acquired during 1999. Earnings from equity investments increased by approximately $71 million in 2000, primarily due to increased equity earnings from NRG projects. Nonregulated margin increased by approximately $867 million in 2000, largely due to NRGs acquisition of generation facilities during 2000. Non Fuel Operating Expense and Other Items Other utility operating and maintenance expense for 2001 increased by approximately $60 million, or 4.1 percent, compared with 2000. The change is largely due to increased plant outages, higher nuclear operating costs, bad debt reserves reflecting higher energy prices, increased costs due to customer growth and higher performance based incentive costs. Other utility operating and maintenance expense for 2000 increased by approximately $69 million, or 5.0 percent, compared with 1999. The increase is largely due to the timing of outages at the Monticello and Prairie Island nuclear plants and at the Sherco coal fired power plant, increased bad debt reserves related to wholesale and retail customers, higher nuclear operating costs and higher employee related costs. Depreciation and amortization expense increased $157 million, or 19.8 percent, in 2001 and $113 million, or 16.6 percent, in 2000, primarily due to acquisitions of generating facilities by NRG and increased additions to utility plant. Interest expense increased $125 million, or 19 percent, in 2001 and $243 million, or 58.7 percent, in 2000, primarily due to increased debt levels to finance several asset acquisitions by NRG. Interest income and other net increased by approximately $54 million for the year ended Dec. 31, 2001, compared with the same period in 2000. This increase was primarily the result of a credit swap at NRG, NRG mark to market gains on foreign debt, NRG interest income due to increased affiliate receivables related to loans to West Coast Power and gains from the sale of PSCo assets. As discussed in Note 8 to the Financial Statements, Xcel Energys effective tax rate before extraordinary items was 28.0 percent for the year ended Dec. 31, 2001, and 35.8 percent for the same period in 2000. The change in the effective tax rate reflects changes in the 2001 effective tax rate at NRG and the non deductibility of certain merger costs in 2000. As discussed previously, NRGs annual effective tax rate for 49 Table of Contents 2001 declined due to higher energy tax credits, the implementation of state tax planning strategies and a higher percentage of NRGs overall earnings derived from foreign projects in lower tax jurisdictions. Weather Xcel Energys earnings can be significantly affected by weather. Unseasonably hot summers or cold winters increase electric and natural gas sales, but also can increase expenses, which may not be fully recoverable. Unseasonably mild weather reduces electric and natural gas sales, but may not reduce expenses, which affects overall results. The following summarizes the estimated impact on the earnings of the utility subsidiaries of Xcel Energy due to temperature variations from historical averages. Weather in 2001 had minimal impact on earnings per share. Weather in 2000 increased earnings by an estimated 1 cent per share. Weather in 1999 decreased earnings by an estimated 9 cents per share. Factors Affecting Results of Operations Xcel Energys utility revenues depend on customer usage, which varies with weather conditions, general business conditions and the cost of energy services. Various regulatory agencies approve the prices for electric and gas service within their respective jurisdictions. In addition, Xcel Energys nonregulated businesses are becoming a more significant factor in Xcel Energys earnings. The historical and future trends of Xcel Energys operating results have been and are expected to be affected by the following factors: General Economic Conditions The slower United States economy, and the global economy to a lesser extent, may have a significant impact on Xcel Energys operating results. Current economic conditions have resulted in a decline in the forward price curve for energy and may decrease the need for additional power supply. Xcel Energy expects the economic conditions to have a significant impact on commodity trading margins, which are not expected to be as strong as those experienced in 2001. In addition, certain operating costs, such as insurance and security, have increased due to the economy and the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. We do not believe these events will affect our access to insurance markets. However, Xcel Energy could experience other significant impacts from a weakened economy. Utility Industry Changes and Restructuring The structure of the electric and natural gas utility industry continues to change. Merger and acquisition activity over the past few years has been significant as utilities combine to capture economies of scale or establish a strategic niche in preparing for the future. Some regulated utilities are divesting generation assets. All utilities are required to provide nondiscriminatory access to the use of their transmission systems. In December 2001, the FERC approved Midwest Independent Transmission System Operator, Inc. (MISO) as the Midwest independent system operator responsible for operating the wholesale electric transmission system. Accordingly, in compliance with the FERCs Order No. 2000, Xcel Energy turned over operational control of its transmission system to MISO in January 2002. Some states have begun to allow retail customers to choose their electricity supplier, and many other states are considering retail access proposals. However, the experience of the state of California in instituting competition, as well as the bankruptcy filing of Enron, have caused delays in industry restructuring. Major issues that must be addressed include mitigating market power, divestiture of generation capacity, transmission constraints, legal separation, refinancing of securities, modification of mortgage indentures, implementation of procedures to govern affiliate transactions, investments in information technology and the pricing of unbundled services, all of which have significant financial implications. Xcel Energy cannot predict the outcome of restructuring proceedings in the electric utility jurisdictions it serves at this time. The resolution of these matters may have a significant impact on the financial position, results of operations and cash flows of Xcel Energy. For more information on the delay of restructuring for SPS in Texas and New Mexico, see Note 12 to the Financial Statements. In addition, industry restructuring may impact the wholesale power markets, in which NRG operates. The independent system operators who oversee most of the wholesale power markets have in the past imposed, 50 Table of Contents and may in the future continue to impose, price limitations and other mechanisms to address some of the volatility in these markets. For example, the independent system operator for the New York Power Pool and the California independent system operator have recently imposed price limitations. These types of price limitations and other mechanisms in New York, California, the New England Power Pool and elsewhere may adversely impact the profitability of NRGs generation facilities that sell energy into the wholesale power markets. Finally, the regulatory and legislative changes that have recently been enacted in a number of states in an effort to promote competition are novel and untested in many respects. These new approaches to the sale of electric power have very short operating histories, and it is not yet clear how they will operate in times of market stress or pressure, given the extreme volatility and lack of meaningful long term price history in many of these markets and the imposition of price limitations by independent system operators. Enron Impacts Industry changes also may be implemented as a result of the bankruptcy filing of Enron, a large energy company. Such changes may be invoked by various regulatory agencies, including but not limited to the SEC, the FERC or state regulatory agencies. Management is unable to predict the impact of such changes, if any, on any component of the energy industry. See additional discussion in Note 15 to the Financial Statements. California Power Market NRG operates in and sells to the wholesale power market in California. During 2000, the inability of certain California utilities to recover rising energy costs through regulated prices charged to retail customers created financial difficulties. The California utilities have appealed to state agencies and regulators for the opportunity to be reimbursed for costs incurred that are not currently recoverable through the existing rate structure. Absent such relief, some of the utilities have indicated they may be unable to continue to service their debt or otherwise pay obligations, or would consider discontinuing energy service to customers to avoid incurring costs that are not recoverable. However, the extent and timing of such financial support that will be made available to California utilities is unknown at this time . See Note 15 to the Financial Statements for a description of lawsuits against NRG and other power producers and marketers involving the California electricity markets and a discussion of Xcel Energy and NRGs receivables related to the California power market. Critical Accounting Policies Preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in compliance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) requires the application of appropriate technical accounting rules and guidance, as well as the use of estimates. The application of these policies necessarily involves judgments regarding future events, including the likelihood of success of particular projects, legal and regulatory challenges and anticipated recovery of costs. These judgments, in and of themselves, could materially impact the financial statements and disclosures based on varying assumptions, which may be appropriate to use. In addition, the financial and operating environment also may have a significant effect, not only on the operation of the business, but on the results reported through the application of accounting measures used in preparing the financial statements and related disclosures, even if the nature of the accounting policies applied have not changed. The following is a list of accounting policies that are most significant to the portrayal of Xcel Energys financial condition and results, and that require managements most difficult, subjective or complex judgments. Each of these has a higher likelihood of resulting in materially different reported amounts under different conditions or using different assumptions. Accounting Policy Judgments/Uncertainties Affecting Application See Additional Discussion At Regulatory Mechanisms & Cost Recovery External regulator decisions, requirements and regulatory environment Anticipated future regulatory decisions and their impact Impact of deregulation and competition on ratemaking process and ability to recover costs Managements Discussion and Analysis: Factors Affecting Results of Operations Utility Industry Changes and Restructuring Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Note 1 Note 12 Note 15 51 Table of Contents Accounting Policy Judgments/Uncertainties Affecting Application See Additional Discussion At Nuclear Plant Decommissioning Costs of future decommissioning Availability of facilities for waste disposal Approved methods for waste disposal Useful lives of nuclear power plants Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Note 1 Note 15 Note 16 Environmental Issues Approved methods for cleanup Responsible party determination Governmental regulations and standards Results of ongoing research and development regarding environmental impacts Managements Discussion and Analysis: Factors Affecting Results of Operations Environmental Matters Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Note 1 Note 15 Unbilled Revenue Projecting customer energy usage Estimating impacts of weather and other usage affecting factors for unbilled period Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Note 1 Benefit Plan Accounting Future rate of return on pension and other plan assets Interest rates used in valuing benefit obligation Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Note 1 Note 10 Derivative Financial Instruments Market conditions in the energy industry, especially the effects of price volatility on contractual commitments Market conditions in foreign countries Regulatory and political environments and requirements Managements Discussion and Analysis: Derivatives, Risk Management and Market Risk Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Note 1 Note 13 Note 14 Income Tax Reserves Application of tax statutes and regulations to transactions Anticipated future decisions of tax authorities Ability of tax authority decisions/ positions to withstand legal challenges and appeals Managements Discussion and Analysis: Factors Affecting Results of Operations Tax Matters Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Note 1 Note 8 Note 15 Uncollectible Receivables Economic conditions affecting customers, suppliers and market prices Regulatory environment and impact of cost recovery constraints on customer financial condition Outcome of litigation and bankruptcy proceedings Managements Discussion and Analysis: Factors Affecting Results of Operations California Power Market Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Note 1 Note 15 Asset Valuation Regional economic conditions surrounding asset operation and affecting market prices Foreign currency valuation changes Regulatory and political environments and requirements Levels of future market penetration and customer growth Managements Discussion and Analysis: Factors Affecting Results of Operations Impact of Nonregulated Investments Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Note 1 Note 15 Regulation Xcel Energy is a registered holding company under the PUHCA. As a result, Xcel Energy, its utility subsidiaries and certain of its nonutility subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation by the SEC under the PUHCA with respect to issuances and sales of securities, acquisitions and sales of certain utility properties and intra system sales of certain goods and services. In addition, the PUHCA generally limits the 52 Table of Contents ability of registered holding companies to acquire additional public utility systems and to acquire and retain businesses unrelated to the utility operations of the holding company. Xcel Energy believes that it has adequate authority (including financing authority) under existing SEC orders and regulations for it and its subsidiaries to conduct their businesses as proposed during 2002 and will seek additional authorization when necessary. The electric and natural gas rates charged to customers of Xcel Energys utility subsidiaries are approved by the FERC and the regulatory commissions in the states in which they operate. The rates are generally designed to recover plant investment, operating costs and an allowed return on investment. Xcel Energy requests changes in rates for utility services through filings with the governing commissions. Because comprehensive rate changes are requested infrequently in some states, changes in operating costs can affect Xcel Energys financial results. In addition to changes in operating costs, other factors affecting rate filings are sales growth, conservation and demand side management efforts and the cost of capital. Most of the retail rate schedules for Xcel Energys utility subsidiaries provide for periodic adjustments to billings and revenues to allow for recovery of changes in the cost of fuel for electric generation, purchased energy, purchased natural gas and, in Minnesota and Colorado, conservation and energy management program costs. In Minnesota and Colorado, changes in electric capacity costs are not recovered through these rate adjustment mechanisms. For Wisconsin electric operations, where automatic cost of energy adjustment clauses are not allowed, the biennial retail rate review process and an interim fuel cost hearing process provide the opportunity for rate recovery of changes in electric fuel and purchased energy costs in lieu of a cost of energy adjustment clause. In Colorado, PSCo has an ICA mechanism that allows for an equal sharing among customers and shareholders of certain fuel and energy costs and certain gains and losses on trading margins. Regulated public utilities are allowed to record as regulatory assets certain costs that are expected to be recovered from customers in future periods and to record as regulatory liabilities certain income items that are expected to be refunded to customers in future periods. In contrast, nonregulated enterprises would expense these costs and recognize the income in the current period. If restructuring or other changes in the regulatory environment occur, Xcel Energy may no longer be eligible to apply this accounting treatment and may be required to eliminate such regulatory assets and liabilities from its balance sheet. Such changes could have a material adverse effect on Xcel Energys results of operations in the period the write off is recorded. At Dec. 31, 2001, Xcel Energy reported on its balance sheet regulatory assets of approximately $502 million and regulatory liabilities of approximately $484 million that would be recognized in the income statement in the absence of regulation. In addition to a potential write off of regulatory assets and liabilities, restructuring and competition may require recognition of certain stranded costs not recoverable under market pricing. Xcel Energy currently does not expect to write off any stranded costs unless market price levels change or cost levels increase above market price levels. See Notes 1 and 17 to the Financial Statements for further discussion of regulatory deferrals. Merger Rate Agreements As part of the merger approval process, Xcel Energy agreed to reduce its rates in several jurisdictions. The discussion below summarizes the rate reductions in Colorado, Minnesota, Texas and New Mexico. As part of the merger approval process in Colorado, PSCo agreed to: reduce its retail electric rates by an annual rate of $11 million for the period of August 2000 through July 2002; file a combined electric and natural gas rate case in 2002, with new rates effective January 2003; cap merger costs associated with the electric operations at $30 million and amortize the merger costs for ratemaking purposes through 2002; continue the electric Performance Based Regulatory Plan (PBRP) and the Quality Service Plan (QSP) currently in effect through 2006, with modifications to cap electric earnings at a 10.5 percent return on equity for 2002, to reflect no earnings sharing in 2003 since new base rates would have recently been established, and to increase potential bill credits if quality standards are not met; and 53 Table of Contents develop a QSP for the natural gas operations to be effective for calendar years 2002 through 2007. As part of the merger approval process in Minnesota, NSP Minnesota agreed to: reduce its Minnesota electric rates by $10 million annually through 2005; not increase its electric rates through 2005, except under limited circumstances; not seek recovery of certain merger costs from customers; and meet various quality standards. As part of the merger approval process in Texas, SPS agreed to: guarantee annual merger savings credits of approximately $4.8 million and amortize merger costs through 2005; retain the current fuel recovery mechanism to pass along fuel cost savings to retail customers; and comply with various service quality and reliability standards, covering service installations and upgrades, light replacements, customer service call centers and electric service reliability. As part of the merger approval process in New Mexico, SPS agreed to: guarantee annual merger savings credits of approximately $780,000 and amortize merger costs through December 2004; share net nonfuel operating and maintenance savings equally among retail customers and shareholders; retain the current fuel recovery mechanism to pass along fuel cost savings to retail customers; and not pass along any negative rate impacts of the merger. PSCo Performance Based Regulatory Plan The Colorado Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) established an electric PBRP under which PSCo operates. The major components of this regulatory plan include: an annual electric earnings test with the sharing between customers and shareholders of earnings in excess of the following limits: a 10.50 percent return on equity for 2002 no earnings sharing for 2003 an annual electric earnings test with the sharing of earnings in excess of the return on equity set in the 2002 rate case for 2004 through 2006 an electric QSP that provides for bill credits to customers if PSCo does not achieve certain performance targets relating to electric reliability and customer service through 2006; a gas QSP that provides for bill credits to customers if PSCo does not achieve certain performance targets relating to gas leak repair time and customer service through 2007; and an ICA that provides for the sharing of energy costs and savings relative to an annual baseline cost per delivered kilowatt hour. According to the terms of the merger rate agreement in Colorado, the annual baseline cost will be reset in 2002, based on a 2001 test year. PSCo regularly monitors and records as necessary an estimated customer refund obligation under the earnings test. In April of each year following the measurement period, PSCo files its proposed rate adjustment under the PBRP. The CPUC conducts proceedings to review and approve these rate adjustments annually. PSCo has estimated no customer refund obligation for 2001 under the earnings test. In November 2000, the CPUC ruled on the unresolved issues related to the 1998 earnings test that will result in the reduction of customer rates by $5.1 million effective January 2001. 54 Table of Contents During 2001, PSCo settled all unresolved issues related to the 1999 and 2000 QSP electric reliability performance measure. An accrual for related customer refunds of $8.2 million was recorded and paid in 2001. PSCo has recorded an estimated customer refund obligation for the 2001 QSP electric reliability performance measure of approximately $4.2 million. SPS Earnings Test In Texas, until June 2001, SPS operated under an earnings test in which excess earnings were returned to the customer. In May 2000, SPS filed its 1999 Earnings Report with the Public Utilities Commission of Texas (PUCT), indicating no excess earnings. In September 2000, the PUCT staff and the Office of Public Utility Counsel filed with the PUCT a Notice of Disagreement, indicating adjustments to SPS calculations, which would result in excess earnings. During 2000, SPS recorded an estimated obligation of approximately $11.4 million for 1999 and 2000. In February 2001, the PUCT ruled on the disputed issues in the 1999 report and found that SPS had excess earnings of $11.7 million. This decision was appealed by SPS to the District Court. On Dec. 11, 2001, SPS entered into an overall settlement of all earnings issues for 1999 through 2001, which reduced the excess earnings for 1999 to $7.3 million and found that there were no excess earnings for 2000 or through June 2001. The settlement also provided that the remaining excess earnings for 1999 could be used to offset approved transition costs that SPS is seeking to recover in a pending case at the PUCT. The PUCT approved the overall settlement on Jan. 10, 2002. Tax Matters As further discussed in Note 15 to the Financial Statements, a subsidiary of PSCo is working with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to resolve an income tax dispute regarding deductions for loan interest expense related to company owned life insurance (COLI). Late in 2001, Xcel Energy received a technical advice memorandum from the IRS, which communicated a position adverse to PSCo. After consultation with tax counsel, it is Xcel Energys position that the IRS determination is not supported by tax law. Although the ultimate outcome is uncertain at this time, management believes the resolution of this matter will not have a material adverse impact on Xcel Energys financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, pending resolution of this matter, annual earnings will continue to include tax benefits associated with the COLI policy loan interest deductions. Should the IRS ultimately prevail on this issue, tax and interest payable through Dec. 31, 2001 would reduce earnings by an estimated $197 million (after tax) or 57 cents per share. In 2002, these tax benefits are expected to contribute approximately $31 million, or 9 cents per share, to Xcel Energy earnings. Environmental Matters Our environmental costs include payments for nuclear plant decommissioning, storage and ultimate disposal of spent nuclear fuel, disposal of hazardous materials and wastes, remediation of contaminated sites and monitoring of discharges to the environment. A trend of greater environmental awareness and increasingly stringent regulation has caused, and may continue to cause, slightly higher operating expenses and capital expenditures for environmental compliance. NRGs acquisition of existing generation facilities will tend to increase nonutility costs for environmental compliance. In addition to nuclear decommissioning and spent nuclear fuel disposal expenses, costs charged to our operating expenses for environmental monitoring and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes were approximately: $146 million in 2001 $144 million in 2000 $128 million in 1999 We expect to expense approximately $161 million per year for 2002 2006 for similar costs. However, the precise timing and amount of environmental costs, including those for site remediation and disposal of hazardous materials, are currently unknown. 55 Table of Contents Capital expenditures on environmental improvements at our regulated facilities, which include the costs of constructing spent nuclear fuel storage casks, were approximately: $136 million in 2001 $57 million in 2000 $126 million in 1999 We expect to incur approximately $41 million in capital expenditures for compliance with environmental regulations in 2002 and approximately $156 million for 2002 2006. See Notes 15 and 16 to the Financial Statements for further discussion of our environmental contingencies. Impact of Nonregulated Investments Xcel Energys earnings from nonregulated operations have increased significantly due to acquisitions, primarily at NRG. Xcel Energy expects to continue investing in nonregulated projects, including domestic and international power production projects through NRG, natural gas marketing and trading through e prime and construction projects through Utility Engineering. Xcel Energys nonregulated businesses may carry a higher level of risk than its traditional utility businesses due to a number of factors, including: competition, operating risks, dependence on certain suppliers and customers, and domestic and foreign environmental and energy regulations; partnership and government actions and foreign government, political, economic and currency risks; and development risks, including uncertainties prior to final legal closing. Xcel Energys earnings from nonregulated subsidiaries, other than NRG, also include investments in international projects (primarily in Argentina) through Xcel Energy International, and broadband communications systems through Seren. Management currently intends to hold and operate these investments, but is evaluating their strategic fit in Xcel Energys business portfolio. As of Dec. 31, 2001, Xcel Energys investment in Seren was approximately $232 million. Seren had capitalized $190 million for plant in service and had incurred another $60 million for construction work in progress for these systems at Dec. 31, 2001. Xcel Energy Internationals investment in Argentina is $102 million. Given the political and economic climate in Argentina, Xcel Energy continues to closely monitor the investment for asset impairment. Currently, management believes that no impairment exists. Some of Xcel Energys nonregulated subsidiaries have project investments (as listed in Note 11 to the Financial Statements) consisting of minority interests, which may limit the financial risk, but also limit the ability to control the development or operation of the projects. In addition, significant expenses may be incurred for projects pursued by Xcel Energys subsidiaries that do not materialize. The aggregate effect of these factors creates the potential for volatility in the nonregulated component of Xcel Energys earnings. Accordingly, the historical operating results of Xcel Energys nonregulated businesses may not necessarily be indicative of future operating results. Inflation Inflation at its current level is not expected to materially affect Xcel Energys prices or returns to shareholders. Since late 2001, the Argentine peso has been significantly devalued due to the inflationary Argentine economy. Xcel Energy will continue to experience related currency translation adjustments through Xcel Energy International. See further discussion at Note 15 to the Financial Statements. Pending Accounting Changes SFAS No. 142 In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) approved the issuance of SFAS No. 142 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. This statement requires new accounting for intangible assets, including goodwill. Intangible assets with finite lives will be amortized over their economic useful lives and periodically reviewed for impairment. Goodwill will no longer be amortized to comply with the provisions of SFAS No. 142. Instead, goodwill and intangible assets that will not be 56 Table of Contents amortized are to be tested for impairment annually and on an interim basis if an event occurs or a circumstance changes between annual tests that may reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. An impairment test is required to be performed within six months of the date of adoption, and the first annual impairment test must be performed in the year the statement is initially adopted. As required, Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries adopted SFAS No. 142 on Jan. 1, 2002. At Dec. 31, 2001, Xcel Energy had unamortized intangible assets of $166 million, including $69 million of goodwill, mainly at its nonregulated subsidiaries. These amounts and all intangible assets and goodwill acquired in the future will be accounted for under the new accounting standard. The new accounting standard is expected to initially increase earnings by an immaterial amount due to the elimination of regular amortization expense, but in the future could cause periodic reductions in earnings when impairment write downs of goodwill and or intangible assets are required. Expense recognized for amortization of goodwill in 2001 was $4 million. Xcel Energy does not expect to recognize any asset impairments as a result of adopting SFAS No. 142 in the first quarter of 2002. SFAS No. 143 In June 2001, the FASB approved the issuance of SFAS No. 143 Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations. This statement will require Xcel Energy to record its future nuclear plant decommissioning obligations as a liability at fair value with a corresponding increase to the carrying value of the related long lived asset. The liability will be increased to its present value each period, and the capitalized cost will be depreciated over the useful life of the related long lived asset. If at the end of the assets life the recorded liability differs from the actual obligations paid, SFAS No. 143 requires that a gain or loss be recognized at that time. Xcel Energy currently follows industry practice by ratably accruing the costs for decommissioning over the approved cost recovery period and including the accruals in accumulated depreciation. At Dec. 31, 2001, Xcel Energy recorded and recovered in rates $623 million of decommissioning obligations and had estimated discounted decommissioning cost obligations of $878 million. If Xcel Energy adopted the standard on Jan. 1, 2002, the initial value of the liability, including cumulative interest expense through that date, would have been approximately $757 million, with a corresponding increase to net plant assets of approximately $625 million. The resulting cumulative effect adjustment for unrecognized depreciation and other expenses under the new standard is approximately $132 million. Management expects that the entire transition amount would be recoverable in rates and, therefore, would recognize an additional regulatory asset upon adoption of SFAS No. 143 rather than incur a cumulative effect charge against earnings. SFAS No. 143 also will affect Xcel Energys accrued plant removal costs for other generation, transmission and distribution facilities for its utility subsidiaries. Xcel Energy expects that these costs, which have yet to be estimated, will be reclassified from accumulated depreciation to regulatory liabilities based on the treatment of these costs in rates. Xcel Energy plans to adopt SFAS No. 143 as required on Jan. 1, 2003. SFAS No. 144 In October 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 144 Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets, which supersedes previous guidance for measurement of asset impairments. SFAS No. 144 was adopted by Xcel Energy as required on Jan. 1, 2002, and will be applied on a prospective basis. Xcel Energy does not expect to recognize any asset impairments as a result of adopting SFAS No. 144 in the first quarter of 2002. Derivatives, Risk Management and Market Risk Business and Operational Risk Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries are exposed to commodity price risks in their generation, retail distribution and energy trading operations. In certain jurisdictions, purchased power expenses and natural gas costs are recovered on a dollar for dollar basis. However, in other jurisdictions, we are exposed to market price risk for the purchase and sale of electric energy and natural gas. In such jurisdictions, we recover our purchased power expenses and natural gas costs based on fixed price limits or under negotiated sharing mechanisms. 57 Table of Contents Commodity price risk is managed by entering into purchase and sales commitments for electric power and natural gas, long term contracts for coal supplies and fuel oil and derivative financial instruments. Xcel Energys risk management policy allows us to manage the market price risk within our rate regulated operations to the extent such exposure exists. Management is limited under the policy to enter into only transactions that reduce market price risk where the rate regulation jurisdiction does not already provide for dollar for dollar recovery. One exception to this policy exists in which we use various physical contracts and derivative instruments to reduce the cost of natural gas we provide to our retail customers even though the regulatory jurisdiction provides dollar for dollar recovery of actual costs. This jurisdiction allows us to recover the gains and losses on derivative instruments used to reduce our exposure to market price risk. Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries are exposed to market price risk for the sale of electric energy and the purchase of fuel resources, including coal, natural gas and fuel oil used to generate the electric energy within its nonregulated operations. Xcel Energy manages this market price risk by entering into firm power sales agreements for approximately 60 to 75 percent of its electric capacity and energy from each generation facility, using contracts with terms ranging from one to 25 years. In addition, we manage the market price risk covering the fuel resource requirements to provide the electric energy by entering into purchase commitments and derivative instruments for coal, natural gas and fuel oil as needed to meet fixed priced electric energy requirements. Xcel Energys risk management policy allows us to manage the market price risks and provides guidelines for the level of price risk exposure that is acceptable within our operations. Xcel Energy is exposed to market price risk for the sale of electric energy and the purchase of fuel resources used to generate the electric energy from our equity method investments that own electric operations. Xcel Energy manages this market price risk through our involvement with the management committee or board of directors of each of these ventures. Our risk management policy does not cover the activities conducted by the ventures. However, other policies are adopted by the ventures as necessary and mandated by the equity owners. Interest Rate Risk Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates where we enter into variable rate debt obligations to fund certain power projects being developed or purchased. Exposure to interest rate fluctuations is mitigated by entering into derivative instruments known as interest rate swaps, caps, collars and put or call options. These contracts reduce exposure to interest rate volatility and result in primarily fixed rate debt obligations when taking into account the combination of the variable rate debt and the interest rate derivative instrument. Xcel Energys risk management policy allows us to reduce interest rate exposure from variable rate debt obligations. At Dec. 31, 2001 and 2000, a 100 basis point change in the benchmark rate on Xcel Energys variable debt would impact net income by approximately $29.9 million and $15.8 million, respectively. See Note 13 to the Financial Statements for a discussion of Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries interest rate swaps. Currency Exchange Risk Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries have certain investments in foreign countries exposing us to foreign currency exchange risk. The foreign currency exchange risk includes the risk relative to the recovery of our net investment in a project as well as the risk relative to the earnings and cash flows generated from such operations. Xcel Energy manages its exposure to changes in foreign currency by entering into derivative instruments as determined by management. Our risk management policy provides for this risk management activity. As discussed in Note 18 to the Financial Statements, Xcel Energy has substantial investments in foreign projects (through NRG and other subsidiaries), which expose us to currency translation risk. Cumulative translation adjustments (included in the Consolidated Statement of Stockholders Equity as Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income) experienced to date have been material and may continue to occur at levels significant to our financial position. As of Dec. 31, 2001, NRG had two foreign currency exchange contracts with notional amounts of $46.3 million. If the contracts had been discontinued on Dec. 31, 2001, NRG would have owed the counterparties approximately $2.4 million. Trading Risk Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries conduct various trading operations and power marketing activities including the purchase and sale of electric capacity and energy and natural gas. The trading 58 Table of Contents operations are conducted both in the United States and Europe with primary focus on specific market regions where trading knowledge and experience have been obtained. Xcel Energys risk management policy allows management to conduct the trading activity within approved guidelines and limitations as approved by our risk management committee made up of management personnel not involved in the trading operations. Our trading operations and power marketing activities measure the outstanding risk exposure to price changes on transactions, contracts and obligations that have been entered into but not closed using an industry standard methodology known as Value at Risk (VaR). VaR expresses the potential loss in fair value on the outstanding transactions, contracts and obligations over a particular period of time, with a given confidence interval under normal market conditions. Xcel Energy utilizes the variance/covariance approach in calculating VaR. The VaR model employs a 95 percent confidence interval level based on historical price movement, lognormal price distribution assumption and various holding periods of five days and three days for electricity and two days for natural gas. As of Dec. 31, 2001, the calculated VaRs were: During 2001 Year Ended Operations Dec. 31, 2001 Average High Low (Millions of dollars) Short term wholesale North(a) 1.00 0.81 1.68 0.09 Short term wholesale South(b) 8.11 9.34 13.48 3.10 Electric commodity trading 0.52 1.71 7.37 0.16 Gas commodity trading 0.16 0.15 0.52 0.01 Gas retail marketing 0.69 0.39 0.94 0.13 NRG power marketing 71.70 78.80 126.60 58.60 (a) Short term wholesale North primarily represents NSP Minnesota. (b) Short term wholesale South primarily represents PSCo. Measurement of short term wholesale South VaR began in October 2001. As of Dec. 31, 2000, the VaRs were: During 2000 Year Ended Operations Dec. 31, 2000 Average High Low (Millions of dollars) Short term wholesale North(c) 0.68 0.36 2.29 0.01 Electric commodity trading(c) 2.25 0.69 3.53 0.04 Gas commodity trading(c) 0.01 0.11 0.42 0.01 Gas retail marketing(c) 0.21 0.22 0.60 0.04 NRG power marketing 116.00 80.00 125.00 50.00 (c) Amounts have been restated for consistency with Dec. 31, 2001, assuming similar holding periods in the VaR calculations. Previously, Xcel Energy calculated VaR using a 21 day holding period, as shown below. As markets mature and gain liquidity, shorter holding periods more accurately reflect the risk. In 2001, Xcel Energy changed its holding period for natural gas from 21 days to two days because the gas trading market is mature and traders can liquidate positions in one or two days. The electricity market is still relatively immature and less liquid than the gas market, so Xcel Energy uses a five day holding period in its electricity VaR calculation. Xcel Energys revised holding periods are generally consistent with current industry standard practice. 59 Table of Contents As of Dec. 31, 2000, the calculated VaRs were: During 2000 Year Ended Operations Dec. 31, 2000 Average High Low (Millions of dollars) Short term wholesale North 1.40 0.73 4.70 0.01 Electric commodity trading 4.62 1.42 7.23 0.08 Gas commodity trading 0.03 0.35 1.37 0.02 Gas retail marketing 0.69 0.70 1.94 0.12 Credit Risk In addition to the risks discussed previously, Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries are exposed to credit risk in our risk management activities. Credit risk relates to the risk of loss resulting from the nonperformance by a counterparty of its contractual obligations. As Xcel Energy continues to expand its natural gas and power marketing and trading activities, its exposure to credit risk and counterparty default may increase. Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries maintain credit policies intended to minimize overall credit risk and actively monitor these policies to reflect changes and scope of operations. Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries conduct standard credit reviews for all of our counterparties. Xcel Energy employs additional credit risk control mechanisms when appropriate, such as letters of credit, parental guarantees and standardized master netting agreements that allow for offsetting of positive and negative exposures. The credit exposure is monitored and, when necessary, the activity with a specific counterparty is limited until credit enhancement is provided. See Note 15 to the Financial Statements for a discussion of NRGs receivables related to the California power market and a discussion of our exposure to Enrons bankruptcy. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Cash Flows 2001 2000 1999 (Millions of dollars) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 1,584 $ 1,408 $ 1,325 Cash provided by operating activities increased during 2001, compared with 2000, primarily due to the higher net income, depreciation and improved working capital. Cash provided by operating activities increased during 2000, compared with 1999, primarily due to improved working capital. 2001 2000 1999 (Millions of dollars) Net cash used in investing activities $ (5,168 ) $ (3,347 ) $ (2,953 ) Cash used in investing activities increased during 2001, compared with 2000, primarily due to increased levels of nonregulated capital expenditures and asset acquisitions, primarily at NRG. The increase was partially offset by Xcel Energys sale of the majority of its investment in Yorkshire Power. Cash used in investing activities increased during 2000, compared with 1999, primarily due to acquisitions of existing generating facilities by NRG. 2001 2000 1999 (Millions of dollars) Net cash provided by financing activities $ 3,713 $ 2,016 $ 1,668 Cash provided by financing activities increased during 2001, compared with 2000, primarily due to increased short term borrowings and net long term debt issuances, mainly to fund NRG acquisitions. Cash provided by financing activities increased during 2000, compared with 1999, primarily due to the issuance of debt to finance NRG asset acquisitions in 2000. See discussion of trends, commitments and uncertainties with the potential for future impact on cash flow and liquidity under Capital Sources. 60 Table of Contents Capital Requirements Capital Expenditures and Nonregulated Investments The estimated cost as of Dec. 31, 2001, of the capital expenditure programs of Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries and other capital requirements for the years 2002, 2003 and 2004 are shown in the table below (Millions of dollars). 2002 2003 2004 Electric utility $ 851 $ 878 $ 908 Gas utility 141 107 111 Common utility 128 114 118 Total utility 1,120 1,099 1,137 NRG 1,600 1,500 1,500 Other nonregulated 73 36 37 Total capital expenditures 2,793 2,635 2,674 Sinking funds and debt maturities 682 719 335 Total capital requirements $ 3,475 $ 3,354 $ 3,009 The capital expenditure programs of Xcel Energy are subject to continuing review and modification. Actual utility construction expenditures may vary from the estimates due to changes in electric and natural gas projected load growth, the desired reserve margin and the availability of purchased power, as well as alternative plans for meeting Xcel Energys long term energy needs. In addition, Xcel Energys ongoing evaluation of merger, acquisition and divestiture opportunities to support corporate strategies, address restructuring requirements and comply with future requirements to install emission control equipment may impact actual capital requirements. For more information, see Notes 12 and 15 to the Financial Statements. Xcel Energys subsidiaries expect to invest significant amounts in nonregulated projects in the future. Financing requirements for nonregulated project investments, including NRG, will vary depending on the success, timing and level of involvement in projects currently under consideration. These investments could cause significant changes to the capital requirement estimates for nonregulated projects and property. Long term financing may be required for such investments. Xcel Energys investment in exempt wholesale generators and foreign utility companies, which includes NRG and other Xcel Energy subsidiaries, is currently limited to 50 percent of consolidated retained earnings, as a result of the PUHCA restrictions. At Dec. 31, 2001, such investments were 37.7 percent of consolidated retained earnings. Xcel Energy requested an increase in the limit to 100 percent in the first quarter of 2002. NRG expects to invest approximately $1.6 billion in 2002 for nonregulated projects and property, excluding acquisitions. NRGs future capital requirements may vary significantly. For 2002, NRG will require additional capital of approximately $1.8 billion for acquisitions of existing generation facilities, including FirstEnergy Corp. generating assets and the Conectiv fossil assets. This level of NRG spending for 2002 (and the levels shown in the table above for 2002 through 2004) reflect a revised forecast after announcement of Xcel Energys tender offer for NRG shares on Feb. 15, 2002. See further discussion in Note 19 to the Financial Statements. Contractual Obligations and Other Commitments Xcel Energy has a variety of contractual obligations and other commercial commitments that represent prospective requirements in addition to its capital expenditure programs. The following is a summarized table of contractual obligations. See additional discussion in the Consolidated Statements of Capitalization and Notes 3, 4, 13 and 15 to the Financial Statements. 61 Table of Contents Payments Due by Period Contractual Obligations Total Less than 1 year 1 3 years 4 5 years After 5 years (Thousands of dollars) Long term debt $ 12,195,472 $ 657,518 $ 1,009,005 $ 2,927,454 $ 7,601,495 Capital lease obligations 1,438,000 77,000 148,000 140,000 1,073,000 Operating leases 330,331 53,887 99,797 92,557 84,090 Unconditional purchase obligations 12,430,361 3,124,290 2,244,543 5,495,528 1,566,000 Other long term obligations 918,900 50,676 93,743 88,235 686,246 Short term debt 2,224,812 2,224,812 0 0 0 Other short term liabilities 11,500 11,500 0 0 0 Total contractual cash obligations $ 29,549,376 $ 6,199,683 $ 3,595,088 $ 8,743,774 $ 11,010,831 Amount of Commitment Expiration Per Period Total Amounts Less than Other Commercial Commitments Committed 1 year 1 3 years 4 5 years Over 5 years (Thousands of dollars) Lines of credit $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 Standby letters of credit 222,287 215,318 6,969 0 0 Guarantees 1,871,930 275,663 737,195 63,686 795,386 Standby repurchase obligations 0 0 0 0 0 Other commercial commitments 0 0 0 0 0 Total commercial commitments $ 2,094,217 $ 490,981 $ 744,164 $ 63,686 $ 795,386 Common Stock Dividends Xcel Energy adopted a dividend of $1.50 per share on an annual basis for 2001. Future dividend levels will be dependent upon Xcel Energys results of operations, financial position, cash flows and other factors, and will be evaluated by the Xcel Energy board of directors. Capital Sources Xcel Energy expects to meet future financing requirements by periodically issuing long term debt, short term debt, common stock and preferred securities to maintain desired capitalization ratios. As a result of its registration as a holding company under the PUHCA, Xcel Energy is required to maintain a common equity ratio of 30 percent or higher in its consolidated capital structure. For this purpose, common equity (including minority interest) at Dec. 31, 2001 was 30.4 percent of total capitalization. Consolidated project related, nonrecourse debt at the subsidiary level is included in calculating the overall capital structure of Xcel Energy. As a result, Xcel Energy may experience constraints on available capital sources that may be affected by factors including earnings levels, project acquisitions and the financing actions of our subsidiaries. Over the long term, Xcel Energys equity investments in and acquisitions of nonregulated projects may be financed at the nonregulated subsidiary level from internally generated funds or the issuance of subsidiary debt. The financing needs are subject to continuing review and can change depending on market and business conditions and changes, if any, in the construction programs and other capital requirements of Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries. Short Term Funding Sources Xcel Energy uses a number of sources to fulfill short term funding needs. Primary among these is operating cash flow, but also included are short term borrowing arrangements such as notes payable, commercial paper and bank lines of credit. The amount and timing of short term funding needs depend in large part on financing needs for utility construction expenditures and nonregulated project investments, as discussed previously in Capital Requirements. Another significant short term funding need is the dividend payment requirement, as discussed previously in Common Stock Dividends. 62 Table of Contents Operating cash flow as a source of short term funding is reasonably likely to be affected by such operating factors as weather; regulatory requirements including rate recovery of costs, environmental regulation compliance and industry deregulation; changes in the trends for energy prices and supply; as well as operational uncertainties that are difficult to predict. See further discussion of such factors under Income Statement Analysis and Factors Affecting Results of Operations. Short term borrowing as a source of short term funding is affected by access to reasonably priced capital markets. This varies based on financial performance and existing debt levels. If current debt levels are perceived to be at or higher than standard industry levels or those levels that can be sustained by current operating levels, access to reasonable short term borrowings could be limited. These factors are evaluated by credit rating agencies that review Xcel Energy and its subsidiary operations on an ongoing basis. The levels of risk from limited access to cost effective capital is significantly higher at NRG, which could result in higher short term funding needs at Xcel Energy if NRG funding requires an investment by Xcel Energy. For additional information on Xcel Energys short term borrowing arrangements, see Note 3 to the Financial Statements. Xcel Energys access to capital markets is dependent in part on credit agency reviews. In February 2002, Moodys Investor Services placed Xcel Energys long term debt and preferred securities ratings under review for possible downgrade reflecting possible pressure on Xcel Energys credit profile resulting from NRG restructuring. In December 2001, Moodys placed NRGs corporate securities under review for possible downgrade following NRGs announcement of its planned acquisition of generation assets from FirstEnergy Corp. According to Moodys, the review will address NRGs ability to finance the acquisition and the effect of the acquisition on NRGs liquidity and coverage ratios. In December 2001, Fitch Ratings placed Xcel Energy on ratings watch negative. According to Fitch, the ratings watch for Xcel Energy reflects the potential heavy capital needs of NRG and the possibility that Xcel Energy may have to provide funding or credit support on behalf of NRG. The securities of NSP Minnesota, NSP Wisconsin and SPS also were placed on ratings watch negative in consideration of Fitchs policy regarding the linkage between ratings of subsidiaries and the parent. In February 2002, Fitch reaffirmed the status of Xcel Energys rating. These ratings reflect the views of Moodys and Fitch. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating company. NRG Public Offerings During the second quarter of 2000, NRG completed an initial public offering (IPO) of approximately 32.4 million shares priced at $15 per share. Upon completion of the IPO, Xcel Energy owned approximately 147.6 million shares of NRG class A common stock, or 82 percent of NRGs outstanding shares. The offerings net proceeds of approximately $454 million were used exclusively by NRG for general corporate purposes, including funding a portion of NRGs project investments and other capital requirements for 2000. No proceeds of this offering were received by Xcel Energy. A portion of the proceeds to NRG was accounted for as a gain related to the reduction of Xcel Energys ownership in NRG. This gain of $216 million was not recorded in earnings, but consistent with Xcel Energys accounting policy, was recorded as an increase in the common stock premium component of stockholders equity. In March 2001, NRG completed a secondary public offering of 18.4 million shares of common stock at a price of $27 per share and issued 11.5 million corporate units at a price of $25 per unit. The net proceeds from the offering were approximately $753 million, including $478 million recorded in NRGs common equity and $275 million recorded in long term debt instruments of NRG. The offerings net proceeds were used exclusively by NRG for general corporate purposes, including funding a portion of NRGs project investments and other capital requirements. No proceeds of these offerings were received by Xcel Energy. This secondary offering caused Xcel Energys ownership interest in NRG to decline from approximately 82 percent to approximately 74 percent. A portion of the proceeds to NRG ($242 million) was accounted for as a gain related to the reduction of Xcel Energys ownership in NRG, and was recorded as an increase in the common stock premium component of stockholders equity. Management has concluded that these offerings of NRG stock do not affect Xcel Energys ability to use the pooling of interests method of accounting for the merger of NSP and NCE. 63 Table of Contents As a result of the merger to form Xcel Energy, constraints related to the accounting treatment as a pooling of interests transaction limit various actions, including significant divestitures that can be taken or even contemplated until August 2002. As a part of an evaluation of potential strategies and to more fully respond to investor questions, during 2001 management began investigating restructuring options and constraints. In mid 2001, it was determined that an additional restriction to future divestitures exists. Under current tax rules, a June 1998 call of PSCo nonvoting preferred stock that occurred shortly after the merger of PSCo and SPS to form NCE triggered a five year waiting period beginning in June 1998 for any tax free spin offs. After consultation with its legal counsel and tax advisors, Xcel Energy concluded that this restriction would prevent a tax free spin of subsidiary stock, including NRG, until June 2003. In December 2001, the Xcel Energy board recommended that Xcel Energy management continue to monitor all aspects of the future funding and structure of NRG, including among other things, the amount and timing of expected capital expenditures by NRG; the issuance by NRG of additional debt or public equity and the infusion by Xcel Energy of additional equity into NRG; and examine the possible reacquisition by Xcel Energy of the outstanding public NRG stock. In February 2002, Xcel Energy announced that its board of directors approved plans to commence an exchange offer by which Xcel Energy would acquire all of the outstanding publicly held shares of NRG in exchange for shares of Xcel Energy common stock. See further discussion in Note 19 to the Financial Statements. NRG Financing Capabilities As part of the independent power producer sector, NRG has recently been experiencing tightening credit standards. As discussed in Note 19 to the Financial Statements, in response to this situation, Xcel Energy is planning to provide NRG with financial support. In addition, NRG is expected to slow its project growth to lessen the need for external financing in the next few years. If the plan is carried out as proposed, we anticipate that NRGs internally generated cash, available credit and borrowing capabilities will be sufficient to meet its financing needs in addition to Xcel Energy equity support. NRG and its subsidiaries have entered into a number of credit facilities. These credit facilities provided access to a total of $4.8 billion and DEM 204 million of funding at Dec. 31, 2001; at that date, borrowings of $2.9 billion were outstanding pursuant to these facilities. See further discussion in Notes 3 and 4 to the Financial Statements. In addition, NRG has filed a shelf registration to provide access to long term debt financing, as discussed later. Impact of NRG Credit Rating Downgrade NRGs unsecured credit rating is BBB by Standard & Poors and Baa3 by Moodys Investor Service. As noted previously, in December 2001 Moodys placed NRGs credit rating on review for potential downgrade. If Moodys subsequently downgraded NRG, many of the corporate guarantees and commitments that it currently has in place would need to be supported with letters of credit or cash collateral within 5 to 30 days. As of Dec. 31, 2001, the amount of collateral required if NRG were downgraded was approximately $960 million. Of the $960 million in collateral that could be required, approximately $200 million relates to NRGs guarantees of debt service reserve accounts required by some of its project level financings, approximately $400 million relates to NRGs power marketing activities; and $360 million would be required to support the $2 billion NRG Finance Co. credit line. Because NRG places a maximum amount on all of its guarantees in place to support power marketing activities, and because of the relatively small number of margin accounts in place, even very large changes in market conditions would not have a material impact on the amount of collateral that would be required for NRGs power marketing in the event of a downgrade. In the event of a downgrade, NRG would expect to meet the collateral obligations with cash on hand, available credit lines provided under the revolving line of credit, liquidity support from Xcel Energy and potentially from the issuance of debt into the capital markets. NRGs revolving line of credit is expected to be increased from $500 million to $1 billion in March 2002. In addition, NRG will maintain its $125 million letter of credit facility and plans to secure a funded $125 million credit facility for a total credit facility of $1.25 billion to be available in 2002. The Contingent Equity Guarantee could increase to a maximum of $850 million by the end of 2002 as NRG further utilizes the capacity of the NRG Finance Co. credit line. Therefore, the amount of collateral required by the end of 2002 could increase to approximately $1.45 billion. 64 Table of Contents Registration Statements Xcel Energys Articles of Incorporation authorize the issuance of 1 billion shares of common stock. As of Dec. 31, 2001, Xcel Energy had approximately 346 million shares of common stock outstanding. In addition, Xcel Energys Articles of Incorporation authorize the issuance of 7 million shares of $100 par value preferred stock. On Dec. 31, 2001, Xcel Energy had approximately 1 million shares of preferred stock outstanding. Registered securities available for issuance are as follows: In February 2002, Xcel Energy filed a registration statement for the sale of $1 billion of common stock and debt securities, of which a currently estimated minimum of $400 million (representing 17.5 million shares) is planned to be issued as common stock in the first quarter of 2002 to provide financial support to NRG and pay down short term debt. An expansion of the issuance could occur based on various market factors. See Note 19 to the Financial Statements. In addition, Xcel Energy has an effective shelf registration statement with the SEC under which $400 million of senior debt securities are available for issuance. In April 2001, NSP Minnesota filed a $600 million long term debt shelf registration with the SEC. PSCo has an effective shelf registration statement with the SEC under which $300 million of senior debt securities are available for issuance. In June 2001, NRG filed a shelf registration with the SEC to sell up to $2 billion in debt securities, common and preferred stock, warrants and other securities. NRG expects to use the net proceeds for general corporate purposes, which may include the financing and development of new facilities, working capital and debt reduction. NRG has approximately $1.5 billion remaining available under this shelf registration. 65 Table of Contents Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk See Managements Discussion and Analysis under Item 7, incorporated by reference. 
 
