Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis On Aug. 18, 2000, New Century Energies, Inc. (NCE) and Northern States Power Co. (NSP) merged and formed Xcel Energy Inc. (Xcel Energy). Xcel Energy, a Minnesota corporation, is a registered holding company under the Public Utility Holding Company Act (PUHCA). As part of the merger, NSP transferred its existing utility operations that were being conducted directly by NSP at the parent company level to a newly formed subsidiary of Xcel Energy named Northern States Power Co. Each share of NCE common stock was exchanged for 1.55 shares of Xcel Energy common stock. NSP shares became Xcel Energy shares on a one for one basis. As a stock for stock exchange for shareholders of both companies, the merger was accounted for as a pooling of interests and, accordingly, amounts reported for periods prior to the merger have been restated for comparability with post merger results. Xcel Energy directly owns six utility subsidiaries that serve electric and natural gas customers in 12 states. These six utility subsidiaries are Northern States Power Co., a Minnesota corporation (NSP Minnesota); Northern States Power Co., a Wisconsin corporation (NSP Wisconsin); Public Service Company of Colorado (PSCo); Southwestern Public Service Co. (SPS); Black Mountain Gas Co. (BMG), which is in the process of being sold pending regulatory approval; and Cheyenne Light, Fuel and Power Co. (Cheyenne). They serve customers in portions of Arizona, Colorado, Kansas, Michigan, Minnesota, New Mexico, North Dakota, Oklahoma, South Dakota, Texas, Wisconsin and Wyoming. During 2002, Xcel Energys regulated businesses also included Viking Gas Transmission Co. (Viking), which was sold on Jan. 17, 2003, and WestGas InterState Inc. (WGI), both interstate natural gas pipeline companies. Xcel Energy also owns or has an interest in a number of nonregulated businesses, the largest of which is NRG Energy, Inc. (NRG), an independent power producer. Xcel Energy owned 100 percent of NRG at the beginning of 2000. About 18 percent of NRG was sold to the public in an initial public offering in the second quarter of 2000, leaving Xcel Energy with an 82 percent interest at Dec. 31, 2000. In March 2001, another 8 percent of NRG was sold to the public, leaving Xcel Energy with an interest of about 74 percent at Dec. 31, 2001. On June 3, 2002, Xcel acquired the 26 percent of NRG held by the public so that it again held 100 percent ownership at Dec. 31, 2002. NRG is facing extreme financial difficulties. There is substantial doubt as to NRGs ability to continue as a going concern absent a restructuring through bankruptcy, and NRG will likely be the subject of a bankruptcy proceeding. See Note 2, 3, 4 and 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition to NRG, Xcel Energys nonregulated subsidiaries include Utility Engineering Corp. (engineering, construction and design), Seren Innovations, Inc. (broadband telecommunications services), e prime inc. (natural gas marketing and trading), Planergy International, Inc. (enterprise energy management solutions), Eloigne Co. (investments in rental housing projects that qualify for low income housing tax credits) and Xcel Energy International Inc. (an international independent power producer). FINANCIAL REVIEW The following discussion and analysis by management focuses on those factors that had a material effect on Xcel Energys financial condition, results of operations and cash flows during the periods presented, or are expected to have a material impact in the future. It should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes. All Note references refer to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Except for the historical statements contained in this report, the matters discussed in the following discussion and analysis are forward looking statements that are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Such forward looking statements are intended to be identified in this document by the words anticipate, estimate, expect, objective, outlook, project, possible, potential and similar expressions. Actual results may vary materially. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include, but are not limited to: general economic conditions, including their impact on capital expenditures and the ability of Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries to obtain financing on favorable terms; business conditions in the energy industry; actions of credit rating agencies; competitive factors, including the extent and timing of the entry of additional competition in the markets served by Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries; unusual weather; effects of geopolitical events, including war and acts of terrorism; state, federal and foreign legislative and regulatory initiatives that affect cost and investment recovery, have an impact on rates or have an impact on asset operation or ownership; structures that affect the speed and degree to which competition enters the electric and gas markets; the higher risk associated with Xcel Energys nonregulated businesses compared with its regulated businesses; currency translation and transaction adjustments; risks associated with the California power market; the items described under Factors Affecting Results of Operations; and the other risk factors listed from time to time by Xcel Energy in reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including Exhibit 99.01 to Xcel Energys Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2002. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Xcel Energys earnings per share for the past three years were as follows: 43 Table of Contents Contribution to earnings per share 2002 2001 2000 Continuing Operations Before Extraordinary Items: Regulated utility $ 1.59 $ 1.90 $ 1.20 NRG (including impairments and restructuring charges) (7.58 ) 0.44 0.37 Other nonregulated and holding company (including tax benefits related to investment in NRG in 2002) 1.63 (0.21 ) (0.06 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations (4.36 ) 2.13 1.51 Discontinued operations NRG (see Note 3) (1.46 ) 0.14 0.09 Extraordinary items Regulated utility (see Note 15) 0.03 (0.06 ) Total earnings (loss) per share diluted $ (5.82 ) $ 2.30 $ 1.54 Additional information on earnings contributions by operating segments are as follows: Contribution to earnings per share 2002 2001 2000 Regulated utility (including extraordinary items): Electric utility $ 1.33 $ 1.66 $ 1.03 Gas utility 0.26 0.24 0.17 Total regulated utility 1.59 1.90 1.20 NRG (including discontinued operations) (see Note 3) (9.04 ) 0.58 0.46 Other nonregulated and holding company: Tax benefit related to investment in NRG 1.85 0.00 0.00 Other (see Note 21 for components) (0.22 ) (0.18 ) (0.12 ) Total earnings (loss) per share diluted $ (5.82 ) $ 2.30 $ 1.54 For more information on significant factors that had an impact on earnings, see below. Significant Factors that Impacted 2002 Results Special Charges Regulated Utility Regulated utility earnings from continuing operations were reduced by approximately 2 cents per share in 2002 due to a $5 million regulatory recovery adjustment for SPS and $9 million in employee separation costs associated with a restaffing initiative early in the year for utility and service company operations. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of these items, which are reported as Special Charges in operating expenses. Impairment and Financial Restructuring Charges NRG NRGs losses from both continuing and discontinued operations were affected by charges recorded in 2002. Continuing operations included losses of approximately $7.07 per share in 2002 for asset impairment and disposal losses, and for other charges related mainly to its financial restructuring. These costs are reported as Special Charges and Writedowns and Disposal Losses from Investments in operating expenses, and are discussed further in Note 2 to the Financial Statements. In addition, discontinued operations included losses of approximately $1.56 per share for asset impairments and disposal losses, and are discussed further in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. During 2002, NRG experienced credit rating downgrades, defaults under certain credit agreements, increased collateral requirements and reduced liquidity. These events led to impairment reviews of a number of NRG assets, which resulted in material write downs in 2002. In addition to impairments of projects operating or under development, certain NRG projects were determined to be held for sale, and estimated losses on disposal for such projects were also recorded. These impairment charges, some of which related to equity investments, have reduced Xcel Energys earnings for 2002 as follows: $6.29 of Special Charges in continuing operations, $0.51 of Losses on Disposal of Investments in continuing operations, and $1.57 of impairment charges included in discontinued operations. As reported previously, there is substantial doubt as to NRGs ability to continue as a going concern, and NRG will likely be the subject of a bankruptcy proceeding. NRG also expensed approximately $111 million in 2002 for incremental costs related to its financial restructuring and business realignment. These costs, which reduced 2002 earnings by 27 cents per share, include expenses for financial and legal advisors, contract termination costs, employee separation and other incremental costs incurred during the financial restructuring period. These costs also include a charge related to NRGs NEO landfill gas generation operations for the estimated impact of a dispute settlement with NRGs partner on the NEO project, Fortistar. Most of these costs were paid in 2002. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of accrued financial restructuring cost activity related to NRG. 44 Table of Contents Tax Benefit NRG Investment As discussed in Note 11, it was determined in 2002 that NRG was no longer likely to be included in Xcel Energys consolidated income tax group. Approximately $706 million has been recognized at one of Xcel Energys nonregulated intermediate holding companies for the estimated tax benefits related to Xcel Energys investment in NRG, based on the difference between book and tax bases of such investment. This estimated tax benefit increased 2002 annual results by $1.85 per share. Other Nonregulated Holding Companies Nonregulated and holding company earnings for 2002 were reduced by losses of approximately 6 cents per share for the combined effects of unusual items that occurred during the year. As discussed later, Xcel International recorded impairment losses for Argentina assets of 3 cents per share and disposal losses for Yorkshire Power of 2 cents per share, Planergy recorded gains from contract sales of 2 cents per share, losses were incurred on holding company debt of 2 cents per share, and incremental costs related to NRG financial restructuring activities of 1 cent per share were incurred at the holding company level. Significant Factors that Impacted 2001 Results Regulated utility earnings were reduced by a net 1 cent per share from the combined effects of four unusual items that occurred during the year. Three of the items affected continuing operations, reducing earnings by 4 cents per share. The remaining item increased income from extraordinary items by 3 cents per share. Conservation Incentive Recovery Regulated utility earnings from continuing operations in 2001 were increased by 7 cents per share due to a Minnesota Public Utilities Commission (MPUC) decision. In June 2001, the MPUC approved a plan allowing recovery of 1998 incentives associated with state mandated programs for energy conservation. As a result, the previously recorded liabilities of approximately $41 million, including carrying charges, for potential refunds to customers were no longer required. The plan approved by the MPUC increased revenue by approximately $34 million and increased allowance for funds used during construction by approximately $7 million, increasing earnings by 7 cents per share for the second quarter of 2001. Based on the new MPUC policy and less uncertainty regarding conservation incentives to be approved, conservation incentives are being recorded on a current basis beginning in 2001. Special Charges Postemployment Benefits and Restaffing Costs Regulated utility earnings from continuing operations in 2001 were decreased by 4 cents per share due to a Colorado Supreme Court decision that resulted in a pretax write off of $23 million of a regulatory asset related to deferred postemployment benefit costs at PSCo. Also, regulated utility earnings from continuing operations were reduced by approximately 7 cents per share in 2001 due to $39 million of employee separation costs associated with a restaffing initiative late in the year for utility and service company operations. See Note 2 to the Financial Statements for further discussion of these items, which are reported as Special Charges in operating expenses. Extraordinary Items Electric Utility Restructuring In 2001, extraordinary income of $18 million before tax, or 3 cents per share, was recorded related to the regulated utility business to reflect the impacts of industry restructuring developments for SPS. This represents a reversal of a portion of the 2000 extraordinary loss discussed later. For more information on SPS extraordinary items, see Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Significant Factors that Impacted 2000 Results Special Charges Merger Costs During 2000, Xcel Energy expensed pretax special charges of $241 million, or 52 cents per share, for costs related to the merger between NSP and NCE. Of these special charges, approximately 44 cents per share were associated with the costs of merging regulated utility operations and 8 cents per share were associated with merger impacts on nonregulated and holding company activities other than NRG. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on these merger related costs reported as Special Charges. Extraordinary Items Electric Utility Restructuring In 2000, extraordinary losses of approximately $28 million before tax, or 6 cents per share, were recorded related to the regulated utility business for the expected discontinuation of regulatory accounting for SPS generation business. For more information on SPS extraordinary items, see Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Statement of Operations Electric Utility and Commodity Trading Margins Electric fuel and purchased power expenses tend to vary with changing retail and wholesale sales requirements and unit cost changes in fuel and purchased power. Due to fuel cost recovery mechanisms for retail customers in several states, most fluctuations in energy costs do not materially affect 45 Table of Contents electric utility margin. However, the fuel clause cost recovery in Colorado does not allow for complete recovery of all variable production expense, and cost changes can affect earnings. Electric utility margins reflect the impact of sharing energy costs and savings relative to a target cost per delivered kilowatt hour and certain trading margins under the incentive cost adjustment (ICA) ratemaking mechanism in Colorado. In addition to the ICA, Colorado has other adjustment clauses that allow certain costs to be recovered from retail customers. Xcel Energy has three distinct forms of wholesale sales: short term wholesale, electric commodity trading and natural gas commodity trading. Short term wholesale refers to electric sales for resale, which are associated with energy produced from Xcel Energys generation assets or energy and capacity purchased to serve native load. Electric and natural gas commodity trading refers to the sales for resale activity of purchasing and reselling electric and natural gas energy to the wholesale market. Xcel Energys commodity trading operations are conducted by NSP Minnesota (electric), PSCo (electric) and e prime (natural gas). Margins from electric trading activity, conducted at NSP Minnesota and PSCo, are partially redistributed to other operating utilities of Xcel Energy, pursuant to a joint operating agreement (JOA) approved by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). Trading margins reflect the impact of sharing certain trading margins under the ICA. Trading revenues, as discussed in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, are reported net (i.e., margins) in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Trading revenue and costs associated with NRGs operations are included in nonregulated margins. The following table details the revenue and margin for base electric utility, short term wholesale and electric and natural gas trading activities. Base Electric Natural Gas Electric Short Term Commodity Commodity Intercompany Consolidated (Millions of dollars) Utility Wholesale Trading Trading Eliminations Totals 2002 Electric utility revenue $ 5,232 $ 203 $ $ $ $ 5,435 Electric fuel and purchased power utility (2,029 ) (170 ) (2,199 ) Electric and natural gas trading revenue gross 1,529 1,898 (71 ) 3,356 Electric and natural gas trading costs (1,527 ) (1,892 ) 71 (3,348 ) Gross margin before operating expenses $ 3,203 $ 33 $ 2 $ 6 $ $ 3,244 Margin as a percentage of revenue 61.2 % 16.3 % 0.1 % 0.3 % 36.9 % 2001 Electric utility revenue $ 5,607 $ 788 $ $ $ $ 6,395 Electric fuel and purchased power utility (2,559 ) (613 ) (3,172 ) Electric and natural gas trading revenue gross 1,337 1,938 (88 ) 3,187 Electric and natural gas trading costs (1,268 ) (1,918 ) 88 (3,098 ) Gross margin before operating expenses $ 3,048 $ 175 $ 69 $ 20 $ $ 3,312 Margin as a percentage of revenue 54.4 % 22.2 % 5.2 % 1.0 % 34.6 % 2000 Electric utility revenue $ 5,107 $ 567 $ $ $ $ 5,674 Electric fuel and purchased power utility (2,106 ) (475 ) (2,581 ) Electric and natural gas trading revenue gross 819 1,297 (54 ) 2,062 Electric and natural gas trading costs (788 ) (1,287 ) 54 (2,021 ) Gross margin before operating expenses $ 3,001 $ 92 $ 31 $ 10 $ $ 3,134 Margin as a percentage of revenue 58.8 % 16.2 % 3.8 % 0.8 % % 40.5 % 2002 Comparison to 2001 Base electric utility revenue decreased $375 million, while electric utility margins, primarily retail, increased approximately $155 million in 2002, compared with 2001. Base electric revenues decreased largely due to decreased recovery of fuel and purchased power costs driven by declining fuel costs in 2002. The higher base electric margins in the year reflect lower unrecovered costs, due in part to resetting the base cost recovery at PSCo in January 2002. In 2001, PSCos allowed recovery was approximately $78 million less than its actual costs, while in 2002 its allowed recovery was approximately $29 million more than its actual cost. For the year, higher accrued conservation revenues, sales growth and more favorable temperatures also contributed to the 46 Table of Contents higher electric margins and partially offset the lower base electric revenue. Lower wholesale capacity sales in Texas, as well as the impact of the conservation incentive adjustment in Minnesota in 2001, as discussed previously, partially offset the increased margins and contributed to the lower revenues. Short term wholesale margins consist of asset based trading activity. Electric and natural gas commodity trading activity margins consist of non asset based trading activity. Short term wholesale and electric and natural gas commodity trading sales margins decreased an aggregate of approximately $223 million in 2002, compared with 2001. The decrease in short term wholesale and electric commodity trading margin reflects lower power prices and less favorable market conditions. The decrease in natural gas commodity trading margin reflects reduced market opportunities. 2001 Comparison to 2000 Base electric utility revenue increased by approximately $500 million, or 9.8 percent, in 2001. Base electric utility margin increased by approximately $47 million, or 1.6 percent, in 2001. These revenue and margin increases were due to sales growth, weather conditions in 2001 and the recovery of conservation incentives in Minnesota. Increased conservation incentives, including the resolution of the 1998 dispute, as discussed previously, and accrued 2001 incentives, increased revenue and margin by $49 million. More favorable weather during 2001 increased revenue by approximately $23 million and margin by approximately $13 million. These increases were partially offset by increases in fuel and purchased power costs, which are not completely recoverable from customers in Colorado due to various cost sharing mechanisms. Revenue and margin also were reduced in 2001 by approximately $30 million due to rate reductions in various jurisdictions agreed to as part of the merger approval process, compared with $10 million in 2000. Short term wholesale revenue increased by approximately $221 million, or 39.0 percent, in 2001. Short term wholesale margin increased $83 million, or 90.2 percent, in 2001. These increases are due to the expansion of Xcel Energys wholesale marketing operations and favorable market conditions for the first six months of 2001, including strong prices in the western markets, particularly before the establishment of price caps and other market changes. Electric and natural gas commodity trading margins, including proprietary electric trading (i.e., not in electricity produced by Xcel Energys own generating plants) and natural gas trading, increased approximately $48 million for the year ended Dec. 31, 2001, compared with the same period in 2000. The increase reflects an expansion of Xcel Energys trading operations and favorable market conditions, including strong prices in the western markets, particularly before the establishment of pricing caps and other market changes. Natural Gas Utility Margins The following table details the changes in natural gas utility revenue and margin. The cost of natural gas tends to vary with changing sales requirements and the unit cost of natural gas purchases. However, due to purchased natural gas cost recovery mechanisms for retail customers, fluctuations in the cost of natural gas have little effect on natural gas margin. (Millions of dollars) 2002 2001 2000 Natural gas utility revenue $ 1,398 $ 2,053 $ 1,469 Cost of natural gas purchased and transported (852 ) (1,518 ) (948 ) Gas utility margin $ 546 $ 535 $ 521 2002 Comparison to 2001 Natural gas utility revenue decreased by $655 million, while natural gas margins increased by $11 million. Natural gas revenue decreased largely due to decreases in the cost of natural gas, which are generally passed through to customers. Natural utility gas margin increased due primarily to more favorable temperatures and sales growth. 2001 Comparison to 2000 Natural gas utility revenue increased by approximately $584 million, or 39.8 percent, for 2001, primarily due to increases in the cost of natural gas, which are largely passed on to customers and recovered through various rate adjustment clauses in most of the jurisdictions in which Xcel Energy operates. Natural gas utility margin increased by approximately $14 million, or 2.7 percent, for 2001 due to sales growth and a rate increase in Colorado. These natural gas revenue and margin increases were partially offset by the impact of warmer temperatures in 2001, which decreased natural gas revenue by approximately $38 million and natural gas margin by approximately $16 million. Nonregulated Operating Margins The following table details the changes in nonregulated revenue and margin included in continuing operations. (Millions of dollars) 2002 2001 2000 Nonregulated and other revenue $ 2,611 $ 2,580 $ 1,856 Earnings from equity investments 72 217 183 Nonregulated cost of goods sold (1,361 ) (1,319 ) (877 ) Nonregulated margin $ 1,322 $ 1,478 $ 1,162 47 Table of Contents 2002 Comparison to 2001 Nonregulated revenue from continuing operations increased slightly in 2002, reflecting growth from the full year impact of NRGs 2001 generating facility acquisitions but partially offset by lower market prices. Nonregulated margin from continuing operations decreased in 2002, due to decreased equity earnings. Earnings from equity investments for 2002 decreased compared with 2001, primarily due to decreased equity earnings from NRGs West Coast Power project, which experienced less favorable long term contracts and higher uncollectible receivables. 2001 Comparison to 2000 Nonregulated revenue and margin from continuing operations increased in 2001, largely due to NRGs acquisition of generating facilities, increased demand for electricity, market dynamics, strong performance from existing assets and higher market prices for electricity. Earnings from equity investments for 2001 increased compared with 2000, primarily due to increased equity earnings from NRG projects, which offset lower equity earnings from Yorkshire Power. As a result of a sales agreement to sell most of its investment in Yorkshire Power, Xcel Energy did not record any equity earnings from Yorkshire Power after January 2001. Non Fuel Operating Expense and Other Items Other utility operating and maintenance expense for 2002 decreased by approximately $4 million, or 0.3 percent. The decreased costs reflect lower incentive compensation and other employee benefit costs, as well as lower staffing levels in corporate areas. These decreases were substantially offset by higher plant outage and property insurance costs, in addition to inflationary factors such as market wage increases. Other utility operating and maintenance expense for 2001 increased by approximately $60 million, or 4.1 percent, compared with 2000. The change is largely due to increased plant outages, higher nuclear operating costs, bad debt reserves reflecting higher energy prices, increased costs due to customer growth and higher performance based incentive costs. Other nonregulated operating and maintenance expenses for continuing operations increased $111 million in 2002 and increased $143 million in 2001. These expenses are included in the results for each nonregulated subsidiary, as discussed later. Depreciation and amortization expense increased $131 million, or 14.5 percent, in 2002 and $140 million, or 18.2 percent, in 2001, primarily due to acquisitions of generating facilities by NRG and additions to utility plant. Higher NRG depreciation expense accounted for $87 million of the increase in 2002. Interest income was higher in 2002 and 2001 due to higher cash balances at NRG in both years and to interest on affiliate loans in 2001. Other income was higher in 2002 and 2001 due mainly to a gain on the sale of nonregulated property and PSCo assets. Other expense increased in 2002 due largely to variations in currency exchange losses at NRG. Interest expense increased $152 million, or 20.8 percent, in 2002 and $114 million, or 18.5 percent, in 2001, primarily due to increased debt of NRG. In addition, long term debt was refinanced at higher interest rates during 2002. Higher NRG interest expense accounted for $105 million of the increase in 2002. Income tax expense decreased by approximately $959 million in 2002, compared with 2001. Nearly all of this decrease relates to NRGs 2002 losses and the change in tax filing status for NRG effective in the third quarter of 2002, as discussed in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. NRG is now in a tax operating loss carryforward position and is no longer assumed to be part of Xcel Energys consolidated tax group. The effective tax rate for continuing operations, excluding minority interest and before extraordinary items, was 27.3 percent for the year ended Dec. 31, 2002, and 28.8 percent for the same period in 2001. The decrease in the effective rate between years reflects a nominal tax rate at NRG, due to their loss carryforward position. Partially offsetting the NRG tax rate decrease is the impact of a one time adjustment to recognize tax benefits from Xcel Energys investment in NRG, as discussed in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The effective tax rate for the regulated utility business and operations other than NRG was significantly lower in 2002, compared with 2001, due to the benefit recorded on the investment in NRG and the changes in the items listed in the rate reconciliation in Note 11. Weather Xcel Energys earnings can be significantly affected by weather. Unseasonably hot summers or cold winters increase electric and natural gas sales, but also can increase expenses, which may not be fully recoverable. Unseasonably mild weather reduces electric and natural gas sales, but may not reduce expenses, which affects overall results. The following summarizes the estimated impact on the earnings of the utility subsidiaries of Xcel Energy due to temperature variations from historical averages: weather in 2002 increased earnings by an estimated 6 cents per share; weather in 2001 had minimal impact on earnings per share; and weather in 2000 increased earnings by an estimated 1 cent per share. 48 Table of Contents NRG Results Contribution to Xcel Energys earnings per share 2002 2001 2000 Continuing NRG operations: Operations before tax credits, special charges and disposal losses $ (0.54 ) $ 0.49 $ 0.35 Tax credits 0.14 0.10 Special charges asset impairments (Note 2) (6.29 ) Special charges financial restructuring and NEO (Note 2) (0.27 ) Write downs and disposal losses from equity investments (Note 2) (0.51 ) Income (loss) from continuing NRG operations (7.61 ) 0.63 0.45 Discontinued NRG operations (Note 3) (1.46 ) 0.14 0.09 Total NRG earnings (loss) per share (9.07 ) 0.77 0.54 Minority shareholder interest 0.03 (0.19 ) (0.08 ) NRG contribution to Xcel Energy $ (9.04 ) $ 0.58 $ 0.46 NRG Continuing Operations and Tax Credits As previously stated, NRG is facing extreme financial difficulties, and there is substantial doubt as to NRGs ability to continue as a going concern. During 2002, NRGs continuing operations, excluding impacts of asset impairments and disposals and restructuring costs, experienced significant losses compared with 2001. The 2002 losses are primarily attributable to NRGs North American operations, which experienced significant reductions in domestic energy and capacity sales and an overall decrease in power pool prices and related spark spreads. During 2002, an additional reserve for uncollectible receivables in California was established by West Coast Power, which reduced NRGs equity earnings by approximately $29 million, after tax. West Coast Powers 2002 income was also lower than 2001 due to less favorable contracts and reductions in sales of energy and capacity. In addition, increased administrative costs, depreciation and interest expense from completed construction costs also contributed to the less than favorable results for NRG in 2002. Partially off setting these earnings reductions was the recognition, in the fourth quarter of 2002, of approximately $51 million of additional revenues related to the contractual termination related to NRGs Indian River project. On a stand alone basis, NRG does not have the ability to recognize all tax benefits that may ultimately accrue from its losses incurred in 2002, thus increasing the overall loss from continuing operations. In addition to losing the ability to recognize all tax benefits for operating losses, NRG in 2002 also lost the ability to utilize tax credits generated by its energy projects. These lower tax credits account for a portion of the decreased earnings contribution of NRG compared with results in 2001 and 2000, which included income related to recognition of tax credits. NRGs earnings for 2001 increased primarily due to new acquisitions in Europe and North America, as well as a full year of operation in 2001 of acquisitions made in the fourth quarter of 2000. In addition, NRGs 2001 earnings reflected a reduction in the overall effective tax rate and mark to market gains related to SFAS No. 133 Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activity. The overall reduction in tax rates in 2001 was primarily due to higher energy credits, the implementation of state tax planning strategies and a higher percentage of NRGs overall earnings derived from foreign projects in lower tax jurisdictions. NRG Special Charges Impairments and Financial Restructuring As discussed previously, both the continuing and discontinued operations of NRG in 2002 included material losses for asset impairments and estimated disposal losses. Also, NRG recorded other special charges in 2002, mainly for incremental costs related to its financial restructuring and business realignment. See Notes 2 and 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of NRGs special charges and discontinued operations, respectively. Other Nonregulated Subsidiaries and Holding Company Results Contribution to Xcel Energys earnings per share 2002 2001 2000 Xcel International $ (0.05 ) $ (0.02 ) $ 0.09 Eloigne Company 0.02 0.03 0.02 Seren Innovations (0.07 ) (0.08 ) (0.07 ) Planergy International 0.00 (0.04 ) (0.08 ) e prime 0.00 0.02 (0.02 ) Financing costs and preferred dividends (0.11 ) (0.11 ) (0.07 ) Other nonregulated/holding company results (0.01 ) 0.02 0.01 Subtotal nonregulated/holding co. excluding tax benefit (0.22 ) (0.18 ) (0.12 ) Tax benefit from investment in NRG (Note 11) 1.85 Total nonregulated/holding company earnings per share $ 1.63 $ (0.18 ) $ (0.12 ) 49 Table of Contents Xcel International Xcel International is currently comprised primarily of power generation projects in Argentina, and previously included an investment in Yorkshire Power. In December 2002, a subsidiary of Xcel Argentina decided it would no longer fund one of its power projects in Argentina and defaulted on its loan agreements. The default is not material to Xcel Energy. However, this decision resulted in the shutdown of the Argentina plant facility, pending financing of a necessary maintenance outage. Updated cash flow projections for the plant were insufficient to provide recovery of Xcel Internationals investment. An impairment write down of approximately $13 million, or 3 cents per share, was recorded in 2002. In August 2002, Xcel Energy announced it had sold its 5.25 percent interest in Yorkshire Power Group Limited for $33 million to CE Electric UK. The sale of the 5.25 percent interest resulted in an after tax loss of $8.3 million, or 2 cents per share, in 2002. The loss is included in write downs and disposal losses from investments on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Xcel Energy and American Electric Power Co. initially each held a 50 percent interest in Yorkshire, a UK retail electricity and natural gas supplier and electricity distributor, before selling 94.75 percent of Yorkshire to Innogy Holdings plc in April 2001. As a result of this sales agreement, Xcel Energy did not record any equity earnings from Yorkshire Power after January 2001. For more information, see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Eloigne Company Eloigne invests in affordable housing that qualifies for Internal Revenue Service tax credits. Eloignes earnings contribution declined slightly in 2002 as tax credits on mature affordable housing projects began to decline. The actual decline in Eloignes net income in 2002, compared with 2001, was only $716,000, with 2002 earnings representing 2.1 cents per share and 2001 earnings representing 2.5 cents per share. Seren Innovations Seren operates a combination cable television, telephone and high speed Internet access system in St. Cloud, Minn., and Contra Costa County, California. Operation of its broadband communications network has resulted in losses. Seren projects improvement in its operating results with positive cash flow anticipated in 2005, upon completion of its build out phase, and a positive earnings contribution anticipated in 2008. Planergy International Planergy, a wholly owned subsidiary of Xcel Energy, provides energy management services. Planergys results for 2002 improved, largely due to gains from the sale of a portfolio of energy management contracts, which increased earnings by nearly 2 cents per share. Planergys results for 2000 were reduced by special charges of 4 cents per share for the write offs of goodwill and project development costs. e prime e primes results for the year ended Dec. 31, 2001, reflect the favorable structure of its contractual portfolio, including natural gas storage and transportation positions, structured products and proprietary trading in natural gas markets. e primes earnings were lower in 2002, and higher in 2001, due to varying natural gas commodity trading margins, as discussed previously. e primes results for 2000 were reduced by special charges of 2 cents per share for contractual obligations and other costs associated with post merger changes in the strategic operations and related revaluations of e primes energy marketing business. Financing Costs and Preferred Dividends Nonregulated results include interest expense and preferred dividends, which are incurred at the Xcel Energy and intermediate holding company levels, and are not directly assigned to individual subsidiaries. In November 2002, the Xcel Energy holding company issued temporary financing, which included detachable options for the purchase of Xcel Energy notes, which are convertible to Xcel Energy common stock. This temporary financing was replaced with longer term holding company financing in late November 2002. Costs incurred to redeem the temporary financing included a redemption premium of $7.4 million, $5.2 million of debt discount associated with the detachable option and other issuance costs, which increased financing costs and reduced 2002 earnings by 2 cents per share. Other Certain costs related to NRGs restructuring are being incurred at the holding company level. Approximately $5 million of such costs were incurred in 2002, which reduced earnings by approximately 1 cent per share. 50 Table of Contents Other nonregulated results for 2000, which include the activity of several nonregulated subsidiaries, were reduced by merger related special charges of 2 cents per share. These special charges include $10 million in asset write downs and losses resulting from various other nonregulated business ventures that are no longer being pursued after the Xcel Energy merger. Factors Affecting Results of Operations Xcel Energys utility revenues depend on customer usage, which varies with weather conditions, general business conditions and the cost of energy services. Various regulatory agencies approve the prices for electric and natural gas service within their respective jurisdictions. In addition, Xcel Energys nonregulated businesses have adversely affected Xcel Energys earnings in 2002. The historical and future trends of Xcel Energys operating results have been, and are expected to be, affected by the following factors: Impact of NRG Financial Difficulties NRG is experiencing severe financial difficulties, resulting primarily from declining credit ratings and lower prices for power. These financial difficulties have caused NRG to miss several scheduled payments of interest and principal on its bonds and incur approximately $3.1 billion in asset impairment charges. In addition, as a result of being downgraded, NRG was required to post cash collateral ranging from $1.1 billion to $1.3 billion. NRG has been unable to post this cash collateral and, as a result, is in default on various obligations. Furthermore, in November 2002, lenders to NRG accelerated approximately $1.1 billion of NRGs debt, rendering the debt immediately due and payable. In February 2003, lenders to NRG accelerated an additional $1 billion of debt. NRG does not contemplate making any principal or interest payments on its corporate level debt pending the restructuring of its obligations and is in default under various debt instruments. As a consequence of the defaults, the lenders are able to seek to enforce their remedies, if they so choose, and that would likely lead to a bankruptcy filing by NRG. NRG continues to work with its lenders and bondholders on a comprehensive financial restructuring plan. See further discussion of potential NRG bankruptcy and financial restructuring under Liquidity and Capital Resources and in Notes 4 and 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Subsequent to its credit downgrade in July 2002, NRG experienced losses as follows in 2002: (Millions of dollars) Third Quarter Fourth Quarter Net losses from NRG: Special Charges asset impairments $ (2,466 ) $ (79 ) Special Charges financial restructuring and other costs (34 ) (21 ) Write downs and losses on equity method investments (118 ) (74 ) Other income (loss) from continuing operations, including income tax effects 140 (176 ) NRG loss from continuing operations (2,478 ) (350 ) Discontinued operations asset impairments (600 ) Discontinued operations other 23 9 Net NRG loss for period $ (3,055 ) $ (341 ) These NRG losses have reduced Xcel Energys retained earnings to a deficit as of Dec. 31, 2002. NRG is expected to continue to experience material losses into 2003, pending a successful financial restructuring and increased power prices. NRGs losses in 2003 may include further asset impairments, losses from asset disposals, and financial restructuring costs as NRG continues its financial restructuring and decisions are made to realign NRGs business operations and divest operating assets. In addition, the impact of any settlement with NRGs creditors regarding the financial restructuring of NRG may also impact Xcel Energys operating results and retained earnings, by material amounts which will not be determinable until settlement terms are reached. See Note 4 to the Financial Statements for a discussion of a preliminary settlement with NRGs creditors. As discussed later, Xcel Energy is unable without SEC approval under PUHCA to declare dividends on its common stock until consolidated retained earnings are positive, and continuing NRG financial impacts may continue to limit the ability of Xcel Energy to declare and pay dividends. In the event that NRGs financial situation ultimately results in a bankruptcy filing, there may be additional impacts on Xcel Energys financial condition and results of operations. See the Xcel Energy Impacts under the Other Liquidity and Capital Resource Considerations section later in Managements Discussion and Analysis, and Note 4 to the Financial Statements, for further discussion of the possible effects of an NRG bankruptcy filing on Xcel Energy. General Economic Conditions The slower United States economy, and the global economy to a lesser extent, may have a significant impact on Xcel Energys operating results. Current economic conditions have resulted in a decline in the forward price curve for energy and decreased commodity trading margins. In addition, certain operating costs, such as insurance and security, have increased due to the economy, terrorist activity and the threat of war. Management cannot predict the impact of a continued economic slowdown, fluctuating energy prices, war or the threat of war. 51 Table of Contents However, Xcel Energy could experience a material adverse impact to its results of operations, future growth or ability to raise capital from a weakened economy or war. Sales Growth In addition to weather impacts, customer sales levels in Xcel Energys regulated utility businesses can vary with economic conditions, customer usage patterns and other factors. Weather normalized sales growth for retail electric utility customers was estimated to be 1.8 percent in 2002 compared with 2001, and 1.0 percent in 2001 compared with 2000. Weather normalized sales growth for firm gas utility customers was estimated to be approximately the same in 2002 compared with 2001, and 2.6 percent in 2001 compared with 2000. We are projecting that 2003 weather normalized sales growth in 2003 compared with 2002 will be 1.5 to 2.0 percent for retail electric utility customers and 2.5 to 3.0 percent for firm gas utility customers. Utility Industry Changes The structure of the electric and natural gas utility industry has been subject to change. Merger and acquisition activity over the past few years has been significant as utilities combine to capture economies of scale or establish a strategic niche in preparing for the future. Some regulated utilities are divesting generation assets. All utilities are required to provide nondiscriminatory access to the use of their transmission systems. In December 2001, the FERC approved Midwest Independent Transmission System Operator, Inc. (MISO) as the Midwest independent system operator responsible for operating the wholesale electric transmission system. Accordingly, in compliance with the FERCs Order No. 2000, Xcel Energy turned over operational control of its transmission system to the MISO in January 2002. Some states had begun to allow retail customers to choose their electricity supplier, and many other states were considering retail access proposals. However, the experience of the state of California in instituting competition, as well as the bankruptcy filing of Enron, have caused indefinite delays in most industry restructuring. Xcel Energy cannot predict the outcome of restructuring proceedings in the electric utility jurisdictions it serves at this time. The resolution of these matters may have a significant impact on the financial position, results of operations and cash flows of Xcel Energy. California Power Market NRG operates in the wholesale power market in California. See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of lawsuits against NRG and other power producers and marketers involving the California electricity markets. Xcel Energy and NRG have fully reserved for its uncollected receivables related to the California power market. Critical Accounting Policies Preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements and related disclosures in compliance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) requires the application of appropriate technical accounting rules and guidance, as well as the use of estimates. The application of these policies necessarily involves judgments regarding future events, including the likelihood of success of particular projects, legal and regulatory challenges and anticipated recovery of costs. These judgments, in and of themselves, could materially impact the Consolidated Financial Statements and disclosures based on varying assumptions, which may be appropriate to use. In addition, the financial and operating environment also may have a significant effect, not only on the operation of the business, but on the results reported through the application of accounting measures used in preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements and related disclosures, even if the nature of the accounting policies applied have not changed. The following is a list of accounting policies that are most significant to the portrayal of Xcel Energys financial condition and results, and that require managements most difficult, subjective or complex judgments. Each of these has a higher likelihood of resulting in materially different reported amounts under different conditions or using different assumptions. 52 Table of Contents Accounting Policy Judgments/Uncertainties Affecting Application See Additional Discussion At Asset Valuation Regional economic conditions Managements Discussion and Analysis: NRG Seren Argentina affecting asset operation, market prices and related cash flowsForeign currency valuation changes Results of Operations Managements Discussion and Analysis:Factors Affecting Results of Operations Regulatory and political environments and requirements Levels of future market penetration and customer growth Impacts of NRG Financial Difficulties Impact of Other Nonregulated Investments Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes 2, 3 and 18 NRG Financial Restructuring Terms negotiated to settle NRGsobligations to its creditors Managements Discussion and Analysis:Liquidity and Capital Resources Ownership interest in and control of NRG, and related ability to continue consolidating NRG as a subsidiary NRG Financial Issues Xcel Energy Impacts Impacts of court decisions in future Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements bankruptcy proceedings, including any obligations of Xcel Energy Notes 4 and 18 Income Tax Accruals Application of tax statutes andregulations to transactions Managements Discussion and Analysis:Factors Affecting Results of Operations Anticipated future decisions of tax authorities Tax Matters Ability of tax authority Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements decisions/positions to withstand legal challenges and appeals Ability to realize tax benefits throughcarrybacks to prior periods orcarryovers to future periods Notes 1, 11 and 18 Benefit Plan Accounting Future rate of return on pension andother plan assets, including impacts of Managements Discussion and Analysis:Factors Affecting Results of Operations any changes to investment portfolio Pension Plan Costs and Assumptions composition Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Interest rates used in valuing benefitobligation Actuarial period selected to recognizedeferred investment gains and losses Notes 1 and 13 Regulatory Mechanisms and Cost Recovery External regulator decisions,requirements and regulatoryenvironment Managements Discussion and Analysis:Factors Affecting Results of Operations Anticipated future regulatory decisions and their impact Utility Industry Changes and Restructuring Impact of deregulation and competition on ratemaking process and ability to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements recover costs Notes 1, 18 and 20 Environmental Issues Approved methods for cleanup Responsible party determination Managements Discussion and Analysis:Factors Affecting Results of Operations Governmental regulations andstandards Environmental Matters Results of ongoing research and development regarding environmental impacts Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes 1 and 18 Uncollectible Receivables Economic conditions affectingcustomers, suppliers and market prices Managements Discussion and Analysis:Factors Affecting Results of Operations Regulatory environment and impact of cost recovery constraints on customer California Power Market financial condition Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings Notes 1 and 18 Nuclear Plant Costs of future decommissioning Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Decommissioning and Cost Recovery Availability of facilities for waste disposal Approved methods for waste disposal Useful lives of nuclear power plants Future recovery of plant investment and decommissioning costs Notes 1, 18 and 19 53 Table of Contents Pension Plan Costs and Assumptions Xcel Energys pension costs are based on an actuarial calculation that includes a number of key assumptions, most notably the annual return level that pension investment assets will earn in the future, and the interest rate used to discount future pension benefit payments to a present value obligation for financial reporting. In addition, the actuarial calculation uses an asset smoothing methodology to reduce volatility of varying investment performance over time. Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements discusses the rate of return and discount rate used in the calculation of pension costs and obligations in the accompanying financial statements. Pension costs have been increasing in recent years, and are expected to increase further over the next several years, due to lower than expected investment returns experienced and decreases in interest rates used to discount benefit obligations. Investment returns in 2000 and 2001 were below the assumed level of 9.5 percent, and interest rates have declined from the 7.5 percent to 8 percent levels used in 1999 and 2000 cost determinations to 7.25 percent used in 2002. Xcel Energy continually reviews its pension assumptions, and in 2003 expects to change the investment return assumption to 9.25 percent and the discount rate assumption to 6.75 percent. Xcel Energy bases its investment return assumption on expected long term performance for each of the investment types included in its pension asset portfolio. These include equity investments, such as corporate common stocks; fixed income investments, such as corporate bonds and U.S. Treasury securities and non traditional investments, such as timber or real estate partnerships. In reaching a return assumption, Xcel Energy considers the actual historical returns achieved by its asset portfolio over the past 20 year or longer period, as well as the long term return levels projected and recommended by investment experts in the marketplace. The historical weighted average annual return for the past 20 years for the Xcel Energy portfolio of pension investments is 12.6 percent, in excess of the current assumption level. The pension cost determinations assume the continued current mix of investment types over the long term. The target and 2002 mix of assets among these portfolio components is discussed in Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Xcel Energy portfolio is heavily weighted toward equity securities, and includes non traditional investments that can provide a higher than average return. However, as is the experience in recent years, a higher weighting in equity investments can increase the volatility in the return levels actually achieved by pension assets in any year. Xcel Energy lowered the 2003 pension investment return assumptions to reflect changing expectations of investment experts in the marketplace. The investment gains or losses resulting from the difference between the expected pension returns assumed on smoothed or market related asset levels and actual returns earned is deferred in the year the difference arises and recognized over the subsequent five year period. This gain or loss recognition occurs by using a five year moving average value of pension assets to measure expected asset returns in the cost determination process, and by amortizing deferred investment gains or losses over the subsequent five year period. Based on the use of average market related asset values, and considering the expected recognition of past investment gains and losses over the next five years, achieving the assumed rate of asset return of 9.25 percent in each future year and holding other assumptions constant, we currently project that the pension costs recognized by Xcel Energy for financial reporting purposes will increase from a credit, or negative expense, of $84 million in 2002 to a credit of $45 million in 2003, a credit of $20 million in 2004, and a net expense of $20 million in 2005. Pension costs are currently a credit due to the recognized investment asset returns exceeding the other pension cost components, such as benefits earned for current service and interest costs for the effects of the passage of time on discounted obligations. Xcel Energy bases its discount rate assumption on benchmark interest rates quoted by an established credit rating agency, Moodys Investors Service (Moodys), and have consistently benchmarked the interest rate used to derive the discount rate to the movements in long term corporate bond indices for bonds rated AAA through BAA by Moodys, which have a period to maturity comparable to our projected benefit obligations. At Dec. 31, 2002, the annualized Moodys Aa index rate, roughly in the middle of the AAA and BAA range, was 6.63 percent, which when rounded to the nearest quarter percent rate, as is our policy, resulted in our 6.75 percent pension discount rate at year end 2002. This rate was used to value the actuarial benefit obligations at that date, and will be used in 2003 pension cost determinations. If Xcel Energy were to use alternative assumptions for pension cost determinations, a 1 percent change would result in the following impacts on the estimated pension costs recognized by Xcel Energy for financial reporting purposes: a 1 percent higher rate of return, 10.25 percent, would decrease 2003 pension costs by $22 million a 1 percent lower rate of return, 8.25 percent, would increase 2003 pension costs by $22 million a 1 percent higher discount rate, 7.75 percent, would decrease 2003 pension costs by $8 million a 1 percent lower discount rate, 5.75 percent, would increase 2003 pension costs by $12 million 54 Table of Contents Alternative assumptions would also change the expected future cash funding requirements for the pension plans. Cash funding requirements can be impacted by changes to actuarial assumptions, actual asset levels and other pertinent calculations prescribed by the funding requirements of income tax and other pension related regulations. These regulations did not require cash funding in recent years for Xcel Energys pension plans, and do not require funding in 2003. Assuming future asset return levels equal the actuarial assumption of 9.25 percent for the years 2003 2005, then under current funding regulations we project that no cash funding would be required for 2004, $35 million in funding would be required for 2005, and $54 million in funding would be required for 2006. Actual performance can affect these funding requirements significantly. If the actual return level is 0 percent in 2003 and 2004, which assumes a continued downturn in the financial markets, and 9.25 percent in 2005 then the 2004 cash funding requirement would still be zero. However, the 2005 funding requirement would increase to $60 million, and 2006 funding required would be $70 million. Current funding regulations are under legislative review in 2003, and if not retained in their current form, could change these funding requirements materially. Regulation Xcel Energy is a registered holding company under the PUHCA. As a result, Xcel Energy, its utility subsidiaries and certain of its nonutility subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation by the SEC under the PUHCA with respect to issuances and sales of securities, acquisitions and sales of certain utility properties and intra system sales of certain goods and services. In addition, the PUHCA generally limits the ability of registered holding companies to acquire additional public utility systems and to acquire and retain businesses unrelated to the utility operations of the holding company. See further discussion of financing restrictions under Liquidity and Capital Resources. The electric and natural gas rates charged to customers of Xcel Energys utility subsidiaries are approved by the FERC and the regulatory commissions in the states in which they operate. The rates are generally designed to recover plant investment, operating costs and an allowed return on investment. Xcel Energy requests changes in rates for utility services through filings with the governing commissions. Because comprehensive rate changes are requested infrequently in some states, changes in operating costs can affect Xcel Energys financial results. In addition to changes in operating costs, other factors affecting rate filings are sales growth, conservation and demand side management efforts and the cost of capital. Most of the retail rate schedules for Xcel Energys utility subsidiaries provide for periodic adjustments to billings and revenues to allow for recovery of changes in the cost of fuel for electric generation, purchased energy, purchased natural gas and, in Minnesota and Colorado, conservation and energy management program costs. In Minnesota and Colorado, changes in electric capacity costs are not recovered through these rate adjustment mechanisms. For Wisconsin electric operations, where automatic cost of energy adjustment clauses are not allowed, the biennial retail rate review process and an interim fuel cost hearing process provide the opportunity for rate recovery of changes in electric fuel and purchased energy costs in lieu of a cost of energy adjustment clause. In Colorado, PSCo has an ICA mechanism that allows for an equal sharing among customers and shareholders of certain fuel and energy costs and certain gains and losses on trading margins. Regulated public utilities are allowed to record as regulatory assets certain costs that are expected to be recovered from customers in future periods and to record as regulatory liabilities certain income items that are expected to be refunded to customers in future periods. In contrast, nonregulated enterprises would expense these costs and recognize the income in the current period. If restructuring or other changes in the regulatory environment occur, Xcel Energy may no longer be eligible to apply this accounting treatment, and may be required to eliminate such regulatory assets and liabilities from its balance sheet. Such changes could have a material adverse effect on Xcel Energys results of operations in the period the write off is recorded. At Dec. 31, 2002, Xcel Energy reported on its balance sheet regulatory assets of approximately $404 million and regulatory liabilities of approximately $297 million that would be recognized in the statement of operations in the absence of regulation. In addition to a potential write off of regulatory assets and liabilities, restructuring and competition may require recognition of certain stranded costs not recoverable under market pricing. Xcel Energy currently does not expect to write off any stranded costs unless market price levels change or cost levels increase above market price levels. See Notes 1 and 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of regulatory deferrals. Merger Rate Agreements As part of the merger approval process, Xcel Energy agreed to reduce its rates in several jurisdictions. The discussion below summarizes the rate reductions in Colorado, Minnesota, Texas and New Mexico. As part of the merger approval process in Colorado, PSCo agreed to: reduce its retail electric rates by an annual rate of $11 million for the period of August 2000 through July 2002; file a combined electric and natural gas rate case in 2002, with new rates effective January 2003; cap merger costs associated with the electric operations at $30 million and amortize the merger costs for ratemaking purposes through 2002; extend its ICA mechanism through Dec. 31, 2002 with an increase in the ICA base rate from $12.78 per megawatt hour to a rate based on 2001 actual costs; 55 Table of Contents continue the electric performance based regulatory plan (PBRP) and the electric quality service plan (QSP) currently in effect through 2006, with modifications to cap electric earnings at a 10.5 percent return on equity for 2002, to reflect no earnings sharing in 2003 since new base rates would have recently been established, and to increase potential bill credits if quality standards are not met; and develop a QSP for the natural gas operations to be effective for calendar years 2002 through 2007. As part of the merger approval process in Minnesota, NSP Minnesota agreed to: reduce its Minnesota electric rates by $10 million annually through 2005; not increase its electric rates through 2005, except under limited circumstances; not seek recovery of certain merger costs from customers; and meet various quality standards. As part of the merger approval process in Texas, SPS agreed to: guarantee annual merger savings credits of approximately $4.8 million and amortize merger costs through 2005; retain the current fuel recovery mechanism to pass along fuel cost savings to retail customers; and comply with various service quality and reliability standards, covering service installations and upgrades, light replacements, customer service call centers and electric service reliability. As part of the merger approval process in New Mexico, SPS agreed to: guarantee annual merger savings credits of approximately $780,000 and amortize merger costs through December 2004; share net nonfuel operating and maintenance savings equally among retail customers and shareholders; retain the current fuel recovery mechanism to pass along fuel cost savings to retail customers; and not pass along any negative rate impacts of the merger. PSCo Performance Based Regulatory Plan The Colorado Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) established an electric PBRP under which PSCo operates. The major components of this regulatory plan include: an annual electric earnings test with the sharing between customers and shareholders of earnings in excess of the following limits: all earnings above 10.50 percent return on equity for 2002 no earnings sharing for 2003 an annual electric earnings test with the sharing of earnings in excess of the return on equity set in the 2002 rate case for 2004 through 2006 an electric QSP that provides for bill credits to customers if PSCo does not achieve certain performance targets relating to electric reliability and customer service through 2006; a gas QSP that provides for bill credits to customers if PSCo does not achieve certain performance targets relating to gas leak repair time and customer service through 2007; and an ICA that provides for the sharing of energy costs and savings relative to an annual baseline cost per kilowatt hour generated or purchased. According to the terms of the merger rate agreement in Colorado, the annual baseline cost will be reset in 2002, based on a 2001 test year. Pursuant to a stipulation approved by the CPUC, the ICA remains in effect through March 31, 2005, to recover allowed ICA costs from 2001 and 2002. The recovery of fuel and purchased energy expense beginning Jan. 1, 2003, will be decided in the PSCo 2002 general rate case. In the interim period until the conclusion of the general rate case, 2003 fuel and purchased energy expense is recovered through the interim adjustment clause (IAC). PSCo regularly monitors and records as necessary an estimated customer refund obligation under the earnings test. In April of each year following the measurement period, PSCo files its proposed rate adjustment under the PBRP. The CPUC conducts proceedings to review and approve these rate adjustments annually. During 2002, PSCo filed that its electric department earnings were below the 11 percent return on equity threshold. PSCo has estimated no customer refund obligation for 2002 under the earnings test, the electric QSP or the gas QSP. PSCo has estimated no customer refund obligation for 2001 under the earnings test. The 2001 earnings test filing has not been approved. A hearing is scheduled for May 2003. PSCo 2002 General Rate Case In May 2002, PSCo filed a combined general retail electric, natural gas and thermal energy base rate case with the CPUC to address increased costs for providing services to Colorado customers. This filing was required as part of the Xcel Energy merger stipulation and agreement previously approved by the CPUC. Among other things, the case includes establishing an electric energy recovery mechanism, elimination of the qualifying facilities capacity cost adjustment (QFCCA), new depreciation rates and recovery of additional plant investment. PSCo requested an increase to its authorized rate of return on equity to 12 percent for electricity and 12.25 percent for natural gas. In early 2003, PSCo filed its rebuttal testimony in this rate case. At this point in the rate proceeding, PSCo is now requesting an overall annual increase to electric revenue of approximately $233 56 Table of Contents million. This is based on a $186 million increase for fuel and purchased energy expense and a $47 million electric base rate increase. PSCo is requesting an annual base rate decrease in natural gas revenue of approximately $21 million. The rebuttal case incorporates several adjustments to the original filing, including lower depreciation expense, higher fuel and energy expense and various corrections to the original filing. Intervenors, including the CPUC staff and the Colorado Office of Consumer Council (OCC) have filed testimony requesting both electric and natural gas base rate decreases and increases in fuel and energy revenues that are less than the amounts requested by PSCo. On Feb. 19, 2003, the CPUC postponed the scheduled hearings for 30 days to allow parties to pursue a comprehensive settlement of all issues in this proceeding. PSCo filed a joint motion on March 14, 2003 extending the filing date of the settlement agreement until April 1, 2003. New rates are expected to be effective during the second quarter of 2003. A final decision on the recovery of fuel and energy costs will be applied retroactive to Jan. 1, 2003. Until such time, PSCo is billing customers under the IAC, assuming 100 percent pass through cost recovery. Tax Matters As discussed further in Note 18, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) issued a Notice of Proposed Adjustment proposing to disallow interest expense deductions taken in tax years 1993 through 1997 related to corporate owned life insurance (COLI) policy loans of PSR Investments, Inc. (PSRI), a wholly owned subsidiary of PSCo. Late in 2001, Xcel Energy received a technical advice memorandum from the IRS national office, which communicated a position adverse to PSRI. Consequently, the IRS examination division has disallowed the interest expense deductions for the tax years 1993 through 1997. After consultation with tax counsel, it is Xcel Energys position that the tax law does not support the IRS determination. Although the ultimate resolution of this matter is uncertain, management continues to believe it will successfully resolve this matter without a material adverse impact on Xcel Energys results of operations. However, defense of PSCos position may require significant cash outlays on a temporary basis, if refund litigation is pursued in United States District Court. The total disallowance of interest expense deductions for the period of 1993 through 1997 is approximately $175 million. Additional interest expense deductions for the period 1998 through 2002 are estimated to total approximately $317 million. Should the IRS ultimately prevail on this issue, tax and interest payable through Dec. 31, 2002, would reduce earnings by an estimated $214 million, after tax. If COLI interest expense deductions were no longer available, annual earnings for 2003 would be reduced by an estimated $33 million, after tax, prospectively, which represents 8 cents per share using 2003 share levels. Environmental Matters Our environmental costs include payments for nuclear plant decommissioning, storage and ultimate disposal of spent nuclear fuel, disposal of hazardous materials and wastes, remediation of contaminated sites and monitoring of discharges to the environment. A trend of greater environmental awareness and increasingly stringent regulation has caused, and may continue to cause, slightly higher operating expenses and capital expenditures for environmental compliance. In addition to nuclear decommissioning and spent nuclear fuel disposal expenses, costs charged to our operating expenses for environmental monitoring and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes were approximately: $149 million in 2002 $146 million in 2001 $144 million in 2000 We expect to expense an average of approximately $177 million per year from 2003 through 2007 for similar costs. However, the precise timing and amount of environmental costs, including those for site remediation and disposal of hazardous materials, are currently unknown. Additionally, the extent to which environmental costs will be included in and recovered through rates is not certain. Capital expenditures on environmental improvements at our regulated facilities, which include the cost of constructing spent nuclear fuel storage casks, were approximately: $108 million in 2002 $136 million in 2001 $57 million in 2000 Our regulated utilities expect to incur approximately $44 million in capital expenditures for compliance with environmental regulations in 2003 and approximately $948 million during the period from 2003 through 2007. Most of the costs are related to modifications to reduce the emissions of NSP Minnesotas generating plants located in the Minneapolis St. Paul metropolitan area. See Notes 18 and 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of our environmental contingencies. NRG expects to incur as much as $145 million in capital expenditures over the next five years to address conditions that existed when it acquired facilities, and to comply with new regulations. 57 Table of Contents Impact of Other Nonregulated Investments Xcel Energys investments in nonregulated operations have had a significant impact on its results of operations. Xcel Energy does not expect to continue investing in nonregulated domestic and international power production projects through NRG, but may continue investing in natural gas marketing and trading through e prime and construction projects through Utility Engineering. Xcel Energys nonregulated businesses may carry a higher level of risk than its traditional utility businesses due to a number of factors, including: competition, operating risks, dependence on certain suppliers and customers, and domestic and foreign environmental and energy regulations; partnership and government actions and foreign government, political, economic and currency risks; and development risks, including uncertainties prior to final legal closing. Xcel Energys earnings from nonregulated subsidiaries, other than NRG, also include investments in international projects, primarily in Argentina, through Xcel Energy International, and broadband communications systems through Seren. Management currently intends to hold and operate these investments, but is evaluating their strategic fit in Xcel Energys business portfolio. As of Dec. 31, 2002, Xcel Energys investment in Seren was approximately $255 million. Seren had capitalized $290 million for plant in service and had incurred another $21 million for construction work in progress for these systems at Dec. 31, 2002. Xcel Energy Internationals gross investment in Argentina, excluding unrealized currency translation losses of approximately $62 million, was $112 million at Dec. 31, 2002. Given the political and economic climate in Argentina, Xcel Energy continues to closely monitor the investment for asset impairment. Currently, management believes that no impairment exists in addition to what was recognized in 2002, as previously discussed. Some of Xcel Energys nonregulated subsidiaries have project investments, as listed in Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, consisting of minority interests, which may limit the financial risk, but also limit the ability to control the development or operation of the projects. In addition, significant expenses may be incurred for projects pursued by Xcel Energys subsidiaries that do not materialize. The aggregate effect of these factors creates the potential for volatility in the nonregulated component of Xcel Energys earnings. Accordingly, the historical operating results of Xcel Energys nonregulated businesses may not necessarily be indicative of future operating results. Inflation Inflation at its current level is not expected to materially affect Xcel Energys prices or returns to shareholders. Since late 2001, the Argentine peso has been significantly devalued due to the inflationary Argentine economy. Xcel Energy will continue to experience related currency translation adjustments through Xcel Energy International. Pending Accounting Changes SFAS No. 143 In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 143 Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations. This statement will require Xcel Energy to record its future nuclear plant decommissioning obligations as a liability at fair value with a corresponding increase to the carrying value of the related long lived asset. The liability will be increased to its present value each period, and the capitalized cost will be depreciated over the useful life of the related long lived asset. If at the end of the assets life the recorded liability differs from the actual obligations paid, SFAS No. 143 requires that a gain or loss be recognized at that time. However, rate regulated entities may recognize a regulatory asset or liability instead, if the criteria for SFAS No. 71 Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation are met. Xcel Energy currently follows industry practice by ratably accruing the costs for decommissioning over the approved cost recovery period and including the accruals in accumulated depreciation. At Dec. 31, 2002, Xcel Energy recorded and recovered in rates $662 million of decommissioning obligations and had estimated discounted decommissioning cost obligations of $1.1 billion based on approvals from the various state commissions, which used a single scenario. However, with the adoption of SFAS No. 143, a probabilistic view of several decommissioning scenarios were used, resulting in an estimated discounted decommissioning cost obligation of $1.6 billion. Xcel Energy expects to adopt SFAS No. 143 as required on Jan. 1, 2003. In current estimates for adoption, the initial value of the liability, including cumulative accretion expense through that date, would be approximately $869 million. This liability would be established by reclassifying accumulated depreciation of $573 million and by recording two long term assets totaling $296 million. A gross capitalized asset of $130 million would be recorded and would be offset by accumulated depreciation of $89 million. In addition, a regulatory asset of approximately $166 million would be recorded for the cumulative effect adjustment related to unrecognized depreciation and accretion under the new standard. Management expects that the entire transition amount would be recoverable in rates over time and, therefore, would support this regulatory asset upon adoption of SFAS No. 143. 58 Table of Contents Xcel Energy has completed a detailed assessment of the specific applicability and implications of SFAS No. 143 for obligations other than nuclear decommissioning. Other assets that may have potential asset retirement obligations include ash ponds, any generating plant with a Part 30 license and electric and natural gas transmission and distribution assets on property under easement agreements. Easements are generally perpetual and require retirement action only upon abandonment or cessation of use of the property for the specified purpose. The liability is not estimable because Xcel Energy intends to utilize these properties indefinitely. The asset retirement obligations for the ash ponds and generating plants cannot be reasonably estimated due to an indeterminate life for the assets associated with the ponds and uncertain retirement dates for the generating plants. Since the time period for retirement is unknown, no liability would be recorded. When a retirement date is certain, a liability will be recorded. SFAS No. 143 will also affect Xcel Energys accrued plant removal costs for other generation, transmission and distribution facilities for its utility subsidiaries. Although SFAS No. 143 does not recognize the future accrual of removal costs as a GAAP liability, long standing ratemaking practices approved by applicable state and federal regulatory commissions have allowed provisions for such costs in historical depreciation rates. These removal costs have accumulated over a number of years based on varying rates as authorized by the appropriate regulatory entities. Given the long periods over which the amounts were accrued and the changing of rates over time, Xcel Energy has estimated the amount of removal costs accumulated through historic depreciation expense based on current factors used in the existing depreciation rates. Accordingly, Xcel Energy has an estimated regulatory liability accrued in accumulated depreciation for future removal costs of the following amounts at Dec. 31, 2002: (Millions of Dollars) NSP Minnesota $ 304 NSP Wisconsin 70 PSCo 329 SPS 97 Cheyenne 9 Total Xcel Energy $ 809 SFAS No. 145 In April 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 145 Rescission of FASB Statements No. 4, 44, and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13, and Technical Corrections, which supercedes previous guidance for the reporting of gains and losses from extinguishment of debt and accounting for leases, among other things. Adoption of SFAS No. 145 may affect the recognition of impacts from NRGs financial improvement and restructuring plan, if existing debt agreements are ultimately renegotiated while NRG is still a consolidated subsidiary of Xcel Energy. Other impacts of SFAS No. 145 are not expected to be material to Xcel Energy. SFAS No. 146 In June 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 146 Accounting for Exit or Disposal Activities, addressing recognition, measurement and reporting of costs associated with exit and disposal activities, including restructuring activities. SFAS No. 146 may have an impact on the timing of recognition of costs related to the implementation of the NRG financial improvement and restructuring plan; however, such impact is not expected to be material. SFAS No. 148 In December 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 148 Accounting for Stock Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure, amending FASB Statement No. 123 to provide alternative methods of transition for a voluntary change to the fair value based method of accounting for stock based employee compensation, and requiring disclosure in both annual and interim Consolidated Financial Statements about the method used and the effect of the method used on results. Xcel Energy continues to account for its stock based compensation plans under Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25 Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees and does not plan at this time to adopt the voluntary provisions of SFAS No. 148. Emerging Issues Tax Force (EITF) Nos. 02 03 and 98 10 See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements regarding reporting changes made in 2002 for the presentation of trading results and pending changes related to accounting for the impacts of trading operations in 2003. FASB Interpretation No. 45 (FIN No. 45) In November 2002, the FASB issued FIN No. 45 Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others. The initial recognition and measurement provisions of this interpretation are applicable on a prospective basis to guarantees issued or modified after Dec. 31, 2002, irrespective of the guarantors fiscal year end. The disclosure requirements are effective for financial statements of interim or annual periods ending after Dec. 15, 2002. The interpretation addresses the disclosures to be made by a guarantor in its interim and annual financial statements about its obligations under guarantees. The interpretation also clarifies the requirements related to the recognition of a liability by a guarantor at the inception of the guarantee for the obligations the guarantor has undertaken in issuing the guarantee. FASB Interpretation No. 46 (FIN No. 46) In January 2003, the FASB issued FIN No. 46 requiring an enterprises consolidated financial statements to include subsidiaries in which the enterprise has a controlling financial interest. Historically, that requirement has been applied to subsidiaries in which an enterprise has a majority voting interest, but in many circumstances the enterprises consolidated financial statements do not include the consolidations of variable interest entities with which it has similar relationships but no majority voting interest. Under FIN No. 46, the voting interest approach is not effective in identifying controlling financial interest. As a result, Xcel Energy expects that it will have to consolidate its affordable housing investments made through Eloigne, which currently are accounted for under the equity method. 59 Table of Contents As of Dec. 31, 2002, the assets of these entities were approximately $155 million and long term liabilities were approximately $87 million. Currently, investments of $62 million are reflected as a component of investments in unconsolidated affiliates in the Dec. 31, 2002, Consolidated Balance Sheet. FIN No. 46 requires that for entities to be consolidated, the entities assets be initially recorded at their carrying amounts at the date the new requirement first applies. If determining carrying amounts as required is impractical, then the assets are to be measured at fair value as of the first date the new requirements apply. Any difference between the net consolidated amounts added to the Xcel Energys balance sheet and the amount of any previously recognized interest in the newly consolidated entity should be recognized in earnings as the cumulative effect adjustment of an accounting change. Had Xcel Energy adopted FIN No. 46 requirements early in 2002, there would have been no material impact to net income. Xcel Energy plans to adopt FIN No. 46 when required in the third quarter of 2003. DERIVATIVES, RISK MANAGEMENT AND MARKET RISK Business and Operational Risk Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries are exposed to commodity price risk in their generation, retail distribution and energy trading operations. In certain jurisdictions, purchased energy expenses and natural gas costs are recovered on a dollar for dollar basis. However, in other jurisdictions, Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries have limited exposure to market price risk for the purchase and sale of electric energy and natural gas. In such jurisdictions, electric energy and natural gas expenses are recovered based on fixed price limits or under established sharing mechanisms. Xcel Energy manages commodity price risk by entering into purchase and sales commitments for electric power and natural gas, long term contracts for coal supplies and fuel oil, and derivative instruments. Xcel Energys risk management policy allows the company to manage the market price risk within each rate regulated operation to the extent such exposure exists. Management is limited under the policy to enter into only transactions that manage market price risk where the rate regulation jurisdiction does not already provide for dollar for dollar recovery. One exception to this policy exists in which we use various physical contracts and derivative instruments to reduce the cost of natural gas and electricity we provide to our retail customers even though the regulatory jurisdiction may provide dollar for dollar recovery of actual costs. In these instances, the use of derivative instruments and physical contracts is done consistently with the local jurisdictional cost recovery mechanism. Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries are exposed to market price risk for the sale of electric energy and the purchase of fuel resources, including coal, natural gas and fuel oil used to generate the electric energy within its nonregulated operations. Xcel Energy manages this market price risk by entering into firm power sales agreements for approximately 55 to 75 percent of its electric capacity and energy from each generation facility, using contracts with terms ranging from one to 25 years. In addition, we manage the market price risk covering the fuel resource requirements to provide the electric energy by entering into purchase commitments and derivative instruments for coal, natural gas and fuel oil as needed to meet fixed priced electric energy requirements. Xcel Energys risk management policy allows the company to manage market price risks, and provides guidelines for the level of price risk exposure that is acceptable within the companys operations. Xcel Energy is exposed to market price risk for the sale of electric energy and the purchase of fuel resources used to generate the electric energy from the companys equity method investments that own electric operations. Xcel Energy manages this market price risk through involvement with the management committee or board of directors of each of these ventures. Xcel Energys risk management policy does not cover the activities conducted by the ventures. However, other policies are adopted by the ventures as necessary and mandated by the equity owners. Interest Rate Risk Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates when entering into variable rate debt obligations to fund certain power projects being developed or purchased. Exposure to interest rate fluctuations may be mitigated by entering into derivative instruments known as interest rate swaps, caps, collars and put or call options. These contracts reduce exposure to the volatility of cash flows for interest and result in primarily fixed rate debt obligations when taking into account the combination of the variable rate debt and the interest rate derivative instrument. Xcel Energys risk management policy allows the company to reduce interest rate exposure from variable rate debt obligations. At Dec. 31, 2002 and 2001, a 100 basis point change in the benchmark rate on Xcel Energys variable debt would impact net income by approximately $52.2 million and $29.9 million, respectively. See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries interest rate swaps. Currency Exchange Risk Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries have certain investments in foreign countries, creating exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. The foreign currency exchange risk includes the risk relative to the recovery of our net investment in a project, as well as the risk relative to the earnings and cash flows generated from such operations. Xcel Energy manages exposure to changes in foreign currency by entering into derivative 60 Table of Contents instruments as determined by management. Xcel Energys risk management policy provides for this risk management activity. As discussed in Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Xcel Energy has substantial investments in foreign projects, through NRG and other subsidiaries, creating exposure to currency translation risk. Cumulative translation adjustments, included in the Consolidated Statement of Stockholders Equity as Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income, experienced to date have been material and may continue to occur at levels significant to the companys financial position. As of Dec. 31, 2002, NRG had two foreign currency exchange contracts with notional amounts of $3.0 million. If the contracts had been discontinued on Dec. 31, 2002, NRG would have owed the counterparties approximately $0.3 million. Trading Risk Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries conduct various trading operations and power marketing activities, including the purchase and sale of electric capacity and energy and natural gas. The trading operations are conducted both in the United States and Europe with primary focus on specific market regions where trading knowledge and experience have been obtained. Xcel Energys risk management policy allows management to conduct the trading activity within approved guidelines and limitations as approved by the companys risk management committee, which is made up of management personnel not involved in the trading operations. The fair value of Xcel Energys trading contracts as of Dec. 31, 2002, is as follows: (Millions of dollars) Total Fair Value Fair value of trading contracts outstanding at Jan. 1, 2002 $ 90.1 Contracts realized or settled during 2002 (139.5 ) Fair value of trading contract additions and changes during the year 87.8 Fair value of contracts outstanding at Dec. 31, 2002* $ 38.4 * Amounts do not include the impact of ratepayer sharing in Colorado. The future maturities of Xcel Energys trading contracts are as follows: Source of Fair Value Maturity Less than Maturity Greater (Millions of dollars) 1 Year Maturity 1 to 3 years Maturity 4 to 5 years than 5 years Total Fair Value Prices actively quoted $ 12.7 $ (7.1 ) $ $ (1.9 ) $ 3.7 Prices based on models and other valuation methods (including prices quoted from external sources) 61.7 52.6 (23.0 ) (56.6 ) 34.7 Xcel Energys trading operations and power marketing activities measure the outstanding risk exposure to price changes on transactions, contracts and obligations that have been entered into, but not closed, using an industry standard methodology know as Value at Risk (VaR). VaR expresses the potential change in fair value on the outstanding transactions, contracts and obligations over a particular period of time, with a given confidence interval under normal market conditions. Xcel Energy utilizes the variance/covariance approach in calculating VaR. The VaR model employs a 95 percent confidence interval level based on historical price movement, lognormal price distribution assumption and various holding periods varying from two to five days. As of Dec. 31, 2002, the calculated VaRs were: (Millions of Dollars) During 2002 Year Ended Operations Dec. 31, 2002 Average High Low Electric Commodity Trading 0.29 0.62 3.39 0.01 Natural Gas Commodity Trading 0.11 0.35 1.09 0.09 Natural Gas Retail Marketing 0.54 0.47 0.92 0.32 NRG Power Marketing (a) 118.60 76.20 124.40 42.00 (a) NRG VaR is an undiversified VaR. As of Dec. 31, 2001, the calculated VaRs were: (Millions of Dollars) During 2001 Year Ended Operations Dec. 31, 2001 Average High Low Electric Commodity Trading 0.52 1.71 7.37 0.16 Natural Gas Commodity Trading 0.16 0.15 0.52 0.01 Natural Gas Retail Marketing 0.69 0.39 0.94 0.13 NRG Power Marketing 71.70 78.80 126.60 58.60 61 Table of Contents In 2001, Xcel Energy changed its holding period for measuring VaR from electricity trading activity from 21 days to two to five days. Xcel Energys revised holding periods are generally consistent with current industry standard practice. Credit Risk In addition to the risks discussed previously, Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries are exposed to credit risk in the companys risk management activities. Credit risk relates to the risk of loss resulting from the non performance by a counterparty of its contractual obligations. As Xcel Energy continues to expand its natural gas and power marketing and trading activities, exposure to credit risk and counterparty default may increase. Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries maintain credit policies intended to minimize overall credit risk and actively monitor these policies to reflect changes and scope of operations. Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries conduct standard credit reviews for all counterparties. Xcel Energy employs additional credit risk control mechanisms when appropriate, such as letters of credit, parental guarantees, standardized master netting agreements and termination provisions that allow for offsetting of positive and negative exposures. The credit exposure is monitored and, when necessary, the activity with a specific counterparty is limited until credit enhancement is provided. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Cash Flows (Millions of dollars) 2002 2001 2000 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 1,715 $ 1,584 $ 1,408 Cash provided by operating activities increased during 2002, compared with 2001, primarily due to NRGs efforts to conserve cash by deferring the payment of interest payments and managing its cash flows more closely. NRGs accrued interest costs rose by nearly $200 million in 2002 compared to year end 2001 levels. In addition, regulated utility operating cash flows increased in 2002 due to lower 2002 receivables and unbilled revenues, reflecting collections of higher year end 2001 amounts. Cash provided by operating activities increased during 2001, compared with 2000, primarily due to the higher net income, depreciation and improved working capital. (Millions of dollars) 2002 2001 2000 Net cash used in investing activities $ (2,718 ) $ (5,168 ) $ (3,347 ) Cash used in investing activities decreased during 2002, compared with 2001, primarily due to lower levels of nonregulated capital expenditures as a result of NRG terminating its acquisition program due to its financial difficulties. Such nonregulated expenditures decreased $2.8 billion in 2002 due mainly to NRG asset acquisitions in 2001 that did not recur in 2002. Cash used in investing activities increased during 2001, compared with 2000, primarily due to increased levels of nonregulated capital expenditures and asset acquisitions, primarily at NRG. The increase was partially offset by Xcel Energys sale of most of its investment in Yorkshire Power. (Millions of dollars) 2002 2001 2000 Net cash provided by financing activities $ 1,580 $ 3,713 $ 2,016 Cash provided by financing activities decreased during 2002, compared with 2001, primarily due to lower NRG capital requirements and constraints on NRGs ability to access the capital market due to its financial difficulties, as discussed previously. NRGs cash provided from financing activities declined by $2.7 billion in 2002, compared with 2001. Cash provided by financing activities increased during 2001, compared with 2000, primarily due to increased short term borrowings and net long term debt issuances, mainly to fund NRG acquisitions. See discussion of trends, commitments and uncertainties with the potential for future impact on cash flow and liquidity under Capital Sources. Capital Requirements Utility Capital Expenditures, Nonregulated Investments and Long term Debt Obligations The estimated cost of the capital expenditure programs of Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries, excluding NRG, and other capital requirements for the years 2003, 2004 and 2005 are shown in the table below. 62 Table of Contents (Millions of dollars) 2003 2004 2005 Electric utility $ 700 $ 840 $ 950 Natural Gas utility 110 110 110 Common utility 90 50 40 Total utility 900 1,000 1,100 Other nonregulated (excluding NRG) 32 23 15 Total capital expenditures 932 1,023 1,115 Sinking funds and debt maturities 563 169 223 Total capital requirements $ 1,495 $ 1,192 $ 1,338 The capital expenditure forecast for 2004 includes new steam generators at the Prairie Island nuclear plant. These expenditures will not occur unless the Minnesota Legislature grants additional spent fuel storage at Prairie Island during 2003. The capital expenditure forecast also includes the early stages of the costs related to modifications to reduce the emissions of NSP Minnesotas generating plants located in the Minneapolis and St. Paul metropolitan area. This project is expected to cost approximately $1.1 billion with major construction starting in 2005 and finishing in 2009. The capital expenditure programs of Xcel Energy are subject to continuing review and modification. Actual utility construction expenditures may vary from the estimates due to changes in electric and natural gas projected load growth, the desired reserve margin and the availability of purchased power, as well as alternative plans for meeting Xcel Energys long term energy needs. In addition, Xcel Energys ongoing evaluation of merger, acquisition and divestiture opportunities to support corporate strategies, address restructuring requirements and comply with future requirements to install emission control equipment may impact actual capital requirements. For more information, see Notes 4 and 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Xcel Energys investment in exempt wholesale generators and foreign utility companies, which includes NRG and other Xcel Energy subsidiaries, is currently limited to 100 percent of consolidated retained earnings, as a result of the PUHCA restrictions. At Dec. 31, 2002, such investments exceeded consolidated retained earnings. NRG Energy is required to provide financial guarantees of up to approximately $8 million, for closure and ongoing monitoring costs of some sites to which it sends coal ash and other waste, by April 30, 2003. NRG Capital Expenditures Management expects NRGs capital expenditures,which include refurbishments and environmental compliance, to total approximately $475 million to $525 million in the years 2003 through 2007. NRG anticipates funding its ongoing capital requirements through committed debt facilities, operating cash flows and existing cash. NRGs capital expenditure program is subject to continuing review and modification. The timing and actual amount of expenditures may differ significantly based upon plant operating history, unexpected plant outages, changes in the regulatory environment and the availability of cash. The pending financial restructuring or bankruptcy filings of NRG may affect the timing and magnitude of capital resources available to NRG and, accordingly, the level of capital expenditures NRG can fund. Contractual Obligations and Other Commitments Xcel Energy has a variety of contractual obligations and other commercial commitments that represent prospective requirements in addition to its capital expenditure programs. The following is a summarized table of contractual obligations. See additional discussion in the Consolidated Statements of Capitalization and Notes 5, 6, 7, 16 and 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Payments Due by Period Contractual Obligations (Thousands of dollars) Total Less than 1 year 1 3 years 4 5 years After 5 years Long term debt $ 14,311,689 $ 7,756,903 $ 547,796 $ 1,137,934 $ 4,869,056 Capital lease obligations 688,421 34,422 67,771 66,386 519,842 Operating leases(a) 386,215 66,155 125,031 108,534 86,495 Unconditional purchase obligations 11,240,364 1,317,293 2,214,974 1,817,770 5,890,327 Other long term obligations 699,248 42,597 64,517 34,594 557,540 Short term debt 1,541,963 1,541,963 Total contractual cash obligations $ 28,867,900 $ 10,759,333 $ 3,020,089 $ 3,165,218 $ 11,923,260 (a) Under some leases, we would have to sell or purchase the property that we lease if we chose to terminate before the scheduled lease expiration date. Most of our railcar, vehicle and equipment, and aircraft leases have these terms. We would then own the equipment and could continue to use it in the normal course of business or sell the equipment. At Dec. 31, 2002, the amount that we would have to pay if we chose to terminate these leases was approximately $160 million. Common Stock Dividends Future dividend levels will be dependent upon the statutory limitations discussed below, as well as Xcel Energys results of operations, financial position, cash flows and other factors, and will be evaluated by the Xcel Energy board of directors. Under the PUHCA, unless there is an order from the SEC, a holding company or any subsidiary may only declare and pay dividends out of retained earnings. Due to 2002 losses incurred by NRG, retained earnings of Xcel Energy were a deficit of $101 million at Dec. 31, 2002. Xcel Energy did not declare a dividend on its common stock during the first quarter of 2003. Xcel Energy has requested authorization from the SEC to pay 63 Table of Contents dividends out of paid in capital up to $260 million until Sept. 30, 2003. Xcel Energy did not declare a dividend on its common stock during the first quarter of 2003. It is not known when or if the SEC will act on this request. As explained below, Xcel Energy has reached a preliminary settlement agreement with the various NRG creditors. Also, Xcel Energy could be required to cease including NRG as a consolidated subsidiary for financial reporting purposes, if NRG were to seek protection under the bankruptcy laws and Xcel Energy ceased to have control over NRG. In the event the tentative settlement is effectuated and Xcel Energy is required to cease including NRG as a consolidated subsidiary in its financial statements, the financial impact of these events are expected to positively impact retained earnings and may be sufficient to eliminate the negative retained earnings balance, absent additional charges at NRG. Xcel Energy cannot predict the precise financial impact of these items at this time. For this reason, Xcel Energy will continue seeking authorization from the SEC so it is able to pay dividends notwithstanding negative retained earnings. Xcel Energy intends to make every effort to pay the full common stock dividend of 75 cents per share during 2003. The Articles of Incorporation of Xcel Energy place restrictions on the amount of common stock dividends it can pay when preferred stock is outstanding. Under the provisions, dividend payments may be restricted if Xcel Energys capitalization ratio (on a holding company basis only, i.e., not on a consolidated basis) is less than 25 percent. For these purposes, the capitalization ratio is equal to (1) common stock plus surplus divided by (ii) the sum of common stock plus surplus plus long term debt. Based on this definition, our capitalization ratio at Dec. 31, 2002, was 85 percent. Therefore, the restrictions do not place any effective limit on our ability to pay dividends because the restrictions are only triggered when the capitalization ratio is less than 25 percent or will be reduced to less than 25 percent through dividends (other than dividends payable in common stock), distributions or acquisitions of our common stock. Capital Sources Xcel Energy expects to meet future financing requirements by periodically issuing long term debt, short term debt, common stock and preferred securities to maintain desired capitalization ratios. As a result of its registration as a holding company under the PUHCA, Xcel Energy is required to maintain a common equity ratio of 30 percent or higher in its consolidated capital structure. On Nov. 7, 2002, the SEC issued an order authorizing Xcel Energy to engage in certain financing transactions through March 31, 2003, so long as its common equity ratio, as reported in its most recent Form 10 K, or Form 10 Q and as adjusted for pending subsequent items that affect capitalization, was at least 24 percent of its total capitalization. Financings of Xcel Energy authorized by the SEC included the issuance of debt, including convertible debt, to refinance or replace Xcel Energys $400 million credit facility that expired on Nov. 8, 2002, issuance of $450 million of common stock, less any amounts issued as part of the refinancing of the $400 million credit facility, and the renewal of guarantees for various trading obligations of NRGs power marketing subsidiary. The SEC reserved authorizing additional securities issuances by Xcel Energy through June 30, 2003, while its common equity ratio is below 30 percent. For this purpose, common equity, including minority interest, at Dec. 31, 2002, was 23 percent of total capitalization. As a result, Xcel Energy may experience constraints on available capital sources that may be affected by factors including earnings levels, project acquisitions and the financing actions of our subsidiaries. In the event NRG were to seek protection under bankruptcy laws and Xcel Energy ceased to have control over NRG, NRG would no longer be a consolidated subsidiary of Xcel Energy for financial reporting purposes and Xcel Energys common equity ratio under the SECs method of calculation would exceed 30 percent. In December 2002, Xcel Energy filed a request for additional financing authorization with the SEC. Xcel Energy requested an increase from $2.0 billion to $2.5 billion in the aggregate amount of securities that it may issue during the period through Sept. 30, 2003. In addition, the request proposed that common equity will be at least 30 percent of total consolidated capitalization, provided that in any event that the 30 percent common equity requirement is not met, Xcel Energy may issue common stock. The notice period expired with no comments. SEC action on the request is pending. As a result, Xcel Energy at the present time cannot finance, either on a short term or long term basis, without SEC approval unless its common equity is at least 30 percent of total capitalization. With approval of the request currently pending before the SEC, further described below, management believes it will have adequate authority under SEC orders and regulations to conduct business as proposed during 2003 and will seek additional authorization when necessary. Short Term Funding Sources Historically, Xcel Energy has used a number of sources to fulfill short term funding needs, including operating cash flow, notes payable, commercial paper and bank lines of credit. The amount and timing of short term funding needs depend in large part on financing needs for utility construction expenditures and nonregulated project investments. Another significant short term funding need is the dividend payment requirement, as discussed previously in Common Stock Dividends. Operating cash flow as a source of short term funding is reasonably likely to be affected by such operating factors as weather, regulatory requirements, including rate recovery of costs, environmental regulation compliance and industry deregulation, changes in the trends for energy prices and supply, and operational uncertainties that are difficult to predict. See further discussion of such factors under Statement of Operations Analysis and Factors Affecting Results of Operations. Short term borrowing as a source of funding is affected by regulatory actions and access to reasonably priced capital markets. This varies based on financial performance and existing debt levels. These factors are evaluated by credit rating agencies that review Xcel Energy and its subsidiary operations on an ongoing basis. NRGs credit situation has affected Xcel Energys credit ratings and access to short term funding. As a result of a decline in its credit ratings, Xcel Energy has been unable to utilize the commercial paper market to satisfy any short term funding needs. For additional information on Xcel Energys short term borrowing arrangements, see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 64 Table of Contents Access to reasonably priced capital markets is also dependent in part on credit agency reviews. In the past year, our credit ratings and those of our subsidiaries have been adversely affected by NRGs credit contingencies, despite what management believes is a reasonable separation of NRGs operations and credit risk from our utility operations and corporate financing activities. These ratings reflect the views of Moodys and Standard Poors. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating company. As of Feb. 10, 2003, the following represents the credit ratings assigned to various Xcel Energy companies: Company Credit Type Moodys* Standard Poors Xcel Energy Senior Unsecured Debt Baa3 BBB Xcel Energy Commercial Paper NP A3 NSP Minnesota Senior Unsecured Debt Baa1 BBB NSP Minnesota Senior Secured Debt A3 BBB NSP Minnesota Commercial Paper P2 A3 NSP Wisconsin Senior Unsecured Debt Baa1 BBB NSP Wisconsin Senior Secured Debt A3 BBB PSCo Senior Unsecured Debt Baa2 BBB PSCo Senior Secured Debt Baa1 BBB PSCo Commercial Paper P2 A3 SPS Senior Unsecured Debt Baa1 BBB SPS Commercial Paper P2 A3 NRG Corporate Credit Rating Caa3** D**  * Negative credit watch/negative outlook ** Below investment grade NRGs access to short term capital is currently non existent outside of bankruptcy. The downgrade of NRGs credit ratings below investment grade in July 2002 has resulted in cash collateral requirements, as discussed previously and in Notes 4 and 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, lower credit ratings will increase the relative cost of NRGs capital financing compared to historical levels, assuming NRG could obtain such financing. In June 2002, Xcel Energys access to commercial paper markets was reduced due to lowered credit ratings, shown previously. Xcel Energy typically uses sources of financing, both short and long term, other than commercial paper to fulfill its cash needs and manage its capital structure. NRG Capital Sources NRG has generally financed the acquisition and development of its projects under financing arrangements to be repaid solely from each of its projects cash flows, which are typically secured by the plants physical assets and equity interests in the project company. As discussed above, NRGs credit situation has significantly affected its credit ratings and has virtually eliminated its access to short term funding. See credit ratings in previous table. NRG anticipates funding its ongoing capital requirements through committed debt facilities, operating cash flows, and existing cash. NRGs operating cash flows have been affected by lower operating margins as a result of low power prices since mid 2001. Seasonal variations in demand and market volatility in prices are not unusual in the independent power sector, and NRG does normally experience higher margins in peak summer periods and lower margins in non peak periods. NRG has also incurred significant amounts of debt to finance its acquisitions in the past several years, and the servicing of interest and principal repayments from such financing is largely dependent on domestic project cash flows. Management has concluded that the forecasted free cash flow available to NRG after servicing project level obligations will be insufficient to service recourse debt obligations at NRG. Substantially all of NRGs operations are conducted by project subsidiaries and project affiliates. NRGs cash flow 65 Table of Contents and ability to service corporate level indebtedness when due is dependent upon receipt of cash dividends and distributions or other transfers from NRGs projects and other subsidiaries. NRG has generally financed the acquisition and development of its projects under financing arrangements to be repaid solely from each of its projects cash flows, which are typically secured by the plants physical assets and equity interests in the project company. In August 2002, NRG suspended substantially all of its acquisition and development activities indefinitely, pending a comprehensive restructuring of NRG. The debt agreements of NRGs subsidiaries and project affiliates generally restrict their ability to pay dividends, make distributions or otherwise transfer funds to NRG. As of Dec. 31, 2002, Loy Yang, Energy Center Kladno, LSP Energy (Batesville), NRG South Central, and NRG Northeast Generating do not currently meet the minimum debt service coverage ratios required for these projects to make payments to NRG. In addition, NRGs subsidiaries, including LSP Kendall, NRG McClain, NRG Mid Atlantic, NRG South Central and NRG Northeast Generating are in default on their various debt instruments, resulting in dividend payment restrictions. For additional information on NRGs defaults on short term and long term borrowing arrangements, see Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Registration Statements Xcel Energys Articles of Incorporation authorize the issuance of 1 billion shares of common stock. As of Dec. 31, 2002, Xcel Energy had approximately 399 million shares of common stock outstanding. In addition, Xcel Energys Articles of Incorporation authorize the issuance of 7 million shares of $100 par value preferred stock. On Dec. 31, 2002, Xcel Energy had approximately 1 million shares of preferred stock outstanding. Registered securities available for issuance are as follows: In February 2002, Xcel Energy filed a $1 billion shelf registration with the SEC. Xcel Energy may issue debt securities, common stock and rights to purchase common stock under this shelf registration. Xcel Energy has approximately $482.5 million remaining under this registration, which it can only issue when its common equity exceeds 30 percent of its total capitalization absent SEC approval under PUHCA. In April 2001, NSP Minnesota filed a $600 million, long term debt shelf registration with the SEC. NSP Minnesota has approximately $415 million remaining under this registration. PSCo has an effective shelf registration statement with the SEC under which $300 million of senior debt securities are available for issuance. In June 2001, NRG filed a shelf registration with the SEC to sell up to $2 billion in debt securities, common and preferred stock, warrants and other securities. NRG has approximately $1.5 billion remaining under this shelf registration. However, NRGs access to capital markets is severely constrained and the registration no longer represents access to financing sources. In March 2003, PSCo issued $250 million of 4.875 percent, First Collateral Trust Bonds due in 2013. The bonds were issued in a private placement to qualified institutional buyers and were not registered under the Securities Act of 1933. Pursuant to a registration rights agreement, PSCo has an obligation to file a registration statement for an exchange offer for these bonds. Other Liquidity and Capital Resource Considerations NRG Financial Issues and Potential Bankruptcy Historically, NRG has obtained cash from operations, issuance of debt and equity securities, borrowings under credit facilities, capital contributions from Xcel Energy, reimbursement by Xcel Energy of tax benefits pursuant to a tax sharing agreement and proceeds from non recourse project financings. NRG has used these funds to finance operations, service debt obligations, fund the acquisition, development and construction of generation facilities, finance capital expenditures and meet other cash and liquidity needs. As discussed previously, substantially all of NRGs operations are conducted by project subsidiaries and project affiliates. NRGs cash flow and ability to service corporate level indebtedness when due is dependent upon receipt of cash dividends and distributions or other transfers from NRGs projects and other subsidiaries. The debt agreements of NRGs subsidiaries and project affiliates generally restrict their ability to pay dividends, make distributions or otherwise transfer funds to NRG. As of Dec. 31, 2002, Loy Yang, Killingholme, Energy Center Kladno, LSP Energy (Batesville), NRG South Central and NRG Northeast Generating do not currently meet the minimum debt service coverage ratios required for these projects to make payments to NRG. Killingholme, NRG South Central and NRG Northeast Generating are in default on their credit agreements. NRG believes the situations at Energy Center Kladno, Loy Yang and Batesville do not create an event of default and will not allow the lenders to accelerate the project financings. In all of these cases, NRGs corporate level financial obligations to project lenders is limited to no more than six months debt service. 66 Table of Contents As previously discussed, NRGs operating cash flows have been affected by lower operating margins as a result of low power prices since mid 2001. Seasonal variations in demand and market volatility in prices are not unusual in the independent power sector, and NRG does normally experience higher margins in peak summer periods and lower margins in non peak periods. NRG has also incurred significant amounts of debt to finance its acquisitions in the past several years, and the servicing of interest and principal repayments from such financing is largely dependent on domestic project cash flows. NRGs management has concluded that the forecasted free cash flow available to NRG after servicing project level obligations will be insufficient to service recourse debt obligations. Since mid 2002, as discussed previously, NRG has experienced severe financial difficulties, resulting primarily from declining credit ratings and lower prices for power. These financial difficulties have caused NRG to, among other things, miss several scheduled payments of interest and principal on its bonds and incur an approximately $3 billion asset impairment charge. The asset impairment charge relates to write offs for anticipated losses on sales of several projects as well as anticipated losses for projects for which NRG has stopped funding. In addition, as a result of having its credit ratings downgraded, NRG is in default of obligations to post cash collateral of approximately $1 billion. Furthermore, on Nov. 6, 2002, lenders to NRG accelerated approximately $1.1 billion of NRGs debt under the construction revolver financing facility, rendering the debt immediately due and payable. In addition, on Feb. 27, 2003, lenders to NRG accelerated approximately $1.0 billion of NRG Energys debt under the corporate revolver financing facility, rendering the debt immediately due and payable. NRG continues to work with its lenders and bondholders on a comprehensive restructuring plan. NRG does not contemplate making any principal or interest payments on its corporate level debt pending the restructuring of its obligations. Consequently, NRG is, and expects to continue to be, in default under various debt instruments. By reason of these various defaults, the lenders are able to seek to enforce their remedies, if they so choose, and that would likely lead to a bankruptcy filing by NRG in 2003. Whether NRG does or does not reach a consensual restructuring plan with its creditors, there is a substantial likelihood that NRG will be the subject of a bankruptcy proceeding in 2003. If an agreement is reached with NRGs creditors on a restructuring plan, it is expected that NRG would as soon as practicable commence a Chapter 11 bankruptcy case and immediately seek approval of a prenegotiated plan of reorganization. Absent an agreement with NRGs creditors and the continued forbearance by such creditors, NRG will be subject to substantial doubt as to its ability to continue as a going concern and will likely be the subject of a voluntary or involuntary bankruptcy proceeding, which, due to the lack of a prenegotiated plan of reorganization, would be expected to take an extended period of time to be resolved and may involve claims against Xcel Energy under the equitable doctrine of substantive consolidation, as discussed following. In addition to the collateral requirements, NRG must continue to meet its ongoing operational and construction funding requirements. Since NRGs credit rating downgrade, its cost of borrowing has increased and it has not been able to access the capital markets. NRG believes that its current funding requirements under its already reduced construction program may be unsustainable given its inability to raise money in the capital markets and the uncertainties involved in obtaining additional equity funding from Xcel Energy. NRG and Xcel Energy have retained financial advisors to help work through these liquidity issues. As discussed above, NRG is not making any payments of principal or interest on its corporate level debt, and neither NRG nor any subsidiary is making payment of principal or interest on publicly held bonds. This failure to pay, coupled with past and anticipated proceeds from the sales of projects, has provided NRG with adequate liquidity to meet its day to day operating costs. However, there can be no assurance that holders of NRG indebtedness, on which interest and principal are not being paid, will not seek to accelerate the payment of their indebtedness, which would likely lead to NRG seeking relief under the bankruptcy laws. At the present time and based on conversations with various lenders, Xcel Energy management believes that the appropriate course is to seek a consensual restructuring of NRG with its creditors. Following an agreement on the restructuring with NRGs creditors, as described in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, it is expected that NRG would commence a Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceeding and immediately seek approval of a prenegotiated plan of reorganization. If a consensual restructuring cannot be reached, the likelihood of NRG becoming subject to a protracted voluntary or involuntary bankruptcy proceeding is increased. If a consensual restructuring of NRG cannot be obtained and NRG remains outside of a bankruptcy proceeding, NRG is expected to continue selling assets to reduce its debt and improve its liquidity. Through Jan. 31, 2003, NRG completed a number of transactions, which resulted in net cash proceeds to NRG after debt pay downs and after financial advisor fees of approximately $350 million. Xcel Energy Impacts During 2002, Xcel Energy provided NRG with $500 million of cash infusions. In May 2002, Xcel Energy and NRG entered into a support and capital subscription agreement (Support Agreement) pursuant to which Xcel Energy agreed, under certain circumstances, to provide an additional $300 million to NRG. 67 Table of Contents Xcel Energy has not, to date, provided funds to NRG under this agreement. See discussion of preliminary Settlement with NRGs creditors at Note 4 to the Financial Statements. Many companies in the regulated utility industry, with which the independent power industry is closely linked, are also restructuring or reviewing their strategies. Several of these companies are discontinuing going forward with unregulated investments, seeking to divest of their unregulated subsidiaries or attempting to have their regulated subsidiaries acquire their unregulated subsidiaries. This may lead to an increased competition between the regulated utilities and the unregulated power producers within certain markets. In such instances, NRG may compete with regulated utilities in the influence of market designs and rulemaking. On March 26, 2003, Xcel Energys board of directors approved a tentative settlement with holders of most of NRGs long term notes and the steering committee representing NRGs bank lenders regarding alleged claims of such creditors against Xcel Energy, including claims related to the Support Agreement. The settlement is subject to a variety of conditions as set forth below, including definitive documentation. As described in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the settlement would require Xcel Energy to pay up to $752 million over 13 months. Xcel Energy would expect to fund those payments with cash from tax savings. The principal terms of the settlement as of the date of this report were as follows: Xcel Energy would pay up to $752 million to NRG to settle all claims of NRG, and the claims of NRG against Xcel Energy, including all claims under the Support Agreement. $350 million would be paid at or shortly following the consummation of a restructuring of NRGs debt through a bankruptcy proceeding. It is expected that this payment would be made prior to year end 2003. $50 million would be paid on Jan. 1, 2004, and all or any part of such payment could be made, at Xcel Energys election, in Xcel Energy common stock. Up to $352 million would be paid on April 30, 2004, except to the extent that Xcel Energy had not received at such time tax refunds equal to $352 million associated with the loss on its investment in NRG. To the extent Xcel Energy had not received such refunds, the April 30 payment would be due on May 30, 2004. $390 million of the Xcel Energy payments are contingent on receiving releases from NRG creditors. To the extent Xcel Energy does not receive a release from an NRG creditor. Xcel Energys obligation to make $390 million of the payments would be reduced based on the amount of the creditors claim against NRG. As noted below, however, the entire settlement is contingent upon Xcel Energy receiving releases from at least 85 percent of the claims in various NRG creditor groups. As a result, it is not expected that Xcel Energys payment obligations would be reduced by more than approximately $60 million. Any reduction would come from the Xcel Energy payment due on April 30, 2004. Upon the consummation of NRGs debt restructuring through a bankruptcy proceeding, Xcel Energys exposure on any guarantees or other credit support obligations incurred by Xcel Energy for the benefit of NRG or any subsidiary would be terminated and any cash collateral posted by Xcel Energy would be returned to it. The current amount of such cash collateral is approximately $11.5 million. As part of the settlement with Xcel Energy, any intercompany claims of Xcel Energy against NRG or any subsidiary arising from the provision of intercompany goods or services or the honoring of any guarantee will be paid in full in cash in the ordinary course except that the agreed amount of such intercompany claims arising or accrued as of Jan. 31, 2003 will be reduced from approximately $55 million as asserted by Xcel Energy to $13 million. The $13 million agreed amount is to be paid upon the consummation of NRGs debt restructuring with $3 million in cash and an unsecured promissory note of NRG on market terms in the principal amount of $10 million. NRG and its direct and indirect subsidiaries would not be reconsolidated with Xcel Energy or any of its other affiliates for tax purposes at any time after their June 2002 re affiliation or treated as a party to or otherwise entitled to the benefits of any tax sharing agreement with Xcel Energy. Likewise, NRG would not be entitled to any tax benefits associated with the tax loss Xcel Energy expects to incur in connection with the write down of its investment in NRG. Xcel Energys obligations under the tentative settlement, including its obligations to make the payments set forth above, are contingent upon, among other things, the following: (1) Definitive documentation, in form and substance satisfactory to the parties; (2) Between 50 percent and 100 percent of the claims represented by various NRG facilities or creditor groups (the NRG Credit Facilities) having executed an agreement, in form and substance satisfactory to Xcel Energy, to support the settlement; (3) Various stages of the implementation of the settlement occurring by dates currently being negotiated, with the consummation of the settlement to occur by Sept. 30, 2003; (4) The receipt of releases in favor of Xcel Energy by at least 85 percent of the claims represented by the NRG Credit Facilities; (5) The receipt by Xcel Energy of all necessary regulatory approvals; and (6) No downgrade prior to consummation of the settlement of any Xcel Energy credit rating from the level of such rating as of March 25, 2003. Based on the foreseeable effects of a settlement agreement with the major NRG noteholders and bank lenders and the tax effect of an expected write off of Xcel Energys investment in NRG, Xcel Energy would recognize the expected tax benefits of the write off as of Dec. 31, 2002. The tax benefit has been estimated at approximately $706 million. This benefit is based on the tax basis of Xcel Energys investment in NRG. Xcel Energy expects to claim a worthless stock deduction in 2003 on its investment. This would result in Xcel Energy having a net operating loss for the year. Under current law, this 2003 net operating loss could be carried back two years for federal purposes. Xcel Energy expects to file for a tax refund of approximately $355 million in first quarter 2004. This is refund based on a two year carryback. However, under the Bush administrations new dividend tax proposal, the carryback could be one year, which would reduce the refund to $125 million. As to the remaining $351 million of expected tax benefits, Xcel Energy expects to eliminate or reduce estimated quarterly income tax payments, beginning in 2003. The amount of cash freed up by the reduction in estimated tax payments would depend on Xcel Energys taxable income. While it is an exception rather than the rule, especially where one of the companies involved is not in bankruptcy, the equitable doctrine of substantive consolidation permits a bankruptcy court to disregard the separateness of related entities; to consolidate and pool the entities assets and liabilities; and treat them as though held and incurred by one entity where the interrelationship between the entities warrants such consolidation. In the event the settlement described above is not effectuated, Xcel Energy believes that any effort to substantively consolidate Xcel Energy with NRG would be without merit. However, it is possible that NRG or its creditors would attempt to advance such claims, or other claims under piercing the corporate veil, alter ego or related theories, should an NRG bankruptcy proceeding commence, particularly in the absence of a prenegotiated plan of reorganization, and Xcel Energy cannot be certain how a bankruptcy court would resolve these issues. One of the creditors of the NRG project Pike, as discussed in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, has already filed involuntary bankruptcy proceedings against that project and has included claims against both NRG and Xcel Energy. Also, as discussed in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, a group of former executives of NRG have commenced an involuntary bankruptcy proceeding against NRG related to the payments of certain benefits and deferred compensation amounts claimed to be due them. If a bankruptcy court were to allow substantive consolidation of Xcel Energy and NRG, it would have a material adverse effect on Xcel Energy. The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements do not reflect any conditions or matters that would arise if NRG were in bankruptcy. If NRG were to file for bankruptcy, and the necessary actions were taken by Xcel Energy to fully relinquish its effective control over NRG, Xcel Energy anticipates that NRG would no longer be included in Xcel Energys consolidated financial statements, prospectively from the date such actions were taken. Such de consolidation of NRG would encompass a change in Xcel Energys accounting for NRG to the equity method, under which Xcel Energy would continue to record its interest in NRGs income or losses until Xcel Energys investment in NRG (under the equity method) reached the level of obligations that Xcel Energy had either guaranteed on behalf of NRG or was otherwise committed to in the form of financial assistance to NRG. Prior to completion of a bankruptcy proceeding, a prenegotiated plan of reorganization or other settlement reached with NRGs creditors would be the determining factors in assessing whether a commitment to provide financial assistance to NRG existed at the time of de consolidation. At Dec. 31, 2002, Xcel Energys pro forma investment in NRG, calculated under the equity method if applied at that date, was a negative $625 million. If the amount of guarantees or other financial assistance committed to NRG by Xcel Energy exceeded that level after de consolidation of NRG, then NRGs losses would continue to be included in Xcel Energys results until the amount of negative investment in NRG reaches the amount of guarantees and financial assistance committed to by Xcel Energy. As of Dec. 31, 2002, the estimated guarantee exposure that Xcel Energy had provided on behalf of NRG of $96 million, as discussed in Note 16, and potential financial assistance was committed in the form of a support and capital subscription agreement pursuant to which Xcel Energy agreed, under certain circumstances, to provide an additional $300 million contribution to NRG if the financial restructuring plan discussed earlier is approved by NRGs creditors. Additional commitments for financial assistance to NRG could be created in 2003 as Xcel Energy, NRG and NRGs creditors continue to negotiate terms of a possible prenegotiated plan of reorganization to resolve NRGs financial difficulties. In addition to the effects of NRGs losses, Xcel Energys operating results and retained earnings in 2003 could also be affected by the tax effects of any guarantees or financial commitments to NRG, if such income tax benefits were considered likely of realization in the foreseeable future. The income tax benefits recorded in 2002 related to Xcel Energys investment in NRG, as discussed in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, includes only the tax benefits related to cash and stock investments already made in NRG at Dec. 31, 2002. Additional tax benefits could be recorded in 2003 at the time that such benefits are considered likely of realization, when the payment of guarantees and other financial assistance to NRG become probable. As noted above, a bankruptcy filing by NRG would have several effects on Xcel Energys financial condition and results of operations. If a bankruptcy filing and other necessary governance actions eliminate Xcel Energys control over NRG, then management anticipates that NRG would no longer be included in Xcel Energys consolidated financial statements, prospectively from the date such actions were taken. Such de consolidation of NRG would encompass a change in Xcel Energys accounting for NRG to the equity method, thus all of NRGs assets and liabilities would be presented in a single line on Xcel Energys balance sheet at that point. This would reduce Xcel Energys debt leverage ratios and increase its equity ratio as a percent of total capitalization to above 30 percent, thereby reinstating its financing authority under PUHCA. In addition, the revenues and expenses of NRG would be reported on a net basis as equity income or losses. Losses would be subject to certain limitations. Also, the operating, investing and financing cash flows of NRG would not be included in Xcel Energys except to the extent cash flowed between Xcel Energy and NRG. Finally, there may be tax effects for guarantees or financial commitments made by Xcel Energy to NRG related to the bankruptcy or other resolution of NRGs financial difficulties. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of these possible effects of an NRG bankruptcy filing on Xcel Energy. Xcel Energy believes that the ultimate resolution of NRGs financial difficulties and going concern uncertainty will not affect Xcel Energys ability to continue as a going concern. Xcel Energy is not dependent on cash flows from NRG, nor is Xcel Energy contingently liable to creditors of NRG in an amount material to Xcel Energys liquidity. Xcel Energy believes that its cash flows from regulated utility operations and anticipated financing capabilities will be sufficient to fund its non NRG related operating, investing and financing requirements. Beyond these sources of liquidity, Xcel Energy believes it will have adequate access to additional debt and equity financing that is not conditioned upon the outcome of NRGs financial restructuring plan. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk See Managements Discussion and Analysis under Item 7, incorporated by reference. 68 Table of Contents 
 
