FILE:JNJ/JNJ-8K-20020813100044.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): August 12, 2002 JOHNSON & JOHNSON (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) New Jersey 1-3215 22-1024240 (State or other (Commission (I.R.S. Employer jurisdiction File Number) Identification No.) of incorporation) One Johnson & Johnson Plaza, New Brunswick, New Jersey 08933 (Address of principal executive offices) (zip code) Registrant's telephone number including area code: (732) 524-0400 Total number of sequentially numbered pages in this filing, including exhibits thereto: 6 Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure. On August 12, 2002, each of William C. Weldon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Robert J. Darretta, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, of Johnson & Johnson, a New Jersey corporation, submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") sworn statements certifying previously filed reports pursuant to Commission Order No. 4-460. Copies of these statements are attached hereto as Exhibits. Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits. (c) Exhibits The following Exhibits are included herein: Exhibit 99(a): Statement under Oath of Principal Executive Officer Regarding Facts and Circumstances Relating to Exchange Act Filings Exhibit 99(b): Statement under Oath of Principal Financial Officer Regarding Facts and Circumstances Relating to Exchange Act Filings SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. JOHNSON & JOHNSON Date: August 12, 2002 By: /s/ Michael H. Ullmann Michael H. Ullmann Secretary EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit No. Description of Exhibit Exhibit 99(a): Statement under Oath of Principal Executive Officer Regarding Facts and Circumstances Relating to Exchange Act Filings Exhibit 99(b): Statement under Oath of Principal Financial Officer Regarding Facts and Circumstances Relating to Exchange Act Filings

EXHIBIT 99(a) Statement Under Oath Of Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer Regarding Facts And Circumstances Relating To Exchange Act Filings I, William C. Weldon, principal executive officer of Johnson & Johnson, a New Jersey corporation, state and attest that: (1) To the best of my knowledge, based upon a review of the covered reports of Johnson & Johnson, and, except as corrected or supplemented in a subsequent covered report: no covered report contained an untrue statement of a material fact as of the end of the period covered by such report (or in the case of a report on Form 8-K or definitive proxy materials, as of the date on which it was filed); and no covered report omitted to state a material fact necessary to make the statements in the covered report, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading as of the end of the period covered by such report (or in the case of a report on Form 8-K or definitive proxy materials, as of the date on which it was filed). (2) I have reviewed the contents of this statement with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of Johnson & Johnson. (3) In this statement under oath, each of the following, if filed on or before the date of this statement, is a "covered report": the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Johnson & Johnson for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2001; all reports on Form 10-Q, all reports on Form 8-K and all definitive proxy materials of Johnson & Johnson filed with the Commission subsequent to the filing of the Form 10- K identified above; and any amendments to any of the foregoing. /s/ William C. Weldon Subscribed and sworn to Name: William C. Weldon before me this 9th day of Date: August 9, 2002. August 2002. /s/ Linda A. Piscadlo Notary Public of New Jersey My Commission Expires 9/18/06

EXHIBIT 99(b) Statement Under Oath Of Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer Regarding Facts And Circumstances Relating To Exchange Act Filings I, Robert J. Darretta, principal financial officer of Johnson & Johnson, a New Jersey corporation, state and attest that: (1) To the best of my knowledge, based upon a review of the covered reports of Johnson & Johnson, and, except as corrected or supplemented in a subsequent covered report: no covered report contained an untrue statement of a material fact as of the end of the period covered by such report (or in the case of a report on Form 8-K or definitive proxy materials, as of the date on which it was filed); and no covered report omitted to state a material fact necessary to make the statements in the covered report, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading as of the end of the period covered by such report (or in the case of a report on Form 8-K or definitive proxy materials, as of the date on which it was filed). (2) I have reviewed the contents of this statement with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of Johnson & Johnson. (3) In this statement under oath, each of the following, if filed on or before the date of this statement, is a "covered report": the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Johnson & Johnson for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2001; all reports on Form 10-Q, all reports on Form 8-K and all definitive proxy materials of Johnson & Johnson filed with the Commission subsequent to the filing of the Form 10- K identified above; and any amendments to any of the foregoing. /s/ Robert J. Darretta Subscribed and sworn to Name: Robert J. Darretta before me this 9th day of Date: August 9, 2002. August 2002. /s/ Linda A. Piscadlo Notary Public of New Jersey My Commission Expires 9/18/06


