FILE:JNJ/JNJ-8K-20061117172517.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, DC 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of report (Date of earliest event reported): November 16, 2006 JOHNSON & JOHNSON (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) New Jersey 1-3215 22-1024240 (State or Other Juris- (Commission File (IRS Employer diction of Incorporation) Number) Identification No.) One Johnson & Johnson Plaza, New Brunswick, New Jersey 08933 (Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: 732-524-0400 Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions: [ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ x ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c)) Item 8.01 Other Events On November 16, 2006, Johnson & Johnson and Conor Medsystems, Inc., a cardiovascular device company, announced a definitive agreement whereby Johnson & Johnson will acquire Conor Medsystems for approximately $1.4 billion. Under the terms of the agreement, an all cash merger transaction, Conor Medsystems stockholders will receive at closing $33.50 for each outstanding Conor Medsystems share. The $1.3 billion estimated net value of the transaction is based on Conor Medsystem's 42.7 million fully diluted shares outstanding, net of estimated cash on hand at time of closing. The boards of directors of Johnson & Johnson and Conor Medsystems have approved the transaction, which is subject to clearance under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act, Conor Medsystems stockholder approval and other customary closing conditions. The transaction is expected to close in the first quarter of 2007. Upon closing, Johnson & Johnson is expected to incur an estimated one-time after- tax charge of approximately $600 million, reflecting the write-off of in-process research and development charges (IPR&D). A copy of the press release issued by Johnson & Johnson and Conor Medsystems, Inc. on November 16, 2006, concerning the transaction, and a transcript of the webcast of the conference call, held on November 17, 2006, by Johnson & Johnson and Conor Medsystems, Inc. with financial analysts regarding the proposed merger are attached hereto. Additional Information About the Proposed Transaction and Where To Find It: In connection with the proposed transaction, Conor Medsystems intends to file a proxy statement and other relevant materials with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). Before making any voting decision with respect to the proposed transaction, stockholders of Conor Medsystems are urged to read the proxy statement and other relevant materials because they will contain important information about the proposed transaction. The proxy statement and other relevant materials, and any other documents filed by Conor Medsystems with the SEC, may be obtained free of charge at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. In addition, stockholders of Conor Medsystems may obtain free copies of the documents filed with the SEC by contacting Conor Medsystems at (650) 614- 4100, or Conor Medsystems, Inc., 1003 Hamilton Court, Menlo Park, CA 94025. You may also read and copy any reports, statements, and other information filed by Conor Medsystems with the SEC at the SEC public reference room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC 20049. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 or visit the SEC's website for further information on its public reference room. Conor Medsystems and Johnson & Johnson and each of their executive officers and directors may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from Conor Medsystems' stockholders in favor of the proposed transaction. A list of the names of Conor Medsystems' executive officers and directors and a description of their respective interests in Conor Medsystems, are set forth in the proxy statement for Conor Medsystems' 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which was filed with the SEC on April 28, 2006, and in any documents subsequently filed by its directors and executive officers under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Certain executive officers and directors of Conor Medsystems have interests in the proposed transaction that may differ from the interests of stockholders generally, including benefits conferred under retention, severance and change in control arrangements and continuation of director and officer insurance and indemnification. These interests and any additional benefits in connection with the proposed transaction will be described in the proxy statement when it becomes available. Item 9.01 (d) EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit No. Description 99.1 Press release dated November 16, 2006. 99.2 Transcript of November 17, 2006 webcast. SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. JOHNSON & JOHNSON (Registrant) Date: November 17, 2006 By: /s/ Steven M. Rosenberg Steven M. Rosenberg Secretary

Exhibit 99.1 Johnson & Johnson Announces Definitive Agreement to Acquire Conor Medsystems, Inc. Conor Medsystems to Complement Cordis' Drug-Eluting Stent Capabilities with Unique Controlled Drug Delivery Technology NEW BRUNSWICK, N.J., and MENLO PARK, CALIF. (November 16, 2006) -- Johnson & Johnson (NYSE: JNJ) and Conor Medsystems, Inc. (NASDAQ: CONR), a cardiovascular device company, today announced a definitive agreement whereby Johnson & Johnson will acquire Conor Medsystems for approximately $1.4 billion. The acquisition of Conor Medsystems by Johnson & Johnson will provide Cordis Corporation, a Johnson & Johnson company, with a unique controlled drug delivery technology. This technology is currently employed on the CoStar* Stent System, a paclitaxel-eluting cobalt chromium stent with a bioabsorbable polymer. The CoStar* Stent is currently sold outside the United States, and enrollment in its U.S. pivotal clinical trial has been completed. Under the terms of the agreement, an all cash merger transaction, Conor Medsystems stockholders will receive at closing $33.50 for each outstanding Conor Medsystems share. The $1.3 billion estimated net value of the transaction is based on Conor Medsystem's 42.7 million fully diluted shares outstanding, net of estimated cash on hand at time of closing. The boards of directors of Johnson & Johnson and Conor Medsystems have approved the transaction, which is subject to clearance under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act, Conor Medsystems stockholder approval and other customary closing conditions. The transaction is expected to close in the first quarter of 2007. Nicholas J. Valeriani, Johnson & Johnson Worldwide Chairman, Cardiovascular Devices and Diagnostics, said, "The addition of Conor Medsystems to the Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies reaffirms our strong commitment to patients with cardiovascular disease and the physicians who treat them." He continued, "Cordis led the transformation of the treatment of coronary artery disease with the introduction of the first coronary stent, and later reinvented the category with the creation of the CYPHER* Sirolimus-Eluting Stent. With Conor Medsystems, we are positioned to lead the development of next generation technologies aimed at advancing the standard of care in the treatment of coronary artery disease." Conor Medsystem's CoStar* stent, which provides for drug elution from a stent with a fully bioabsorbable polymer, employs a unique reservoir drug-delivery technology. These reservoirs enable site-specific drug delivery as well as the potential for delivery of multiple therapeutic agents that may be useful in the treatment of cardiovascular, peripheral vascular and neurovascular diseases. The technology also has potential in other non-vascular clinical indications. Conor Medsystems will operate as part of the Cordis franchise, the global leader in drug-eluting stents for the treatment of coronary artery disease. Rick Anderson, Johnson & Johnson Company Group Chairman with responsibility for the Cordis business, said: "Cordis is looking forward to strengthening its portfolio with the addition of the CoStar* Stent System. We will offer physicians and the patients they treat the most comprehensive portfolio of stents, therapeutic agents, delivery platforms and polymers. By combining the unique capabilities of Conor Medsystems and Cordis, we are confident that we will bring innovative solutions to patients around the world." Conor Medsystems Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Frank Litvack, M.D., said: "This transaction couples our highly competitive technology platform with the resources of the world's leading health care company. We believe it is clearly in the best interest of Conor Medsystem stockholders and of patients worldwide who seek treatment for vascular disease. Cordis, which created the drug-eluting stent category, is the ideal partner to maximize the potential of our strong technology portfolio, and to accelerate the adoption of this important technology." Upon closing, Johnson & Johnson is expected to incur an estimated one-time after-tax charge of approximately $600 million, reflecting the write-off of in-process research and development charges (IPR&D). Excluding IPR&D, the acquisition is expected to be modestly dilutive to Johnson & Johnson's earnings per share in 2007. Additional commentary regarding the financial impact will be discussed during the conference call noted below. Johnson & Johnson is the world's most comprehensive and broadly based manufacturer of health care products, as well as a provider of related services, for the consumer, pharmaceutical, and medical devices and diagnostics markets. The more than 230 Johnson & Johnson operating companies employ approximately 115,700 men and women in 57 countries and sell products throughout the world. Conor Medsystems develops innovative controlled vascular drug delivery technologies, and has primarily focused on the development of drug- eluting stents to treat coronary artery disease. For further information on Conor Medsystems and controlled vascular delivery, visit www.conormed.com
. The CoStar* stent is not available for sale in the United States where it is an investigational device limited by law to investigational use. NOTE TO INVESTORS Johnson & Johnson and Conor Medsystems, Inc. will conduct a conference call with financial analysts to discuss this news release on November 17, 2006, at 8:30 a.m., Eastern Standard Time. A simultaneous webcast of the call for interested investors and others may be accessed by visiting the Johnson & Johnson website at www.jnj.com
. In addition, stockholders of Conor Medsystems may obtain free copies of the documents filed with the SEC by contacting Conor Medsystems at (650) 614-4100, or Conor Medsystems, Inc., 1003 Hamilton Court, Menlo Park, CA 94025. You may also read and copy any reports, statements, and other information filed by Conor Medsystems with the SEC at the SEC public reference room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC 20049. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 or visit the SEC's website for further information on its public reference room. Conor Medsystems and Johnson & Johnson and each of their executive officers and directors may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from Conor Medsystems' stockholders in favor of the proposed transaction. A list of the names of Conor Medsystems' executive officers and directors and a description of their respective interests in Conor Medsystems, are set forth in the proxy statement for Conor Medsystems' 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which was filed with the SEC on April 28, 2006, and in any documents subsequently filed by its directors and executive officers under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Certain executive officers and directors of Conor Medsystems have interests in the proposed transaction that may differ from the interests of stockholders generally, including benefits conferred under retention, severance and change in control arrangements and continuation of director and officer insurance and indemnification. These interests and any additional benefits in connection with the proposed transaction will be described in the proxy statement when it becomes available. *Cordis Corporation has entered into an exclusive worldwide license with Wyeth for the localized delivery of sirolimus in certain fields of use, including delivery via vascular stenting. Sirolimus, the active drug released for the stent, is marketed by Wyeth Pharmaceuticals, a division of Wyeth, under the name Rapamuner. Rapamune is a trademark of Wyeth Pharmaceuticals. # # #

Exhibit 99.2 JOHNSON & JOHNSON INVESTMENT ANALYST FORMAL REMARKS NOVEMBER 17, 2006 Stan Panasewicz - Johnson & Johnson - Director IR Good morning and welcome. I'm Stan Panasewicz, Director of Investor Relations for Johnson & Johnson. It is my pleasure to review with you the definitive agreement announced last evening whereby Johnson & Johnson will acquire Conor Medsystems. With me on the call this morning are Nick Valeriani, Worldwide Chairman, Cardiovascular Devices and Diagnostics, Dr. Frank Litvack, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Conor Medsystems, and Bob Darretta, Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer, Johnson & Johnson. Rick Anderson, Johnson & Johnson company group chairman for the Cordis franchise, will also join us during the question and answer period. Let me first outline the agenda for this morning's call. I'll begin with a brief overview of the transaction. Following my remarks, Nick will share with you the comments on the strategic rationale for this powerful combination and the benefits it will bring to both patients and the Cordis franchise. Next, Frank Litvack will provide some additional commentary around the impact of this exciting opportunity for the stockholders of Conor Medsystems. Bob Darretta will wrap up the formal remarks with additional comments on the financial aspects of the agreement. After formal remarks are concluded, we will open the call to your questions. We expect the call, including Q&A, to last 30 to 45 minutes but will certainly be sensitive to accommodating your questions before we conclude the call. Last item before we proceed: let me remind you that some of the statements made during this call may be considered "forward looking statements." Johnson & Johnson's 10-K for the fiscal year 2005 identifies certain factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements made during this call. The 10-K and subsequent filings are available through the Company or on-line. To the subject at hand. The definitive agreement announced last evening is an all cash transaction valued at $1.4 billion dollars whereby Johnson & Johnson will acquire Conor Medsystems. The boards of directors of Johnson & Johnson and Conor Medsystems have approved the transaction, which is subject to clearance under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Anti-Trust Improvements Act, Conor Medsystems stockholder approval and other customary closing conditions. The transaction is expected to close by the end of the first quarter 2007. It's now my pleasure to introduce Nick Valeriani. Nick.. Nick Valeriani - Johnson & Johnson - Worldwide Chairman, Cardiovascular Devices & Diagnostics Thanks, Stan, and thank you all for joining us today to discuss what is clearly an important event for Cordis and a demonstration of Johnson & Johnson's commitment to cardiovascular and vascular technology. Our agreement last night to acquire Conor Medsystems strengthens our technological capabilities and brings outstanding talent to our effort to address the clinical challenges of cardiovascular disease. Conor Medsystems builds on our strong position in cardiovascular care, one of the most important and fastest-growing areas of health care, both immediately, with its innovative CoStar drug-eluting stent, and over the long-term, with its unique drug-delivery technology. Through the acquisition of Conor Medsystems, Cordis will gain a unique controlled drug delivery technology. It is currently employed on the CoStar Stent System, a paclitaxel-eluting cobalt chromium stent with a bioabsorbable polymer. The CoStar Stent is currently sold outside the United States, and it is in clinical trials here in the US. We look forward to bringing the benefits of this technology to the United States in the near future. The CoStar Stent, with a fully bioabsorbable polymer and proprietary design, is unique in its drug delivery mechanism. The design enhances control and direction of drug delivery, enabling a wider range of drug therapies and potentially increasing the range of clinical applications. The technology holds the potential for delivery of multiple therapeutic agents that may be useful in the treatment of cardiovascular, peripheral vascular and neurovascular disease. The CoStar Stent will broaden our drug-eluting stent portfolio, making it the most comprehensive in the market in terms of stent design, delivery platform, polymer science, drug and drug delivery mechanism. We look forward to accelerating the adoption of the CoStar Stent through the strong sales and marketing capabilities of the global Cordis organization. While this stent is a significant addition to our existing portfolio, we are also excited about the application of this innovative technology to other areas of our business. We expect to study the application of this drug delivery mechanism not only in the areas within the cardiovascular and vascular categories, but also in a broad range of other clinical indications. I look forward to the day when we officially welcome the employees of Conor Medsystems to the Johnson & Johnson family of companies. As we have worked with the Conor Medsystems organization over the past few months, we have been consistently impressed by the people we met. We found not just capable and talented employees, but people who share our underlying values and our commitment to advancing patient care in this important medical space. I'm confident that Conor Medsystem's employees and leaders will be a credit to Johnson & Johnson well into the future. Let me also take a moment to recognize all the employees at Cordis. It is their passion and dedication to bringing breakthrough technologies to patients that has built a foundation for the growth of our cardiovascular device business. Before I turn it over to Frank, let me emphasize my optimism for this union. At Cordis, we have a legacy of important contributions to the care of patients with cardiovascular disease and the physicians who treat them. We transformed the care of these patients with the introduction of the first stent in the 1990s, and we reinvented that category in 2002 with the launch of the CYPHER Sirolimus-Eluting Stent. With Conor Medsystems, we are now positioned to lead the development of next generation technologies aimed at advancing the standard of care in the treatment of coronary artery disease. We can do more for patients with cardiovascular disease together than either of these companies could have done alone, and I have great confidence in the people of both organizations to take us to that next level of care. Now, let me turn it over to Dr. Frank Litvack, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Conor Medsystems, who will provide his perspective on the union with Cordis. Frank. Frank Litvack, M.D., Conor Medsystems, Inc. - Chairman & CEO Thank you, Nick. First I would like to say that the Conor Medsystems management team, as well as the Board of Directors, feels very good about this agreement. We are pleased to be joining the capabilities of these companies. We believe this transaction creates a combined organization that will deliver sustained innovation and product development for the benefit of patients around the world. As for Conor Medsystem stockholders, we believe they are well served by this transaction because it provides them an opportunity to realize significant and immediate value. Let me talk for a moment about what I think Conor Medsystems brings to Johnson & Johnson - we have a transformational drug delivery technology that speaks to our proven capabilities in design and product development, but more importantly, we bring a culture of innovation, and an entrepreneurial spirit. While we have confidence in our technology, we also recognize that leadership in market development, propelled by excellent clinical science, public policy advocacy, and patient awareness, has been and will be important. Johnson & Johnson is uniquely qualified in these areas. Like Nick, I want to take a moment to acknowledge the most important asset we have - our people. It was Conor Medsystems' employees who built our company and made this union possible. Conor Medsystems' more than 300 employees are dedicated to physicians and the patients they treat, and you will not find a more committed workforce. I know that Johnson & Johnson recognized their talent as an important asset. Each of our employees has a great opportunity going forward for personal and professional growth as part of the Johnson & Johnson organization. Their futures hold the promise of both rewarding careers and continued meaningful contributions to health care. They will find Johnson & Johnson to be a company grounded on a foundation of values to customers, employees and community. Before I close, I would like to acknowledge, as well, one more important stakeholder - the physicians who use our products. As a physician myself, I am attuned to the importance of the relationship between manufacturer and practitioner. I know you will find that Conor Medsystems, in combining with Johnson & Johnson, has entrusted our technology and its future development to a company that wants the very best for you and your patients. Thank you for your support -- we are excited about the possibilities the future holds. With that, I will turn it over to Bob Darretta. Bob Darretta, Johnson & Johnson - Executive VP, CFO Thanks, Frank. I would now like to briefly touch on the financial terms and impact of the transaction. As you have heard from Stan, this is an all-cash transaction of $1.4 billion on a gross basis, or $1.3 billion net of the cash projected to be on hand at the time of closing. The transaction is subject to achieving regulatory approval in the United States, approval by Conor Medsystems shareholders and other customary closing conditions. We anticipate closing the transaction during the first quarter of 2007. As you have heard from Nick, the financial returns from this investment will flow from the accelerated growth of products already in the market and, even more importantly, from the application of this unique controlled drug delivery technology to the stents that will be commercialized in the future. The transaction will be dilutive to 2007 earnings and will essentially be break-even in 2008. 2007 dilution is estimated at $0.24 per share of which $0.21 per share is associated with an estimated charge of $600 million for in-process research and development, and $0.01 per share associated with the amortization of the estimated value of intangible assets. These estimates have not yet been reviewed by a third party valuation specialist and will be refined as that work is conducted next year. That concludes my formal comments, and at this point, I would like to turn the call back to Stan. Stan Panasewicz - Johnson & Johnson - Director IR Thank you, Bob. Elizabeth, if you could provide the instructions for the Q&A session, we will begin. Thank you. Nick Valeriani - Johnson & Johnson, Worldwide Chairman, Cardiovascular Devices & Diagnostics Well, in summary, let me first thank everyone who was on the call this morning to join us for this exciting announcement. We are obviously very excited about the addition of Conor Medsystems to the Johnson & Johnson family of companies. Again, I think it reaffirms our commitment to making a difference for patients with cardiovascular disease and the physicians who treat them, and we very much look forward to the employees of Conor joining J&J. But probably most importantly, we are excited and hopeful for what this union will mean for the more effective and better treatment for patients around the world. Again, thanks for your time this morning and have a great day. (This transcript contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on current expectations of future events. If underlying assumptions prove inaccurate or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, actual results could vary materially from Johnson & Johnson's and Conor Medsystem's expectations and projections. Risks and uncertainties include satisfaction of closing conditions including receipt of regulatory approvals for the transaction, and the possibility that the transaction will not be completed; general industry conditions and competition; economic conditions, such as interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations; technological advances and patents attained by competitors; challenges inherent in new product development, including obtaining regulatory approvals; domestic and foreign health care reforms and governmental laws and regulations; and trends toward health care cost containment. A further list and description of these risks, uncertainties and other factors can be found in Exhibit 99 of Johnson & Johnson's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 1, 2006 and Conor Medsystem's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2006. These filings, as well as subsequent filings, are available online at www.sec.gov or on request from the applicable company. Neither company undertakes to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments.)


