FILE:JNJ/JNJ-8K-20060112170733.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported):
January 11, 2006
 001-03215
           
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
             
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
22-1024240
     (Commission File Number)          
   
   
   
   
        
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
(IRS Employer Identification No.)
 
         One Johnson & Johnson Plaza
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
         New Brunswick, New Jersey
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
            
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
08933
        (Address of Principal Executive Offices)          
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
(Zip Code)
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
X
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 1.01
 
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
On January 11, 2006, Johnson & Johnson, Guidant Corporation (Guidant) and Shelby Merger Sub, Inc. (Merger Sub), a wholly owned subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson, entered into an Amendment No. 1 (the Amendment) to the Amended and Restated Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of November 14, 2005, among Johnson & Johnson, Guidant and Merger Sub. The Amendment provides for an increase in the consideration to be received by Guidant shareholders.
Pursuant to the Amendment, at the effective time of the merger, each share of Guidant common stock (other than shares owned by Guidant or Johnson & Johnson) will be converted into the right to receive a combination of (i) $37.25 in cash and (ii) 0.493 shares of Johnson & Johnson common stock. In addition, the termination fee that Guidant may be obligated to pay to Johnson & Johnson under certain circumstances was proportionately increased to $675 million.
A copy of the Amendment is attached hereto as Exhibit 2.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. The foregoing description of the Amendment is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Amendment.
Johnson & Johnson and Guidant issued a joint press release on January 11, 2006, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Guidant Corporation and Johnson & Johnson have filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) a definitive proxy statement/prospectus and will file other documents regarding the proposed merger between Guidant and Johnson & Johnson. This proxy statement/prospectus has been sent to all security holders of Guidant seeking their approval of the transaction. Investors are urged to read the definitive proxy statement/prospectus and any other relevant documents filed or to be filed with the SEC because they contain important information. The proxy statement/prospectus and other documents filed or to be filed by Johnson & Johnson and Guidant with the SEC are or will be available free of charge at the SEC's website, www.sec.gov, or by directing a request to Johnson & Johnson, One Johnson & Johnson Plaza, New Brunswick, NJ 08933, Attention: Investor Relations; or by directing a request to Guidant Corporation, 111 Monument Circle, #2900, Indianapolis, IN 46204-5129, Attention: Investor Relations.
Johnson & Johnson, Guidant Corporation, their respective directors, and certain of their respective executive officers may be considered participants in the solicitation of proxies from Guidant shareholders in connection with the proposed transactions. Information about the directors and executive officers of Johnson & Johnson and their ownership of Johnson & Johnson stock is set forth in Johnson & Johnsons most recent filing on Form 10-K. Information about the directors and executive officers of Guidant and their ownership of Guidant stock is set forth in Guidant's most recent filing on Form 10-K. Investors may obtain additional information regarding the interests of such participants by reading the definitive proxy statement/prospectus.
 
 
Item 9.01
 
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 2.1
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
 
AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO AMENDED AND RESTATED AGREEMENT AND PLAN OF MERGER (this Amendment) dated as of January 11, 2006, by and among JOHNSON & JOHNSON, a New Jersey corporation (Parent), SHELBY MERGER SUB, INC., an Indiana corporation and a wholly owned Subsidiary of Parent (Sub), and GUIDANT CORPORATION, an Indiana corporation (the Company).
 
WHEREAS Parent, Sub and the Company are parties to that certain Amended and Restated Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of November 14, 2005 (the Merger Agreement);
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 7.03 of the Merger Agreement, Parent, Sub and the Company desire to amend the Merger Agreement as provided in this Amendment; and
 
WHEREAS the Board of Directors of each of the Company and Sub have adopted, and the Board of Directors of Parent has approved, this Amendment;
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the mutual agreements contained in this Amendment and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows
:
 
SECTION 1.01.
  
Amendments to the Merger Agreement.
 
(a)
  
The second Whereas clause of the Merger Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
 
WHEREAS the Board of Directors of each of the Company and Sub has adopted, and the Board of Directors of Parent has approved, this Agreement and the merger of Sub with and into the Company (the Merger), upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement, whereby each issued and outstanding share of common stock, without par value, of the Company (Company Common Stock), other than shares of Company Common Stock directly owned by Parent, Sub or the Company, will be converted into the right to receive (a) a number of validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable shares of common stock, par value $1.00 per share, of Parent (Parent Common Stock) and (b) $37.25 in cash, without interest;
 
(b)
  
The first sentence of Section 2.01(c) of the Merger Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
 
Subject to Section 2.02(e), each share of Company Common Stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time (other than shares to be canceled in accordance with Section 2.01(b)) shall be converted into the right to receive (i) 0.493 (the Exchange Ratio) validly issued, fully paid and
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
nonassessable shares of Parent Common Stock (the Stock Portion) and (ii) $37.25 in cash, without interest (the Cash Portion and, together with the Stock Portion, the Merger Consideration).
 
(c)
  
The first paragraph of Section 3.01 of the Merger Agreement shall be amended as follows:
 
(i)
  
the phrase prior to November 14, 2004 shall be replaced with the phrase prior to January 11, 2006 and
 
(ii)
  
the phrase prior to the execution of this Agreement shall be amended by replacing the words the execution of this Agreement with the words November 14, 2005.
 
(d)
  
The phrase as of November 14, 2005 in the fourth sentence of Section 3.01(d) of the Merger Agreement and in Section 3.01(t) of the Merger Agreement shall be replaced, in each case, with the phrase as of January 11, 2006.
 
(e)
  
The phrase a fee equal to $625,000,000 in Section 5.06(b) of the Merger Agreement shall be replaced with the phrase a fee equal to $675,000,000.
 
(f)
  
The phrase after November 14, 2005 in Section 5.08 of the Merger Agreement shall be replaced with the phrase after January 11, 2006.
 
(g)
  
Exhibit B to the Merger Agreement is hereby replaced in its entirety by Exhibit A attached hereto.
 
SECTION 1.02.
  
Representations and Warranties
.
 
(a)
  
The Company represents and warrants to Parent and Sub as follows:
 
(i)
  
The Company has been duly organized, and is validly existing and in good standing under the Laws of the State of Indiana.
 
(ii)
  
The Company has all requisite corporate power and authority to execute and deliver this Amendment. The execution and delivery of this Amendment by the Company have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of the Company and no other corporate proceedings on the part of the Company are necessary to authorize this Amendment. This Amendment has been duly executed and delivered by the Company and, assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery by each of the other parties hereto, constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, moratorium, reorganization or similar Laws affecting the rights of creditors generally and the availability of equitable remedies (regardless of whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
 
(b)
  
Parent and Sub represent and warrant to the Company as follows:
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
(i)
  
Each of Parent and Sub is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the Laws of the jurisdiction in which it is incorporated.
 
(ii)
  
Each of Parent and Sub has all requisite corporate power and authority to execute and deliver this Amendment. The execution and delivery of this Amendment by Parent and Sub have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of Parent and Sub and no other corporate proceedings on the part of Parent or Sub are necessary to authorize this Amendment. This Amendment has been duly executed and delivered by each of Parent and Sub and, assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery by the Company, constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of Parent and Sub, enforceable against Parent and Sub in accordance with its terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, moratorium, reorganization or similar Laws affecting the rights of creditors generally and the availability of equitable remedies (regardless of whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
 
SECTION 1.03.
  
Ratification of Merger Agreement
. Except as otherwise provided herein, all of the terms, covenants and other provisions of the Merger Agreement are hereby ratified and confirmed and shall continue to be in full force and effect in accordance with their respective terms. After the date hereof, all references to the Merger Agreement shall refer to the Merger Agreement as amended by this Amendment (it being understood that all references to the date hereof or the date of this Agreement shall continue to refer to December 15, 2004). Capitalized terms used but not defined in this Amendment shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Merger Agreement.
 
SECTION 1.04.
  
Counterparts.
This Amendment may be executed in one or more counterparts (including by facsimile), all of which shall be considered one and the same agreement and shall become effective when one or more counterparts have been signed by each of the parties and delivered to the other parties.
 
SECTION 1.05.
  
GOVERNING LAW.
THIS AMENDMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF INDIANA, REGARDLESS OF THE LAWS THAT MIGHT OTHERWISE GOVERN UNDER APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAWS THEREOF.
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Parent, Sub and the Company have caused this Amendment to be signed by their respective officers hereunto duly authorized, all as of the date first written above.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A
TO AMENDMENT NO. 1
 
EXHIBIT B
TO THE AMENDED AND RESTATED MERGER AGREEMENT
 
 
Dear Sirs:
 
The undersigned, a holder of shares of common stock, without par value (Company Common Stock), of Guidant Corporation, an Indiana corporation (the Company), acknowledges that the undersigned may be deemed an affiliate of the Company within the meaning of Rule 145 (Rule 145) promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). Pursuant to the terms of the Amended and Restated Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of November 14, 2005 (the Merger Agreement), among Johnson & Johnson, a New Jersey corporation (Parent), Shelby Merger Sub, Inc., an Indiana corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of Parent (Sub), and the Company, as amended by Amendment No. 1 thereto dated as of January 11, 2006, among the Company, Parent and Sub, Sub will be merged with and into the Company (the Merger), and in connection with the Merger, the undersigned is entitled to receive 0.493 shares of the common stock of Parent (Parent Common Stock) and $37.25 in cash for each share of Company Common Stock, without interest.
 
If in fact the undersigned were an affiliate under the Securities Act, the undersigneds ability to sell, assign or transfer the shares of Parent Common Stock received by the undersigned in exchange for any shares of Company Common Stock in connection with the Merger may be restricted unless such transaction is registered under the Securities Act or an exemption from such registration is available. The undersigned understands that such exemptions are limited and the undersigned has obtained or will obtain advice of counsel as to the nature and conditions of such exemptions, including information with respect to the applicability to the sale of such securities of Rules 144 and 145(d) promulgated under the Securities Act. The undersigned understands that Parent will not be required to maintain the effectiveness of any registration statement under the Securities Act for the purposes of resale of Parent Common Stock by the undersigned.
 
The undersigned hereby represents to and covenants with Parent that the undersigned will not sell, assign or transfer any of the shares of Parent Common Stock received by the undersigned in exchange for shares of Company Common Stock in connection with the Merger except (i) pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, (ii) in conformity with the volume and other limitations of Rule 145 or (iii) in a transaction which, in the opinion of counsel to the undersigned, such counsel to be reasonably satisfactory to Parent and such opinion to be in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Parent, or as described in a no-action or interpretive letter from the Staff of the SEC specifically issued with respect to a transaction to be engaged in by the undersigned, is not required to be registered under the Securities Act.
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
In the event of a sale or other disposition by the undersigned of the shares of Parent Common Stock pursuant to Rule 145, the undersigned will supply Parent with evidence of compliance with such Rule, in the form of a letter in the form of Annex I hereto or the opinion of counsel or no-action letter referred to above. The undersigned understands that Parent may instruct its transfer agent to withhold the transfer of any shares of Parent Common Stock disposed of by the undersigned, but that (provided such transfer is not prohibited by any other provision of this letter agreement) upon receipt of such evidence of compliance, Parent shall cause the transfer agent to effectuate the transfer of the shares of Parent Common Stock sold as indicated in such letter.
 
Parent covenants that it will take all such actions as may be reasonably available to it to permit the sale or other disposition of the shares of Parent Common Stock by the undersigned under Rule 145 in accordance with the terms thereof.
 
The undersigned acknowledges and agrees that the legend set forth below will be placed on certificates representing the shares of Parent Common Stock received by the undersigned in connection with the Merger or held by a transferee thereof, which legend will be removed by delivery of substitute certificates (i) if the undersigned provides evidence of compliance with Rule 145 to Parent, in the form of a letter in the form of Annex I hereto, or (ii) upon receipt of an opinion in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Parent from counsel reasonably satisfactory to Parent to the effect that such legend is no longer required for purposes of the Securities Act.
 
There will be placed on the certificates for Parent Common Stock issued to the undersigned in connection with the Merger, or any substitutions therefor, a legend stating in substance:
 
The shares represented by this certificate were issued pursuant to a transaction to which Rule 145 promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933 applies. The shares have not been acquired by the holder with a view to, or for resale in connection with, any distribution thereof within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933. The shares may not be sold, pledged or otherwise transferred except in accordance with Rule 145, pursuant to a Registration Statement under the Securities Act of 1933 or in accordance with an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933.
 
The undersigned acknowledges that (i) the undersigned has carefully read this letter and understands the requirements hereof and the limitations imposed upon the distribution, sale, transfer or other disposition of Parent Common Stock and (ii) the receipt by Parent of this letter is an inducement to Parents obligations to consummate the Merger.
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
Execution of this letter should not be considered an admission on the part of the undersigned that the undersigned is an affiliate of the Company as described in the first paragraph of this letter, or as a waiver of any rights the undersigned may have to object to any claim that the undersigned is such an affiliate on or after the date of this letter.
 
          Very truly yours,
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
Dated:
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX 1
TO EXHIBIT B
 
[Name]          &# 160;                      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
[Date]
 
On                                  , the undersigned sold the securities of Johnson & Johnson (Parent) described below in the space provided for that purpose (the Securities). The Securities were received by the undersigned in connection with the merger of Shelby Merger Sub, Inc., an Indiana corporation, with and into Guidant Corporation, an Indiana corporation.
 
Based upon the most recent report or statement filed by Parent with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Securities sold by the undersigned were within the prescribed limitations set forth in paragraph (e) of Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act).
 
The undersigned hereby represents that the Securities were sold in brokers transactions within the meaning of Section 4(4) of the Securities Act or in transactions directly with a market maker as that term is defined in Section 3(a)(38) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The undersigned further represents that the undersigned has not solicited or arranged for the solicitation of orders to buy the Securities, and that the undersigned has not made any payment in connection with the offer or sale of the Securities to any person other than to the broker who executed the order in respect of such sale.
 
      Very truly yours,
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
Dated:
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
INDIANAPOLIS and NEW BRUNSWICK, N.J. (January 11, 2006) -- Guidant Corporation (NYSE: GDT) and Johnson & Johnson (NYSE:JNJ) today announced that they have reached a new agreement whereby Johnson & Johnson will acquire Guidant for $23.2 billion in fully diluted equity value. The boards of directors of both companies have unanimously approved the revised Johnson & Johnson offer and the Guidant board of directors recommends that Guidant shareholders vote in favor of the revised merger agreement at the scheduled January 31 shareholder meeting.
Under the new agreement, Johnson & Johnson will pay $37.25 in cash and .493 shares of Johnson & Johnson common stock for each outstanding share of Guidant common stock. Valued as of the market close on January 11, the transaction has a per share value of $68.06 to Guidant shareholders.
Johnson & Johnson has secured all regulatory clearances and satisfied all other conditions to close the transaction.
The companies will promptly file updated materials with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including a supplement to the existing proxy statement/prospectus.
This agreement with Johnson & Johnson provides significant financial value and certainty for shareholders, said James Cornelius, chairman and chief executive officer, Guidant Corporation. Together with Johnson & Johnson, we will have the resources to continue to build upon the existing Guidant businesses in our pursuit of meaningful innovations to address cardiovascular disease.
 
 
 
 
Together with Guidant, we have spent more than a year planning an integration that will create an extraordinary cardiovascular device business that can deliver better medical treatment sooner to millions of patients, said William C. Weldon, Johnson & Johnson chairman and chief executive officer. We strongly believe that our union with Guidant is the only one that can deliver on that promise, and create lasting value for shareholders of both companies. We have great confidence in Guidants people - they know their markets and their customers, they are technology innovators, and they share with Johnson & Johnson a commitment to the fight against cardiovascular disease. 
 
Johnson & Johnson will discuss the transaction further at its scheduled analyst meeting on January 24.
 
Guidant Corporation pioneers lifesaving technology, giving an opportunity for better life today to millions of cardiac and vascular patients worldwide. The Company develops, manufactures and markets a broad array of products and services that enable less invasive care for some of lifes most threatening medical conditions. For more information, visit
www.guidant.com
.
 
Johnson & Johnson is the world's most comprehensive and broadly based manufacturer of health care products, as well as a provider of related services, for the consumer, pharmaceutical, and medical devices and diagnostics markets. The more than 200 Johnson & Johnson operating companies employ approximately 115,000 men and women in 57 countries and sell products throughout the world.
 
 
(This press release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on current expectations of future events. If underlying assumptions prove inaccurate or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, actual results could vary materially from the Companies' expectations and projections. Risks and uncertainties include general industry conditions and competition; economic conditions, such as interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations; technological advances and patents attained by competitors; challenges inherent in new product development, including obtaining regulatory approvals; domestic and foreign health care reforms and governmental laws and regulations; and trends toward health care cost containment. A further list and description of these risks, uncertainties and other factors can be found in Exhibit 99(b) of the Johnson & Johnson Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 2, 2005, the Guidant Corporation Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
 
 
2
 
 
December 31, 2004, and subsequent filings on Forms 10-Q and Form 8-K. Copies of these Forms 10-K, as well as subsequent filings, are available online at
www.sec.gov
or on request from the respective companies. The companies assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments.)
 
Guidant Corporation and Johnson & Johnson have filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) a definitive proxy statement/prospectus and will file other documents regarding the proposed merger between Guidant and Johnson & Johnson. This proxy statement/prospectus has been sent to all security holders of Guidant seeking their approval of the transaction. Investors are urged to read the definitive proxy statement/prospectus and any other relevant documents filed or to be filed with the SEC because they contain important information. The proxy statement/prospectus and other documents filed or to be filed by Johnson & Johnson and Guidant with the SEC are or will be available free of charge at the SEC's website, www.sec.gov, or by directing a request to Johnson & Johnson, One Johnson & Johnson Plaza, New Brunswick, NJ 08933, Attention: Investor Relations; or by directing a request to Guidant Corporation, 111 Monument Circle, #2900, Indianapolis, IN 46204-5129, Attention: Investor Relations.
 
Johnson & Johnson, Guidant Corporation, their respective directors, and certain of their respective executive officers may be considered participants in the solicitation of proxies from Guidant shareholders in connection with the proposed transactions. Information about the directors and executive officers of Johnson & Johnson and their ownership of Johnson & Johnson stock is set forth in Johnson & Johnsons most recent filing on Form 10-K. Information about the directors and executive officers of Guidant and their ownership of Guidant stock is set forth in Guidant's most recent filing on Form 10-K. Investors may obtain additional information regarding the interests of such participants by reading the definitive proxy statement/prospectus.
 


