FILE:JNJ/JNJ-8K-20091013103306.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o             Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o             Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o             Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17
               CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o             Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17
               CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02                      Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On October 13, 2009, Johnson & Johnson issued the attached press release announcing its sales and earnings for the third quarter ended September 27, 2009.
 
Item 9.01            Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.15
 
New Brunswick, NJ (October 13, 2009)  Johnson & Johnson today announced sales of $15.1 billion for the third quarter of 2009, a decrease of 5.3% as compared to the third quarter of 2008. Operational results declined 2.8% and the negative impact of currency was 2.5%.  Domestic sales declined 8.1%, while international sales declined 2.5%, reflecting operational growth of 2.4% and a negative currency impact of 4.9%.
 
Net earnings and diluted earnings per share for the third quarter of 2009 were $3.3 billion and $1.20, respectively, representing increases of 1.1% and 2.6%, as compared to the same period in 2008.  The Company raised its earnings guidance for full-year 2009 to $4.54 - $4.59 per share, which excludes the impact of  special items.
 
We continue to successfully manage our broad base of businesses and deliver solid earnings despite the impact of patent expirations and the challenges posed by the current economic environment, said William C. Weldon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. We completed multiple acquisitions and strategic collaborations and received several new product approvals in the quarter that will benefit patients worldwide and drive future growth.
 
Worldwide Consumer sales of $4.0 billion for the third quarter represented a decrease of 2.7% versus the prior year with an increase of 1.1% operationally and a negative impact from currency of 3.8%. Domestic sales decreased 4.4%; international sales decreased 1.4%, which reflected an operational increase of 5.2% and a negative currency impact of 6.6%.
 
Contributing to operational sales growth during the quarter were sales of Dabao skin care products; AVEENO skin care products; SPLENDA No Calorie Sweetener; Le Petit Marseillais beauty care products; and LISTERINE antiseptic mouthrinse.  Other growth drivers were sales from the acquisition of Vania Expansion SNC.
 
Worldwide Pharmaceutical sales of $5.3 billion for the third quarter represented a decrease of 14.1%  versus the prior year with an operational decline of 11.9% and a negative impact from currency of 2.2%. Domestic sales decreased 19.2%; international sales decreased 7.1%, which reflected an operational decrease of 1.9% and a negative currency impact of 5.2%.
 
REMICADE (infliximab), a biologic approved for the treatment of a number of immune mediated inflammatory diseases, demonstrated solid sales performance during the quarter. Several other pharmaceutical products had strong growth including  PREZISTA
(darunavir), a treatment for HIV;  VELCADE (bortezomib), a treatment for multiple myeloma; and RISPERDAL CONSTA (risperidone) Long-Acting Treatment, an antipsychotic medication. Sales results of TOPAMAX (topiramate), an antiepileptic and a treatment for migraine, and RISPERDAL (risperidone), an antipsychotic medication, were negatively impacted by generic competition.
 
During the quarter, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved STELARA(ustekinumab) for the treatment of adult patients (18 years or older) with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis who are candidates for phototherapy or systemic therapy.  The FDA also approved INVEGA SUSTENNA (paliperidone palmitate) extended-release injectable suspension for the acute and maintenance treatment of schizophrenia in adults; the first once-monthly, long-acting, injectable atypical antipsychotic approved in the U.S. for this use. In addition, the FDA approved the Supplemental New Drug Application for INVEGA (paliperidone) extended-release tablets for the acute treatment of schizoaffective disorder either as monotherapy or adjunctive therapy to mood stabilizers and/or antidepressants.
TM
 
On Oct. 6, the European Commission approved SIMPONI (golimumab) as a once-monthly, subcutaneous therapy for the treatment of moderate-to-severe, active rheumatoid arthritis, active and progressive psoriatic arthritis and severe, active ankylosing spondylitis.
 
During the quarter, the Company completed the acquisition of substantially all of the assets and rights of Elan related to its Alzheimer's Immunotherapy Program as well as an equity investment in Elan. Additionally, the Company announced that it had entered into a licensing and collaboration agreement with Gilead Sciences, Inc., for the development and commercialization of a new fixed dose combination of investigational compound TMC278 (rilpivirine hydrochloride 25 mg) and Gileads TRUVADA (emtricitabine 200 mg/tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 300 mg) for treatment-nave adult patients with HIV-1.
 
Early in the fourth quarter, the Company announced that it had entered into a strategic collaboration with Crucell, N.V., focusing on the discovery, development and commercialization of monoclonal antibodies and vaccines for the treatment and prevention of influenza and other infectious and non-infectious diseases. The agreement also included an 18% equity investment in Crucell, N.V.
 
Worldwide Medical Devices and Diagnostics sales of $5.8 billion for the third quarter represented an increase of 2.3% versus the prior year with an operational increase of 4.1% and a negative currency impact of 1.8%. Domestic sales increased 4.5%; international sales increased 0.5%, which reflected an operational increase of 3.8% and a negative currency impact of 3.3%.
 
Primary contributors to the operational growth included Ethicons surgical care  and aesthetics products; Ethicon Endo-Surgerys minimally invasive products; DePuys orthopaedic joint reconstruction, spine, and sports medicine businesses; and Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics professional products. This growth was partially offset by lower sales in the Cordis franchise, reflecting strong competition in the drug-eluting stent market, and the 2008 divestiture of the Professional Wound Care products in our Ethicon business.
 
 
About Johnson & Johnson
 
Caring for the world, one person at a timeinspires and unites the people of Johnson & Johnson. We embrace research and science - bringing innovative ideas, products and services to advance the health and well-being of people. Our approximately 117,000 employees at more than 250 Johnson & Johnson companies work with partners in health care to touch the lives of over a billion people every day, throughout the world.
 
 
Johnson & Johnson will conduct a meeting with financial analysts to discuss this news release today at 8:30 a.m., Eastern Time. A simultaneous webcast of the meeting for investors and other interested parties may be accessed by visiting the Johnson & Johnson website at . A replay and podcast will be available approximately two hours after
www.investor.jnj.com
the live webcast by visiting .
www.investor.jnj.com
Copies of the financial schedules accompanying this press release are available at . The schedules include supplementary sales data, a condensed consolidated statement of earnings, and sales of key products/franchises. Additional information on Johnson & Johnson can be found on the Companys website at .
www.investor.jnj.com/historical-sales.cfm
www.jnj.com
 
 
(This press release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on current expectations of future events. If underlying assumptions prove inaccurate or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, actual results could vary materially from Johnson & Johnson's expectations and projections. Risks and uncertainties include general industry conditions and competition; economic conditions, such as interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations; technological advances and patents attained by competitors; challenges inherent in new product development, including obtaining regulatory approvals; domestic and foreign health care reforms and governmental laws and regulations; and trends toward health care cost containment. A further list and description of these risks, uncertainties and other factors can be found in Exhibit 99 of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 28, 2008. Copies of this Form 10-K, as well as subsequent filings, are available online at , or on request from Johnson & Johnson. Johnson & Johnson does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments.)
www.sec.gov
www.jnj.com
 

Exhibit 99.2O
 
 
 
 
 
(A) NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES "Adjusted earnings before provision for taxes on income," "adjusted net earnings," "adjusted net earnings per share (diluted)," and "adjusted effective tax rate" are non-GAAP financial measures and should not be considered replacements for GAAP results. The Company provides earnings before provision for taxes on income, net earnings, net earnings per share (diluted), and effective tax rate on an adjusted basis because management believes that these measures provide useful information to investors. Among other things, they may assist investors in evaluating the Company's results of operations period over period. In various periods, these measures may exclude such items as business development activities (including IPR&D at acquisition or upon attainment of milestones and any extraordinary expenses), strategic developments (including restructuring and product line changes), significant litigation, and changes in applicable laws and regulations (including significant accounting or tax matters). Special items may be highly variable, difficult to predict, and of a size that sometimes has substantial impact on the Company's reported results of operations for a period. Management uses these measures internally for planning, forecasting and evaluating the performances of the Company's businesses, including allocating resources and evaluating results relative to employee performance compensation targets.  Unlike earnings before provision for taxes on income, net earnings, net earnings per share (diluted), and effective tax rate prepared in accordance with GAAP, adjusted earnings before provision for taxes on income, adjusted net earnings, adjusted net earnings per share (diluted), and adjusted effective tax rate may not be comparable with the calculation of similar measures for other companies. These non-GAAP financial measures are presented solely to permit investors to more fully understand how management assesses the performance of the Company. The limitations of using these non-GAAP financial measures as performance measures are that they provide a view of the Company's results of operations without including all events during a period, such as the effects of an acquisition, merger-related or other restructuring charges, or amortization of purchased intangibles, and do not provide a comparable view of the Company's performance to other companies in the health care industry. Investors should consider non-GAAP financial measures in addition to, and not as replacements for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: See footnotes at end of schedule
 
 
 
 
 
Note: See footnotes at end of schedule
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: See footnotes at end of schedule
 
 
 


