FILE:JNJ/JNJ-8K-20091022113205.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors of Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements for Certain Officers.
On October 22, 2009, Anne M. Mulcahy, Chairman of Xerox Corporation, was appointed to the Board of Directors of Johnson & Johnson.  The Companys press release announcing the appointment is attached to this Report as Exhibit 99.1.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
Press Contact:                      Jeff Leebaw
732-524-3350
For Immediate Release
 
New Brunswick, NJ (October 22, 2009)  Anne M. Mulcahy, Chairman of Xerox Corporation (NYSE:XRX), today was appointed to the Board of Directors of Johnson & Johnson (NYSE:JNJ), the worlds most broadly based health care products company.
 
Mulcahy was both chairman and chief executive officer of Xerox until July when she retired as CEO after eight years in the position. Prior to serving as CEO, Mulcahy was president and chief operating officer of Xerox. She has also served as president of Xeroxs General Markets Operations, which created and sold products for reseller, dealer and retail channels.
 
Anne is one of our nations most accomplished business leaders, said William C. Weldon, chairman and chief executive officer of Johnson & Johnson. She adds an extraordinary breadth of business expertise and experience to our board. We look forward to her insights and counsel, and are delighted to welcome her to the board.
 
 During a career at Xerox that began in 1976, Mulcahy has also served as vice president for human resources with responsibility for compensation, benefits, human resource strategy, labor relations, management development and employee training; and vice president and staff officer for Customer Operations, covering South America and Central America, Europe, Asia and Africa, and China.
 
She is a board director of the Target Corporation, Citigroup, Inc., and The Washington Post. Mulcahy earned a bachelor of arts degree in English/journalism from Marymount College in Tarrytown, N.Y.
   
  
 
 
 
 
 


