FILE:JNJ/JNJ-8K-20100719170025.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors of Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements for Certain Officers.
On July 19, 2010, Ian Davis, former Chairman and Worldwide Managing Director of McKinsey & Company, was appointed to the Board of Directors of Johnson & Johnson.  Mr. Davis was named to the Audit Committee and the Public Policy Advisory Committee of the Board.  The Companys press release announcing the appointment is attached to this Report as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits.
99.1  Press release dated July 19, 2010.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Press Contact:                       Jeff Leebaw
732-524-3350
For Immediate Release
 
New Brunswick, NJ (July 19, 2010)  Ian E.L. Davis, former Chairman and Worldwide Managing Director of McKinsey & Company, today was appointed to the Board of Directors of Johnson & Johnson (JNJ:NYSE), the worlds most broadly based health care products company.  Davis is currently Senior Partner and Director of McKinsey, having served as Chairman and Managing Director from 2003 until 2009.
 
Ian brings tremendous global experience, management insight and a wealth of business knowledge to our Board based on his leadership of McKinsey and the hundreds of clients he has counseled during his career, said William C. Weldon, chairman and chief executive officer of Johnson & Johnson. He is a welcome addition to the board, and we look forward to working with him.
 
 In his more than 30 years at McKinsey, Davis has served as a consultant to a range of global organizations across the public, private and not-for-profit sectors.  Prior to becoming Chairman and Managing Director, he was Managing Partner of McKinseys practice in the United Kingdom and Ireland.  His experience includes oversight for McKinsey clients and services in Asia, Europe, the Middle East and Africa, as well as an expertise in the consumer products and retail industries.
 
He is a director of Teach for All, a global network of independent social enterprises working to expand educational opportunities in their nations; an advisory director of King Abdullah Petroleum Studies and Research Centre; a member of the Presidents Council at the University Tokyo; non-executive director of global energy group, BP plc.; and a member of the Chancellors Court at the University of Oxford. Davis earned bachelors and masters degrees in Philosophy and Economics from Oxford.
   
  
 
 
 
 


