FILE:JNJ/JNJ-8K-20101019102856.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
o            Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o            Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o            Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o            Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02                    Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On October 19, 2010, Johnson & Johnson issued the attached press release announcing its sales and earnings for the third quarter ended October 3, 2010.
 
Item 9.01                    Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Exhibit No.                 Description of Exhibit
 
99.15                           Press Release dated October 19, 2010 for the period ended October 3, 2010
 
99.2O                          Unaudited Comparative Supplementary Sales Data and Condensed Consolidated Statement of Earnings for the third quarter
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.15
 
New Brunswick, NJ (October 19, 2010)  Johnson & Johnson today announced sales of $15.0 billion for the third quarter of 2010, a decrease of 0.7% as compared to the third quarter of 2009.  Operational results increased 0.1% and the negative impact of currency was 0.8%.  Domestic sales declined 2.5%, while international sales increased 1.1%, reflecting operational growth of 2.6% and a negative currency impact of 1.5%.
 
Net earnings and diluted earnings per share for the third quarter of 2010 were $3.4 billion and $1.23, respectively, representing increases of 2.2% and 2.5%, as compared to the same period in 2009.
 
The Company raised its earnings guidance for full-year 2010 to $4.70 - $4.80 per share, reflecting recent currency exchange rates.  The Companys guidance excludes the impact of special items.
 
We continue to deliver solid earnings while investing in our future through complementary strategic partnerships and acquisitions, said William C. Weldon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Our pharmaceutical business has returned to growth this year and we continue to advance our pipeline with promising clinical data in key therapeutic areas.  We are pleased with the strong performance of newly launched products in both our pharmaceutical and medical device and diagnostics businesses.
 
Worldwide Consumer sales of $3.6 billion for the third quarter represented a decrease of 10.6% versus the prior year consisting of an operational decline of 10.2% and a negative impact from currency of 0.4%.  Domestic sales decreased 24.5%; international sales decreased 0.3%, which reflected an operational increase of 0.4% and a negative currency impact of 0.7%.
 
Positive contributors to operational results were Dabao skin care products, baby care products, and international sales of anti-smoking aids.  Sales were significantly impacted by the previously announced recalls of certain over-the-counter medicines and the suspension of manufacturing at the McNeil Consumer Healthcare Fort Washington, Pa., facility as well as the currency devaluation in Venezuela.  With respect to the ongoing remediation actions at the Fort Washington facility, Mr. Weldon stated, We have made considerable progress, and are working diligently to reopen what will be a state of the art facility.  Working across our production network, we have begun restoring the supply of some of the impacted childrens medicines, which will increase in the coming months.
 
Worldwide Pharmaceutical sales of $5.5 billion for the third quarter represented an increase of 4.7% versus the prior year with operational growth of 5.9% and a negative impact from currency of 1.2%.  Domestic sales increased 6.9%; international sales increased 2.0%, which reflected an operational increase of 4.6% and a negative currency impact of 2.6%. 
 
Several products had strong operational growth including sales of REMICADE (infliximab), a biologic approved for the treatment of a number of immune mediated inflammatory diseases; PREZISTA (darunavir), a treatment for HIV; international sales of RISPERDAL CONSTA (risperidone) Long-Acting Treatment, an antipsychotic medication; INTELENCE(etravirine), a next generation non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor for HIV; and VELCADE (bortezomib), a treatment for multiple myeloma.
 
Sales growth also includes the strong performance of newly launched products including STELARA (ustekinumab), a biologic approved for the treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis; SIMPONI(golimumab), a biologic approved to treat adults with moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, and ankylosing spondylitis; and INVEGA SUSTENNA (paliperidone palmitate), an extended-release injectable suspension for the acute and maintenance treatment of schizophrenia in adults.
TM
TM
TM
 
During the quarter, the Company submitted new drug applications for TMC 278, a once-daily investigational non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI) for the treatment of HIV, to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and the European Medicines Agency.  A supplemental Biologics License Application was also filed in the U.S. to expand the SIMPONI (golimumab) label in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) to include inhibiting the progression of structural damage in the treatment of moderately to severely active RA.
 
In October, the Company entered into an agreement to acquire all outstanding equity of Crucell N.V. not already owned by the Company for approximately  1.75 billion in a cash tender offer.  Crucell is a global biopharmaceutical company focused on the research & development, production and marketing of vaccines and antibodies against infectious disease worldwide.
 
Worldwide Medical Devices and Diagnostics sales of $5.9 billion for the third quarter represented an increase of 1.3% versus the prior year consisting of an operational increase of 1.9% and a negative currency impact of 0.6%.  Domestic sales increased 1.2%; international sales increased 1.4%, which reflected an operational increase of 2.6% and a negative currency impact of 1.2%.
 
Primary contributors to operational growth included Ethicons surgical care products; Ethicon Endo-Surgerys minimally invasive and advanced sterilization products; Biosense Websters electrophysiology business; and DePuys orthopaedic joint reconstruction business.  This growth was partially offset by lower sales in the Cordis franchise, reflecting continued competition in the drug-eluting stent market.
 
During the quarter, the Company completed the acquisition of Micrus Endovascular, a global developer and manufacturer of minimally invasive devices for the treatment of hemorrhagic and ischemic stroke.
 
                   
About Johnson & Johnson
 
Caring for the world, one person at a timeinspires and unites the people of Johnson & Johnson. We embrace research and science - bringing innovative ideas, products and services to advance the health and well-being of people. Our approximately 114,000 employees at more than 250 Johnson & Johnson companies work with partners in health care to touch the lives of over a billion people every day, throughout the world.
Johnson & Johnson will conduct a meeting with financial analysts to discuss this news release today at 8:30 a.m., Eastern Time. A simultaneous webcast of the meeting for investors and other interested parties may be accessed by visiting the Johnson & Johnson website at . A replay and podcast will be available approximately two hours after the live webcast by visiting .
www.investor.jnj.com
www.investor.jnj.com
 
Copies of the financial schedules accompanying this press release are available at .  These schedules include supplementary sales data, a condensed consolidated statement of earnings, and sales of key products/franchises.  Additional information on Johnson & Johnson, including a pharmaceutical pipeline of selected compounds in late stage development and medical devices and diagnostics pipeline of selected products, can be found on the Company's website at
www.investor.jnj.com/historical-sales.cfm
www.jnj.com
 
(This press release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These statements are based on current expectations of future events.  If underlying assumptions prove inaccurate or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, actual results could vary materially from Johnson & Johnson's expectations and projections.  Risks and uncertainties include general industry conditions and competition; economic conditions, such as interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations; technological advances and patents attained by competitors; challenges inherent in new product development, including obtaining regulatory approvals; domestic and foreign health care reforms and governmental laws and regulations; and trends toward health care cost containment.  A furt her list and description of these risks, uncertainties and other factors can be found in Exhibit 99 of Johnson & Johnsons Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 3, 2010.  Copies of this Form 10-K, as well as subsequent filings, are available online at , or on request from Johnson & Johnson.  Johnson & Johnson does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments.)
www.sec.gov
www.jnj.com

Exhibit 99.2O
 
 
 
 
 
 
(A) NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES "Adjusted earnings before provision for taxes on income," "adjusted net earnings," "adjusted net earnings per share (diluted)," and "adjusted effective tax rate" are non-GAAP financial measures and should not be considered replacements for GAAP results. The Company provides earnings before provision for taxes on income, net earnings, net earnings per share (diluted), and effective tax rate on an adjusted basis because management believes that these measures provide useful information to investors. Among other things, they may assist investors in evaluating the Company's results of operations period over period. In various periods, these measures may exclude such items as business development, strategic developments (including restructuring and product line changes), significant litigation, and changes in ap plicable laws and regulations (including significant accounting or tax matters). Special items may be highly variable, difficult to predict, and of a size that sometimes has substantial impact on the Company's reported results of operations for a period. Management uses these measures internally for planning, forecasting and evaluating the performances of the Company's businesses, including allocating resources and evaluating results relative to employee performance compensation targets. Unlike earnings before provision for taxes on income, net earnings, net earnings per share (diluted), and effective tax rate prepared in accordance with GAAP, adjusted earnings before provision for taxes on income, adjusted net earnings, adjusted net earnings per share (diluted), and adjusted effective tax rate may not be comparable with the calculation of similar measures for other companies. These non-GAAP financial measures are presented solely to permit investors to more fully understand how management assesses the perfo rmance of the Company. The limitations of using these non-GAAP financial measures as performance measures are that they provide a view of the Company's results of operations without including all events during a period, such as the effects of an acquisition, merger-related or other restructuring charges, or amortization of purchased intangibles, and do not provide a comparable view of the Company's performance to other companies in the health care industry. Investors should consider non-GAAP financial measures in addition to, and not as replacements for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


