FILE:JNJ/JNJ-8K-20111018083017.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o             Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o             Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o             Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17
               CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o             Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17
               CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02                      Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On October 18, 2011, Johnson & Johnson issued the attached press release announcing its sales and earnings for the third quarter ended October 2, 2011.
 
Item 9.01            Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.15
 
New Brunswick, NJ (October 18, 2011)  Johnson & Johnson today announced sales of $16.0 billion for the third quarter of 2011, an increase of 6.8% as compared to the third quarter of 2010.  Operational results increased 2.6% and the positive impact of currency was 4.2%.  Domestic sales declined 3.7%.  International sales increased 16.4%, reflecting operational growth of 8.3% and a positive currency impact of 8.1%.
 
Net earnings and diluted earnings per share for the third quarter of 2011 were $3.2 billion and $1.15, respectively.  Third-quarter 2011 net earnings also included an after-tax mark-to-market adjustment to the value of the currency option associated with the planned acquisition of Synthes, Inc.  Excluding special items, net earnings for the current quarter were $3.4 billion and diluted earnings per share were $1.24, representing increases of 0.8% and 0.8%, respectively, as compared to the same period in 2010.*
The Company is updating its earnings guidance for full-year 2011 to $4.95 - $5.00 per share.  The Companys guidance excludes the impact of special items.
Our solid results this quarter reflect the success of many of our recently launched products, said William C. Weldon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. As we near the completion of our 125 year in business, our people continue to deliver new products, innovative pipelines and expand our global presence in ways that position us well to drive long-term growth and meet significant unmet medical and customer needs, said Weldon.
th
Worldwide Consumer sales of $3.7 billion for the third quarter represented an increase of 4.9% versus the prior year consisting of an operational increase of 0.5% and a positive impact from currency of 4.4%.  Domestic sales declined 4.5%.  International sales increased 10.1%, which reflected an operational increase of 3.3% and a positive currency impact of 6.8%.
 
Sales in U.S. over-the-counter medicines were significantly impacted by the suspension of manufacturing at the McNeil Consumer Healthcare facility in Fort Washington, Pa., as well as the impact on production volumes related to ongoing efforts to enhance quality and manufacturing systems. Positive contributors to operational results were NEUTROGENA and Dabao skin care products; international sales of oral care products and baby care products.
 
In September, McNeil-PPC, Inc. completed the acquisition of full ownership of the Johnson & Johnson-Merck Consumer Pharmaceuticals Co. in the United States. The business will be renamed McNeil Consumer Pharmaceuticals Co. and will continue to market products under the PEPCID, MYLANTA, and MYLICON brands.
 
 Worldwide Pharmaceutical sales of $6.0 billion for the third quarter represented an increaseof 8.9% versus the prior year with operational growth of 4.9% and a positive impact from currency of 4.0%.  Domestic sales declined 6.1%.  International sales increased 27.5%, which reflected an operational increase of 18.5% and a positive currency impact of 9.0%.
 
 
Sales results in the US were negatively impacted by generic competition for LEVAQUIN (levofloxacin), a treatment for bacterial infections, partially offset by the strong performance of recently launched products.
 
The strong performance of recently launched products, include ZYTIGA  (abiraterone acetate), an oral, once-daily medication for use in combination with prednisone or prednisolone, for the treatment of men with metastatic, castration-resistant prostate cancer;  STELARA (ustekinumab), a biologic approved for the treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis; SIMPONI(golimumab), a biologic approved to treat adults with moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, and ankylosing spondylitis; and INVEGA SUSTENNA (paliperidone palmitate) a once-monthly, long-acting, injectable atypical antipsychotic for the acute and maintenance treatment of schizophrenia in adults.
 
TM
 
Also contributing to operational sales growth were the incremental sales from the amended distribution agreement with Merck for sales of REMICADE (infliximab), a biologic approved for the treatment of a number of immune mediated inflammatory diseases ; recently acquired vaccines, proteins and antibodies from Crucell that prevent and/or treat infectious diseases; PREZISTA (darunavir), a treatment for HIV; and VELCADE (bortezomib), a treatment for multiple myeloma.
 
During the quarter, the European Commission granted full approval of the Marketing Authorization of ZYTIGA (abiraterone acetate), a novel, once-daily, oral medication for use in combination with prednisone or prednisolone, for the treatment of metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer.  In addition, the European Commission approved INCIVO (telaprevir), a direct acting antiviral protease inhibitor, for the treatment of genotype-1 chronic hepatitis C virus, in combination with peginterferon alfa and ribavirin, in adults.
 
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved an additional indication for REMICADE (infliximab) for the treatment of moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis  in pediatric patients who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy.  Also during the quarter, the FDA approved NUCYNTA ER, an oral analgesic, for the management of moderate to severe chronic pain in adults.
 
In September, the Company announced that the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human use of the European Medicines Agency adopted a positive opinion recommending the approval of EDURANT  (rilpivirine), a once-daily treatment in combination with other antiretroviral agents, for the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 infection in antiretroviral treatment-nave adult patients.
 
Worldwide Medical Devices and Diagnostics sales of $6.3 billion for the third quarter represented an increase of 6.1% versus the prior year consisting of an operational increase of 1.7% and a positive currency impact of 4.4%. Domestic sales declined 0.7%.  International sales increased 12.3%, which reflected an operational increase of 3.9% and a positive currency impact of 8.4%.
Primary contributors to operational growth included Ethicons surgical care products; Ethicon Endo-Surgerys Advanced Sterilization Products and international sales of minimally invasive products; and Biosense Websters electrophysiology business.
 
During the quarter, the FDA cleared DePuy Orthopaedics, Inc.s TRUMATCH Personalized Solutions System for use with theSIGMA Fixed-Bearing Knee system.  TRUMATCH  Personalized Solutions is a surgical instrumentation and computer software system that is designed to aid in knee implant positioning and procedure efficiency.
 
 
In September, Ethicon Endo-Surgery announced that it entered into a definitive agreement to acquire privately-held SterilMed, Inc., a leader in the reprocessing and remanufacturing of medical devices in the United States.  The acquisition would broaden the Ethicon Endo-Surgery portfolio and enable expansion in a rapidly growing market segment, bringing added scale and scope.
About Johnson & Johnson
Caring for the world, one person at a timeinspires and unites the people of Johnson & Johnson. We embrace research and science - bringing innovative ideas, products and services to advance the health and well-being of people. Our approximately 117,000 employees at more than 250 Johnson & Johnson companies work with partners in health care to touch the lives of over a billion people every day, throughout the world.
 
* Net earnings and diluted earnings per share excluding special items are non-GAAP financial measures and should not be considered replacements for, and should be read together with, the most comparable GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures is included in the financial schedules accompanying this press release and can be found in the Investor Relations section of the Companys website at www.investor.jnj.com.
Johnson & Johnson will conduct a conference call with financial analysts to discuss this news release today at 8:30 a.m., Eastern Time. A simultaneous webcast of the meeting for investors and other interested parties may be accessed by visiting the Johnson & Johnson website at . A replay and podcast will be available approximately two hours after the live webcast by visiting .
www.investor.jnj.com
www.investor.jnj.com
 
Copies of the financial schedules accompanying this press release are available at .  These schedules include supplementary sales data, a condensed consolidated statement of earnings, and sales of key products/franchises.  Additional information on Johnson & Johnson, including a pharmaceutical pipeline of selected compounds in late stage development and medical devices and diagnostics pipeline of selected products, can be found on the Company's investor website at
www.investor.jnj.com/historical-sales.cfm
www.jnj.com
 
(This press release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These statements are based on current expectations of future events.  If underlying assumptions prove inaccurate or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, actual results could vary materially from the expectations and projections of Johnson & Johnson.  Risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, general industry conditions and competition; economic factors, such as interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations; technological advances and patents attained by competitors; challenges inherent in new product development, including obtaining regulatory approvals; domestic and foreign health care reforms and governmental laws and regulations; trends toward health care cost containment; and increased scrutiny of the healthcare industry by government agencies.  A further list and description of these risks, uncertainties and other factors can be found in Exhibit 99 of Johnson & Johnsons Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 2, 2011.  Copies of this Form 10-K, as well as subsequent filings, are available online at , or on request from Johnson & Johnson.  Johnson & Johnson does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments.)
www.sec.gov
www.jnj.com

Exhibit 99.2O
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(A) NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES "Adjusted earnings before provision for taxes on income," "adjusted net earnings," "adjusted net earnings per share (diluted)," and "adjusted effective tax rate" are non-GAAP financial measures and should not be considered replacements for GAAP results. The Company provides earnings before provision for taxes on income, net earnings, net earnings per share (diluted), and effective tax rate on an adjusted basis because management believes that these measures provide useful information to investors. Among other things, they may assist investors in evaluating the Company's results of operations period over period. In various periods, these measures may exclude such items as business development, strategic developments (including restructuring and product line changes), significant litigation, and changes in applicable laws and regulations (including significant accounting or tax matters). Special items may be highly variable, difficult to predict, and of a size that sometimes has substantial impact on the Company's reported results of operations for a period. Management uses these measures internally for planning, forecasting and evaluating the performances of the Company's businesses, including allocating resources and evaluating results relative to employee performance compensation targets. Unlike earnings before provision for taxes on income, net earnings, net earnings per share (diluted), and effective tax rate prepared in accordance with GAAP, adjusted earnings before provision for taxes on income, adjusted net earnings, adjusted net earnings per share (diluted), and adjusted effective tax rate may not be comparable with the calculation of similar measures for other companies. These non-GAAP financial measures are presented solely to permit investors to more fully understand how management assesses the performance of the Company. The limitations of using these non-GAAP financial measures as performance measures are that they provide a view of the Company's results of operations without including all events during a period, such as the effects of an acquisition, merger-related or other restructuring charges, and do not provide a comparable view of the Company's performance to other companies in the health care industry. Investors should consider non-GAAP financial measures in addition to, and not as replacements for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. See Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
See footnotes at end of schedule
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


