FILE:JNJ/JNJ-8K-20121109093155.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Changes in Control of Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Changes in Control of Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, DC 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported): November 6, 2012
 
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
One Johnson & Johnson Plaza, New Brunswick, New Jersey  08933
 
(Address of Principal Executive Offices)  (Zip Code)
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: 732-524-0400
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
    
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
    
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
    
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
    
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors of Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements for Certain Officers.
On November 6, 2012, Dr. A. Eugene Washington, M.D., M.Sc., was appointed to the Board of Directors of Johnson & Johnson. Dr. Washington serves as Vice Chancellor of Health Sciences and Dean of the David Geffen School of Medicine at the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA), as well as Chief Executive Officer of the UCLA Health System. He is also a distinguished professor of Gynecology and Health Policy at UCLA. As a non-employee director of the Company, Dr. Washington will receive compensation as described in the Director Compensation section of the Company's 2012 Proxy Statement.  The Company's press release announcing the appointment is attached to this Report as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01    Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)    Exhibits.
Exhibit No.
    
Description
99.1        Press Release dated November 9, 2012.
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
For Immediate Release
Health Care Executive, Scholar and Vice Chancellor from UCLA, Dr. A. Eugene Washington, Appointed to Johnson & Johnson Board of Directors
New Brunswick, N.J. (Nov. 9, 2012) - Dr. A. Eugene Washington, M.D., M.Sc., who holds several prominent health care executive positions affiliated with the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA), has been appointed to the Board of Directors of Johnson & Johnson (JNJ: NYSE), the world's most comprehensive and broadly based health care products company.
Dr. Washington serves as Vice Chancellor of Health Sciences and Dean of the David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, as well as Chief Executive Officer of the UCLA Health System. He is also a distinguished professor of Gynecology and Health Policy at UCLA. Over his career, he has been published extensively and built an international reputation as a clinical investigator and health policy scholar.
Gene has dedicated his life to improving health care as a practitioner, researcher, teacher, administrator, and policy advisor. He brings our Board valuable leadership and insight into analyzing health care policy, assessing medical technologies, and sharing forward-looking perspectives on the role we can play in addressing the world's health care challenges, said Bill Weldon, Chairman of Johnson & Johnson. He is a welcome addition to the Board, and we look forward to working with him.
Dr. Washington joined UCLA in 2010 and before that he had a long and distinguished career at the University of California San Francisco (UCSF), where he served as executive vice chancellor, provost and professor of gynecology, epidemiology and health policy. While at UCSF, he also co-founded and served as director of the university's Medical Effectiveness Research Center for Diverse Populations, and also co-founded and served as the first director of the UCSF-Stanford Evidence-based Practice Center.
Dr. Washington currently serves as Chair of the Board of Governors of the Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute, a national research organization authorized by the 2010 Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. He is also a member of the Board of Directors of the California Wellness Foundation.
A 1976 graduate of the UCSF School of Medicine, he completed graduate studies at both UC Berkeley and Harvard schools of public health and residency training at Stanford University.
# # #


