FILE:JNJ/JNJ-8K-20120614083726.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
FORM 8-K
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.01. Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets.
On , pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of April 26, 2011 (the Merger Agreement) by and among Johnson & Johnson, a New Jersey corporation, Samson Acquisition Corp., a Delaware corporation (Merger Sub), and Synthes, Inc., a Delaware corporation (Synthes), Merger Sub merged with and into Synthes (the Merger), with Synthes surviving the Merger.  As previously disclosed, Johnson & Johnson assigned the Merger Agreement to Janssen Pharmaceutical, and a wholly owned subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson, as permitted by the terms of the Merger Agreement.   As a result of the Merger, Synthes became a wholly owned subsidiary of Janssen Pharmaceutical.  Synthes will now be integrated with Johnson & Johnsons DePuy franchise, a family of companies providing healthcare solutions in orthopaedics, spinal care, sports medicine and neurosciences, to establish the DePuy Synthes Companies of Johnson & Johnson.
June 14, 2012
a company organized under the laws of Ireland
 
At the effective time of the Merger, each outstanding share of Synthes common stock was automatically converted into the right to receive CHF 55.65 in cash and 1.7170 shares of Johnson & Johnson common stock (subject to the payment of cash in lieu of fractional shares).
 
The stock portion of the merger consideration consisted of shares of Johnson & Johnson common stock purchased by Janssen Pharmaceutical from Goldman, Sachs & Co. and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., pursuant to two accelerated share repurchase agreements dated June 12, 2012, which were previously reported on a Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 12, 2012.  Janssen Pharmaceutical used cash on hand to satisfy the cash portion of the merger consideration.
 
The foregoing description of the Merger and the Merger Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Merger Agreement, which was filed as Exhibit 2.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 2, 2011, and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
A copy of the press release announcing the completion of the Merger is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a) 
Financial statements of business acquired.
The financial statements required by Item 9.01(a) of Form 8-K will be filed by amendment within 71 calendar days after the date on which this Current Report on Form 8-K must be filed.
(b)  
Pro forma financial information.
The pro forma financial statements required by Item 9.01(b) of Form 8-K will be filed by amendment within 71 calendar days after the date on which this Current Report on Form 8-K must be filed.
(c)  
Shell company transactions.
Not applicable.
         (d)  .
Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
New Brunswick, NJ (June 14, 2012)  Johnson & Johnson today announced the completion of the acquisition of Synthes, Inc. for a total purchase price of $19.7 billion in cash and stock. Synthes will now be integrated with the DePuy franchise to establish the DePuy Synthes Companies of Johnson & Johnson.
The completion of the Synthes acquisition creates the worlds most innovative and comprehensive orthopaedics business and reflects our long-standing strategy of leadership within attractive health care markets, said Alex Gorsky, Chief Executive Officer, Johnson & Johnson. The combination of these two respected leaders -- Synthes and DePuy --  will enable us to better serve clinicians and patients worldwide, bring new innovations to the orthopaedics and neurological marketplace, and strengthen our ability to compete in developing markets.
This is a very exciting day for the people of Synthes and DePuy as we become one comprehensive enterprise dedicated to advancing patient care through innovative, total solutions that are developed from a deep understanding of our customers needs, said Michel Orsinger, Worldwide Chairman, Global Orthopaedics Group, and former CEO of Synthes. We are building on the legacy and strengths of two great companies to create one organization that will be agile and responsive in todays evolving health care environment.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Under the terms of the agreement, each share of Synthes common stock will be exchanged for CHF55.65 in cash and 1.7170 shares of Johnson & Johnson common stock.  Cash will be provided for fractional shares. Further information regarding closing instructions for Synthes shareholders can be found on or .
www.investor.jnj.com
www.Synthes.com
About Johnson & Johnson
Caring for the world, one person at a time, inspires and unites the people of Johnson & Johnson. We embrace research and science - bringing innovative ideas, products and services to advance the health and well-being of people. Our approximately 129,000 employees at more than 250 Johnson & Johnson operating companies work with partners in health care to touch the lives of over a billion people every day, throughout the world.
(This communication contains forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The reader is cautioned not to rely on these forward-looking statements. These statements are based on current expectations of future events. If underlying assumptions prove inaccurate or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, actual results could vary materially from the expectations and projections of Johnson & Johnson.  Risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, general industry conditions and competition; economic factors, such as interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations; technological advances, new products and patents attained by competitors; challenges inherent in new product development, including obtaining regulatory approvals; challenges to patents; significant adverse litigation; impact of business combinations; financial distress and bankruptcies experienced by significant customers and suppliers; changes to governmental laws and regulations and domestic and foreign health care reforms; trends toward health care cost containment; increased scrutiny of the health care industry by government agencies; changes in behavior and spending patterns of purchasers of health care products and services; financial instability of international economies and sovereign risk; disruptions due to natural disasters; manufacturing difficulties or delays; product efficacy or safety concerns resulting in product recalls or regulatory action. In addition, there are risks and uncertainties related to Johnson & Johnsons ability to successfully integrate the businesses of DePuy and Synthes, as well as the ability to ensure continued performance or market growth of Synthes products. A further list and description of these risks, uncertainties and other factors and the general risks associated with the respective businesses of Johnson & Johnson and Synthes can be found in Exhibit 99 of Johnson & Johnsons Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 1, 2012, and Synthes 2011 Audited Financial Statements. Copies of these filings, as well as subsequent filings, are available online at www.sec.gov, www.jnj.com, www.synthes.com or on request from Johnson & Johnson.  Johnson & Johnson does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments.)
 
 
 
2


