FILE:HST/HST-8K-20030723090801.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 9.    Regulation FD Disclosure
 
On July 23, 2003, Host Marriott Corporation reported results of operations for the company's second quarter 2003. The information contained in this report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1, is being furnished pursuant to Item 12 of Form 8-K under Item 9 of Form 8-K as directed by the Securities and Exchange Commission in Release No. 34-47583. The information contained in this report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed "filed" with the Securities and Exchange Commission nor incorporated by reference in any registration statement filed by Host Marriott Corporation under Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

HOST MARRIOTT REPORTS RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR SECOND QUARTER 2003
 
BETHESDA, MD; July 23, 2003  Host Marriott Corporation (NYSE: HMT), the nation's largest lodging real estate investment trust (REIT), today announced results of operations for the second quarter of 2003. The second quarter results reflect a difficult operating environment due to the effects of the war in Iraq, the outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS), and the generally weak economy, that has resulted in reduced group and business travel. Second quarter results include the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
FFO per diluted share and Adjusted EBITDA are non-GAAP financial measures within the meaning of the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, rules. Due to the recent guidance on non-GAAP financial measures issued by the SEC, the Company adopted the NAREIT definition of FFO per diluted share and is now reporting Earnings Before Interest, Income Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization, or EBITDA, as well as Adjusted EBITDA. See the discussion beginning on page 5 of this press release.
 
Operating Results
 
Comparable RevPAR for the second quarter declined 8.2% as a result of a 3.5% reduction in average room rate and an occupancy decline of 3.6 percentage points compared to the same period in 2002. Year-to-date comparable RevPAR declined 7.0% with a decline in room rate of 3.0% and a decrease in occupancy of 3.0 percentage points compared to the same period in 2002.
 
Christopher J. Nassetta, president and chief executive officer, stated, "Despite the challenging operating environment, our results were generally in line with our expectations. While visibility is limited, we believe that the second half of the year will be modestly weaker than we originally anticipated. We are, however, cautiously optimistic that 2004 will be a solid year for the lodging industry and for our portfolio."
 
Asset Sales
 
On July 18, 2003, the Company closed on the sale of the Norfolk Waterside Marriott, the Palm Beach Gardens Marriott and the Oklahoma City Waterford Marriott hotels for $71 million. The Company expects the proceeds will be used primarily to retire existing debt.
 
"We are pleased with the sale of these hotels and are continuing to pursue additional asset sales in conjunction with the Company's strategy of recycling capital by disposing of non-core assets," said James F. Risoleo, executive vice president, acquisitions and development.
 
Balance Sheet
 
As of June 20, 2003, the Company had $312 million in cash on hand and $250 million of availability under its credit facility. The Company does not believe that it will need to borrow under the credit facility in 2003.
 
During June 2003, the Company acquired the remaining outside interests in the 772-room J.W. Marriott, Washington, D.C. for approximately $3 million and began to consolidate the partnership in the second quarter. The Company currently intends to refinance the existing $95 million mortgage debt on the property which matures in December 2003 with floating rate debt.
 
W. Edward Walter, executive vice president and chief financial officer, stated, "We continue to focus on liquidity and improving our balance sheet in order to maximize our flexibility to be able to address any uncertainties and to take advantage of opportunities as they arise."
 
2003 Outlook
 
The Company's updated guidance for RevPAR for full year 2003 is for a decline of approximately 3% to 5% and a third quarter RevPAR decrease of approximately 2.5% to 4.0%. Based upon this guidance, the Company estimates the following:
 
 
 
 
 
Although the Company has more than adequate liquidity, based upon the current forecast it is unlikely that the Company will pay a fourth quarter 2003 dividend on its preferred shares due to limitations in the Company's senior notes indenture and credit facility, both of which restrict the Company's ability to pay dividends when the Company's EBITDA to interest coverage ratio (as defined in our senior notes indenture) is below 2.0 to 1.0. The Company does not expect to pay a common dividend in 2003.
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities regulations. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results to differ materially from those anticipated at the time the forward-looking statements are made. These risks include, but are not limited to: national and local economic and business conditions that will affect occupancy rates at our hotels and the demand for hotel products and services; threats of terrorism that affect travel patterns and demand for hotels; operating risks associated with the hotel business; risks associated with the level of our indebtedness and our ability to meet covenants in our debt agreements; relationships with property managers; our ability to maintain our properties in a first-class manner, including meeting capital expenditure requirements; our ability to compete effectively in areas such as access, location, quality of accommodations and room rate structures; changes in travel patterns, taxes and government regulations which influence or determine wages, prices, construction procedures and costs; and our ability to continue to satisfy complex rules in order for us to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. For further information regarding risks and uncertainties associated with our business, please refer to the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Although the Company believes the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions, it can give no assurance that the expectations will be attained or that any deviation will not be material. All information in this release is as of July 22, 2003 and the Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to conform the statement to actual results or changes in the Company's expectations.
 
Host Marriott is a Fortune 500 lodging real estate company which currently owns or holds controlling interests in 120 upscale and luxury hotel properties primarily operated under premium brands, such as Marriott, Ritz-Carlton, Hyatt, Four Seasons, Swisstel and Hilton. For further information, please visit the Company's website at .
www.hostmarriott.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company
 
Host Marriott Corporation, herein referred to as we or Host Marriott, is primarily the owner of hotel properties. We operate as a self-managed and self-administered real estate investment trust, or REIT. We conduct our operations as an umbrella partnership REIT through an operating partnership, Host Marriott, L.P., or Host LP, of which we are the sole general partner. For each share of our common stock, Host LP has issued to us one unit of operating partnership interest, or OP Unit. When distinguishing between Host Marriott and Host LP, the primary difference is the 10% partnership interests of Host LP held by outside partners as of June 20, 2003, which is reflected as minority interest in our balance sheet and minority interest expense in our statement of operations. Readers are encouraged to find further detail regarding our organizational structure in our annual report on Form 10-K.
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
Included in this press release are certain "non-GAAP financial measures," which are measures of our historical or future financial performance that are different from measures calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, within the meaning of applicable Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, rules that we believe are useful to investors. They are as follows: (i) Funds From Operations per diluted share, (ii) EBITDA, (iii) Adjusted EBITDA and (iv) Comparable Hotel-Level Results. The following discussion defines these terms and presents why we believe they are useful measures of our performance.
 
FFO per Diluted Share
 
The National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts, or NAREIT, defines Funds From Operations, or FFO, as net income (computed in accordance with GAAP) excluding gains (or losses) from sales of real estate and real estate-related depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. FFO is presented on a per share basis after making adjustments for the effects of dilutive securities. We use FFO per diluted share as a measure of our performance because historical cost accounting for real estate assets implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time. However, because real estate values have historically risen or fallen with market conditions, most industry investors have considered presentation of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be misleading or uninformative. NAREIT adopted the definition of FFO in order to promote an industry-wide standard measure of REIT operating performance that would not have historical cost accounting treatments associated with net income under GAAP. We believe that the presentation of FFO per diluted share provides useful information to investors regarding our financial condition and results of operations because it is a better measure of our operating performance. In addition, it facilitates comparisons between us and other REITs, including when making investment decisions. FFO per diluted share is also used by the Compensation Policy Committee of the Board of Directors to establish criteria for performance-based compensation. In previous periods, we presented the financial measure "Comparative FFO," which represented FFO per diluted share determined in accordance with NAREIT adjusted for contingent rent and significant non-recurring items such as the repurchase of our leasehold interests in 2000 and 2001 and the resolution of prior year tax matters in 2002. However, based on recent guidance provided by the SEC, we have elected to conform to the NAREIT definition of FFO. Accordingly, we have reconciled our Comparative FFO disclosures to FFO per diluted share using the NAREIT definition for prior years as set forth on pages 26 to 28.
 
EBITDA
 
Earnings Before Interest, Income Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization, or EBITDA, is a commonly used measure of performance in many industries which management believes provides useful information to investors regarding our results of operations. EBITDA helps us and our investors evaluate the ongoing operating performance of our properties and facilitates comparisons between us and other lodging REITs and hotel owners. Management uses EBITDA to provide a baseline when evaluating property-level results. Management also uses EBITDA as one measure in determining the value of acquisitions and dispositions and, like FFO per diluted share, it is widely used by management in the annual budget process.
 
 
Adjusted EBITDA
 
Management has historically adjusted EBITDA when evaluating our performance because we believe that the exclusion of certain recurring items described below is necessary to provide the most accurate measure of the performance of our investment portfolio and to more fully reflect the ongoing value of the company as a whole. Due to recent guidance provided by the SEC, we now do not reflect such items when calculating EBITDA but, instead, adjust for these items and refer to this measure as Adjusted EBITDA. Adjusted EBITDA for the second quarter 2003 reflects EBITDA adjusted for the following items:
 
 
 
 
In previous periods, we also adjusted EBITDA for non-cash items such as stock compensation expense and fair market value adjustments to hedge instruments and foreign currency. Due to recent guidance provided by the SEC, we have modified our calculation to exclude these adjustments and, accordingly, we have reconciled our historical EBITDA disclosures for prior years to EBITDA and to Adjusted EBITDA as set forth on page 29.
 
Limitations on the Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
FFO per diluted share, EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA, as presented, may not be comparable to measures calculated by other companies. This information should not be considered as an alternative to net income, operating profit, cash from operations, or any other operating performance measure prescribed by GAAP. Cash expenditures for various long-term assets, interest expense (for EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA purposes only) and other items have been and will be incurred and are not reflected in the EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and FFO per diluted share presentations. Additionally, FFO per diluted share, EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered as a measure of our liquidity or indicative of funds available to fund our cash needs, including our ability to make cash distributions. In addition, FFO per diluted share does not measure, and, should not be used as a measure of amounts that accrue directly to shareholders' benefit. However, our consolidated statement of operations and cash flows include disclosure of our interest expense, capital expenditures and other items, all of which should be considered when evaluating our performance, as well as the usefulness of our non-GAAP financial measures.
 
Comparable Hotel-Level Results
 
We define our comparable hotels as consolidated hotel properties that are owned or leased by us and for which we reported operating results throughout the reporting periods being compared. We exclude from our comparable operating results hotels that have been acquired or sold during 2003 or 2002, or that have had substantial property damage or that have undergone large-scale capital projects. Comparable hotel-level results does not present operating results for our non-hotel properties or the results of our leased limited service hotels. As of June 20, 2003, we consider 119, of our portfolio of 123 hotels, to be comparable properties for the periods presented. The hotels whose operating results that are excluded from comparable hotel-level results for the periods presented are the New
 
 
York Financial Center Marriott (substantially damaged in the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks and re-opened in January 2002), the Boston Marriott Copley Place (acquired in June 2002), The Ritz-Carlton, Naples Golf Resort (opened in January 2002) and the JW Marriott, Washington, D.C. (consolidated in the second quarter of 2003). The comparable hotel-level results include the results of the Norfolk Waterside Marriott, the Waterford Marriott Oklahoma City and the Palm Beach Gardens Marriott, which were sold on July 18, 2003 and will be considered non-comparable for our third quarter 2003 reporting.
 
Our operating results for our comparable hotels include hotel-level operating profit and the related hotel-level operating profit margin for these properties. We believe that the comparable hotel-level results help us and our investors evaluate the ongoing operating performance of our properties and facilitate comparisons with other REITs and hotel owners. Management uses these measures to establish a baseline to assess property-level results, including when we acquire or sell assets. While these measures are based on GAAP, costs such as depreciation and amortization, income taxes, interest expense, corporate expenses, and other corporate items have been incurred by us and are not reflected in this presentation. In addition, we adjust the revenues and expenses at these properties so that the results reflect comparable reporting periods discussed below. We believe that excluding these items provides the most accurate measure of the performance of our comparable properties. As a result, the comparable hotel-level results do not represent our total revenues, expenses or operating profit and these hotel-level results should not be used to evaluate the performance of the Company as a whole. However, our consolidated statement of operations includes such amounts, all of which should be considered when evaluating our performance, as well as the usefulness of our non-GAAP measures.
 
Reporting Period
 
We receive the results of operations of our hotels from our managers based on their reporting cycles, which are either monthly or every four weeks. As a REIT, we are required by tax laws to report results on a calendar year ended December 31. However, our quarterly results reflect the reporting cycle that is used by Marriott International, Inc., the manager of the majority of our properties, whose year ends on the Friday closest to December 31 and which reflect twelve weeks of operations for the first three quarters of the year and sixteen or seventeen weeks for the fourth quarter of the year. Our results are also adjusted to reflect a fiscal calendar year that has a January 1 starting date and a December 31 ending date. In any given quarter, quarter-over-quarter results could have different starting and/or ending dates. For example, the second quarter of 2003 ended on June 20 and the second quarter of 2002 ended on June 14, though both quarters reflect twelve weeks of operations. In addition, because our starting and ending dates may not match Marriott International's starting and ending dates, our first and fourth quarters of each year and year-to-date periods may not have the same number of days as was reflected in a prior year. For example, our consolidated financial statements as of June 20, 2003 reflect 171 days, while our year-to-date results as of June 14, 2002 reflect 165 days.
 
Approximately one-fourth of our full-service hotels are operated by managers other than Marriott International and report revenues on a monthly basis versus our four week period. The accompanying consolidated financial statements reflect three months of operations for the second quarter (March, April and May), but five months of operations year-to-date (January through May). Results in the third quarter will reflect three months of operations and fourth quarter results will reflect four months of operations for these hotels.
 
Hotel Operating Statistics
 
Our reported hotel operating statistics (i.e., RevPAR, average daily rate and average occupancy) for the quarters ended June 20, 2003 and June 14, 2002 reflect results for the twelve week periods from March 29, 2003 to June 20, 2003 and March 23, 2002 to June 14, 2002, respectively, for our Marriott-managed hotels and results for March, April and May for operations of all other hotels which report results on a monthly basis.
 
Our reported hotel operating statistics for year-to-date June 20, 2003 and year-to-date June 14, 2002 reflect results for the twenty four week periods (or 168 days) from January 4, 2003 to June 20, 2003 and December 29, 2001 to June 14, 2002, respectively, for our Marriott-managed hotels and results for January through May for operations of all other hotels which report results on a monthly basis.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
See additional notes "a" to "d" on page 18.
 
 
 
 
See notes on page 18.
 
 
 
 
See notes on page 18.
 
 
 
 
For purposes of preparing the third quarter and full-year 2003 forecasts, we have made the following assumptions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
See notes on page 28.
 
 
 
See notes on page 28
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


