FILE:HST/HST-8K-20040428095536.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.    Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits
 
(c)  Exhibits
 
 
Item 12.    Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On April 28, 2004, Host Marriott Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the first quarter ended March 26, 2004. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Report.
 
The information in this Report, including the exhibit, is provided under Item 12 of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. Furthermore, the information in this Report, including the exhibit, shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into the filings of the registrant under the Securities Act of 1933.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
HOST MARRIOTT REPORTS RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR FIRST QUARTER 2004 AND ANNOUNCES THE ACQUISITION OF THE EMBASSY SUITES CHICAGO DOWNTOWN-LAKEFRONT HOTEL
 
BETHESDA, MD; April 28, 2004  Host Marriott Corporation (NYSE: HMT), the nation's largest lodging real estate investment trust (REIT), today announced results of operations for the first quarter of 2004. First quarter results include the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FFO per diluted share and Adjusted EBITDA are non-GAAP financial measures within the meaning of the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). See the discussion included in this press release for information regarding these non-GAAP financial measures.
 
Comparable hotel RevPAR for the first quarter increased 3.0%, driven by an increase in occupancy of almost two percentage points and a slight increase in average room rate. Comparable hotel adjusted operating profit margins declined approximately 55 basis points.
 
Christopher J. Nassetta, president and chief executive officer, stated, "We are pleased with the pace and the strength of the recovery. Demand accelerated throughout the quarter, helping us produce strong sequential improvement in RevPAR. The business mix has begun moving from discount business to higher-rated business and the group booking pace and net reservation volume continue to strengthen. Clearly, the operating environment for the lodging industry has improved considerably over the last few months and we feel the stage has been set for a sustained recovery."
 
Balance Sheet
 
As of March 26, 2004, the Company had $526 million in cash and cash equivalents and $250 million of availability under its credit facility. Additionally, the Company had $598 million of restricted cash, including net proceeds of $484 million from the sale of 3.25% senior exchangeable debentures issued on March 16, 2004, which were used, along with available cash, to redeem $494 million of 7
7
/
8
% Series B senior notes on April, 15 2004. During the second quarter, the Company also called an additional $65 million of Series B senior notes, which it will redeem on May 3, 2004. As a result of these
redemptions, the Company will record a charge for call premiums and the acceleration of deferred financing costs totaling approximately $30 million in the second quarter of 2004.
 
On April 27, 2004, the Company acquired the 455-room Embassy Suites Chicago Downtown-Lakefront for approximately $89 million, with a portion of the funds raised from its equity offerings in 2003. This property is the first Embassy Suites and second Hilton-branded property in the portfolio. The property was acquired at an approximate 20% discount to replacement cost. During the first quarter of 2004, the Company also completed the sale of six non-core properties for total proceeds of approximately $100 million, which has been, or will be, used to repay debt.
 
W. Edward Walter, executive vice president and chief financial officer, stated, "Improved operating performance at our hotels combined with our capital market activities, which reduced our interest expense, has increased our interest coverage ratio and reduced our leverage. As a result, we are currently not restricted under our debt covenants on our ability to pay dividends or incur debt. Given our improved earnings outlook, we expect to be able to pay dividends on our perpetual preferred securities on a going forward basis."
 
The Company does not expect to pay a meaningful dividend on its common shares in 2004.
 
2004 Outlook
 
As a result of the improving economic outlook, the Company expects comparable hotel RevPAR for the second quarter of 2004 and full year 2004 to increase approximately 5% to 7% and 4% to 6%, respectively. This reflects an increase from the Company's 2004 RevPAR guidance issued on February 24, 2004. Based upon this guidance, the Company estimates that for 2004 its:
 
 
 
 
 
Mr. Nassetta noted, "Lodging industry fundamentals have improved significantly over the first half of last year. Improvements in operations thus far in 2004 have been primarily driven by increases in occupancy at our properties. We expect that as lodging industry fundamentals continue to strengthen, we will experience growth in average room rates and margin improvement, which should ultimately result in meaningful growth in RevPAR, earnings and shareholder value."
 
Host Marriott is a Fortune 500 lodging real estate company that currently owns or holds controlling interests in 112 upscale and luxury hotel properties primarily operated under premium brands, such as Marriott, Ritz-Carlton, Hyatt, Four Seasons, Westin and Hilton. For further information, please visit the Company's website at www.hostmarriott.com.
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities regulations. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results to differ materially from those anticipated at the time the forward-looking statements are made. These risks include, but are not limited to: national and local economic and business conditions, including the potential for additional terrorist attacks, that will affect occupancy rates at our hotels and the demand for hotel products and services; operating risks associated with the hotel business; risks associated with the level of our indebtedness and our ability to meet covenants in our debt agreements; relationships with property managers; our ability to maintain our properties in a first-class manner, including meeting capital expenditure requirements; our ability to compete effectively in areas such as access, location, quality of accommodations and room rate structures; changes in travel patterns, taxes and government regulations which influence or determine wages, prices, construction procedures and costs; and our ability to continue to satisfy complex rules in order for us to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes and other risks and uncertainties associated with our business described in the Company's filings with the SEC. Although the Company believes the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions, it can give no assurance that the expectations will be attained or that any deviation will not be material. All information in this release is as of April 27, 2004, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to conform the statement to actual results or changes in the Company's expectations.
 
 
 
 
 
The Company
 
Host Marriott Corporation, herein referred to as "we" or "Host Marriott," is a self-managed and self-administered real estate investment trust (REIT) that owns primarily hotel properties. We conduct our operations as an umbrella partnership REIT through an operating partnership, Host Marriott, L.P., or Host LP, of which we are the sole general partner. For each share of our common stock, Host LP has issued to us one unit of operating partnership interest, or OP Unit. When distinguishing between Host Marriott and Host LP, the primary difference is the 7% of the partnership interests in Host LP held by outside partners as of April 27, 2004, which is reflected as minority interest in our consolidated balance sheets and minority interest expense in our consolidated statements of operations. Readers are encouraged to find further detail regarding our organizational structure in our annual report on Form 10-K.
 
Reporting Periods for Hotel Operating Statistics and Comparable Hotel Results
 
The results we report are based on results of our hotels reported to us by our hotel managers. Our hotel managers use different reporting periods. Marriott International, Inc., the manager of the majority of our properties, uses a fiscal year ending on the Friday closest to December 31 and reports twelve weeks of operations for the first three quarters and sixteen or seventeen weeks for the fourth quarter of the year for its Marriott-managed hotels. In contrast, other managers of our hotels, such as Hyatt, report results on a monthly basis. Host Marriott, as a REIT, is required by tax laws to report results on a calendar year. As a result, we elected to adopt the reporting periods used by Marriott International modified so that our fiscal year always ends on December 31 to comply with REIT rules. Our first three quarters of operations end on the same day as Marriott International but our fourth quarter ends on December 31.
 
Two consequences of the reporting cycle we have adopted are: (1) quarterly start dates will usually differ between years, except for the first quarter which always commences on January 1, and (2) our first and fourth quarters of operations and year-to-date operations may not include the same number of days as reflected in prior years. For example, the first quarter of 2004 ended on March 26 and the first quarter of 2003 ended on March 28. As a result, during the first quarter of 2004 we included 86 days of operations, including February 29, 2004, while for first quarter 2003, we included 87 days of operations.
 
In addition, for results reported by hotel managers using a monthly reporting period (approximately one-fourth of our full-service hotels), the month of operation that ends after our fiscal quarter-end is included in our results of operations in the following fiscal quarter. For these hotels, operations for the entire month of March are reported in our second fiscal quarter. Accordingly, our results of operations include results from hotel managers reporting results on a monthly basis as follows: first quarter (January, February), second quarter (March to May), third quarter (June to August), and fourth quarter (September to December). The first quarter of 2004 includes 60 days of operations for our monthly hotels compared to 59 days of operations for the first quarter of 2003 as February included 29 days in 2004.
 
In contrast to the reporting periods for our consolidated statements of operations, our hotel operating statistics (i.e., RevPAR, average daily rate and average occupancy) and our comparable hotel results (comparable hotel revenues, expenses and adjusted operating profit) are always reported based on the reporting cycle used by Marriott International for our Marriott-managed hotels. This facilitates year-to-year comparisons, as each reporting period will be comprised of the same number of days of operations as in the prior year (except in the case of certain of our fourth quarters which are comprised of seventeen weeks, such as fiscal year 2002). This means, however, that the reporting periods we use for hotel operating statistics may differ slightly from the reporting periods used for our consolidated statements of operations for the first and fourth quarters and the full year. For the hotel operating statistics and comparable hotel results reported herein:
 
 
 
 
Comparable Hotel Operating Statistics
 
We present certain operating statistics (i.e., RevPAR, average daily rate and average occupancy) and operating results (revenues, expenses and adjusted operating profit) for the periods included in this report on a comparable hotel basis. We define our comparable hotels as full-service properties (i) that are owned or leased by us and the operations of which are included in our consolidated results, whether as continuing operations or discontinued operations, for the entirety of the reporting periods being compared, and (ii) that have not sustained substantial property damage or undergone large-scale capital projects during the reporting periods being compared. For 2004 and 2003, we consider 108 of our portfolio of 111 full-service hotels owned on March 26, 2004 to be comparable hotels. The operating results of the following three hotels that we owned as of March 26, 2004 are excluded from comparable hotel results for these periods:
 
 
 
 
In addition, the operating results of the six hotels we disposed of in the first quarter of 2004 and the eight hotels we disposed of in 2003 are also not included in comparable hotel results for the periods presented herein. Moreover, because these statistics and operating results are for our full-service hotel properties, they exclude results for our non-hotel properties and leased limited-service hotels.
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
Included in this press release are certain "non-GAAP financial measures," which are measures of our historical or future financial performance that are not calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, within the meaning of applicable SEC rules. They are as follows: (i) Funds From Operations (FFO) per diluted share, (ii) EBITDA, (iii) Adjusted EBITDA and (iv) Comparable Hotel Operating Results. The following discussion defines these terms and presents why we believe they are useful supplemental measures of our performance.
 
FFO per Diluted Share
 
We present FFO per diluted share as a non-GAAP measure of our performance in addition to our earnings per share (calculated in accordance with GAAP). We calculate FFO per diluted share for a given operating period as our FFO (defined as set forth below) for such period divided by the number of fully diluted shares outstanding during such period. The National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (NAREIT) defines FFO as net income (calculated in accordance with GAAP) excluding gains (or losses) from sales of real estate, the cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles, real estate-related depreciation and amortization and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. We present FFO on a per share basis after making adjustments for the effects of dilutive securities, including the payment of preferred stock dividends, in accordance with NAREIT guidelines.
 
We believe that FFO per diluted share is a useful supplemental measure of our operating performance and that the presentation of FFO per diluted share, when combined with the primary GAAP presentation of earnings per share, provides beneficial information to investors. By excluding the effect of real estate depreciation, amortization and gains and losses from sales of real estate, all of which are based on historical cost accounting and which may be of limited significance in evaluating current performance, we believe that such measure can facilitate comparisons of operating performance between periods and with other REITs, even though FFO per diluted share does not represent
 
 
an amount that accrues directly to holders of our common stock. Historical cost accounting for real estate assets implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time. As noted by NAREIT in its April 2002 "White Paper on Funds From Operations," since real estate values have historically risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors have considered presentation of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient by themselves. For these reasons, NAREIT adopted the definition of FFO in order to promote an industry-wide measure of REIT operating performance.
 
EBITDA
 
Earnings before Interest Expense, Income Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization (EBITDA) is a commonly used measure of performance in many industries. Management believes EBITDA provides useful information to investors regarding our results of operations because it helps us and our investors evaluate the ongoing operating performance of our properties and facilitates comparisons between us and other lodging REITs, hotel owners who are not REITs and other capital-intensive companies. Management uses EBITDA to evaluate property-level results and as one measure in determining the value of acquisitions and dispositions and, like FFO per diluted share, it is widely used by management in the annual budget process.
 
Adjusted EBITDA
 
Management has historically adjusted EBITDA when evaluating our performance because we believe that the exclusion of certain additional recurring and non-recurring items described below provides useful supplemental information to investors regarding our ongoing operating performance and that the presentation of Adjusted EBITDA, when combined with the primary GAAP presentation of net income, is beneficial to an investor's complete understanding of our operating performance. We adjust EBITDA for the following items, which may occur in any period, and refer to this measure as Adjusted EBITDA:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Limitations on the Use of FFO per Diluted Share, EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA
 
We calculate FFO per diluted share in accordance with standards established by NAREIT, which may not be comparable to measures calculated by other companies who do not use the NAREIT definition of FFO or calculate FFO per diluted share in accordance with NAREIT guidance. In addition, although FFO per diluted share is a useful measure when comparing our results to other REITs, it may not be helpful to investors when comparing us to non-REITs. EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA, as presented, may also not be comparable to measures calculated by other companies. This information should not be considered as an alternative to net income, operating profit, cash from operations or any other operating performance measure calculated in accordance with GAAP. Cash expenditures for various long-term assets (such as renewal and replacement capital expenditures), interest expense (for EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA purposes only) and other items have been and will be incurred and are not reflected in the EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and FFO per diluted share presentations. Management compensates for these limitations by separately considering the impact of these excluded items to the extent they are material to operating decisions or assessments of our operating performance. Our consolidated statement of operations and cash flows include interest expense, capital expenditures, and other excluded items, all of which should be considered when evaluating our performance, as well as the usefulness of our non-GAAP financial measures. Additionally, FFO per diluted share, EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered as a measure of our liquidity or indicative of funds available to fund our cash needs, including our ability to make cash distributions. In addition, FFO per diluted share does not measure, and should not be used as a measure of, amounts that accrue directly to shareholders' benefit.
 
Comparable Hotel Operating Results
 
We present certain operating results for our full-service hotels, such as hotel revenues, expenses and adjusted operating profit, on a comparable hotel, or "same store," basis as supplemental information for investor's information. Our comparable hotel results present operating results for full-service hotels owned during the entirety of the periods being compared without giving effect to any acquisitions or dispositions, significant property damage or large scale capital improvements incurred during these periods. We present these comparable hotel operating results by eliminating corporate-level costs and expenses related to our capital structure, as well as depreciation and amortization. We eliminate corporate-level costs and expenses to arrive at property-level results because we believe property-level results provide investors with supplemental information into the ongoing operating performance of our hotels and the effectiveness of management in running our business on a property-level basis. We eliminate depreciation and amortization because, even though depreciation and amortization are property-level expenses, these non-cash expenses, which are based on historical cost accounting for real estate assets, implicitly assume that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time. As noted earlier, because real estate values have historically risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors have considered presentation of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient by themselves.
 
As a result of the elimination of corporate-level costs and expenses and depreciation and amortization, the comparable hotel operating results we present do not represent our total revenues, expenses or operating profit and should not be used to evaluate our performance as a whole. Management compensates for these limitations by separately considering the impact of these excluded items to the extent they are material to operating decisions or assessments of our operating performance. Our consolidated statements of operations include such amounts, all of which should be considered by investors when evaluating our performance.
 
We present these hotel operating results on a comparable hotel basis because we believe that doing so provides investors and management with useful information for evaluating the period-to-period performance of our hotels and facilitates comparisons with other hotel REITs and hotel owners. In particular, these measures assist management and investors in distinguishing whether increases or decreases in revenues and/or expenses are due to growth or decline of operations at comparable hotels (which represent the vast majority of our portfolio) or from other factors, such as the effect of acquisitions or dispositions. While management believes that presentation of comparable hotel
 
 
results is a "same store" supplemental measure that provides useful information in evaluating the ongoing performance of the Company, this measure is not used to allocate resources or to assess the operating performance of each of these hotels, as these decisions are based on data for individual hotels and are not based on comparable hotel results. For these reasons, we believe that comparable hotel operating results, when combined with the presentation of GAAP operating profit, revenues and expenses, provide useful information to investors and management.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exchangeable Preferred Securities Trust) was accounted for on a consolidated basis as of December 31, 2003 since we were the primary beneficiary under FIN 46.
 
In December 2003, the FASB issued a revision to FIN 46, which we refer to as FIN 46R. Under FIN 46R, we are not the primary beneficiary and we are required to deconsolidate the accounts of the Exchangeable Preferred Securities Trust. We adopted the provisions of FIN 46R on January 1, 2004. As a result, we recorded the $492 million in debentures (the Exchangeable Subordinated Debentures) issued by the Exchangeable Preferred Securities Trust and eliminated the $475 million of Exchangeable Preferred Securities that were previously classified in the mezzanine section of our consolidated balance sheet. The difference of $17 million is our investment in the Exchangeable Preferred Securities Trust, which is included in "Investments in affiliates" on our consolidated balance sheet. Additionally, we classified the related dividend payment of approximately $7 million as interest expense. We elected not to restate prior periods and the adoption of FIN 46R had no effect on our net loss, loss per diluted share or financial covenants under our senior notes indenture.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
See the notes following the table reconciling net loss to EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA for full year 2004 forecasts.
 
 
 
See the notes following the table reconciling net loss to EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA for full year 2004 forecasts.
 
 
 
For purposes of preparing the full year and second quarter 2004 forecasts, we have made the following assumptions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
totaling $54 million, or $.16 of FFO per diluted share, in call premiums and the acceleration of deferred financing costs associated with the debt repayments will be incurred in the full year and $30 million, or $.09 of FFO per diluted share, in the second quarter.
 
 
 
 
 
 


