FILE:HST/HST-8K-20040429170201.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.    Other Events
 
On April 28, 2004, Host Marriott Corporation issued an earnings release announcing its financial results for the first quarter ended March 26, 2004. The consolidated balance sheet and consolidated statement of operations and other financial data for the first quarter included in the earnings release are filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
First quarter results include the following:
 
 
 
 
 
In addition, the Company announced the following information which we deem of importance to security holders:
 
As of March 26, 2004, we had $526 million in cash and cash equivalents and $250 million of availability under our credit facility. Additionally, we had $598 million of restricted cash, including net proceeds of $484 million from the sale of 3.25% senior exchangeable debentures issued on March 16, 2004, which were used, along with available cash, to redeem $494 million of 7
 7
/
8
% Series B senior notes on April 15, 2004. During the second quarter, we also called an additional $65 million of Series B senior notes, which we will redeem on May 3, 2004. As a result of these redemptions, we will record a charge for call premiums and the acceleration of deferred financing costs totaling approximately $30 million in the second quarter of 2004.
 
On April 27, 2004, we acquired the 455-room Embassy Suites Chicago Downtown-Lakefront for approximately $89 million, with a portion of the funds raised from our equity offerings in 2003. This property is the first Embassy Suites and second Hilton-branded property in the portfolio. During the first quarter of 2004, we also completed the sale of six non-core properties for total proceeds of approximately $100 million, which has been, or will be, used to repay debt.
 
Improved operating performance at our hotels combined with our capital market activities, which reduced our interest expense, has increased our interest coverage ratio and reduced our leverage. As a result, we are currently not restricted under our debt covenants on our ability to pay dividends or incur debt. Given our improved earnings outlook, we expect to be able to pay dividends on our perpetual preferred securities on a going forward basis. We do not expect to pay a meaningful dividend on our common shares in 2004.
 
Lodging industry fundamentals have improved significantly over the first half of last year. Improvements in operations thus far in 2004 have been primarily driven by increases in occupancy at our properties. We expect that as lodging industry fundamentals continue to strengthen, we will experience growth in average room rates and margin improvement.
 
Item 7.    Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits
 
(c)  Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
The Company
 
Host Marriott Corporation, herein referred to as "we" or "Host Marriott," is a self-managed and self-administered real estate investment trust (REIT) that owns primarily hotel properties. We conduct our operations as an umbrella partnership REIT through an operating partnership, Host Marriott, L.P., or Host LP, of which we are the sole general partner. For each share of our common stock, Host LP has issued to us one unit of operating partnership interest, or OP Unit. When distinguishing between Host Marriott and Host LP, the primary difference is the 7% of the partnership interests in Host LP held by outside partners as of April 27, 2004, which is reflected as minority interest in our consolidated balance sheets and minority interest expense in our consolidated statements of operations. Readers are encouraged to find further detail regarding our organizational structure in our annual report on Form 10-K.
 
 
 
 
 
Exchangeable Preferred Securities Trust) was accounted for on a consolidated basis as of December 31, 2003 since we were the primary beneficiary under FIN 46.
 
In December 2003, the FASB issued a revision to FIN 46, which we refer to as FIN 46R. Under FIN 46R, we are not the primary beneficiary and we are required to deconsolidate the accounts of the Exchangeable Preferred Securities Trust. We adopted the provisions of FIN 46R on January 1, 2004. As a result, we recorded the $492 million in debentures (the Exchangeable Subordinated Debentures) issued by the Exchangeable Preferred Securities Trust and eliminated the $475 million of Exchangeable Preferred Securities that were previously classified in the mezzanine section of our consolidated balance sheet. The difference of $17 million is our investment in the Exchangeable Preferred Securities Trust, which is included in "Investments in affiliates" on our consolidated balance sheet. Additionally, we classified the related dividend payment of approximately $7 million as interest expense. We elected not to restate prior periods and the adoption of FIN 46R had no effect on our net loss, loss per diluted share or financial covenants under our senior notes indenture.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


