FILE:HST/HST-8K-20040601172806.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5. Other events
 
On May 26, 2004, Host Marriott Corporation (the "Company") entered into an Underwriting Agreement with UBS Securities LLC and Bear, Stearns & Co. Inc., as representatives of the several underwriters named therein, pursuant to which the Company agreed to issue and sell 4,000,000 shares of its 8
 7
/
8
% Class E Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock at a price of $25.00 per share raising gross proceeds of $100 million. The Class E preferred stock has no stated maturity date and may be redeemed at the Company's option on or after June 2, 2009. The Company intends to use the net proceeds from the offering (approximately $97 million after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and estimated expenses) and available cash to redeem all of its outstanding Class A preferred stock.
 
Item 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized this 1
st
day of June 2004.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 1.1
 
 
 
 
May 26, 2004
 
UBS Securities LLC
Bear, Stearns & Co. Inc.
as Representatives of the Several Underwriters
 
c/o UBS Securities LLC
677 Washington Boulevard
Stamford, CT 06901
 
and
 
c/o Bear, Stearns & Co. Inc.
383 Madison Avenue
New York, NY 10179
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
Host Marriott Corporation, a Maryland corporation (the "Company"), proposes, subject to the terms and conditions stated herein, to issue and sell to the several underwriters named in hereto (the "Underwriters"), for whom you (the "Representatives") are acting as representatives, an aggregate of 4,000,000 shares (the "Firm Shares") of its 8 7/8% Class E Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, $0.01 par value ("Class E Preferred Stock"). The Company also proposes to issue and sell to the Underwriters not more than an additional 160,000 shares of Class E Preferred Stock, par value $.01 per share (the "Additional Shares"), if and to the extent that you shall have determined to exercise the right to purchase such shares of preferred stock granted to the Underwriters in Section 2 hereof. The Firm Shares and the Additional Shares are hereinafter collectively referred to as the "Shares".
Schedule I
 
The terms of the Shares will be set forth in articles supplementary (the "Articles Supplementary") to be filed by the Company with the Maryland State Department of Assessments and Taxation (the "SDAT"). The Company intends to contribute or otherwise transfer the net proceeds from the sale of the Shares to Host Marriott, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (the "Operating Partnership"), in exchange for Class E Preferred Units (the "Preferred Units") in the Operating Partnership, the economic terms of which will be substantially identical to those of the Class E Preferred Stock. The terms of the Preferred Units will be set forth in one or more amendments (individually, an "Amendment" and, collectively, the "Amendments") to the Operating Partnership's limited partnership agreement, and the Company, in its capacity as general partner of the Operating Partnership (the "General Partner"), will enter into an Amendment each time that the Company issues Shares.
 
 
or Prospectus, as the case may be, under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and incorporated by reference in such Preliminary Prospectus or Prospectus, as the case may be; and any reference to any amendment to the Registration Statement shall be deemed to refer to and include any annual report of the Company filed pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act after the effective date of the Initial Registration Statement that is incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement.
 
 
 
 
as to the Prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto, contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading; provided, however, that this representation and warranty shall not apply to any statements or omissions made in reliance upon and in conformity with information furnished in writing to the Company by the Underwriters expressly for use therein.
 
 
 
due 2024 (collectively, the "Senior Notes"); borrowings under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of June 6, 2002, as amended on May 14, 2003, among the Operating Partnership and certain subsidiaries, the banks party thereto from time to time, and Deutsche Bank Trust Company America, as administrative agent (the "Credit Facility") and certain other obligations as set forth in the Pledge and Security Agreement. The unissued Shares to be issued and sold by the Company to the Underwriters hereunder have been duly and validly authorized and, when issued and delivered against payment therefor as provided herein, will be duly and validly issued and fully paid and non-assessable and the issuance of the Shares will not be subject to any preemptive or similar rights and will conform to the description thereof contained in the Prospectus. Except as may be described in the Prospectus, there are no outstanding subscriptions, rights, warrants, options, calls, convertible securities, commitments of sale or Liens (other than Liens pursuant to the Pledge and Security Agreement) related to or entitling any person to purchase or otherwise to acquire any shares of the capital stock of, or other ownership interest in, any subsidiary of the Company owned directly or indirectly by the Company.
 
 
 
preferred units, Class B preferred units, Class C preferred units, and Class D preferred units, and will rank, with respect to the payment of dividends and distributions and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Operating Partnership, senior to all of the other limited and general partnership interests in the Operating Partnership outstanding as of the date of this Agreement and on each Closing Date (as defined below).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the indentures relating to the Senior Notes (the "Senior Note Documents") and the Credit Facility or Liens that would not have a Material Adverse Effect and (ii) all liens, charges, encumbrances, claims or restrictions on or affecting the properties and assets of the Company or its consolidated subsidiaries that are required to be disclosed in the Prospectus are disclosed.
 
 
 
 
 
and (iii) neither the Company nor its consolidated subsidiaries has received any notice of proceedings relating to the revocation or modification of any Authorization, which singly or in the aggregate, if the subject of an unfavorable decision, ruling or finding, would have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
any of their respective properties or assets or any applicable zoning laws, ordinances and regulations, except such violations as would not, singly or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
have a one-time right to purchase, severally and not jointly, up to 160,000 Additional Shares at a purchase price of $24.2125 a share, plus accrued dividends, if any, to but excluding the Optional Closing Date (as defined below). If you, on behalf of the Underwriters, elect to exercise such option, you shall so notify the Company in writing not later than 30 days after the date of this Agreement, which notice shall specify the number of Additional Shares to be purchased by the Underwriters and the date on which such shares are to be purchased. Such date may be the same as the First Closing Date (as defined below) but not earlier than the First Closing Date nor later than ten business days after the date of such notice. Additional Shares may be purchased as provided in Section 2 hereof solely for the purpose of covering over-allotments made in connection with the offering of the Firm Shares. If any Additional Shares are to be purchased, each Underwriter agrees, severally and not jointly, to purchase the number of Additional Shares (subject to such adjustments to eliminate fractional shares as you may determine) that bears the same proportion to the total number of Additional Shares to be purchased as the number of Firm Shares set forth in hereto opposite the name of such Underwriter bears to the total number of Firm Shares.
Schedule I
 
 
 
 
 
 
be delivered by or on behalf of the Company to you, as Representative, through the facilities of the Depository Trust Company ("DTC") on such Closing Date, for the respective accounts of the several Underwriters, against payment of the purchase price therefor set forth in this Agreement.
 
 
 
 
Prospectus or for additional information; and, in the event of the issuance of any stop order or of any order preventing or suspending the use of any Preliminary Prospectus or prospectus or suspending any such qualification, promptly to use its reasonable best efforts to obtain the withdrawal of such order;
 
 
 
 
(which need not be audited) complying with Section 11(a) of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder (including, at the option of the Company, Rule 158); it being understood that such delivery requirements shall be deemed met by the Company's reporting requirement pursuant to the Exchange Act and Rules and Regulations, to the extent set forth in Rule 158 of the Rules and Regulations under the Securities Act;
 
 
 
 
 
 
equal to the aggregate liquidation preference of such Shares, and the terms of such Preferred Units will be substantially equivalent to the economic terms of such Shares purchased by the Underwriters. The Operating Partnership will apply such net proceeds as set forth under the caption "Use of Proceeds" in the Prospectus Supplement;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Agreement, will not (1) violate any provision of the limited partnership agreement or certificate of limited partnership of the Operating Partnership, (2) conflict with or result in a breach or violation of any of the terms or provisions of, or constitute a default under, the Senior Note Documents; or (3) violate any federal law, statute, rule or regulation applicable to the Company or the Operating Partnership or the Partnership Act (as defined below); and (B) no consent, approval, authorization or order of, or qualification with, any governmental body or agency is required under federal law, New York statute or the Partnership Act for the offering, issuance or sale of the Shares or the application of the net proceeds therefrom by the Company to acquire Preferred Units from the Operating Partnership as contemplated by this Agreement or for the issuance and sale of the Preferred Units by the Operating Partnership to the Company as contemplated by this Agreement, except (x) such as may be required under state securities laws in connection with the offer and sale of the Shares, (y) such as have been obtained under the Securities Act and are in full force and effect and (z) such as are required under the Exchange Act in connection with the listing of the Shares on the Exchange;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2001 December 31, 2002 and December 31, 2003, and the Company's current organization and intended method of operation will enable it to continue to meet the requirements for qualification and taxation as a REIT under the Code for taxable year 2004 and thereafter;
 
 
 
 
 
subsidiaries, upon opinions of local counsel and abstracts, reports and policies of title companies rendered or issued at or subsequent to the time of acquisition of such property by the Company or its consolidated subsidiaries, upon opinions of counsel to the lessors of such property and, in respect to matters of fact, upon certificates of officers of the Company or its consolidated subsidiaries, provided that such counsel shall state that they believe that both you and they are justified in relying upon such opinions, abstracts, reports, policies and certificates);
 
 
 
 
organizational documents, or in default in the performance or observance of any material obligation, agreement, covenant or condition contained in any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan agreement, lease or other agreement or instrument to which it is a party or by which it or any of its properties may be bound;
 
 
 
 
 
subsequent to the date of this Agreement and also on such Closing Date, KPMG LLP shall have furnished to you a letter in the form heretofore agreed upon.
 
 
 
 
the Underwriters makes it impracticable or inadvisable to proceed with the public offering or the delivery of the Shares being delivered at such Closing Date on the terms and in the manner contemplated in the Prospectus;
 
 
 
8.
 
 
 
are based upon an untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Preliminary Prospectus, the Registration Statement or the Prospectus, or any amendment or supplement thereto, or arise out of or are based upon the omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, in each case to the extent, but only to the extent, that such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission was made in any Preliminary Prospectus, the Registration Statement or the Prospectus or any such amendment or supplement in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by the Underwriters expressly for use therein; and will reimburse the Company for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by the Company in connection with investigating or defending any such action or claim as such expenses are incurred.
 
 
 
guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Accepted as of the date hereof:
 
 
Schedule I
 
Schedule II
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 5.1
 
 
Host Marriott Corporation
6903 Rockledge Drive, Suite 1500
Bethesda, Maryland 20817
 
Re:        
Host Marriott Corporation
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
We have served as Maryland counsel to Host Marriott Corporation, a Maryland corporation (the "Company"), in connection with certain matters of Maryland law arising out of the registration of 4,160,000 shares (including up to 160,000 shares which may be issued pursuant to an over-allotment option) (the "Shares"), of the 8?% Class E Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Company (the "Class E preferred Stock") to be issued and sold in an underwritten public offering covered by a Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-113901), and all amendments thereto (collectively, the "Registration Statement"), filed by the Company with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "1933 Act").
 
In connection with our representation of the Company, and as a basis for the opinion hereinafter set forth, we have examined originals, or copies certified or otherwise identified to our satisfaction, of the following documents (hereinafter collectively referred to as the "Documents"):
 
1.    The Registration Statement, including the related form of Prospectus included therein, dated April 19, 2004 (the "Base Prospectus"), and the Prospectus Supplement, dated May 25, 2004 (the "Prospectus Supplement" and, together with the Base Prospectus, the "Prospectus"), in the form in which they were or will be transmitted to the Commission under the 1933 Act;
 
2.    The charter of the Company, including Articles Supplementary classifying the Class E Preferred Stock (the "Charter"), certified as of a recent date by the State Department of Assessments and Taxation of Maryland (the "SDAT"),
 
3.    The Bylaws of the Company, certified as of the date hereof by an officer of the Company;
 
4.    Resolutions (the "Resolutions") adopted by the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board"), or the Pricing Committee of the Board (the "Pricing Committee"), relating to, among other matters, (i) the filing of the Registration Statement, (ii) the classification of the Class E Preferred Stock, (iii) the registration, sale and issuance of the Shares and (iv) the appointment of the Pricing Committee and the delegation to such committee of the power to
Host Marriott Corporation
June 2, 2004
Page 2
 
determine the number and certain terms of the Shares and certain other matters in connection with the registration, sale and issuance of the Shares, certified as of the date hereof by an officer of the Company;
 
5.    A certificate of the SDAT as to the good standing of the Company, dated as of a recent date;
 
6.    A certificate executed by an officer of the Company, dated as of the date hereof; and
 
7.    Such other documents and matters as we have deemed necessary or appropriate to express the opinion set forth below, subject to the assumptions, limitations and qualifications stated herein.
 
In expressing the opinion set forth below, we have assumed the following:
 
1.    Each individual executing any of the Documents, whether on behalf of such individual or another person, is legally competent to do so.
 
2.    Each individual executing any of the Documents on behalf of a party (other than the Company) is duly authorized to do so.
 
3.    Each of the parties (other than the Company) executing any of the Documents has duly and validly executed and delivered each of the Documents to which such party is a signatory, and such party's obligations set forth therein are legal, valid and binding and are enforceable in accordance with all stated terms.
 
4.    All Documents submitted to us as originals are authentic. The form and content of all Documents submitted to us as unexecuted drafts do not differ in any respect relevant to this opinion from the form and content of such Documents as executed and delivered. All Documents submitted to us as certified or photostatic copies conform to the original documents. All signatures on all such Documents are genuine. All public records reviewed or relied upon by us or on our behalf are true and complete. All representations, warranties, statements and information contained in the Documents are true and complete. There has been no oral or written modification of or amendment to any of the Documents and there has been no waiver of any provision of any of the Documents, by action or omission of the parties or otherwise.
 
5.    Upon the issuance of any of the Shares, the total number of shares of Class E Preferred Stock issued and outstanding will not exceed the total number of shares of Class E Preferred Stock that the Company is then authorized to issue under the Charter.
Host Marriott Corporation
June 2, 2004
Page 3
 
6.    The Shares have not been and will not be issued or transferred in violation of any restrictions or limitations contained in Article VIII of the Charter.
 
Based upon the foregoing, and subject to the assumptions, limitations and qualifications stated herein, it is our opinion that:
 
1.    The Company is a corporation duly incorporated and existing under and by virtue of the laws of the State of Maryland and is in good standing with the SDAT.
 
2.    The Shares have been duly authorized and, when and to the extent issued and delivered against payment therefor pursuant to the Resolutions, the Charter and the Registration Statement, the Shares will be validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable.
 
The foregoing opinion is limited to the substantive laws of the State of Maryland and we do not express any opinion herein concerning any other law. We express no opinion as to the applicability or effect of any federal or state tax or securities laws, including the securities laws of the State of Maryland, or as to federal or state laws regarding fraudulent transfers. To the extent that any matter as to which our opinion is expressed herein would be governed by any jurisdiction other than the State of Maryland, we do not express any opinion on such matter. The opinion expressed herein is subject to the effect of judicial decisions which may permit the introduction of parol evidence to modify the terms or the interpretation of agreements.
 
The opinion expressed herein is limited to the matters specifically set forth herein and no other opinion shall be inferred beyond the matters expressly stated. We assume no obligation to supplement this opinion if any applicable law changes after the date hereof or if we become aware of any fact that might change the opinion expressed herein after the date hereof.
 
This opinion is being furnished to you for submission to the Commission as an exhibit to the report filed on Form 8-K (the "8-K"), to be filed by the Company on or about the date hereof. We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion as an exhibit to the 8-K and to the use of the name of our firm therein and under the caption "Legal Matters" in the Prospectus Supplement. In giving this consent, we do not admit that we are within the category of persons whose consent is required by Section 7 of the 1933 Act.
 
Very truly yours,
 
 
/s/ Venable LLP
 

EXHIBIT 12.1
 
 
 


