FILE:HST/HST-8K-20041207164855.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 1.01. ENTRY INTO A MATERIAL DEFINITIVE AGREEMENT.
 
As of December 1, 2004, Host Marriott Corporation entered into indemnification agreements with its directors and executive officers that obligate Host Marriott to indemnify them to the maximum extent permitted under Maryland law. The agreements require us to indemnify the director or officer (the "indemnitee") against all judgments, penalties, fines and amounts paid in settlement and all expenses actually and reasonably incurred by the indemnitee in connection with a proceeding (other than one initiated by or on behalf of us) to which such person became subject by reason of his or her status as a present or former director or officer of Host Marriott or any other corporation or enterprise for which such person is or was serving at our request. In addition, the indemnification agreement requires us to indemnify the indemnitee against all amounts paid in settlement and all expenses actually and reasonably incurred by the indemnitee in connection with a proceeding that is brought by or on behalf of us.
 
In either case, the indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification if it is established that one of the following exceptions to indemnification under Maryland law exists: (a) the act or omission of the director or officer was material to the matter giving rise to the proceeding and (i) was committed in bad faith or (ii) was the result of active and deliberate dishonesty, (b) the director or officer actually received an improper personal benefit in money, property, or services or (c) in the case of any criminal proceeding, the director or officer had reasonable cause to believe that the act or omission was unlawful. In addition, under Maryland law, we may not indemnify a director or officer for expenses or any other amounts in a suit brought by or on behalf of us if such director or officer has been adjudged to be liable to us.
 
In addition, the indemnification agreement requires us to advance reasonable expenses incurred by the indemnitee within 10 days of the receipt by us of a statement from the indemnitee requesting the advance, provided the statement evidences the expenses and is accompanied by:
 
 
 
The indemnification agreement also provides for procedures for the determination of entitlement to indemnification, including requiring such determination be made by independent counsel after a change of control of us.
 
A form of the indemnification agreement is attached as Exhibit 10.35 hereto.
 
ITEM 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
 
The following exhibit is filed herewith:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

EXHIBIT 10.35
 
 
THIS INDEMNIFICATION AGREEMENT is made and entered into this day of , 200 ("Agreement"), by and between Host Marriott Corporation, a Maryland corporation (the "Company"), and ("Indemnitee").
        
            
    
                        
 
WHEREAS, at the request of the Company, Indemnitee currently serves as a of the Company and may, therefore, be subjected to claims, suits or proceedings arising as a result of his/her service; and
[director]
[officer]
 
WHEREAS, as an inducement to Indemnitee to continue to serve as such , the Company has agreed to indemnify and to advance expenses and costs incurred by Indemnitee in connection with any such claims, suits or proceedings, to the fullest extent permitted by law; and
[director]
[officer]
 
WHEREAS, the parties by this Agreement desire to set forth their agreement regarding indemnification and advance of expenses;
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the covenants contained herein, the Company and Indemnitee do hereby covenant and agree as follows:
 
Section 1. . For purposes of this Agreement:
Definitions
 
(a) "Change in Control" means a change in control of the Company occurring after the Effective Date of a nature that would be required to be reported in response to Item 6(e) of Schedule 14A of Regulation 14A (or in response to any similar item on any similar schedule or form) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Act"), whether or not the Company is then subject to such reporting requirement; provided, however, that, without limitation, such a Change in Control shall be deemed to have occurred if after the Effective Date (i) any "person" (as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Act) is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities without the prior approval of at least two-thirds of the members of the Board of Directors in office immediately prior to such person attaining such percentage interest; (ii) there occurs a proxy contest, or the Company is a party to a merger, consolidation, sale of assets, plan of liquidation or other reorganization not approved by at least two-thirds of the members of the Board of Directors then in office, as a consequence of which members of the Board of Directors in office immediately prior to such transaction or event constitute less than a majority of the Board of Directors thereafter; or (iii) during any period of two consecutive years, other than as a result of an event described in clause (a)(ii) of this Section 1, individuals who at the beginning of such period constituted the Board of Directors (including for this purpose any new director whose election or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors then still in office who were directors at the beginning of such period) cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board of Directors.
(b) "Corporate Status" means the status of a person who is or was a director, trustee, officer, employee or agent of the Company or of any other corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise for which such person is or was serving at the request of the Company.
 
(c) "Disinterested Director" means a director of the Company who is not and was not a party to the Proceeding in respect of which indemnification is sought by Indemnitee.
 
(d) "Effective Date" means the date set forth in the first paragraph of this Agreement.
 
(e) "Expenses" shall include all reasonable and out-of-pocket attorneys' fees, retainers, court costs, transcript costs, fees of experts, witness fees, travel expenses, duplicating costs, printing and binding costs, telephone charges, postage, delivery service fees, and all other disbursements or expenses of the types customarily incurred in connection with prosecuting, defending, preparing to prosecute or defend, investigating, or being or preparing to be a witness in a Proceeding.
 
(f) "Independent Counsel" means a law firm, or a member of a law firm, that is experienced in matters of corporation law and neither is, nor in the past five years has been, retained to represent: (i) the Company or Indemnitee in any matter material to either such party, or (ii) any other party to or witness in the Proceeding giving rise to a claim for indemnification hereunder. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the term "Independent Counsel" shall not include any person who, under the applicable standards of professional conduct then prevailing, would have a conflict of interest in representing either the Company or Indemnitee in an action to determine Indemnitee's rights under this Agreement. If a Change in Control has not occurred, Independent Counsel shall be selected by the Board of Directors, with the approval of Indemnitee, which approval will not be unreasonably withheld. If a Change in Control has occurred, Independent Counsel shall be selected by Indemnitee, with the approval of the Board of Directors, which approval will not be unreasonably withheld.
 
(g) "Proceeding" includes any threatened, pending or completed action, suit, arbitration, alternate dispute resolution mechanism, investigation, administrative hearing or any other proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (including on appeal), except one pending or completed on or before the Effective Date, unless otherwise specifically agreed in writing by the Company and Indemnitee.
 
Section 2. . Indemnitee will serve as a of the Company. However, this Agreement shall not impose any obligation on Indemnitee or the Company to continue Indemnitee's service to the Company beyond any period otherwise required by law or by other agreements or commitments of the parties, if any.
Services by Indemnitee
[director]
[officer]
 
Section 3. . The Company shall indemnify, and advance Expenses to, Indemnitee (a) as provided in this Agreement and (b) otherwise to the fullest extent permitted by Maryland law in effect on the date hereof and as amended from time to time; provided, however, that no change in Maryland law shall have the effect of reducing the benefits
Indemnification - General
available to Indemnitee hereunder based on Maryland law as in effect on the date hereof. The rights of Indemnitee provided in this Section 3 shall include, without limitation, the rights set forth in the other sections of this Agreement, including any additional indemnification permitted by Section 2-418(g) of the Maryland General Corporation Law ("MGCL").
 
Section 4. . Indemnitee shall be entitled to the rights of indemnification provided in this Section 4 if, by reason of his/her Corporate Status, he/she is, or is threatened to be, made a party to or a witness in any Proceeding, other than a Proceeding by or in the right of the Company. Pursuant to this Section 4, Indemnitee shall be indemnified against all judgments, penalties, fines and amounts paid in settlement and all Expenses actually and reasonably incurred by him/her or on his/her behalf in connection with a Proceeding by reason of his/her Corporate Status unless it is established that (i) the act or omission of Indemnitee was material to the matter giving rise to the Proceeding and (a) was committed in bad faith or (b) was the result of active and deliberate dishonesty, (ii) Indemnitee actually received an improper personal benefit in money, property or services, or (iii) in the case of any criminal Proceeding, Indemnitee had reasonable cause to believe that his conduct was unlawful.
Proceedings Other Than Proceedings by or in the Right of the Company
 
Section 5. . Indemnitee shall be entitled to the rights of indemnification provided in this Section 5 if, by reason of his/her Corporate Status, he/she is, or is threatened to be, made a party to or a witness in any Proceeding brought by or in the right of the Company to procure a judgment in its favor. Pursuant to this Section 5, Indemnitee shall be indemnified against all amounts paid in settlement and all Expenses actually and reasonably incurred by him/her or on his/her behalf in connection with such Proceeding unless it is established that (i) the act or omission of Indemnitee was material to the matter giving rise to such a Proceeding and (a) was committed in bad faith or (b) was the result of active and deliberate dishonesty or (ii) Indemnitee actually received an improper personal benefit in money, property or services.
Proceedings by or in the Right of the Company
 
Section 6. . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, a court of appropriate jurisdiction, upon application of Indemnitee and such notice as the court shall require, may order indemnification in the following circumstances:
Court-Ordered Indemnification
 
(a) if it determines Indemnitee is entitled to reimbursement under Section 2-418(d)(1) of the MGCL, the court shall order indemnification, in which case Indemnitee shall be entitled to recover the expenses of securing such reimbursement; or
 
(b) if it determines that Indemnitee is fairly and reasonably entitled to indemnification in view of all the relevant circumstances, whether or not Indemnitee (i) has met the standards of conduct set forth in Section 2-418(b) of the MGCL or (ii) has been adjudged liable for receipt of an improper personal benefit under Section 2-418(c) of the MGCL, the court may order such indemnification as the court shall deem proper. However, indemnification with respect to any Proceeding by or in the right of the Company or in which liability shall have been adjudged in the circumstances described in Section 2-418(c) of the MGCL shall be limited to Expenses actually and reasonably incurred by him/her or on his/her behalf in connection with a Proceeding.
Section 7. . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, and without limiting any such provision, to the extent that Indemnitee is, by reason of his/her Corporate Status, made a party to and is successful, on the merits or otherwise, in the defense of any Proceeding, he/she shall be indemnified for all Expenses actually and reasonably incurred by him/her or on his/her behalf in connection therewith. If Indemnitee is not wholly successful in such Proceeding but is successful, on the merits or otherwise, as to one or more but less than all claims, issues or matters in such Proceeding, the Company shall indemnify Indemnitee under this Section 7 for all Expenses actually and reasonably incurred by him/her or on his/her behalf in connection with each successfully resolved claim, issue or matter, allocated on a reasonable and proportionate basis. For purposes of this Section and without limitation, the termination of any claim, issue or matter in such a Proceeding by dismissal, with or without prejudice, shall be deemed to be a successful result as to such claim, issue or matter.
Indemnification for Expenses of a Party Who is Wholly or Partly Successful
 
Section 8. . The Company shall advance all reasonable Expenses actually and reasonably incurred by or on behalf of Indemnitee in connection with any Proceeding (other than a Proceeding brought to enforce indemnification under this Agreement, applicable law, the Charter or Bylaws of the Company, any agreement or a resolution of the stockholders entitled to vote generally in the election of directors or of the Board of Directors) to which Indemnitee is, or is threatened to be, made a party or a witness, within ten days after the receipt by the Company of a statement or statements from Indemnitee requesting such advance or advances from time to time, whether prior to or after final disposition of such Proceeding. Such statement or statements shall reasonably evidence the Expenses incurred by Indemnitee and shall include or be preceded or accompanied by a written affirmation by Indemnitee of Indemnitee's good faith belief that the standard of conduct necessary for indemnification by the Company as authorized by law and by this Agreement has been met and a written undertaking by or on behalf of Indemnitee, in substantially the form attached hereto as A or in such form as may be required under applicable law as in effect at the time of the execution thereof, to reimburse the portion of any Expenses advanced to Indemnitee relating to claims, issues or matters in the Proceeding as to which it shall ultimately be established that the standard of conduct has not been met and which have not been successfully resolved as described in Section 7. To the extent that Expenses advanced to Indemnitee do not relate to a specific claim, issue or matter in the Proceeding, such Expenses shall be allocated on a reasonable and proportionate basis. The undertaking required by this Section 8 shall be an unlimited general obligation by or on behalf of Indemnitee and shall be accepted without reference to Indemnitee's financial ability to repay such advanced Expenses and without any requirement to post security therefor.
Advance of Expenses
Exhibit
 
Section 9. .
Procedure for Determination of Entitlement to Indemnification
 
(a) To obtain indemnification under this Agreement, Indemnitee shall submit to the Company a written request, including therein or therewith such documentation and information as is reasonably available to Indemnitee and is reasonably necessary to determine whether and to what extent Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification. The Secretary of the Company shall, promptly upon receipt of such a request for indemnification, advise the Board of Directors in writing that Indemnitee has requested indemnification.
(b) Upon written request by Indemnitee for indemnification pursuant to the first sentence of Section 9(a) hereof, a determination, if required by applicable law, with respect to Indemnitee's entitlement thereto shall promptly be made in the specific case: (i) if a Change in Control shall have occurred, by Independent Counsel in a written opinion to the Board of Directors, a copy of which shall be delivered to Indemnitee; or (ii) if a Change of Control shall not have occurred, (A) by the Board of Directors (or a duly authorized committee thereof) by a majority vote of a quorum consisting of Disinterested Directors (as herein defined), or (B) if a quorum of the Board of Directors consisting of Disinterested Directors is not obtainable or, even if obtainable, such quorum of Disinterested Directors so directs, by Independent Counsel in a written opinion to the Board of Directors, a copy of which shall be delivered to Indemnitee, or (C) if so directed by a majority of the members of the Board of Directors, by the stockholders of the Company. If it is so determined that Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification, payment to Indemnitee shall be made within ten days after such determination. Indemnitee shall cooperate with the person, persons or entity making such determination with respect to Indemnitee's entitlement to indemnification, including providing to such person, persons or entity upon reasonable advance request any documentation or information which is not privileged or otherwise protected from disclosure and which is reasonably available to Indemnitee and reasonably necessary to such determination in the discretion of the Board of Directors or Independent Counsel if retained pursuant to clause (ii)(B) of this Section 9. Any Expenses actually and reasonably incurred by Indemnitee in so cooperating with the person, persons or entity making such determination shall be borne by the Company (irrespective of the determination as to Indemnitee's entitlement to indemnification) and the Company shall indemnify and hold Indemnitee harmless therefrom.
 
Section 10. .
Presumptions and Effect of Certain Proceedings
 
(a) In making a determination with respect to entitlement to indemnification hereunder, the person or persons or entity making such determination shall presume that Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification under this Agreement if Indemnitee has submitted a request for indemnification in accordance with Section 9(a) of this Agreement, and the Company shall have the burden of proof to overcome that presumption in connection with the making of any determination contrary to that presumption.
 
(b) The termination of any Proceeding by judgment, order, settlement, conviction, a plea of or its equivalent, or an entry of an order of probation prior to judgment, does not create a presumption that Indemnitee did not meet the requisite standard of conduct described herein for indemnification.
nolo
contendere
 
Section 11. .
Remedies of Indemnitee
 
(a) If (i) a determination is made pursuant to Section 9 of this Agreement that Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification under this Agreement, (ii) advance of Expenses is not timely made pursuant to Section 8 of this Agreement, (iii) no determination of entitlement to indemnification shall have been made pursuant to Section 9(b) of this Agreement within 90 days after receipt by the Company of the request for indemnification, (iv) payment of indemnification is not made pursuant to Section 7 of this Agreement within ten days after receipt by the Company of a written request therefor, or (v) payment of indemnification is not made within ten
days after a determination has been made that Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification, Indemnitee shall be entitled to an adjudication in an appropriate court located in the State of Maryland of his/her entitlement to such indemnification or advance of Expenses. Alternatively, Indemnitee, at his/her option, may seek an award in arbitration to be conducted by a single arbitrator pursuant to the commercial Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association. Indemnitee shall commence such proceeding seeking an adjudication or an award in arbitration within 180 days following the date on which Indemnitee first has the right to commence such proceeding pursuant to this Section 11(a); provided, however, that the foregoing clause shall not apply to a proceeding brought by Indemnitee to enforce his/her rights under Section 7 of this Agreement.
 
(b) In any judicial proceeding or arbitration commenced pursuant to this Section 11 the Company shall have the burden of proving that Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification or advance of Expenses, as the case may be.
 
(c) If a determination shall have been made pursuant to Section 9(b) of this Agreement that Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification, the Company shall be bound by such determination in any judicial proceeding or arbitration commenced pursuant to this Section 11, absent a misstatement by Indemnitee of a material fact, or an omission of a material fact necessary to make Indemnitee's statement not materially misleading, in connection with the request for indemnification.
 
(d) In the event that Indemnitee, pursuant to this Section 11, seeks a judicial adjudication of or an award in arbitration to enforce his/her rights under, or to recover damages for breach of, this Agreement, Indemnitee shall be entitled to recover from the Company, and shall be indemnified by the Company for, any and all Expenses actually and reasonably incurred by him/her in such judicial adjudication or arbitration. If it shall be determined in such judicial adjudication or arbitration that Indemnitee is entitled to receive part but not all of the indemnification or advance of Expenses sought, the Expenses incurred by Indemnitee in connection with such judicial adjudication or arbitration shall be appropriately prorated.
 
Section 12. .
Defense of the Underlying Proceeding
 
(a) Indemnitee shall notify the Company promptly upon being served with or receiving any summons, citation, subpoena, complaint, indictment, information, notice, request or other document relating to any Proceeding which may result in the right to indemnification or the advance of Expenses hereunder; provided, however, that the failure to give any such notice shall not disqualify Indemnitee from the right, or otherwise affect in any manner any right of Indemnitee, to indemnification or the advance of Expenses under this Agreement unless the Company's ability to defend in such Proceeding or to obtain proceeds under any insurance policy is materially and adversely prejudiced thereby, and then only to the extent the Company is thereby actually so prejudiced.
 
(b) Subject to the provisions of the last sentence of this Section 12(b) and of Section 12(c) below, the Company shall have the right to defend Indemnitee in any Proceeding which may give rise to indemnification hereunder; provided, however, that the Company shall notify Indemnitee of any such decision to defend within 15 calendar days following receipt of notice of
any such Proceeding under Section 12(a) above. The Company shall not, without the prior written consent of Indemnitee, which shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed, consent to the entry of any judgment against Indemnitee or enter into any settlement or compromise which (i) includes an admission of fault of Indemnitee or (ii) does not include, as an unconditional term thereof, the full release of Indemnitee from all liability in respect of such Proceeding, which release shall be in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Indemnitee. This Section 12(b) shall not apply to a Proceeding brought by Indemnitee under Section 11 above or Section 18 below.
 
(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 12(b) above, if in a Proceeding to which Indemnitee is a party by reason of Indemnitee's Corporate Status, (i) Indemnitee reasonably concludes, based upon an opinion of counsel approved by the Company, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, that he/she may have separate defenses or counterclaims to assert with respect to any issue which may not be consistent with other defendants in such Proceeding, (ii) Indemnitee reasonably concludes, based upon an opinion of counsel approved by the Company, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, that an actual or apparent conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest exists between Indemnitee and the Company, or (iii) if the Company fails to assume the defense of such Proceeding in a timely manner, Indemnitee shall be entitled to be represented by separate legal counsel of Indemnitee's choice, subject to the prior approval of the Company, which shall not be unreasonably withheld, at the expense of the Company. In addition, if the Company fails to comply with any of its obligations under this Agreement or in the event that the Company or any other person takes any action to declare this Agreement void or unenforceable, or institutes any Proceeding to deny or to recover from Indemnitee the benefits intended to be provided to Indemnitee hereunder, Indemnitee shall have the right to retain counsel of Indemnitee's choice, subject to the prior approval of the Company, which shall not be unreasonably withheld, at the expense of the Company (subject to Section 11(d)), to represent Indemnitee in connection with any such matter.
 
Section 13. .
Non-Exclusivity; Survival of Rights; Subrogation; Insurance
 
(a) The rights of indemnification and advance of Expenses as provided by this Agreement shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which Indemnitee may at any time be entitled under applicable law, the Charter or Bylaws of the Company, any agreement or a resolution of the stockholders entitled to vote generally in the election of directors or of the Board of Directors, or otherwise. No amendment, alteration or repeal of this Agreement or of any provision hereof shall limit or restrict any right of Indemnitee under this Agreement in respect of any action taken or omitted by such Indemnitee in his/her Corporate Status prior to such amendment, alteration or repeal.
 
(b) In the event of any payment under this Agreement, the Company shall be subrogated to the extent of such payment to all of the rights of recovery of Indemnitee, who shall execute all papers required and take all action necessary to secure such rights, including execution of such documents as are necessary to enable the Company to bring suit to enforce such rights.
(c) The Company shall not be liable under this Agreement to make any payment of amounts otherwise indemnifiable or payable or reimbursable as Expenses hereunder if and to the extent that Indemnitee has otherwise actually received such payment under any insurance policy, contract, agreement or otherwise.
 
Section 14. . The Company will use its reasonable best efforts to acquire directors and officers liability insurance (or "D&O" insurance), on terms and conditions deemed appropriate by the Board of Directors of the Company, with the advice of counsel, that includes coverage for Indemnitee or any claim made against Indemnitee for service as a director or officer of the Company, and coverage for the Company for any indemnification or advance of Expenses made by the Company to Indemnitee for any claims made against Indemnitee for service as a director or officer of the Company. Without in any way limiting any other obligation under this Agreement, the Company shall indemnify Indemnitee for any payment by Indemnitee of (a) any deductible or retention that may apply to Indemnitee under any D&O insurance policy, or (b) any payment that may be due by Indemnitee in the event of exhaustion of the total limits of available coverage under all D&O insurance purchased by the Company.
Insurance
 
Section 15. . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, to the extent that Indemnitee is or may be, by reason of his/her Corporate Status, a witness in any Proceeding, whether instituted by the Company or any other party, and to which Indemnitee is not a party but in which the Indemnitee receives a subpoena to testify, he/she shall be advanced all reasonable Expenses and indemnified against all Expenses actually and reasonably incurred by him/her or on his/her behalf in connection therewith.
Indemnification for Expenses of a Witness
 
Section 16. .
Duration of Agreement; Binding Effect
 
(a) The indemnification and advance of Expenses provided by, or granted pursuant to, this Agreement shall be binding upon and be enforceable by the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns (including any direct or indirect successor by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise to all or substantially all of the business or assets of the Company), shall continue as to an Indemnitee who has ceased to be a director, trustee, officer, employee or agent of the Company or of any other corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise which such person is or was serving at the written request of the Company, and shall inure to the benefit of Indemnitee and his/her spouse, assigns, heirs, devisees, executors and administrators and other legal representatives.
 
(b) The Company shall require and cause any successor (whether direct or indirect by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all, substantially all or a substantial part, of the business and/or assets of the Company, by written agreement in form and substance satisfactory to Indemnitee, expressly to assume and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform if no such succession had taken place.
 
Section 17. . If any provision or provisions of this Agreement shall be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable for any reason whatsoever: (a) the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Agreement (including, without limitation, each portion of any section of this Agreement containing any such provision held to be invalid,
Severability
illegal or unenforceable that is not itself invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby; and (b) to the fullest extent possible, the provisions of this Agreement (including, without limitation, each portion of any section of this Agreement containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, that is not itself invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall be construed so as to give effect to the intent manifested thereby.
 
Section 18. . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, Indemnitee shall not be entitled to indemnification or advance of Expenses under this Agreement with respect to any Proceeding brought by Indemnitee, unless (a) the Proceeding is brought to enforce indemnification under this Agreement, and then only to the extent in accordance with and as authorized by Section 11 of this Agreement, or (b) the Company's Bylaws, as amended, the Charter, a resolution of the stockholders entitled to vote generally in the election of directors or of the Board of Directors or an agreement approved by the Board of Directors to which the Company is a party expressly provide otherwise.
Exception to Right of Indemnification or Advance of Expenses
 
Section 19. . This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall for all purposes be deemed to be an original but all of which together shall constitute one and the same Agreement. One such counterpart signed by the party against whom enforceability is sought shall be sufficient to evidence the existence of this Agreement.
Identical Counterparts
 
Section 20. . The headings of the paragraphs of this Agreement are inserted for convenience only and shall not be deemed to constitute part of this Agreement or to affect the construction thereof.
Headings
 
Section 21. . No supplement, modification or amendment of this Agreement shall be binding unless executed in writing by both of the parties hereto. No waiver of any of the provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed or shall constitute a waiver of any other provisions hereof (whether or not similar) nor shall such waiver constitute a continuing waiver.
Modification and Waiver
 
Section 22. . All notices, requests, demands and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if (i) delivered by hand and receipted for by the party to whom said notice or other communication shall have been directed, or (ii) mailed by certified or registered mail with postage prepaid, on the third business day after the date on which it is so mailed:
Notices
 
(a) If to Indemnitee, to: The address set forth on the signature page hereto.
 
(b) If to the Company to:
 
Host Marriott Corporation
Suite 1500
6903 Rockledge Drive
Bethesda, MD 20817-1109
Attn: General Counsel
 
or to such other address as may have been furnished to Indemnitee by the Company or to the Company by Indemnitee, as the case may be.
Section 23. . The parties agree that this Agreement shall be governed by, and construed and enforced in accordance with, the laws of the State of Maryland, without regard to its conflicts of laws rules.
Governing Law
 
Section 24. . Use of the masculine pronoun shall be deemed to include usage of the feminine pronoun where appropriate.
Miscellaneous
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement on the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
The Board of Directors of Host Marriott Corporation
 
Re: Undertaking to Repay Expenses Advanced
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
This undertaking is being provided pursuant to that certain Indemnification Agreement dated the day of , 200, by and between Host Marriott Corporation (the "Company") and the undersigned Indemnitee (the "Indemnification Agreement"), pursuant to which I am entitled to advance of expenses in connection with (the "Proceeding").
      
                
    
[Description of Proceeding]
 
Terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the meanings specified in the Indemnification Agreement.
 
I am subject to the Proceeding by reason of my Corporate Status or by reason of alleged actions or omissions by me in such capacity. I hereby affirm that at all times, insofar as I was involved as of the Company, in any of the facts or events giving rise to the Proceeding, I (1) acted in good faith and honestly, (2) did not receive any improper personal benefit in money, property or services and (3) in the case of any criminal proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe that any act or omission by me was unlawful.
[a director]
[an officer]
 
In consideration of the advance of Expenses by the Company for reasonable attorneys' fees and related expenses incurred by me in connection with the Proceeding (the "Advanced Expenses"), I hereby agree that if, in connection with the Proceeding, it is established that (1) an act or omission by me was material to the matter giving rise to the Proceeding and (a) was committed in bad faith or (b) was the result of active and deliberate dishonesty or (2) I actually received an improper personal benefit in money, property or services or (3) in the case of any criminal proceeding, I had reasonable cause to believe that the act or omission was unlawful, then I shall promptly reimburse the portion of the Advanced Expenses relating to the claims, issues or matters in the Proceeding as to which the foregoing findings have been established and which have not been successfully resolved as described in Section 7 of the Indemnification Agreement. To the extent that Advanced Expenses do not relate to a specific claim, issue or matter in the Proceeding, I agree that such Expenses shall be allocated on a reasonable and proportionate basis.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have executed this Affirmation and Undertaking on this day of , 200.
      
                    
    
 


