FILE:HST/HST-8K-20040722143427.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.    Other Events
 
On July 21, 2004, Host Marriott Corporation issued an earnings release announcing its financial results for the second
quarter ended June 18, 2004. The consolidated balance sheet and consolidated statement of operations and other financial data for the second quarter included in the earnings release are filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
Second quarter results include the following:
 
 
 
 
 
In addition, the Company announced the following information which we deem of importance to security holders:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This discussion includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. We identify forward-looking statements in this report by using words or phrases such as "believe," "expect," "may be," "intend," "predict," "project," "plan," "objective," "will be," "should," "estimate," or "anticipate," or similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and assumptions and are not guarantees of future performance that involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated at the time the forward-looking statements are made. These risks and uncertainties include those risk factors discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003 and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Although we believe the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions, we can give no assurance that we will attain these expectations or that any deviations will not be material. Except as otherwise required by the federal securities laws, we disclaim any obligations or undertaking to publicly release updates to any forward-looking statement contained in this report to conform the statement to actual results or changes in our expectations.
 
Item 7.    Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits
 
(c)  Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
The Company
 
Host Marriott Corporation, herein referred to as "we" or "Host Marriott," is a self-managed and self-administered real estate investment trust (REIT) that owns primarily hotel properties. We conduct our operations as an umbrella partnership REIT through an operating partnership, Host Marriott, L.P., or Host LP, of which we are the sole general partner. For each share of our common stock, Host LP has issued to us one unit of operating partnership interest, or OP Unit. When distinguishing between Host Marriott and Host LP, the primary difference is the 6% of the partnership interests in Host LP held by outside partners as of July 21, 2004, which is reflected as minority interest in our consolidated balance sheets and minority interest expense in our consolidated statements of operations. Readers are encouraged to find further detail regarding our organizational structure in our annual report on Form 10-K.
 
 
 
In December 2003, the FASB issued a revision to FIN 46, which we refer to as FIN 46R. Under FIN 46R, we are not the primary beneficiary and we are required to deconsolidate the accounts of the Convertible Preferred Securities Trust. We adopted the provisions of FIN 46R on January 1, 2004. As a result, we recorded the $492 million in debentures (the Convertible Subordinated Debentures) issued by the Convertible Preferred Securities Trust and eliminated the $475 million of Convertible Preferred Securities that were previously classified in the mezzanine section of our consolidated balance sheet prior to January 1, 2004. The difference of $17 million is our investment in the Convertible Preferred Securities Trust, which is included in "Investments in affiliates" on our consolidated balance sheet. Additionally, we classified the related dividend payment of approximately $15 million as interest expense. The adoption of FIN 46R had no effect on our net loss, loss per diluted share or financial covenants under our senior notes indentures.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


