FILE:HST/HST-8K-20050302153337.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Host Marriott Corporation is filing as an exhibit hereto (which is incorporated by reference herein) a description of the material U.S. federal income tax considerations relating to the taxation of Host Marriott as a real estate investment trust and the ownership and disposition of Host Marriott equity securities. This description replaces and supersedes prior descriptions of the federal income tax treatment of Host Marriott and its shareholders to the extent that they are inconsistent with the description contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
 
 
Not applicable.
 
 
Not applicable.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
In this report on Form 8-K we make some "forward-looking" statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are included throughout this report on Form 8-K and the information incorporated by reference herein, including in the section entitled "Risk Factors" and relate to, among other things, analyses and other information based on forecasts of future results and estimates of amounts not yet determinable. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as "anticipate," "believe," "could," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "plan," "predict," "project," "will," "continue," and other similar terms and phrases, including references to assumptions.
 
These forward-looking statements are subject to numerous assumptions, risks and uncertainties. Factors which may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from those expressed or implied by us in the forward-looking statements include, among others, the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Although we believe that the expectations reflected in any of our forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions, any of these assumptions could prove to be inaccurate and the forward-looking statement based on these assumptions could be incorrect and actual results could differ materially from those projected or assumed. Our future financial condition and results of operations, as well as any forward-looking statements, are subject to change and to inherent known and unknown risks and uncertainties. Accordingly, our forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to the factors described above and under the heading "Risk Factors" and in our other filings with the SEC. Except as otherwise required by the federal securities laws, we disclaim any obligation to publicly release any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement contained in this annual report on Form 8-K to reflect any change in our expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
 
 
 
Introduction
 
The following discussion describes the federal income tax considerations reasonably anticipated to be material to prospective holders in connection with the purchase, ownership and disposition of the stock of Host Marriott Corporation. An applicable prospectus supplement will contain information about additional federal income tax considerations, if any, relating to particular offerings of common stock, preferred stock, depositary shares, warrants, subscription rights, preferred stock purchase rights or other securities of Host Marriott. The following discussion is intended to address only those federal income tax considerations that are generally relevant to all stockholders, is not exhaustive of all possible tax considerations and is not tax advice. For example, it does not give a detailed description of any state, local or foreign tax considerations. In addition, the discussion does not purport to deal with all aspects of taxation that may be relevant to a stockholder subject to special treatment under the federal income tax laws, including, without limitation, insurance companies, financial institutions or broker-dealers, tax-exempt organizations or foreign corporations and persons who are not citizens or residents of the United States.
 
The information in this section is based on the Internal Revenue Code and regulations in effect on the date hereof, current administrative interpretations and positions of the IRS and existing court decisions. No assurance can be given that future legislation, regulations, administrative interpretations and court decisions will not significantly change, perhaps retroactively, the law on which the information in this section is based. Even if there is no change in applicable law, no assurance can be provided that the statements set forth in this discussion will not be challenged by the IRS or will be sustained by a court if so challenged.
 
Because the specific tax attributes of a prospective purchaser could have a material impact on the tax consequences associated with the purchase, ownership and disposition of the securities of Host Marriott, it is essential that each prospective purchaser consult with his or her own tax advisors with regard to the application of the federal income tax laws to his or her personal tax situation, as well as any tax consequences arising under the laws of any state, local or foreign taxing jurisdiction.
 
Federal Income Taxation of Host Marriott
 
General
 
Host Marriott is a self-managed and self-administered real estate investment trust, or REIT, owning full service hotel properties. Host Marriott was formed as a Maryland corporation in 1998, under the name HMC Merger Corporation, as a wholly owned subsidiary of Host Marriott Corporation (a Delaware corporation which is referred to in this discussion as "Delaware Host Marriott") in connection with its efforts to reorganize its business operations to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. As part of this reorganization, which is referred to in this discussion as the "REIT conversion," on December 29, 1998, HMC Merger Corporation merged with Delaware Host Marriott and changed its name to Host Marriott Corporation. As a result, Host Marriott has succeeded to the hotel ownership business formerly conducted by Delaware Host Marriott. Host Marriott conducts its business as an umbrella
 
partnership REIT, through Host Marriott, L.P. (which is referred to in this discussion as the "Operating Partnership"), of which Host Marriott is the sole general partner and holds approximately 94% of the limited partnership interests.
 
Host Marriott made an election to be taxed as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code, effective for the taxable year beginning January 1, 1999. Host Marriott believes that it is organized and has operated in a manner that permitted it to qualify as a REIT since 1999, and Host Marriott currently intends to continue to operate as a REIT for future years. No assurance, however, can be given that it in fact has qualified or will remain qualified as a REIT. See "Failure of Host Marriott to Qualify as a REIT" below.
 
The sections of the Internal Revenue Code and the corresponding regulations that govern the federal income tax treatment of a REIT and its stockholders are highly technical and complex. The following discussion is qualified in its entirety by the applicable Internal Revenue Code provisions, rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, and administrative and judicial interpretations thereof.
 
Host Marriott's qualification and taxation as a REIT depends upon its ongoing ability to meet the various qualification tests imposed under the Internal Revenue Code, which are discussed below. No assurance can be given that the actual results of Host Marriott's operations for any particular taxable year will satisfy such requirements.
 
So long as Host Marriott qualifies for taxation as a REIT, it generally will not be subject to federal corporate income tax on its net income that is distributed currently to its stockholders. Stockholders generally will be subject to taxation on dividends (other than designated capital gain dividends and "qualified dividend income") at rates applicable to ordinary income, instead of at lower capital gain rates. Qualification for taxation as a REIT enables the REIT and its stockholders to substantially eliminate the "double taxation" (that is, taxation at both the corporate and stockholder levels) that generally results from an investment in a regular corporation. Regular corporations (non-REIT C corporations) generally are subject to federal corporate income taxation on their income, and stockholders of regular corporations are subject to tax on any dividends that are received, although, currently, stockholders of regular corporations who are taxed at individual rates generally are taxed on dividends they receive at capital gains rates, which are lower for individuals than ordinary income rates, and corporate stockholders of regular corporations who are taxed at regular corporate rates receive the benefit of a dividends received deduction that substantially reduces the effective rate that they pay on such dividends. Overall, income earned by a REIT and distributed currently to its stockholders generally will be subject to lower aggregate rates of federal income taxation than if such income were earned by a non-REIT C corporation, subjected to corporate income tax, and then distributed to stockholders and subjected to tax either at capital gain rates or the effective rate paid by a corporate recipient entitled to the benefit of the dividends received deduction.
 
While Host Marriott generally will not be subject to corporate income taxes on income that it distributes currently to stockholders, Host Marriott will be subject to federal income tax as follows:
 
1. Host Marriott will be taxed at regular corporate rates on any undistributed "REIT taxable income." A REIT's "REIT taxable income" is the otherwise taxable income of the REIT subject to certain adjustments, including a deduction for dividends paid.
 
2. Under certain circumstances, Host Marriott (or its stockholders) may be subject to the "alternative minimum tax" due to its items of tax preference and alternative minimum tax adjustments.
 
3. If Host Marriott has net income from the sale or other disposition of "foreclosure property" which is held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business or other nonqualifying income from foreclosure property, it will be subject to tax at the highest corporate rate on such income.
 
4. Host Marriott's net income from "prohibited transactions" will be subject to a 100% tax. In general, "prohibited transactions" are certain sales or other dispositions of property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business other than foreclosure property.
 
5. If Host Marriott fails to satisfy the 75% gross income test or the 95% gross income test discussed below, but nonetheless maintains its qualification as a REIT because certain other requirements are met, it will be subject to a tax equal to (a) the gross income attributable to the greater of (i) the amount by which 75% of its gross income exceeds the amount qualifying under the 75% gross income test described below under " Income Tests Applicable to REITs" and (ii) the amount by which 95% of its gross income exceeds the amount qualifying under the 95% gross income test described below multiplied by (b) a fraction intended to reflect its profitability.
 
6. If Host Marriott fails to distribute during each calendar year at least the sum of (a) 85% of its REIT ordinary income for such year, (b) 95% of its REIT capital gain net income for such year, and (c) any undistributed taxable income from prior periods less excess distributions from prior years, Host Marriott will be subject to a 4% excise tax on the excess of such required distribution over the sum of amounts actually distributed and amounts retained but with respect to which federal income tax was paid.
 
7. If arrangements between Host Marriott and its taxable REIT subsidiaries are not comparable to similar arrangements among unrelated parties, Host Marriott will be subject to a 100% penalty tax on amounts received from, or on certain amounts deducted by, a taxable REIT subsidiary.
 
8. Host Marriott may elect to retain and pay income tax on its net long-term capital gain. In that case, a U.S. stockholder would include its proportionate share of Host Marriott's undistributed long-term capital gain (to the extent Host Marriott makes a timely designation of such gain to the stockholder) in its income, would be deemed to have paid the tax that Host Marriott paid on such gain, and would be allowed a credit for its proportionate share of the tax deemed to have been paid, and an adjustment would be made to increase the basis of the U.S. stockholder in Host Marriott's common stock.
 
9. If Host Marriott fails to satisfy the "10% value test" discussed below under " Asset Tests Applicable to REITs" because it owns assets the total value of which exceeds a statutory de minimis standard but nonetheless maintain its qualification as a REIT because other requirements are met, Host Marriott will be subject to a tax equal to the greater of $50,000 or the amount determined by multiplying the net income generated by such nonqualifying assets by the highest rate of tax applicable to corporations.
 
10. If Host Marriott fails to satisfy a requirement under the Internal Revenue Code the failure of which would result in the loss of its REIT status, other than a failure described in paragraph 5 or 9 above, but nonetheless maintains its qualification as a REIT because the requirements of certain relief provisions are satisfied, Host Marriott will be subject to a penalty of $50,000 for each such failure due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect.
 
11. If Host Marriott acquires any assets from a regular corporation in a carry-over basis transaction, it will be liable for corporate income tax, at the highest applicable corporate rate, on the "built-in gain" with respect to those assets at the time Host Marriott acquired them if it disposes of those assets within 10 years after acquiring them (provided no election is made for the transaction to be currently taxable). To the extent that assets are transferred to Host Marriott in a carry-over basis transaction by a partnership in which a corporation owns an interest, Host Marriott will be subject to this tax in proportion to the regular corporation's interest in the partnership. Built-in gain is the amount by which an asset's fair market value exceeds its adjusted tax basis at the time Host Marriott acquired the asset. If Host Marriott is subject to taxation on its REIT taxable income or is subject to tax due to the sale of a built-in gain asset that was acquired in a carry-over basis from a regular corporation, a portion of the dividends paid to its stockholders who are taxed as individuals during the following year may be subject to tax at reduced capital gains rates rather than at ordinary income rates. See "Taxation of Taxable U.S. Stockholders  Qualified Dividend Income."
 
Host Marriott owns an indirect interest in appreciated assets that its predecessors held before the REIT conversion. Such appreciated assets have a "carryover" basis and thus have built-in gain with respect to Host Marriott. If such appreciated property is sold within the ten-year period following the REIT conversion, or prior to January 1, 2009, Host Marriott generally will be subject to regular corporate tax on that gain to the extent of the built-in gain in that property at the time of the REIT conversion. The total amount of gain on which Host Marriott can be taxed is limited to the excess of the aggregate fair market value of its assets on January 1, 1999 over the adjusted tax bases of those assets at that time. This tax could be very material. As a result, the Operating Partnership and Host Marriott might decide to seek to avoid a taxable disposition prior to January 1, 2009 of any significant asset owned by Host Marriott's predecessors at the time of the REIT conversion. This could be true with respect to a particular disposition even though the disposition might otherwise be in the best interests of Host Marriott and its stockholders. On the other hand, neither Host Marriott nor the Operating Partnership is obligated to avoid such dispositions.
 
Host Marriott expects that one or more of its taxable corporations could recognize substantial deferred liabilities prior to January 1, 2009. Deferred liabilities include, but are not limited to, tax liabilities attributable to built-in gain assets and deferred tax liabilities attributable to taxable income for which neither Host Marriott nor the Operating Partnership will receive corresponding cash. In addition, the IRS and/or the states in which Host Marriott is subject to tax could assert substantial additional liabilities for taxes against Host Marriott's predecessors for taxable years prior to the time Host Marriott qualified as a REIT. Furthermore, notwithstanding Host Marriott's status as a REIT, (a) Host Marriott may also have to pay certain state and local income taxes, because not all states and localities treat REITs in the same manner that they are treated for federal income tax purposes, (ii) its subsidiaries that are not subject to federal income tax may have to pay state and local income taxes, because not all states and localities treat these entities in the same manner as they are treated for federal income tax
 
purposes, and (iii) Host Marriott may have to pay certain foreign taxes to the extent that it owns assets or conducts operations in foreign jurisdictions.
 
Under the terms of the REIT conversion and the partnership agreement of the Operating Partnership, the Operating Partnership is responsible for paying, or reimbursing Host Marriott for the payment of, certain tax liabilities, as described in the next paragraph, as well as contingent liabilities and liabilities attributable to litigation that Host Marriott may incur, whether such liabilities are incurred by reason of activities prior to the REIT conversion or activities subsequent thereto.
 
Accordingly, the Operating Partnership will pay, or reimburse Host Marriott for the payment of, all taxes (and any interest and penalties associated therewith) incurred by Host Marriott, except for taxes imposed on Host Marriott by reason of its failure to qualify as a REIT or to distribute to its stockholders an amount equal to its "REIT taxable income," including net capital gains. The reimbursed taxes would include any taxes on built-in gains, as described above.
 
Requirements for Qualification
 
The Internal Revenue Code defines a REIT as a corporation, trust or association:
 
(1) that is managed by one or more directors or trustees;
 
(2) the beneficial ownership of which is evidenced by transferable shares or by transferable certificates of beneficial interest;
 
(3) that would be taxable as a domestic corporation, but for Sections 856 through 859 of the Internal Revenue Code;
 
(4) that is neither a financial institution nor an insurance company subject to certain provisions of the Internal Revenue Code;
 
(5) the beneficial ownership of which is held by 100 or more persons;
 
(6) during the last half of each taxable year, not more than 50% in value of the outstanding stock of which is owned, actually or constructively, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Internal Revenue Code to include certain entities);
 
(7) that makes an election to be taxable as a REIT for the current taxable year, or has made this election for a previous taxable year which has not been revoked or terminated, and satisfies all relevant filing and other administrative requirements established by the IRS that must be met to elect and maintain REIT status;
 
(8) that uses a calendar year for federal income tax purposes and complies with the recordkeeping requirements of the Internal Revenue Code and regulations promulgated thereunder; and
 
(9) that meets other applicable tests, described below, regarding the nature of its income and assets and the amount of its distributions.
 
Conditions (1) through (4), inclusive, must be met during the entire taxable year and condition (5) must be met during at least 335 days of a taxable year of twelve months, or during a proportionate part of a taxable year of less than twelve months. Conditions (5) and (6) did not apply to Host Marriott's 1999 taxable year. Compliance with condition (5) is determined by disregarding the ownership of shares of stock of Host Marriott by any person(s) who:
 
(a) acquired such shares of stock as a gift or bequest or pursuant to a legal separation or divorce;
 
(b) is the estate of any person making such transfer to the estate; or
 
(c) is a company established exclusively for the benefit of, or wholly owned by, either the person making such transfer or a person described in (a) or (b).
 
For purposes of determining stock ownership under condition (6) above, a supplemental unemployment compensation benefits plan, a private foundation or a portion of a trust permanently set aside or used exclusively for charitable purposes generally is considered an individual. However, a trust that is a qualified trust under Internal Revenue Code Section 401(a) generally is not considered an individual, and beneficiaries of a qualified trust are treated as holding shares of a REIT in proportion to their actuarial interests in the trust for purposes of condition (6) above.
 
In connection with condition (6), Host Marriott is required to send annual letters to its stockholders requesting information regarding the actual ownership of its shares of stock. If Host Marriott complies with this requirement, and it does not know, or exercising reasonable diligence would not have known, whether it failed to meet condition (6), then it will be treated as having met condition (6). If Host Marriott fails to send such annual letters, it will be required to pay either a $25,000 penalty or, if the failure is intentional, a $50,000 penalty. The IRS may require Host Marriott, under those circumstances, to take further action to ascertain actual ownership of its shares of stock, and failure to comply with such an additional requirement would result in an additional $25,000 (or $50,000) penalty. No penalty would be assessed in the first instance, however, if the failure to send the letters is due to reasonable cause and not to willful neglect.
 
Host Marriott believes that it meets and currently intends to continue to meet conditions (1) through (4), (7), (8) and (9). In addition, Host Marriott believes that it has had and currently intends to continue to have outstanding stock with sufficient diversity of ownership to allow it to satisfy conditions (5) and (6). With respect to condition (6), Host Marriott has complied and currently intends to continue to comply with the requirement that it send annual letters to its stockholders requesting information regarding the actual ownership of its shares of stock. In addition, Host Marriott's charter contains an ownership limit that is intended to assist Host Marriott in continuing to satisfy the stock ownership requirements described in (5) and (6) above. The ownership limit, together with compliance with the annual stockholder letter requirement described above, however, may not ensure that Host Marriott will, in all cases, be able to satisfy the stock ownership requirements described above. If Host Marriott fails to satisfy such share ownership requirements and cannot avail itself of any statutory relief provisions, Host Marriott will not qualify as a REIT. See "Failure of Host Marriott to Qualify as a REIT" below.
 
A corporation may not elect to become a REIT unless its taxable year is the calendar year. Although Host Marriott previously had a 52-53 week year ending on the Friday closest to January 1, it adopted a calendar year taxable year in connection with the REIT conversion.
 
Distribution of "Earnings and Profits" Attributable to "C" Corporation Taxable Years
 
A REIT will be taxed as though it did not make a REIT election if it has at the end of any taxable year any undistributed earnings and profits ("E&P") that are attributable to a non-REIT "C" corporation taxable year, which includes all undistributed E&P of Host Marriott's predecessors. Accordingly, Host Marriott had until December 31, 1999 to distribute such E&P. In connection with the REIT conversion, Host Marriott declared dividends, consisting of cash, stock of Host Marriott, and stock of a subsidiary, Crestline Capital Corporation, or "Crestline," intended to eliminate the substantial majority, if not all, of such E&P. To the extent, however, that any such E&P remained (the "Acquired Earnings") and Host Marriott failed to distribute such Acquired Earnings prior to the end of 1999, Host Marriott would be disqualified as a REIT at least for 1999. If Host Marriott should be so disqualified for 1999, subject to the satisfaction by Host Marriott of certain "deficiency dividend" procedures described below in "Annual Distribution Requirements Applicable to REITs" and assuming that Host Marriott otherwise satisfies the requirements for qualification as a REIT, Host Marriott should qualify as a REIT for 2000 and thereafter. Host Marriott believes that the dividends it paid prior to December 31, 1999 were sufficient to distribute all of the Acquired Earnings as of December 31, 1999. However, there are uncertainties relating to both the estimate of the Acquired Earnings and the value of noncash consideration that Host Marriott distributed in connection with the REIT conversion. Accordingly, there can be no assurance this requirement was met.
 
Qualified REIT Subsidiaries
 
If a REIT owns a corporate subsidiary that is a "qualified REIT subsidiary," the separate existence of that subsidiary will be disregarded for federal income tax purposes and all assets, liabilities and items of income, deduction and credit of the subsidiary will be treated as assets, liabilities and tax items of the REIT itself. Generally, a qualified REIT subsidiary is a corporation all of the capital stock of which is owned by one REIT and that is not a taxable REIT subsidiary. Host Marriott holds several qualified REIT subsidiaries that hold indirect interests in the partnerships that own hotels. These entities are not subject to federal corporate income taxation, although they may be subject to state and local taxation in certain jurisdictions.
 
Taxable REIT Subsidiaries
 
A "taxable REIT subsidiary" of Host Marriott is an entity that is taxable as a corporation in which Host Marriott owns an equity interest, including stock, directly or indirectly; and that elects together with Host REIT, to be treated as a taxable REIT subsidiary under the Internal Revenue Code. In addition, if a taxable REIT subsidiary of Host Marriott owns, directly or indirectly, securities representing more than 35% of the vote or value of a subsidiary corporation, that subsidiary will also be treated as a taxable REIT subsidiary of Host Marriott. A taxable REIT subsidiary is a corporation subject to federal income tax, and state and local income tax where applicable, as a regular "C" corporation. If dividends are paid by one or more of Host Marriott's taxable REIT subsidiaries to Host Marriott, then a portion of the dividends from Host Marriott to its stockholders who are taxed at individual rates will generally be eligible for taxation at lower capital gains rates, rather than at ordinary income rates. See "Taxation of U.S. Stockholders  Qualified Dividend Income."
 
A taxable REIT subsidiary must not directly or indirectly operate or manage a lodging or health care facility or, generally, provide to another person, under a franchise, license or otherwise, rights to any brand name under which any lodging facility or health care facility is operated. Although a taxable REIT subsidiary may not operate or manage a lodging facility, it may lease or own such a facility so long as the facility is a "qualified lodging facility" and is operated on behalf of the taxable REIT subsidiary by an "eligible independent contractor." A "qualified lodging facility" is, generally, a hotel or motel at which no authorized gambling activities are conducted, and the customary amenities and facilities operated as part of, or associated with, the hotel or motel. An "eligible independent contractor" is an independent contractor that, at the time a management agreement is entered into with a taxable REIT subsidiary to operate a "qualified lodging facility," is actively engaged in the trade or business of operating "qualified lodging facilities" for a person or persons unrelated to either the taxable REIT subsidiary or any REITs with which the taxable REIT subsidiary is affiliated. A hotel management company that otherwise would qualify as an "eligible independent contractor" with regard to a taxable REIT subsidiary of Host Marriott will not so qualify if the hotel management company and/or one or more actual or constructive owners of 10% or more of the hotel management company actually or constructively own more than 35% of Host Marriott, or one or more actual or constructive owners of more than 35% of the hotel management company own 35% or more of Host Marriott (determined by taking into account only the stock held by persons owning, directly or indirectly, more than 5% of the outstanding common stock of Host Marriott and, if the stock of the eligible independent contractor is publicly-traded, 5% of the publicly-traded stock of the eligible independent contractor). Host Marriott believes, and currently intends to take all steps reasonably practicable to ensure, that none of its taxable REIT subsidiaries or any of their subsidiaries will engage in "operating" or "managing" its hotels and that the hotel management companies engaged to operate and manage hotels leased to or owned by its taxable REIT subsidiaries qualify as "eligible independent contractors" with regard to those taxable REIT subsidiaries.
 
Certain restrictions are imposed on taxable REIT subsidiaries. First, a taxable REIT subsidiary may not deduct interest payments made in any year to an affiliated REIT to the extent that such payments exceed, generally, 50% of the taxable REIT subsidiary's adjusted taxable income for that year (although the taxable REIT subsidiary may carry forward to, and deduct in, a succeeding year the disallowed interest amount if the 50% test is satisfied). In addition, Host Marriott would be obligated to pay a 100% penalty tax on some payments from
 
the taxable REIT subsidiary that it receives, including interest or rent, or on certain expenses deducted by the taxable REIT subsidiary, if the IRS were able to assert successfully that the economic arrangements between the REIT and the taxable REIT subsidiary did not meet specified standards set forth in the Internal Revenue Code. Host Marriott's taxable REIT subsidiaries make substantial interest and other payments to Host Marriott, including payments of rent under the hotel leases. There can be no assurance that the limitation on interest deductions applicable to taxable REIT subsidiaries will not apply to the interest payments made to Host Marriott by its taxable REIT subsidiaries, resulting in an increase in the corporate tax liability of each such subsidiary. In addition, there can be no assurance that the IRS might not seek to impose the 100% excise tax on a portion of payments received by us from, or expenses deducted by, our taxable REIT subsidiaries. To the extent that one of Host Marriott's taxable REIT subsidiaries pays dividends to Host Marriott in a particular calendar year, a portion of the dividends paid by Host Marriott to stockholders who are taxed at individual rates will generally be subject to taxation at reduced capital gains rates, rather than tax at ordinary income rates. See "Taxation of Taxable U.S. Stockholders  Qualified Dividend Income."
 
Because of the restrictions applicable to the income, assets and activities of a REIT, Host Marriott may need to conduct certain business activities in one or more of its taxable REIT subsidiaries. These business activities include alternative uses of real estate, such as the development and/or sale of timeshare or condominium units, investments in real estate mortgages, investments in securities and dispositions of certain properties. Our taxable REIT subsidiaries are taxable as corporations and are subject to federal, state, and, if applicable, local and foreign taxation on their income at applicable corporate rates. As discussed below under "Asset Tests Applicable to REITs," the aggregate value of all of Host Marriott's taxable REIT subsidiaries may not exceed 20% of the value of all of its assets.
 
Ownership of Partnership Interests by a REIT
 
A REIT that is a partner in a partnership will be deemed to own its proportionate share of the assets of the partnership and will be deemed to be entitled to the income of the partnership attributable to such share. In addition, the character of the assets and gross income of the partnership retains the same character in the hands of the REIT for purposes of the gross income tests and the asset tests applicable to REITs, as described below. Thus, Host Marriott's proportionate share of the assets and items of income of the Operating Partnership, including the Operating Partnership's share of such items of any subsidiaries that are partnerships or limited liability companies that have not elected to be treated as corporations for federal income tax purposes, are treated as assets and items of income of Host Marriott for purposes of applying the requirements described herein. A summary of the rules governing the federal income taxation of partnerships and their partners is provided below in "Tax Aspects of Host Marriott's Ownership of Interests in the Operating Partnership." As the sole general partner of the Operating Partnership, Host Marriott has direct control over the Operating Partnership and indirect control over the subsidiaries in which the Operating Partnership or a subsidiary has a controlling interest. Host Marriott currently intends to operate these entities in a manner consistent with the requirements for qualification of Host Marriott as a REIT.
 
Income Tests Applicable to REITs
 
In order to maintain qualification as a REIT, Host Marriott must satisfy the following two gross income requirements for each taxable year:
 
 
 
Rents paid pursuant to Host Marriott's leases, together with gain on the disposition of assets and dividends and interest received from Host Marriott's "taxable REIT subsidiaries," currently constitute substantially all of the gross income of Host Marriott. Several conditions must be satisfied in order for rents received by Host Marriott, including the rents received pursuant to the leases, to qualify as "rents from real property." First, the amount of rent must not be based in whole or in part on the income or profits of any person. An amount received or accrued generally will not be excluded from the term "rents from real property" solely by reason of being based on a fixed percentage or percentages of receipts or sales.
 
Second, rents received from a tenant will not qualify as "rents from real property" if Host Marriott, or an actual or constructive owner of 10% or more of Host Marriott, actually or constructively owns 10% or more of the tenant. This type of tenant is referred to below as a related party tenant. As a result of tax law changes under the specified provisions of the Ticket to Work and Work Incentives Improvement Act of 1999 relating to REITs (referred to herein as the "REIT Modernization Act"), for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2000, Host Marriott has been able to lease its hotel properties to a taxable REIT subsidiary without the rents received from that subsidiary being disqualified as "rents from real property" by reason of Host Marriott's direct or indirect ownership interest in the subsidiary.
 
Third, if rent attributable to personal property leased in connection with a lease of real property is greater than 15% of the total rent received under the lease, then the portion of rent attributable to such personal property will not qualify as "rents from real property." Under prior law, this 15% test was based on relative adjusted tax bases. For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2000, however, the test is based on relative fair market values.
 
Fourth, if Host Marriott operates or manages a property or furnishes or renders certain "impermissible services" to the tenants at the property, and the income derived from the services exceeds one percent of the total amount received by Host Marriott with respect to the property, then no amount received by Host Marriott with respect to the property will qualify as "rents from real property." Impermissible services are services other than services "usually or customarily rendered" in connection with the rental of real property and not otherwise considered "rendered to the occupant." For these purposes, the income that Host Marriott is considered to receive from the provision of "impermissible services" will not be less than 150% of the cost of providing the service. If the amount so received is one percent or less of the total amount received by Host Marriott with respect to the property, then only the income from the impermissible services will not qualify as "rents from real property."
 
There are two exceptions to this rule. First, impermissible services can be provided to tenants through an independent contractor from whom Host Marriott derives no income. To the
 
extent that impermissible services are provided by an independent contractor, the cost of the services generally must be borne by the independent contractor. Second, for Host Marriott's taxable years beginning after December 31, 2000, impermissible services can be provided to tenants at a property by a taxable REIT subsidiary.
 
The Operating Partnership and each subsidiary that owns hotels entered into leases with subsidiaries of Crestline that commenced on January 1, 1999 and pursuant to which the hotels are leased for an initial term ranging generally from seven to ten years. Each lease provides for periodic payments of a specified base rent plus, to the extent that it exceeds the base rent, additional rent which is calculated based upon the gross sales of the hotels subject to the lease, plus certain other amounts.
 
As described above, beginning January 1, 2001, Host Marriott has been permitted to lease its hotel properties to a taxable REIT subsidiary so long as certain conditions are satisfied. The leases with Crestline provided that, following a change of law such as the enactment of the REIT Modernization Act, Host Marriott had the right, beginning on January 1, 2001, to purchase, or have a taxable REIT subsidiary of Host Marriott purchase, the leases for a purchase price equal to the fair market value of Crestline's interests in the leases. Effective as of January 1, 2001, a taxable REIT subsidiary of Host Marriott purchased from Crestline the leasehold interests with regard to all but one of Host Marriott's full-service hotels leased to Crestline for approximately $207 million, including certain costs attributable to such purchase. In June of 2001, a taxable REIT subsidiary of Host Marriott acquired the remaining full-service hotel lease from Crestline and the leases for three full-service hotels leased to another third party lessee.
 
As discussed above, in order for the rent paid pursuant to the leases to constitute "rents from real property," the leases must be respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes. Accordingly the leases cannot be treated as service contracts, joint ventures or some other type of arrangement. The determination of whether the leases are true leases for federal income tax purposes depends upon an analysis of all the surrounding facts and circumstances. In making such a determination, courts have considered a variety of factors, including the following:
 
 
 
 
 
In addition, Section 7701(e) of the Internal Revenue Code provides that a contract that purports to be a service contract or a partnership agreement is treated instead as a lease of property if the contract is properly treated as such, taking into account all relevant factors. Since
 
the determination of whether a service contract should be treated as a lease is inherently factual, the presence or absence of any single factor may not be dispositive in every case.
 
Host Marriott's leases have been structured with the intent to qualify as true leases for federal income tax purposes. For example, with respect to each lease:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If, however, the leases were recharacterized as service contracts or partnership agreements, rather than true leases, or disregarded altogether for tax purposes, all or part of the payments that the Operating Partnership receives from the lessees would not be considered rent or would not otherwise satisfy the various requirements for qualification as "rents from real property." In that case, Host Marriott very likely would not be able to satisfy either the 75% or 95% gross income tests and, as a result, would lose its REIT status.
 
In addition, except for permitted leases to a taxable REIT subsidiary beginning January 1, 2001, the lessees must not be regarded as related party tenants. A lessee of Host Marriott (including for years ended prior to January 1, 2001, all of the Crestline lessees and, for years beginning on or after January 1, 2001, the Crestline lessees owning the hotel leasehold interests not acquired from Crestline by a taxable REIT subsidiary of Host Marriott) will be regarded as a related party tenant only if Host Marriott and/or one or more actual or constructive owners of 10% or more of Host Marriott actually or constructively own 10% or more of such lessee (including, with regard to a Crestline lessee, through an ownership interest in Crestline). In order to help preclude Host Marriott's lessees from being regarded as related party tenants, the following organizational documents contain these ownership limits:
 
 
 
In addition, during the period that Crestline leased a material number of Host Marriott's hotels, Crestline's articles of incorporation expressly prohibited any person or persons acting as a group, including Host Marriott and/or any 10% or greater stockholder of Host Marriott, from owning more than 9.8% of the lesser of the number or value of the shares of capital stock of Crestline.
 
Each of the prohibitions described above contains self-executing enforcement mechanisms. Assuming that these prohibitions are enforced at all times (subject to any waivers permitted under the operative documents), the lessees of Host Marriott that are not taxable REIT subsidiaries should not be regarded as related party tenants. There can be no assurance,
 
however, that these ownership restrictions will be enforced in accordance with their terms in all circumstances or otherwise will ensure that the lessees will not be regarded as related party tenants.
 
As indicated above, "rents from real property" must not be based in whole or in part on the income or profits of any person. Payments made pursuant to Host Marriott's leases should qualify as "rents from real property" since they are generally based on either fixed dollar amounts or on specified percentages of gross sales fixed at the time the leases were entered into. The foregoing assumes that the leases are not renegotiated during their term in a manner that has the effect of basing either the percentage rent or base rent on income or profits. The foregoing also assumes that the leases are not in reality used as a means of basing rent on income or profits. More generally, the rent payable under the leases will not qualify as "rents from real property" if, considering the leases and all the surrounding circumstances, the arrangement does not conform with normal business practice. Host Marriott currently intends that it will not renegotiate the percentages used to determine the percentage rent during the terms of the leases in a manner that has the effect of basing rent on income or profits. In addition, Host Marriott believes that the rental provisions and other terms of the leases conform with normal business practice and generally were not intended to be used as a means of basing rent on income or profits. Furthermore, Host Marriott currently intends that, with respect to other properties that it acquires in the future, it will not charge rent for any property that is based in whole or in part on the income or profits of any person, except by reason of being based on a fixed percentage of gross revenues, as described above.
 
Host Marriott leases certain items of personal property to the lessees in connection with its leases. Under the Internal Revenue Code, if a lease provides for the rental of both real and personal property and the portion of the rent attributable to personal property is 15% or less of the total rent due under the lease, then all rent paid pursuant to such lease qualifies as "rent from real property." If, however, a lease provides for the rental of both real and personal property, and the portion of the rent attributable to personal property exceeds 15% of the total rent due under the lease, then no portion of the rent that is attributable to personal property will qualify as "rent from real property." The amount of rent attributable to personal property is the amount which bears the same ratio to total rent for the taxable year as the average of the fair market value of the personal property at the beginning and end of the year bears to the average of the aggregate adjusted tax bases of both the real and personal property at the beginning and end of such year. For Host Marriott's taxable years prior to 2001, the personal property test was based on adjusted tax basis rather than fair market value. Host Marriott believes that, with respect to each of its leases that includes a lease of items of personal property, either the amount of rent attributable to personal property with respect to such lease will not exceed 15% of the total rent due under the lease (determined under the law in effect for the applicable period), or, with respect to leases where the rent attributable to personal property constitutes nonqualifying income, such amounts, when taken together with all other nonqualifying income earned by Host Marriott, will not jeopardize Host Marriott's status as a REIT.
 
Each lease permits the Operating Partnership to take certain measures, including requiring the lessee to purchase certain furniture, fixtures and equipment or to lease such property from a third party, including a non-controlled subsidiary or a taxable REIT subsidiary, if necessary to ensure that all of the rent attributable to personal property with respect to such lease will qualify as "rents from real property." In order to protect Host Marriott's ability to qualify as a REIT, the Operating Partnership sold substantial personal property associated with a number of hotels acquired in connection with the REIT conversion to a non-controlled
 
subsidiary. The non-controlled subsidiary, which elected, effective January 1, 2001, to be a taxable REIT subsidiary, separately leases all such personal property directly to the applicable lessee and receives rental payments that Host Marriott believes represent the fair rental value of such personal property directly from the lessees. If, however, such arrangements are not respected for federal income tax purposes, Host Marriott might not qualify as a REIT.
 
If any of the hotels were to be operated directly by the Operating Partnership or a subsidiary as a result of a default by a lessee under the applicable lease, such hotel would constitute foreclosure property until the close of the third tax year following the tax year in which it was acquired, or for up to an additional three years if an extension is granted by the IRS, provided that:
 
 
 
 
 
For as long as such hotel constitutes foreclosure property, the income from the hotel would be subject to tax at the maximum corporate rates, but it would qualify under the 75% and 95% gross income tests. However, if such hotel does not constitute foreclosure property at any time in the future, income earned from the disposition or operation of such hotel will not qualify under the 75% and 95% gross income tests. For Host Marriott's taxable years beginning after December 31, 2000, if a lessee defaults under a lease, the Operating Partnership is permitted to lease the hotel to a taxable REIT subsidiary, subject to the limitations described above, in which case the hotel would not become foreclosure property.
 
"Interest" generally will be nonqualifying income for purposes of the 75% and 95% gross income tests if it depends in whole or in part on the income or profits of any person. However, interest will not fail so to qualify solely by reason of being based upon a fixed percentage or percentages of receipts or sales. Host Marriott has received and expects to continue to receive interest payments from its taxable REIT subsidiaries (and its "non-controlled subsidiaries" in which the Operating Partnership owned 95% of the economic interest but no voting securities for periods prior to January 1, 2001). These amounts of interest are qualifying income for purposes of the 95% gross income test but not the 75% gross income test. Host Marriott does not anticipate that the amounts of interest derived from its taxable REIT subsidiaries will affect its ability to continue to satisfy the 75% gross income test.
 
Host Marriott also receives dividends from its taxable REIT subsidiaries, and it could realize capital gains with respect to its investments in its taxable REIT subsidiaries (either due to distributions received from those subsidiaries or upon a disposition of part or all of its interest in a taxable REIT subsidiary). The Operating Partnership's share of any dividends received from one or more of the taxable REIT subsidiaries or capital gains recognized with respect thereto should qualify for purposes of the 95% gross income test but not for purposes of the 75% gross income test. The Operating Partnership does not anticipate that it will receive sufficient dividends from the taxable REIT subsidiaries and/or capital gains with respect to the taxable REIT subsidiaries to cause it to fail the 75% gross income test.
 
From time to time, Host Marriott enters into hedging transactions with respect to one or more of its assets or liabilities. Its hedging activities may include entering into interest rate swaps, caps and floors, options to purchase these items, futures and forward contracts, and other financial instruments. To the extent that Host Marriott enters into a transaction in the normal course of its business primarily to manage the risk of interest rate changes, price changes or currency fluctuations with respect to indebtedness incurred or to be incurred to acquire or carry "real estate assets," any periodic income or gain from the disposition of that contract attributable to the carrying or acquisition of real estate assets will be disregarded for purposes of the 95% gross income test, provided that Host Marriott clearly and timely identifies such hedging transaction in the manner required under the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder. For Host Marriott's taxable years beginning prior to January 1, 2005, to the extent Host Marriott entered into an interest rate swap or cap contract, option, futures contract, forward rate agreement or similar financial instrument to reduce the interest rate risks with respect to indebtedness incurred or to be incurred to acquire or carry "real estate assets," periodic income or gain from the disposition of that contract was generally qualifying income for purposes of the 95% gross income test, but not the 75% gross income test. Whether the income from hedges with other types of financial instruments entered into prior to the effective date of the change in law or income from hedges against other types of risk is treated as income that will be disregarded for purposes of the 95% gross income test depends on the facts and circumstances.
 
Host Marriott inevitably will have some gross income from various sources, including the sources described in the preceding paragraphs, that fails to constitute qualifying income for purposes of one or both of the gross income tests. Taking into account its actual and anticipated sources of nonqualifying income, however, Host Marriott believes that its aggregate gross income from all sources has satisfied, and Host Marriott currently intends that its aggregate gross income will continue to satisfy, the 75% and 95% gross income tests applicable to REITs for each taxable year commencing on or after January 1, 1999.
 
If Host Marriott were to fail to satisfy one or both of the 75% or 95% gross income tests for any taxable year, it may nevertheless qualify as a REIT for such year if it were entitled to relief under certain provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. These relief provisions generally would be available if Host Marriott's failure to meet such tests were due to reasonable cause and not due to willful neglect, and, following identification of the failure, Host Marriott filed with the IRS a schedule describing each item of its gross income qualifying under one or more of the gross income tests. It is not possible, however, to state whether in all circumstances Host Marriott would be entitled to the benefit of these relief provisions. If these relief provisions were inapplicable to a particular set of circumstances involving Host Marriott, it would not qualify as a REIT. As discussed above under "General," even if these relief provisions were to apply, a tax based on the amount of Host Marriott's nonqualifying income would be imposed.
 
Any gain realized by Host Marriott on the sale of any property held as inventory or other property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business, including Host Marriott's share of any such gain realized by the Operating Partnership, will be treated as income from a "prohibited transaction" that is subject to a 100% penalty tax. Under existing law, whether property is held as inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of a trade or business is a question of fact that depends upon all the facts and circumstances with respect to the particular transaction. The Operating Partnership currently intends that both it and its subsidiaries will hold hotels for investment with a view to long-term appreciation, to engage in the business of acquiring and owning hotels and to make sales of hotels as are consistent with the Operating Partnership's investment objectives. There can be no assurance, however, that the IRS might not contend that one or more of these sales is subject to the 100% penalty tax.
 
Asset Tests Applicable to REITs
 
At the close of each quarter of Host Marriott's taxable year, it must satisfy six tests relating to the nature of its assets. Host Marriott's assets for purposes of these tests include its allocable share of all assets held by the entities in which it owns an interest that are partnerships or disregarded entities for federal income tax purposes, and the subsidiaries of these entities that are partnerships or disregarded entities for federal income tax purposes, and generally do not include the equity interests in these entities. For purposes of the asset tests other than the 10% value test, an allocable share of the assets of an entity that is treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes is determined in accordance with the capital interests in that entity. For purposes of the 10% value test, an allocable share of the assets of an entity that is treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes is determined in accordance with the total securities (including debt securities) owned in that entity other than certain securities specified in the Internal Revenue Code.
 
(1) At least 75% of the value of Host Marriott's total assets must be represented by "real estate assets," cash, cash items, and government securities. Real estate assets include mortgages secured by real estate assets, shares of other REITs, and stock or debt instruments held for less than one year purchased with the proceeds of an offering of shares or long-term debt.
 
(2) Not more than 25% of Host Marriott's total assets may be represented by securities, other than those in the 75% asset class.
 
(3) Except for securities described in (1) above and securities in taxable REIT subsidiaries, the value of any one issuer's securities owned by Host Marriott may not exceed 5% of the value of its total assets.
 
(4) Except for securities described in (1) above and securities in taxable REIT subsidiaries, Host Marriott may not own more than 10% of any one issuer's outstanding voting securities.
 
(5) Except for securities described in (1) above, securities in taxable REIT subsidiaries, and certain types of indebtedness that are not treated as securities for purposes of this test, as discussed below, Host Marriott may not own more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer.
 
(6) Not more than 20% of the value of Host Marriott's total assets may be represented by the securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries.
 
Securities, for purposes of the asset tests, may include debt Host Marriott holds from other issuers. However, the Internal Revenue Code specifically provides that the following types of debt will not be taken into account as securities for purposes of the 10% value test: (1) securities that meet the "straight debt" safe harbor, as discussed in the next paragraph; (2) loans to individuals or estates; (3) obligations to pay rents from real property; (4) rental agreements described in Section 467 of the Internal Revenue Code (other than such agreements with related party tenants); (5) securities issued by other REITs; (6) debt issued by partnerships that derive at least 75% of their gross income from sources that constitute qualifying income for purposes of the 75% gross income test; (7) any debt not otherwise described in this paragraph that is issued by a partnership, but only to the extent of Host Marriott's interest as a partner in the partnership; (8) certain securities issued by a state, the District of Columbia, a foreign government, or a political subdivision of any of the foregoing, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico; and (9) any other arrangement described in future Treasury regulations.
 
Debt will meet the "straight debt" safe harbor if (1) neither Host Marriott nor any of its taxable REIT subsidiaries owns any securities not described in the preceding paragraph that have an aggregate value greater than one percent of the issuer's outstanding securities, as calculated under the Internal Revenue Code, (2) the debt is a written unconditional promise to pay on demand or on a specified date a sum certain in money, (3) the debt is not convertible, directly or indirectly, into stock, and (4) the interest rate and the interest payment dates of the debt are not contingent on the profits, the borrower's discretion or similar factors. However, contingencies regarding time of payment and interest are permissible for purposes of qualifying as a straight debt security if either (1) such contingency does not have the effect of changing the effective yield of maturity, as determined under the Internal Revenue Code, other than a change in the annual yield to maturity that does not exceed the greater of (i) 5% of the annual yield to maturity or (ii) 0.25%, or (2) neither the aggregate issue price nor the aggregate face amount of the issuer's debt instruments held by the REIT exceeds $1,000,000 and not more than 12 months of unaccrued interest can be required to be prepaid thereunder. In addition, debt will not be disqualified from being treated as "straight debt" solely because the time or amount of payment is subject to a contingency upon a default or the exercise of a prepayment right by the issuer of the debt, provided that such contingency is consistent with customary commercial practice.
 
For years prior to 2001, the Operating Partnership did not own any of the voting stock of the non-controlled subsidiaries but it did own 100% of the nonvoting stock of each of them. Neither Host Marriott, the Operating Partnership, nor any of the non-corporate subsidiaries of the Operating Partnership has owned or currently intends to own, as of each relevant testing date, more than 10% of (i) the voting securities of any entity that is treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, except for securities described in paragraph (1) above and, with regard to periods beginning after December 31, 2000, corporations or other entities that qualify and elect to be treated as taxable REIT subsidiaries or (ii) the value of the securities of any issuer with regard to periods beginning after December 31, 2000, except for securities described in paragraph (1) above or those of taxable REIT subsidiaries. In addition, Host Marriott believes that the value of the securities of any one issuer owned by Host Marriott, the Operating Partnership, or any of the non-corporate subsidiaries of the Operating Partnership, including Host Marriott's pro rata share of the value of the securities of the non-controlled subsidiaries, has not exceeded 5% of the total value of Host Marriott's assets for prior years, unless the issuer was
 
a taxable REIT subsidiary, and Host Marriott currently intends not to exceed that percentage threshold in subsequent years unless the issuer is a taxable REIT subsidiary or the securities are described in paragraph (1) above. Host Marriott believes that the aggregate value of its securities in its taxable REIT subsidiaries has not exceeded, and currently intends that such aggregate value will not exceed, 20% of the value of its total assets, and that the aggregate value of its securities in its taxable REIT subsidiaries, together with all other assets that do not qualify for purposes of the 75% asset test, does not exceed 25% of the total value of its assets. There can be no assurance, however, that the IRS might not contend that the value of Host Marriott's securities has exceeded on a relevant testing date one or more of the value limitations or that nonvoting stock of the non-controlled subsidiaries should be considered "voting stock" for this purpose.
 
After initially meeting the asset tests at the close of any quarter, Host Marriott will not lose its status as a REIT for failure to satisfy the asset tests at the end of a later quarter solely by reason of changes in the relative values of its assets. If the failure to satisfy the asset tests results from an acquisition of securities or other property during a quarter, the failure can be cured by the disposition of sufficient nonqualifying assets within 30 days after the close of that quarter. An example of such an acquisition would be an increase in Host Marriott's interest in the Operating Partnership as a result of the exercise of a limited partner's redemption right relating to units in the Operating Partnership ("OP Units") or an additional capital contribution of proceeds from an offering of capital stock by Host Marriott.
 
Furthermore, for Host Marriott's taxable years beginning after December 31, 2004, the failure to satisfy the asset tests can be remedied even after the 30-day cure period. If the total value of the assets that caused a failure of the 5% limitation, the 10% voting securities limitation or the 10% value limitation does not exceed either 1% of Host Marriott's assets at the end of the relevant quarter or $10,000,000, Host Marriott can cure such a failure by disposing of sufficient assets to cure such a violation within six months following the last day of the quarter in which Host Marriott first identifies the failure of the asset test. For a violation of any of the asset tests attributable to the ownership of assets the total value of which exceeds the amount described in the preceding sentence, Host Marriott can avoid disqualification as a REIT if the violation is due to reasonable cause and Host Marriott disposes of an amount of assets sufficient to cure such violation within the six-month period described in the preceding sentence, pays a tax equal to the greater of $50,000 or the highest corporate tax rate multiplied by the net income generated by the nonqualifying assets during the period of time that the assets were held as nonqualifying assets, and files a schedule with the IRS that describes the assets.
 
Host Marriott has monitored and currently intends to continue to monitor its compliance with the asset tests and to take such actions within 30 days after the close of any quarter, to the extent reasonably practicable, as may be required to cure any noncompliance. If Host Marriott fails to cure noncompliance with the asset tests within such time period, Host Marriott would cease to qualify as a REIT unless it could avail itself of available relief provisions.
 
Annual Distribution Requirements Applicable to REITs
 
To qualify as a REIT, Host Marriott is required to distribute dividends, other than capital gain dividends, to its stockholders in an amount at least equal to
 
(i) the sum of (a) 90% of its "REIT taxable income," computed without regard to the dividends paid deduction and Host Marriott's net capital gain, and (b) 90% of the net income, after tax, if any, from foreclosure property, minus
 
(ii) the sum of certain items of noncash income.
 
Such distributions generally must be paid in the taxable year to which they relate. Dividends may be paid in the following taxable year in two circumstances. First, dividends may be paid in the following taxable year if declared before Host Marriott timely files its tax return for such year and if paid on or before the first regular dividend payment date after such declaration. Second, if Host Marriott declares a dividend in October, November or December of any year with a record date in one of those months and pays the dividend on or before January 31 of the following year, Host Marriott will be treated as having paid the dividend on December 31 of the year in which the dividend was declared. Host Marriott currently intends to make timely distributions sufficient to satisfy these annual distribution requirements. In this regard, the Operating Partnership's partnership agreement authorizes Host Marriott, as general partner, to take such steps as may be necessary to cause the Operating Partnership to distribute to its partners an amount sufficient to permit Host Marriott to meet these distribution requirements.
 
To the extent that Host Marriott does not distribute all of its net capital gain or distributes at least 90%, but less than 100%, of its "REIT taxable income" within the periods described in the prior paragraph, it is subject to income tax thereon at regular capital gain and ordinary corporate tax rates.
 
There is a possibility that Host Marriott's "REIT taxable income" could exceed its cash flow, due in part to certain "non-cash" or "phantom" income that would be taken into account in computing Host Marriott's "REIT taxable income." It is possible, because of these differences in timing between Host Marriott's recognition of taxable income and its receipt of cash available for distribution, that Host Marriott, from time to time, may not have sufficient cash or other liquid assets to meet its distribution requirements. In this event, in order to meet the distribution requirements, Host Marriott may find it necessary to arrange for short-term, or possibly long-term, borrowings to fund required distributions and/or to pay dividends in the form of taxable stock dividends.
 
Host Marriott calculates its "REIT taxable income" based upon the conclusion that the non-corporate subsidiaries of the Operating Partnership or the Operating Partnership itself, as applicable, is the owner of the hotels for federal income tax purposes. As a result, Host Marriott expects that the depreciation deductions with respect to the hotels will reduce its "REIT taxable income." This conclusion is consistent with the conclusion above that the leases of Host Marriott's hotels have been and will continue to be treated as true leases for federal income tax purposes. If, however, the IRS were to challenge successfully this position, in addition to failing in all likelihood the 75% and 95% gross income tests described above, Host Marriott also might be deemed retroactively to have failed to meet the REIT distribution requirements and would have to rely on the payment of a "deficiency dividend" in order to retain its REIT status.
 
Under certain circumstances, Host Marriott may be able to rectify a failure to meet the distribution requirement for a year by paying "deficiency dividends" to stockholders in a later year, which may be included in Host Marriott's deduction for dividends paid for the earlier year.
 
Thus, Host Marriott may be able to avoid being taxed on amounts distributed as deficiency dividends; however, Host Marriott would be required to pay to the IRS interest based upon the amount of any deduction taken for deficiency dividends.
 
Host Marriott would be subject to a 4% excise tax on any excess of the required distribution over the sum of amounts actually distributed and amounts retained for which federal income tax was paid, if Host Marriott did not distribute during each calendar year at least the excess of the sum of:
 
 
 
 
over excess distributions from prior years.
 
A REIT may elect to retain rather than distribute all or a portion of its net capital gains and pay the tax on the gains. In that case, a REIT may elect to have its stockholders include their proportionate share of the undistributed net capital gains in income as long-term capital gains and receive a credit for their share of the tax paid by the REIT. For purposes of the 4% excise tax described above, any retained amounts would be treated as having been distributed.
 
Failure of Host Marriott to Qualify as a REIT
 
For Host Marriott's taxable years beginning after December 31, 2004, if it does not comply with one or more of the conditions required for qualification as a REIT (other than the asset tests and the income tests that have the specific savings clauses discussed above in "Federal Income Taxation of Host MarriottAsset Tests Applicable to REITs" and "Income Tests Applicable to REITs"), Host Marriott can avoid disqualification of its REIT status by paying a penalty of $50,000 for each such failure, provided that its noncompliance was due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect. If Host Marriott were to fail to qualify for taxation as a REIT in any taxable year, and if the statutory relief provisions were not to apply, Host Marriott would be subject to tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on its taxable income at regular corporate rates. Distributions to stockholders in any year in which Host Marriott were to fail to qualify would not be deductible by Host Marriott nor would they be required to be made. As a result, Host Marriott's failure to qualify as a REIT would significantly reduce the cash available for distribution by Host Marriott to its stockholders and could materially reduce the value of its capital stock. In addition, if Host Marriott were to fail to qualify as a REIT, all distributions to stockholders would be taxable as dividends, to the extent of Host Marriott's current and accumulated E&P, whether or not attributable to capital gains of Host Marriott. Subject to certain limitations of the Internal Revenue Code, corporate distributees may be eligible for the dividends received deduction with respect to these distributions and individual distributees may be eligible for the reduced rate of 15% or less on such dividends. Unless entitled to relief under specific statutory provisions, Host Marriott also would be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification was lost. It is not possible to state whether in all circumstances Host Marriott would be entitled to such statutory relief.
 
Tax Aspects of Host Marriott's Ownership of Interests in the Operating Partnership
 
General
 
Substantially all of Host Marriott's investments are held through the Operating Partnership, which holds the hotels either directly or through certain subsidiaries. In general, partnerships are "pass-through" entities that are not subject to federal income tax. Rather, partners are allocated their proportionate shares of the items of income, gain, loss, deduction and credit of a partnership, and are potentially subject to tax thereon, without regard to whether the partners receive a distribution from the partnership. Host Marriott includes in its income its proportionate share of the foregoing partnership items for purposes of the various REIT income tests and in the computation of its REIT taxable income. Moreover, for purposes of the REIT asset tests, Host Marriott includes its proportionate share of assets held through the Operating Partnership and those of its subsidiaries that are either disregarded as separate entities or treated as partnerships for tax purposes. See "Federal Income Taxation of Host Marriott Ownership of Partnership Interests by a REIT" above.
 
Entity Classification
 
If the Operating Partnership or any non-corporate subsidiary were treated as an association, the entity would be taxable as a corporation and therefore would be subject to an entity level tax on its income. In such a situation, the character of Host Marriott's assets and items of gross income would change and could preclude Host Marriott from qualifying as a REIT (see "Federal Income Taxation of Host MarriottAsset Tests Applicable to REITs" and "Income Tests Applicable to REITs" above).
 
The entire discussion of the tax treatment of Host Marriott and the federal income tax consequences of the ownership of the stock of Host Marriott is based on the assumption that the Operating Partnership and all of its subsidiaries (other than Host Marriott's taxable REIT subsidiaries and their subsidiaries) are classified as partnerships or disregarded as separate entities for federal income tax purposes. Pursuant to regulations under Section 7701 of the Internal Revenue Code, a partnership will be treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes unless it elects to be treated as a corporation or would be treated as a corporation because it is a "publicly traded partnership."
 
Neither the Operating Partnership nor any of its non-corporate subsidiaries that is not a taxable REIT subsidiary has elected or will elect to be treated as a corporation. Therefore, subject to the disclosure below, the Operating Partnership and each such subsidiary will be treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes (or, if such an entity has only one partner or member, disregarded entirely for federal income tax purposes).
 
Pursuant to Section 7704 of the Internal Revenue Code, a partnership that does not elect to be treated as a corporation nevertheless will be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes if it is a "publicly traded partnership" and it does not derive at least 90% of its income from certain specified sources of "qualifying income" within the meaning of that section. A "publicly traded partnership" is any partnership (i) the interests in which are traded on an established securities market or (ii) the interests in which are readily tradable on a "secondary market or the substantial equivalent thereof." OP Units will not be traded on an established securities market. There is a significant risk, however, that the OP Units could be considered readily tradable on the substantial equivalent of a secondary market. In that event, the
 
Operating Partnership could be treated as a "publicly traded partnership," but even then it would only be taxable as a corporation if less than 90% of its gross income were to constitute "qualifying income." Treasury Regulations under Section 7704 of the Internal Revenue Code set forth certain "safe harbors" under which interests will not be treated as "readily tradable on a secondary market (or the substantial equivalent thereof)" within the meaning of Section 7704 (the "Safe Harbors").
 
For purposes of determining whether the "qualifying income" exception is satisfied, the income requirements generally applicable to REITs and the definition of "qualifying income" under Section 7704 of the Internal Revenue Code are similar in most key respects. There is one significant difference, however, that was particularly relevant to the Operating Partnership prior to January 1, 2001. For a REIT, rent from a tenant does not qualify as "rents from real property" if the REIT and/or one or more actual or constructive owners of 10% or more of the REIT actually or constructively own 10% or more of the tenant (subject to an exception for rents from a tenant that is a taxable REIT subsidiary). Under Section 7704 of the Internal Revenue Code, rent from a tenant is not qualifying income if a partnership and/or one or more actual or constructive owners of 5% or more of the partnership actually or constructively own 10% or more of the tenant.
 
Prior to January 1, 2001, a substantial majority of the Operating Partnership's income came from rent payments by subsidiaries of Crestline. Accordingly, because the Blackstone Entities, Host Marriott and any owner of 10% or more of Host Marriott would own or would be deemed to own 5% or more of the Operating Partnership, if the Blackstone Entities, Host Marriott and/or any owner of 10% or more of Host Marriott were to have owned or be deemed to own collectively 10% or more of Crestline, none of the rent from the Crestline lessees during those time periods would have been qualifying income for purposes of determining whether the Operating Partnership should be taxed as a corporation. In order to avoid this result, during the period that Crestline leased a material number of Host Marriott's hotels, the Crestline articles of incorporation expressly provided that no person (or persons acting as a group), including the Blackstone Entities, Host Marriott and any owner of 10% or more of Host Marriott, could own, actually and/or constructively, more than 9.8% by value of the equity in Crestline and the Crestline articles of incorporation contained self-executing mechanisms intended to enforce this prohibition. In addition, the Operating Partnership's partnership agreement prohibits any person, or persons acting as a group, or entity, other than an affiliate of the Blackstone Entities and Host Marriott, from owning, actually and/or constructively, more than 4.9% of the value of the Operating Partnership, and the Host Marriott charter prohibits any person, or persons acting as a group, or entity, including the Blackstone Entities and the Marriott family and their affiliated entities as a group, from, subject to certain limited exceptions, owning, actually and/or constructively, more than 9.8% of the lesser of the number or value of the total outstanding shares of common stock of Host Marriott. If these prohibitions (or the terms of any waivers permitted under the operative documents) were not enforced during the period that Crestline owned the lessees of Host Marriott's hotels, there is a significant likelihood that the Operating Partnership would have been treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes if the Operating Partnership were considered a publicly traded partnership under the Internal Revenue Code.
 
As described above, as a result of the passage of the REIT Modernization Act, for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2000, the Operating Partnership has been able to lease its hotel properties to a taxable REIT subsidiary without the rents received from that subsidiary
 
being disqualified as "rents from real property" under the REIT rules by reason of the Operating Partnership's ownership interest in the subsidiary. See "Federal Income Taxation of Host Marriott Income Tests Applicable to REITs" above.
 
If the Operating Partnership were taxable as a corporation, most, if not all, of the tax consequences described herein would be inapplicable. In particular, Host Marriott would not qualify as a REIT because the value of Host Marriott's ownership interest in the Operating Partnership would exceed 5% of Host Marriott's assets and Host Marriott would be considered to hold more than 10% of the voting securities (and 10% of the value of the outstanding securities) of another corporation (see "Federal Income Taxation of Host MarriottAsset Tests Applicable to REITs" above). In this event, the value of Host Marriott's stock could be adversely affected (see "Federal Income Taxation of Host MarriottFailure of Host Marriott to Qualify as a REIT" above).
 
Except with regard to the exercise of the right to redeem OP Units and certain "permitted transfers" (generally among related individuals or entities) under the partnership agreement of the Operating Partnership, no limited partner may transfer OP Units without the prior written consent of Host Marriott, as general partner of the Operating Partnership, which consent may be withheld in the General Partner's sole discretion. The partnership agreement of the Operating Partnership provides that Host Marriott shall take such actions, if any, that are reasonably necessary or appropriate to prevent the Operating Partnership from being classified as a publicly traded partnership and, except as provided otherwise in the partnership agreement, to permit the Operating Partnership to insure that at least one of the Safe Harbors in met. Host Marriott may exercise its authority, as general partner, under the partnership agreement to impose limitations on the exercise of the right to redeem OP Units only to the extent that outside tax counsel provides to Host Marriott an opinion to the effect that, in the absence of such limitation or restriction, there is a significant risk that the Operating Partnership will be treated as a publicly traded partnership and, by reason thereof, taxable as a corporation. These limitations, if imposed, could adversely affect the interests of holders of OP Units.
 
Allocations of Operating Partnership Income, Gain, Loss and Deduction
 
A partnership agreement will generally determine the allocation of income and loss among partners. However, such allocations will be disregarded for tax purposes if they do not comply with the provisions of Section 704(b) of the Internal Revenue Code and the applicable regulations. Generally, Section 704(b) and the applicable regulations require that partnership allocations respect the economic arrangement of the partners.
 
If an allocation is not recognized for federal income tax purposes, the item subject to the allocation will be reallocated in accordance with the partners' interests in the partnership, which will be determined by taking into account all of the facts and circumstances relating to the economic arrangement of the partners with respect to such item. The allocations of taxable income and loss provided for in the Operating Partnership partnership agreement and the partnership agreements and operating agreements of the non-corporate subsidiaries are intended to comply with the requirements of Section 704(b) of the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder.
 
Tax Allocations with Respect to the Hotels
 
Pursuant to Section 704(c) of the Internal Revenue Code, income, gain, loss and deduction attributable to appreciated or depreciated property, such as the hotels, that is contributed to a partnership in exchange for an interest in the partnership must be allocated in a manner such that the contributing partner is charged with, or benefits from, respectively, the difference between the adjusted tax basis and the fair market value of such property at the time of contribution associated with the property at the time of the contribution. This difference is known as built-in gain. The Operating Partnership agreement requires that such allocations be made in a manner consistent with Section 704(c) of the Internal Revenue Code. In general, the partners of the Operating Partnership, including Host Marriott, who contributed depreciated assets having built-in gain are allocated depreciation deductions for tax purposes that are lower than such deductions would be if determined on a pro rata basis. Thus, the carryover basis of the contributed assets in the hands of the Operating Partnership may cause Host Marriott to be allocated lower depreciation and other deductions, and therefore to be effectively allocated more income, which might adversely affect Host Marriott's ability to comply with the REIT distribution requirements and/or cause a higher proportion of Host Marriott's distributions to its stockholders to be taxed as dividends. See "Federal Income Taxation of Host Marriott Annual Distribution Requirements Applicable to REITs" above.
 
In addition, in the event of the disposition of any of the contributed assets which have built-in gain, all income attributable to the built-in gain generally will be allocated to the contributing partners, even though the proceeds of such sale would be allocated proportionately among all the partners and likely would be retained by the Operating Partnership, rather than distributed. Thus, if the Operating Partnership were to sell a hotel with built-in gain that was contributed to the Operating Partnership by Host Marriott's predecessors or Host Marriott, Host Marriott generally would be allocated all of the income attributable to the built-in gain, which could exceed the economic, or "book," income allocated to it as a result of such sale. Such an allocation might cause Host Marriott to recognize taxable income in excess of cash proceeds, which might adversely affect Host Marriott's ability to comply with the REIT distribution requirements. In addition, Host Marriott will be subject to a corporate level tax on such gain to the extent the gain is recognized prior to January 1, 2009. See "Federal Income Taxation of Host MarriottAnnual Distribution Requirements Applicable to REITs" and "Federal Income Taxation of Host MarriottGeneral" above. It should be noted in this regard that as the general partner of the Operating Partnership, Host Marriott will determine whether or not to sell a hotel contributed to the Operating Partnership by Host Marriott.
 
The Operating Partnership and Host Marriott generally use the traditional method (with a provision for a curative allocation of gain on sale to the extent prior allocations of depreciation with respect to a specific hotel were limited by the "ceiling rule" applicable under the traditional method) to account for built-in gain with respect to the hotels contributed to the Operating Partnership in connection with the REIT conversion. This method is generally a more favorable method for accounting for built-in gain from the perspective of those partners, including Host Marriott, who received OP Units in exchange for property with a low basis relative to value at the time of the REIT conversion and is a less favorable method from the perspective of those partners who contributed cash or "high basis" assets to the Operating Partnership, including Host Marriott to the extent it contributes cash to the Operating Partnership.
 
Any property purchased by the Operating Partnership subsequent to the REIT conversion will initially have a tax basis equal to its fair market value, and Section 704(c) of the Internal Revenue Code will not apply.
 
Other Tax Consequences for Host Marriott and Its Stockholders
 
Host Marriott and its stockholders are subject to state or local taxation in various state or local jurisdictions, including those in which the Operating Partnership or Host Marriott's stockholders transact business or reside. The state and local tax treatment of Host Marriott and its stockholders may not conform to the federal income tax consequences discussed above. Consequently, prospective stockholders of Host Marriott should consult their own tax advisors regarding the effect of state and local tax laws on an investment in Host Marriott. To the extent that Host Marriott owns assets or conducts operations in foreign jurisdictions, it also may be subject to certain foreign taxes.
 
A portion of the cash to be used by Host Marriott to fund distributions comes from dividends from the taxable REIT subsidiaries and, in some cases, interest on notes held by the Operating Partnership. The taxable REIT subsidiaries, and certain of their subsidiaries, are subject to federal, state and local income tax at the full applicable corporate rates (and foreign taxes to the extent that they own assets or have operations in foreign jurisdictions). To the extent that any of Host Marriott's taxable REIT subsidiaries or any of their subsidiaries is required to pay federal, state or local taxes, or any foreign taxes, Host Marriott will receive less dividend income from the relevant entity and will have less cash available for distribution to stockholders.
 
As described above in "Federal Income Taxation of Host MarriottTaxable REIT Subsidiaries," each of Host Marriott's taxable REIT subsidiaries is fully taxable as a corporation and is subject to certain rules intended to restrict its ability to reduce its tax liability.
 
Taxation of Taxable U.S. Stockholders
 
The term "U.S. stockholder," when used in this discussion, means a holder of Host Marriott's shares of stock who is, for United States federal income tax purposes:
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, to the extent provided in Treasury Regulations, some trusts in existence on August 20, 1996, and treated as United States persons prior to this date that elect to continue to be treated as United States persons, shall also be considered U.S. stockholders. In the case of an entity treated as a partnership for United States federal income tax purposes, the treatment of its partners generally will depend upon the status of the partner and the activities of the partnership. Persons that have an indirect interest in Host Marriott's stock through entities treated as partnerships for federal income tax purposes should consult their tax advisors.
 
Distributions Generally
 
Distributions (or deemed distributions) made by Host Marriott out of its current or accumulated E&P, other than capital gain dividends or retained capital gains as discussed below, constitute dividends taxable to its taxable U.S. stockholders as ordinary income. So long as Host Marriott qualifies as a REIT, such distributions are not eligible for the dividends received deduction that is generally afforded to U.S. stockholders that are corporations. To the extent that Host Marriott makes distributions not designated as capital gain dividends in excess of its current and accumulated E&P, such distributions are treated first as a tax-free return of capital to each U.S. stockholder, reducing the adjusted basis which such U.S. stockholder has in its stock for tax purposes by the amount of such distribution, but not below zero, with distributions in excess of such U.S. stockholder's adjusted basis taxable as capital gains, provided that the stock has been held as a capital asset. For purposes of determining whether distributions to holders of Host Marriott's preferred stock or common stock are made out of Host Marriott's current or accumulated earnings and profits for federal income tax purposes, earnings and profits are allocated first to Host Marriott's preferred stock on a pro rata basis and then to Host Marriott's common stock. Host Marriott will notify stockholders after the close of its taxable year as to the portions of distributions attributable to that year that constitute ordinary income, return of capital and capital gain. Host Marriott's distributions of ordinary income, except to the extent properly designated by Host Marriott as qualified dividend income, will not qualify for the maximum 15% capital gains rate that generally applies to distributions by non-REIT C corporations to stockholders who are taxed as individuals.
 
Dividends declared by Host Marriott in October, November or December of any year and payable to a stockholder of record on a specified date in any such month are treated as both paid by Host Marriott and received by the stockholder on December 31 of such year, provided that the dividend is actually paid by Host Marriott on or before January 31 of the following year.
 
For purposes of computing liability for alternative minimum tax, certain of Host Marriott's alternative minimum tax adjustments will be treated as alternative minimum tax adjustments of its stockholders in the ratio that Host Marriott's distributions bear to its taxable income (determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid). Amounts treated as alternative minimum tax adjustments of Host Marriott's stockholders are deemed to be derived by the stockholders proportionately from each such alternative minimum tax adjustment of Host Marriott and are taken into account by the stockholders in computing their alternative minimum taxable income for the taxable year to which the dividends are attributable.
 
Capital Gain Distributions; Retained Net Capital Gains
 
Distributions that Host Marriott properly designates as capital gain dividends are taxable to U.S. stockholders as gain from the sale or exchange of a capital asset held for more than one
 
year (without regard to the period for which such taxable U.S. stockholder has held his stock) to the extent that they do not exceed Host Marriott's actual net capital gain for the taxable year. A U.S. stockholder's share of a capital gain dividend is an amount which bears the same ratio to the total amount of dividends paid to such U.S. stockholder for the year as the aggregate amount designated as a capital gain dividend bears to the aggregate amount of all dividends paid on all classes of shares of stock for the year.
 
If we designate any portion of a dividend as a capital gain dividend, a U.S. stockholder will receive an IRS Form 1099 - DIV indicating the amount that will be taxable to the stockholder as capital gain. Corporate stockholders, however, may be required to treat up to 20% of capital gain dividends as ordinary income.
 
Instead of paying capital gain dividends, Host Marriott may designate all or part of its net capital gain as "undistributed capital gain." Host Marriott will be subject to tax at regular corporate rates on any undistributed capital gain.
 
A U.S. stockholder:
 
 
 
A U.S. stockholder will increase the basis in its stock by the difference between the amount of capital gain included in its income and the amount of tax it is deemed to have paid. The earnings and profits of Host Marriott will be adjusted appropriately.
 
Host Marriott will classify portions of any designated capital gain dividend or undistributed capital gain as either:
 
 
 
Host Marriott must determine the maximum amounts that it may designate as 15% and 25% rate capital gain dividends by performing the computation required by the Internal Revenue Code as if the REIT were an individual whose ordinary income were subject to a marginal tax rate of at least 28%. Designations made by Host Marriott will be effective only to the extent that they comply with Revenue Ruling 89-81, which requires that distributions made to different classes of shares be composed proportionately of dividends of a particular type.
 
Recipients of capital gain dividends from Host Marriott that are taxed at corporate income tax rates will be taxed at the normal corporate income tax rates on those dividends.
 
Qualified Dividend Income
 
Host Marriott may elect to designate a portion of its distributions paid to stockholders as "qualified dividend income." That portion of a distribution which is properly designated as qualified dividend income is taxable to a non-corporate U.S. stockholder at capital gains rates, so long as the stockholder satisfies the applicable holding requirements. As a general rule, the stockholder must have held the stock with respect to which the distribution is paid for more than 61 days during the 121-day period beginning 60 days before the ex-dividend date for the distribution and ending 60 days after that ex-dividend date. The maximum amount of Host Marriott's distributions eligible to be designated as qualified dividend income for a taxable year is equal to the sum of:
 
 
 
 
Generally, dividends that Host Marriott receives will be treated as qualified dividend income for purposes of (1) above if the dividends are received from a domestic corporation (other than a REIT or a regulated investment company) or a "qualifying foreign corporation" and specified holding period requirements and other requirements are met. A foreign corporation (other than a "foreign personal holding company," a "foreign investment company," or "passive foreign investment company") will be a qualifying foreign corporation if it is incorporated in a possession of the United States, the corporation is eligible for benefits of an income tax treaty with the United States that the Secretary of Treasury determines is satisfactory, or the stock of the foreign corporation on which the dividend is paid is readily tradable on an established securities market in the United States.
 
Host Marriott's Losses; Investment Interest Limitation
 
U.S. stockholders may not include in their income tax returns any net operating losses or capital losses of Host Marriott. Instead, such losses would be carried over by Host Marriott for potential offset against future income, subject to certain limitations. Distributions made by Host Marriott and gain arising from the sale or exchange by a U.S. stockholder of stock will not be treated as passive activity income, and, as a result, U.S. stockholders generally will not be able to apply any "passive losses" against such income or gain.
 
Taxable dividend distributions from Host Marriott generally will be treated as investment income for purposes of the "investment interest limitation." This limitation provides that a non-corporate U.S. stockholder may deduct as an itemized deduction in any taxable year only the amount of interest incurred in connection with property held for investment that does not exceed the excess of the stockholder's investment income over his or her investment expenses for that year. A non-corporate U.S. stockholder may elect to treat capital gain dividends, capital gains from the disposition of shares of stock, including distributions treated as such, and income
 
designated as qualified dividend income as investment income, in which case the applicable capital gains will be taxed at ordinary income rates. Host Marriott intends to comply with IRS guidance or regulations on the notification of stockholders regarding the portions of distributions for each year that constitute ordinary income, return of capital and capital gain.
 
Dispositions of Stock
 
Upon any sale or other disposition of stock, a U.S. stockholder will recognize gain or loss for federal income tax purposes in an amount equal to the difference between (1) the amount of cash and the fair market value of any property received on such sale or other disposition and (2) the holder's adjusted basis in such stock for tax purposes.
 
The applicable tax rate will depend on the stockholder's holding period in the asset (generally, if an asset has been held for more than one year it will produce long-term capital gain) and the stockholder's tax bracket. The IRS has the authority to prescribe, but has not yet prescribed, regulations that would apply a capital gain tax rate of 25% (which is higher than the maximum 15% long-term capital gain tax rate for noncorporate stockholders) to a portion of capital gain realized by a noncorporate stockholder on the sale of REIT shares that would correspond to the REIT's "unrecaptured Section 1250 gain." Stockholders are urged to consult with their own tax advisors with respect to their capital gain tax liability. A corporate U.S. stockholder will be subject to tax at a maximum rate of 35% on capital gain from the sale of Host Marriott stock held for more than 12 months. In general, any loss recognized by a U.S. stockholder upon the sale or other disposition of stock that has been held for six months or less, after applying the holding period rules, will be treated as a long-term capital loss, to the extent of distributions received by the U.S. stockholder from Host Marriott that were required to be treated as long-term capital gains.
 
Taxation of Tax-Exempt Stockholders
 
Provided that a tax-exempt stockholder has not held its stock as "debt financed property" within the meaning of the Internal Revenue Code and such shares of stock are not otherwise used in a trade or business, the dividend income from Host Marriott will not be unrelated business taxable income ("UBTI") to a tax-exempt stockholder. Similarly, income from the sale of stock will not constitute UBTI unless such tax-exempt stockholder has held such stock as "debt financed property" within the meaning of the Internal Revenue Code or has used the stock in a trade or business.
 
However, for a tax-exempt stockholder that is a social club, voluntary employee benefit association, supplemental unemployment benefit trust or qualified group legal services plan exempt from federal income taxation under Internal Revenue Code Sections 501 (c)(7), (c)(9), (c)(17) and (c)(20), respectively, income from an investment in Host Marriott will constitute UBTI unless the organization is properly able to deduct amounts set aside or placed in reserve for certain purposes so as to offset the income generated by its investment in Host Marriott. Such a prospective stockholder should consult its own tax advisors concerning these "set aside" and reserve requirements.
 
Notwithstanding the above, however, a portion of the dividends paid by a "pension held REIT" shall be treated as UBTI as to any trust that is described in Section 401(a) of the Internal
 
Revenue Code, is tax-exempt under Section 501(a) of the Internal Revenue Code and holds more than 10%, by value, of the interests in the REIT. Tax-exempt pension funds that are described in Section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code are referred to below as "qualified trusts." A REIT is a "pension held REIT" if it meets the following two tests:
 
 
 
The percentage of any REIT dividend treated as UBTI is equal to the ratio of the UBTI earned by the REIT, treating the REIT as if it were a qualified trust and therefore subject to tax on UBTI, to the total gross income of the REIT. A de minimis exception applies where the percentage is less than 5% for any year. As discussed above, the provisions requiring qualified trusts to treat a portion of REIT distributions as UBTI will not apply if the REIT is able to satisfy the "not closely held" requirement without relying upon the "look-through" exception with respect to qualified trusts. Based on the current estimated ownership of Host Marriott's stock and the limitations on transfer and ownership of stock contained in the Host Marriott's charter, Host Marriott should not be classified as a "pension held REIT."
 
Taxation of Non-U.S. Stockholders
 
The rules governing federal income taxation of the ownership and disposition of stock by non-U.S. stockholders (that is, stockholders who are not "U.S. stockholders" as defined above) are complex and no attempt is made herein to provide more than a brief summary of such rules. Accordingly, the discussion does not address all aspects of federal income tax and does not address any state, local or foreign tax consequences that may be relevant to a non-U.S. stockholder in light of its particular circumstances. In addition, this discussion is based on current law, which is subject to change, and assumes that Host Marriott qualifies for taxation as a REIT. Prospective non-U.S. stockholders should consult with their own tax advisers to determine the impact of federal, state, local and foreign income tax laws with regard to an investment in stock, including any reporting requirements.
 
Distributions Generally
 
Distributions (or deemed distributions) by Host Marriott to a non-U.S. stockholder that are neither attributable to gain from sales or exchanges by Host Marriott of "U.S. real property interests" nor designated by Host Marriott as capital gain dividends or retained capital gains will be treated as dividends of ordinary income to the extent that they are made out of current or accumulated E&P of Host Marriott. Such distributions ordinarily will be subject to withholding of U.S. federal income tax on a gross basis (that is, without allowance of deductions) at a 30% rate or such lower rate as may be specified by an applicable income tax treaty, unless the dividends are treated as effectively connected with the conduct by the non-U.S. stockholder of a U.S. trade or business. Under some treaties, however, lower withholding rates generally
 
applicable to dividends do not apply to dividends from a REIT, such as Host Marriott. Certain certification and disclosure requirements must be satisfied to be exempt from withholding under the effectively connected income exemption. Dividends that are effectively connected with such a trade or business will be subject to tax on a net basis (that is, after allowance of deductions) at graduated rates, in the same manner as U.S. stockholders are taxed with respect to such dividends, and are generally not subject to withholding. Any such dividends received by a non-U.S. stockholder that is a corporation may also be subject to an additional branch profits tax at a 30% rate or such lower rate as may be specified by an applicable income tax treaty.
 
Host Marriott expects to withhold U.S. income tax at the rate of 30% on any dividend distributions (including distributions that later may be determined to have been in excess of current and accumulated earnings and profits) made to a non-U.S. stockholder unless:
 
 
 
Distributions in excess of the current or accumulated E&P of Host Marriott will not be taxable to a non-U.S. stockholder to the extent that they do not exceed the adjusted basis of the stockholder's stock, but rather will reduce the adjusted basis of such stock. Such distributions, however, will be subject to U.S. withholding tax as described below. To the extent that such distributions exceed the adjusted basis of a non-U.S. stockholder's stock, they will give rise to gain from the sale or exchange of its stock, the tax treatment of which is described below.
 
Host Marriott is required to withhold 10% of any distribution in excess of its current and accumulated E&P, even if a lower treaty rate applies and the non-U.S. stockholder is not liable for tax on receipt of that distribution. Consequently, although Host Marriott currently intends that its transfer agent will withhold at a rate of 30%, or a lower applicable treaty rate, on the entire amount of any distribution, to the extent that this is not done, any portion of a distribution not subject to withholding at a rate of 30%, or lower applicable treaty rate, would be subject to withholding at a rate of 10%. However, a non-U.S. stockholder may seek a refund of such amounts from the IRS if it subsequently determines that such distribution was, in fact, in excess of current or accumulated E&P of Host Marriott, and the amount withheld exceeded the non-U.S. stockholder's U.S. tax liability, if any, with respect to the distribution.
 
Capital Gain Distributions; Retained Net Capital Gains
 
Distributions to a non-U.S. stockholder that are designated by Host Marriott at the time of distribution as capital gain dividends, other than those arising from the disposition of a U.S. real property interest, generally should not be subject to U.S. federal income taxation, unless:
 
(1) the investment in the stock is effectively connected with the non-U.S. stockholder's U.S. trade or business, in which case the non-U.S. stockholder will be subject to the same treatment as U.S. stockholders with respect to such gain, except that a stockholder that is a foreign corporation may also be subject to the 30% branch profits tax, as discussed above, or
 
(2) the non-U.S. stockholder is a nonresident alien individual who is present in the U.S. for 183 days or more during the taxable year and has a "tax home" in the U.S., in which case the nonresident alien individual will be subject to a 30% tax on the individual's capital gains.
 
Except as described in the next sentence, under the Foreign Investment in Real Property Tax Act, which is referred to as "FIRPTA," distributions to a non-U.S. stockholder that are attributable to gain from sales or exchanges by Host Marriott of U.S. real property interests, whether or not designated as capital gain dividends, will be subject to U.S. federal income tax in the manner described above under "Taxation of Non-U.S. StockholdersDistributions Generally." This treatment will not apply, however, to any such distribution received by a non-U.S. stockholder with respect to a class of stock that is not regularly traded on an established securities market located in the U.S. or any such distribution paid to a non-U.S. stockholder who owns, at any time during the tax year in which the distribution is received, more than 5% of the class of stock with regard to which the distribution is paid. A non-U.S. stockholder receiving a distribution described in the previous sentence will be treated as recognizing gain that is income effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business. Non-U.S. stockholders will be taxed on this gain at the same rates applicable to U.S. stockholders, subject to a special alternative minimum tax in the case of nonresident alien individuals. Also, this gain may be subject to a 30% branch profits tax in the hands of a non-U.S. stockholder that is a corporation, as discussed above.
 
Host Marriott will be required to withhold and to remit to the IRS 35% of any such distribution to a non-U.S. stockholder that is designated as a capital gain dividend or, if greater, 35% of a distribution to such non-U.S. stockholder that could have been designated by Host Marriott as a capital gain dividend. Distributions can be designated as capital gains to the extent of Host Marriott's net capital gain for the taxable year of the distribution. The amount withheld is creditable against the non-U.S. stockholder's United States federal income tax liability or refunded when the non-U.S. stockholder properly and timely files a tax return with the IRS.
 
Although the law is not clear on the matter, it appears that amounts designated by Host Marriott as retained capital gains in respect of the stock held by U.S. stockholders (see "Federal Income Taxation of Host MarriottAnnual Distribution Requirements Applicable to REITs" above) generally should be treated with respect to non-U.S. stockholders in the same manner as actual distributions by Host Marriott of capital gain dividends. Under that approach, the non-U.S. stockholders would be able to offset as a credit against their United States federal income tax liability resulting therefrom their proportionate share of the tax paid by Host Marriott on such undistributed capital gains and to receive from the IRS a refund to the extent their proportionate share of such tax paid by Host Marriott were to exceed their actual United States federal income tax liability.
 
Dispositions of Stock
 
Gain recognized by a non-U.S. stockholder upon the sale or exchange of stock generally will not be subject to United States taxation unless such shares of stock constitute a "U.S. real property interest" within the meaning of FIRPTA. The stock will not constitute a "U.S. real property interest" so long as Host Marriott is a "domestically controlled REIT." A "domestically controlled REIT" is a REIT in which at all times during a specified testing period less than 50%
 
in value of its stock is held directly or indirectly by non-U.S. stockholders. Host Marriott believes, but cannot guarantee, that it is a "domestically controlled REIT." Even if Host Marriott is a "domestically controlled REIT," because the stock is publicly traded, no assurance can be given that Host Marriott will continue to be a "domestically controlled REIT." Notwithstanding the foregoing, gain from the sale or exchange of stock not otherwise subject to FIRPTA will be taxable to a non-U.S. stockholder if either (a) the investment in Host Marriott stock is effectively connected with the non-U.S. stockholder's U.S. trade or business, in which case the non-U.S. stockholder will be subject to the same treatment as domestic stockholders with respect to any gain or (b) the non-U.S. stockholder is a nonresident alien individual who is present in the United States for 183 days or more during the taxable year and has a "tax home" in the United States, in which case the nonresident alien individual will be subject to a 30% United States withholding tax on the amount of such individual's gain.
 
Even if Host Marriott does not qualify as a "domestically controlled REIT" at the time a non-U.S. stockholder sells its Host Marriott stock, gain arising from the sale or exchange by a non-U.S. stockholder of stock would not be subject to United States taxation under FIRPTA as a sale of a "United States real property interest" if:
 
(1) such stock is "regularly traded," as defined by applicable regulations, on an established securities market such as the NYSE; and
 
(2) such non-U.S. stockholder owned, actually or constructively, 5% or less of the stock throughout the five-year period ending on the date of the sale or exchange.
 
If gain on the sale or exchange of stock were subject to taxation under FIRPTA, the non-U.S. stockholder would be subject to regular U.S. income tax with respect to such gain in the same manner as a taxable U.S. stockholder (subject to any applicable alternative minimum tax and a special alternative minimum tax in the case of nonresident alien individuals) and the purchaser of the stock would be required to withhold and remit to the IRS 10% of the purchase price.
 
Information Reporting and Backup Withholding Tax Applicable to Stockholders
 
In general, information reporting requirements will apply to payments of distributions on Host Marriott's stock and payments of the proceeds of the sale of Host Marriott's stock to some stockholders, unless an exception applies. Further, the payer will be required to withhold backup withholding tax (currently at a rate of 28%), if:
U.S. Stockholders.
 
 
 
 
 
Some stockholders, including corporations, will be exempt from backup withholding. Any amounts withheld under the backup withholding rules from a payment to a stockholder will be allowed as a credit against the stockholder's U.S. federal income tax and may entitle the stockholder to a refund, provided that the required information is furnished to the IRS. A U.S. stockholder that does not provide Host Marriott with a correct taxpayer identification number may also be subject to penalties imposed by the IRS.
 
Generally, information reporting will apply to payments of distributions on Host Marriott's stock, and backup withholding, currently at a rate of 28%, may apply, unless the payee certifies that it is not a U.S. person or otherwise establishes an exemption.
Non-U.S. Stockholders.
 
The payment of the proceeds from the disposition of Host Marriott's stock to or through the U.S. office of a U.S. or foreign broker will be subject to information reporting and, possibly, backup withholding unless the non-U.S. stockholder certifies as to its non-U.S. status or otherwise establishes an exemption, provided that the broker does not have actual knowledge that the stockholder is a U.S. person or that the conditions of any other exemption are not, in fact, satisfied. The proceeds of the disposition by a non-U.S. stockholder of Host Marriott's stock to or through a foreign office of a broker generally will not be subject to information reporting or backup withholding. However, if the broker is a U.S. person, a controlled foreign corporation for U.S. tax purposes, a foreign person 50% or more of whose gross income from all sources for specified periods is from activities that are effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business, a foreign partnership if partners who hold more than 50% of the interests in the partnership are U.S. persons, or a foreign partnership that is engaged in the conduct of a trade or business in the U.S., then information reporting generally will apply unless the broker has documentary evidence as to the non-U.S. stockholder's foreign status and has no actual knowledge to the contrary.
 
Applicable Treasury regulations provide presumptions regarding the status of stockholders when payments to the stockholders cannot be reliably associated with appropriate documentation provided to the payer. Because the application of the these Treasury regulations varies depending on the stockholder's particular circumstances, you are urged to consult your tax advisor regarding the information reporting requirements applicable to you.
 
Sunset of Reduced Tax Rate Provisions
 
Several of the tax considerations described herein are subject to a sunset provision. The sunset provisions generally provide that for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2008, certain provisions that are currently in the Internal Revenue Code will revert back to a prior version of those provisions. These provisions include provisions related to the reduced maximum income tax rate for capital gains of 15% (rather than 20%) for taxpayers taxed at individual rates, qualified dividend income, including the application of the 15% capital gains rate to qualified dividend income, and certain other tax rate provisions described herein. The impact of this reversion is not discussed herein. Consequently, prospective holders should consult their own tax advisors regarding the effect of sunset provisions on an investment in Host Marriott's common stock.
 
Tax Shelter Reporting
 
If a stockholder recognizes a loss as a result of a transaction with respect to Host Marriott's stock of at least (i) for a stockholder that is an individual, S corporation, trust, or a partnership with at least one noncorporate partner, $2 million or more in a single taxable year or $4 million or more in a combination of taxable years, or (ii) for a stockholder that is either a corporation or a partnership with only corporate partners, $10 million or more in a single taxable year or $20 million or more in a combination of taxable years, such stockholder may be required to file a disclosure statement with the IRS on Form 8886. Direct holders of portfolio securities are in many cases exempt from this reporting requirement, but stockholders of a REIT currently are not exempted. The fact that a loss is reportable under these regulations does not affect the legal determination of whether the taxpayer's treatment of the loss is proper. Stockholders should consult their tax advisors to determine the applicability of these regulations in light of their individual circumstances.
 
Taxation of Holders of Preferred Stock, Depositary Shares, Warrants, Subscription Rights, Preferred Stock Purchase Rights and Other Host Marriott Securities
 
If Host Marriott offers one or more series of preferred stock, depositary shares, warrants, subscription rights, preferred stock purchase rights or other securities, there may be tax considerations for the holders of such securities not discussed herein. For a discussion of any such additional considerations, see the prospectus supplement filed by Host Marriott with respect to such offering.
 


