FILE:HST/HST-8K-20051012080005.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On October 12, 2005, Host Marriott Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the third quarter ended September 9, 2005. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Report.
 
The information in this Report, including the exhibit, is provided under Item 2.02 of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section with the exception of the items detailed in the paragraph below. Furthermore, the information in this Report, including the exhibit, shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into the filings of the registrant under the Securities Act of 1933 regardless of any general incorporation language in such filings, except as provided in the paragraph below.
 
The items listed below and contained in Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K are deemed to be of significance to investors and are intended to be "filed" rather than "furnished" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Further these, and only these items, shall be deemed as incorporated by reference into the filings of the registrant under the Securities Act of 1933. These items are:
 
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits
 
See Item 2.02 above for information in the Exhibit deemed "Furnished or "Filed" as the case may be.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
HOST MARRIOTT REPORTS STRONG RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THIRD QUARTER 2005
 
BETHESDA, MD; October 12, 2005  Host Marriott Corporation (NYSE: HMT), the nation's largest lodging real estate investment trust (REIT), today announced results of operations for the third quarter ended September 9, 2005. Third quarter results include the following:
 
 
 
For year-to-date 2005, net income includes a net gain of $15 million ($.04 per share) from the following transactions: the sale of 85% of the Company's interest in a joint venture that owns 120 Courtyard by Marriott hotels; gains on hotel dispositions; and, costs associated with refinancing the Company's senior notes and the redemption of preferred stock. By comparison, for the third quarter and year-to-date 2004, net income (loss) includes a net loss of $19 million ($(.05) per share) and $43 million ($(.13) per share), respectively, associated with similar transactions in 2004. For further detail, refer to the "Schedule of Significant Transactions Affecting Earnings per Share and Funds From Operations per Diluted Share" attached to this press release.
 
 
 
Adjusted EBITDA, FFO per diluted share and comparable hotel adjusted operating profit margins (discussed below) are non-GAAP financial measures within the meaning of the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). See the discussion included in this press release for information regarding these non-GAAP financial measures.
Operating Results
 
Comparable hotel RevPAR for the third quarter of 2005 increased 8.0%, which was at the high end of our previous guidance, and comparable hotel adjusted operating profit margins increased 9.8%, or 1.8 percentage points, when compared to the third quarter of 2004. The Company's third quarter increases in comparable hotel RevPAR and comparable hotel adjusted operating profit margins were driven by a 6.3% increase in average room rates and a 1.2 percentage point increase in occupancy. Year-to-date 2005 comparable hotel RevPAR increased 9.1% (comprised of an increase in average room rates of 7.5% and an increase in occupancy of 1.1 percentage points), while comparable hotel adjusted operating profit margins increased 7.7%, or 1.7 percentage points, when compared to year-to-date 2004. Based on a calendar quarter end of September 30, comparable hotel RevPAR would have increased 9.5% for the third quarter of 2005.
 
Comparable hotel RevPAR does not include results from the New Orleans Marriott, which incurred damage as a result of Hurricane Katrina. It is unlikely that operations for this hotel will return to historical levels for a period of time. While the total extent of the property damage and business interruption cannot be determined at this time, the Company believes its insurance coverage should be sufficient to cover substantially all of the property damage to the hotel and the near-term loss of business. The overall effect of the hurricane on our third quarter operations was not significant.
 
Christopher J. Nassetta, president and chief executive officer, stated, "We had another outstanding quarter, with very strong RevPAR growth and margin improvement, which drove significant growth in Adjusted EBITDA and FFO per diluted share. We expect lodging demand and business travel will continue to increase in the fourth quarter and into 2006, driving further improvements in our operating results and dividends to our stockholders."
 
As of September 9, 2005, the Company had $402 million of cash and cash equivalents, approximately $274 million of which were used subsequently to acquire the Hyatt Regency, Washington, D.C. The Company also had $165 million of restricted cash, $68 million of which the Company believes will be released in the fourth quarter.
 
W. Edward Walter, executive vice president and chief financial officer, stated, "Our credit ratios have continued to improve due to the significant improvement in our operations and the financing transactions we have completed over the last two years. Our strong balance sheet, available cash and ready access to the capital markets enables us to invest in our current portfolio or pursue appropriate acquisition opportunities in the market place."
 
Acquisitions and Dispositions
 
On September 30, 2005, the Company acquired the 834-room Hyatt Regency, Washington, D.C. on Capitol Hill for approximately $274 million, financed with available cash. On October 7, 2005, the Company also completed the sale of the 297-room Charlotte Marriott Executive Park for approximately $21 million.
 
James F. Risoleo, executive vice president of acquisitions and development, stated, "We are very pleased with the acquisition of the Hyatt Regency, Washington, D.C. on Capitol Hill. We believe that the Washington, D.C. market will continue to perform very well for the foreseeable future. We continue to pursue acquisitions that are consistent with our target profile of upper-upscale and luxury properties in markets with significant barriers to entry, while seeking to dispose of non-core assets to recycle and build on our truly unmatched portfolio of properties."
 
2005 Outlook
 
The Company expects comparable hotel RevPAR for full year 2005 to increase approximately 8.0% to 9.0%. For full year 2005, the Company also expects operating profit margins under GAAP to increase approximately 210 basis points to 240 basis points and comparable hotel adjusted operating profit margins to increase approximately 130 basis points to 150 basis points as compared to 2004. Based upon this guidance, the Company estimates that for 2005 its:
 
 
 
 
 
2006 Outlook
 
The Company is in the preliminary stages of its budget process for 2006. Accordingly, certain key items such as detailed property-level operating budgets and capital expenditure requirements, as well as corporate-level acquisition and disposition targets and financing requirements have not been determined, all of which could significantly affect results of operations. However, based on preliminary discussions with the Company's operators and hotel general managers, as well as a review of booking pace and other metrics, the Company believes comparable hotel RevPAR for full year 2006 will increase approximately 7.0% to 9.0%. For full year 2006, the Company also believes operating profit margins under GAAP will increase approximately 190 basis points to 230 basis points and comparable hotel adjusted operating profit margins will increase approximately 125 basis points to 175 basis points as compared to 2005.
 
Based upon this guidance, the Company estimates that for 2006 its:
 
 
 
 
 
Host Marriott is a Fortune 500 lodging real estate company that currently owns or holds controlling interests in 107 upper-upscale and luxury hotel properties primarily operated under premium brands, such as Marriott, Ritz-Carlton, Hyatt, Four Seasons, Fairmont, Hilton and Westin (*). For further information, please visit the Company's website at www.hostmarriott.com.
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities regulations. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as "anticipate," "believe," "could," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "plan," "predict," "project," "will," "continue" and other similar terms and phrases, including references to assumption and forecasts of future results. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results to differ materially from those anticipated at the time the forward-looking statements are made. These risks include, but are not limited to: national and local economic and business conditions, including the potential for terrorist attacks, that will affect occupancy rates at our hotels and the demand for hotel products and services; operating risks associated with the hotel business; risks associated with the level of our indebtedness and our ability to meet covenants in our debt agreements; relationships with property managers; our ability to maintain our properties in a first-class manner, including meeting capital expenditure requirements; our ability to compete effectively in areas such as access, location, quality of accommodations and room rate structures; changes in travel patterns, taxes and government regulations which influence or determine wages, prices, construction procedures and costs; our ability to complete pending acquisitions and dispositions; and our ability to continue to satisfy complex rules in order for us to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes and other risks and uncertainties associated with our business described in the Company's filings with the SEC. Although the Company believes the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions, it can give no assurance that the expectations will be attained or that any deviation will not be material. All information in this release is as of October 11, 2005, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to conform the statement to actual results or changes in the Company's expectations.
 
 
 
Host Marriott Corporation, herein referred to as "we" or "Host Marriott," is a self-managed and self-administered real estate investment trust (REIT) that owns hotel properties. We conduct our operations as an umbrella partnership REIT through an operating partnership, Host Marriott, L.P., or Host LP, of which we are the sole general partner. For each share of our common stock, Host LP has issued to us one unit of operating partnership interest, or OP Unit. When distinguishing between Host Marriott and Host LP, the primary difference is approximately 5% of the partnership interests in Host LP held by outside partners as of October 11, 2005, which is reflected as minority interest in our consolidated balance sheets and minority interest expense in our consolidated statements of operations. Readers are encouraged to find further detail regarding our organizational structure in our annual report on Form 10-K.
 
For information on our reporting periods and non-GAAP financial measures (including Adjusted EBITDA, FFO per diluted share and comparable hotel adjusted operating profit margins) which we believe is useful to investors, see the Notes to the Financial Information on page 35.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On August 3, 2004, the fair value paid to holders of our Class A preferred stock, or $104 million (which was equal to the redemption price and par value) exceeded the carrying value of the preferred stock ($100 million, which was net of $4 million of original issuance costs). Accordingly, the $4 million of original issuance costs has been included in the determination of net income (loss) available to common stockholders for the purpose of calculating our third quarter and year-to-date 2004 basic and diluted earnings (loss) per share.
 
On May 20, 2005, the fair value paid to holders of our Class B preferred stock, or $100 million (which was equal to the redemption price and par value) exceeded the carrying value of the preferred stock ($96 million, which was net of $4 million of original issuance costs). Accordingly, the $4 million of original issuance costs has been included in the determination of net income (loss) available to common stockholders for the purpose of calculating our year-to-date 2005 basic and diluted earnings (loss) per share.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
See the notes following the table reconciling net income to EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA for assumptions relating to the full year 2005 forecasts.
 
 
 
 
The full year 2005 forecasts were based on the following assumptions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
See the notes following the table reconciling net income to EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA for the full year 2006 forecasts.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The amounts shown in the forecasts are based on these and other assumptions, as well as management's estimate of operations for 2006. These forecasts are forward-looking and are not guarantees of future performance and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause actual transactions, results and performance to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forecasts. Although the Company believes the expectations reflected in the forecasts are based upon reasonable assumptions, it can give no assurance that the expectations will be attained or that the results will not be materially different than those expressed above. Risks that may affect these assumptions and forecasted results include, but are not limited to, the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
See note (a) to the Host Marriott Corporation Reconciliation of Net Income to EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA for Full Year 2006 Forecasts.
 
 
 
Reporting Periods for Statement of Operations
 
The results we report in our consolidated statements of operations are based on results of our hotels reported to us by our hotel managers. Our hotel managers use different reporting periods. Marriott International, Inc., or Marriott International, the manager of the majority of our properties, uses a fiscal year ending on the Friday closest to December 31 and reports twelve weeks of operations for the first three quarters and sixteen or seventeen weeks for the fourth quarter of the year for its Marriott-managed hotels. In contrast, other managers of our hotels, such as Hyatt, report results on a monthly basis. Additionally, Host Marriott, as a REIT, is required by tax laws to report results on a calendar year. As a result, we elected to adopt the reporting periods used by Marriott International except that our fiscal year always ends on December 31 to comply with REIT rules. Our first three quarters of operations end on the same day as Marriott International but our fourth quarter ends on December 31 and our full year results, as reported in our statement of operations, always includes the same number of days as the calendar year.
 
Two consequences of the reporting cycle we have adopted are: (1) quarterly start dates will usually differ between years, except for the first quarter which always commences on January 1, and (2) our first and fourth quarters of operations and year-to-date operations may not include the same number of days as reflected in prior years. For example, the third quarter of 2005 ended on September 9, and the third quarter of 2004 ended on September 10, though both quarters reflect twelve weeks of operations. In contrast, the September 9, 2005 year-to-date operations included 252 days of operations, while the September 10, 2004 year-to-date operations included 254 days of operations (2004 was also a leap year).
 
While the reporting calendar we adopted is more closely aligned with the reporting calendar used by the manager of a majority of our properties, one final consequence of our calendar is we are unable to report the month of operations that ends after our fiscal quarter-end until the following quarter because our hotel managers using a monthly reporting period do not make mid-month results available to us. Hence, the month of operation that ends after our fiscal quarter-end is included in our quarterly results of operations in the following quarter for those hotel managers (covering approximately one-fourth of our full-service hotels). As a result, our quarterly results of operations include results from hotel managers reporting results on a monthly basis as follows: first quarter (January, February), second quarter (March to May), third quarter (June to August) and fourth quarter (September to December). While this does not affect full-year results, it does affect the reporting of quarterly results.
 
Reporting Periods for Hotel Operating Statistics and Comparable Hotel Results
 
In contrast to the reporting periods for our consolidated statement of operations, our hotel operating statistics (i.e., RevPAR, average daily rate and average occupancy) and our comparable hotel results are always reported based on the reporting cycle used by Marriott International for our Marriott-managed hotels. This facilitates year-to-year comparisons, as each reporting period will be comprised of the same number of days of operations as in the prior year (except in the case of fourth quarters comprised of seventeen weeks (such as fiscal year 2002) versus sixteen weeks). This means, however, that the reporting periods we use for hotel operating statistics and our comparable hotels results may differ slightly from the reporting periods used for our statements of operations for the first and fourth quarters and the full year. Results from hotel managers reporting on a monthly basis are included in our operating statistics and comparable hotels results consistent with their reporting in our consolidated statement of operations herein:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Comparable Hotel Operating Statistics
 
We present certain operating statistics (i.e., RevPAR, average daily rate and average occupancy) and operating results (revenues, expenses, adjusted operating profit and adjusted operating profit margin) for the periods included in this report on a comparable hotel basis. We define our comparable hotels as full-service properties (i) that are owned or leased by us and the operations of which are included in our consolidated results, whether as continuing operations or discontinued operations, for the entirety of the reporting periods being compared, and (ii) that have not sustained substantial property damage or business interruption or undergone large-scale capital projects during the reporting periods being compared. Of the 107 full-service hotels that we owned as of September 9, 2005, 99 hotels have been classified as comparable hotels. The operating results of the following eight hotels that we owned as of September 9, 2005 are excluded from comparable hotel results for these periods:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition, the operating results of the 13 hotels we disposed of in 2005 and 2004 are also not included in comparable hotel results for the periods presented herein. Moreover, because these statistics and operating results are for our full-service hotel properties, they exclude results for our non-hotel properties and leased limited-service hotels.
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
Included in this press release are certain "non-GAAP financial measures," which are measures of our historical or future financial performance that are not calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, within the meaning of applicable SEC rules. They are as follows: (i) Funds From Operations (FFO) per diluted share, (ii) EBITDA of both Host Marriott and Host LP, (iii) Adjusted EBITDA of both Host Marriott and Host LP and (iv) Comparable Hotel Operating Results. The following discussion defines these terms and presents why we believe they are useful supplemental measures of our performance.
 
FFO per Diluted Share
 
We present FFO per diluted share as a non-GAAP measure of our performance in addition to our earnings per share (calculated in accordance with GAAP). We calculate FFO per diluted share for a given operating period as our FFO (defined as set forth below) for such period divided by the number of fully diluted shares outstanding during such period. The National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (NAREIT) defines FFO as net income (calculated in accordance with GAAP) excluding gains (losses) from sales of real estate, the cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles, real estate-related depreciation and amortization and adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. We present FFO on a per share basis after making adjustments for the effects of dilutive securities and the payment of preferred stock dividends, in accordance with NAREIT guidelines.
 
 
 
We believe that FFO per diluted share is a useful supplemental measure of our operating performance and that the presentation of FFO per diluted share, when combined with the primary GAAP presentation of earnings per share, provides beneficial information to investors. By excluding the effect of real estate depreciation, amortization and gains and losses from sales of real estate, all of which are based on historical cost accounting and which may be of lesser significance in evaluating current performance, we believe such measures can facilitate comparisons of operating performance between periods and with other REITs, even though FFO per diluted share does not represent an amount that accrues directly to holders of our common stock. Historical cost accounting for real estate assets implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time. As noted by NAREIT in its April 2002 "White Paper on Funds From Operations," since real estate values have historically risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors have considered presentation of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient by themselves. For these reasons, NAREIT adopted the definition of FFO in order to promote an industry-wide measure of REIT operating performance.
 
EBITDA
 
Earnings before Interest Expense, Income Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization (EBITDA) is a commonly used measure of performance in many industries. Management believes EBITDA provides useful information to investors regarding our results of operations because it helps us and our investors evaluate the ongoing operating performance of our properties and facilitates comparisons between us and other lodging REITs, hotel owners who are not REITs and other capital-intensive companies. Management uses EBITDA to evaluate property-level results and as one measure in determining the value of acquisitions and dispositions and, like FFO per diluted share, it is widely used by management in the annual budget process. We present Adjusted EBITDA of Host Marriott and Adjusted EBITDA of Host LP. The difference between these two presentations is equal to the amount of distributions to OP Unitholders other than Host Marriott.
 
Adjusted EBITDA
 
Historically, management has adjusted EBITDA when evaluating our performance because we believe that the exclusion of certain additional recurring and non-recurring items described below provides useful supplemental information to investors regarding our ongoing operating performance and that the presentation of Adjusted EBITDA, when combined with the primary GAAP presentation of net income, is beneficial to an investor's complete understanding of our operating performance. We adjust EBITDA for the following items, which may occur in any period, and refer to this measure as Adjusted EBITDA:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adjusted EBITDA of Host LP
 
Host Marriott owns approximately 95% of the partnership interest of Host LP and is its sole general partner. We conduct all of our operations through Host LP, and Host LP is the obligor on our senior notes and on our credit facility. The difference between the Adjusted EBITDA of Host Marriott and the Adjusted EBITDA of Host LP is the distributions to OP Unitholders other than Host Marriott, which are equal on a per unit basis to the dividends paid per common share by Host Marriott. The Adjusted EBITDA of Host LP is presented in addition to the Adjusted EBITDA of Host Marriott because we believe it is a relevant measure in calculating certain credit ratios, since Host LP is the owner of all of our hotels and is the obligor on our debt noted above.
 
Limitations on the Use of FFO per Diluted Share, EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA
 
We calculate FFO per diluted share in accordance with standards established by NAREIT, which may not be comparable to measures calculated by other companies who do not use the NAREIT definition of FFO or calculate FFO per diluted share in accordance with NAREIT guidance. In addition, although FFO per diluted share is a useful measure when comparing our results to other REITs, it may not be helpful to investors when comparing us to non-REITs. EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA, as presented, may also not be comparable to measures calculated by other companies. This information should not be considered as an alternative to net income, operating profit, cash from operations or any other operating performance measure calculated in accordance with GAAP. Cash expenditures for various long-term assets (such as renewal and replacement capital expenditures), interest expense (for EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA purposes only) and other items have been and will be incurred and are not reflected in the EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and FFO per diluted share presentations. Management compensates for these limitations by separately considering the impact of these excluded items to the extent they are material to operating decisions or assessments of our operating performance. Our consolidated statement of operations and cash flows include interest expense, capital expenditures, and other excluded items, all of which should be considered when evaluating our performance, as well as the usefulness of our non-GAAP financial measures. Additionally, FFO per diluted share, EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered as a measure of our liquidity or indicative of funds available to fund our cash needs, including our ability to make cash distributions. In addition, FFO per diluted share does not measure, and should not be used as a measure of, amounts that accrue directly to stockholders' benefit.
 
Comparable Hotel Operating Results
 
We present certain operating results for our full-service hotels, such as hotel revenues, expenses and adjusted operating profit (and the related margin), on a comparable hotel, or "same store," basis as supplemental information for investors. Our comparable hotel results present operating results for full-service hotels owned during the entirety of the periods being compared without giving effect to any acquisitions or dispositions, significant property damage or large scale capital improvements incurred during these periods. We present these comparable hotel operating results by eliminating corporate-level costs and expenses related to our capital structure, as well as depreciation and amortization. We eliminate corporate-level costs and expenses to arrive at property-level results because we believe property-level results provide investors with supplemental information into the ongoing operating performance of our hotels. We eliminate depreciation and amortization because, even though depreciation and amortization are
 
 
 
property-level expenses, these non-cash expenses, which are based on historical cost accounting for real estate assets, implicitly assume that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time. As noted earlier, because real estate values have historically risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors have considered presentation of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient by themselves.
 
As a result of the elimination of corporate-level costs and expenses and depreciation and amortization, the comparable hotel operating results we present do not represent our total revenues, expenses, operating profit or operating profit margin and should not be used to evaluate our performance as a whole. Management compensates for these limitations by separately considering the impact of these excluded items to the extent they are material to operating decisions or assessments of our operating performance. Our consolidated statements of operations include such amounts, all of which should be considered by investors when evaluating our performance.
 
We present these hotel operating results on a comparable hotel basis because we believe that doing so provides investors and management with useful information for evaluating the period-to-period performance of our hotels and facilitates comparisons with other hotel REITs and hotel owners. In particular, these measures assist management and investors in distinguishing whether increases or decreases in revenues and/or expenses are due to growth or decline of operations at comparable hotels (which represent the vast majority of our portfolio) or from other factors, such as the effect of acquisitions or dispositions. While management believes that presentation of comparable hotel results is a "same store" supplemental measure that provides useful information in evaluating our ongoing performance, this measure is not used to allocate resources or to assess the operating performance of each of these hotels, as these decisions are based on data for individual hotels and are not based on comparable hotel results. For these reasons, we believe that comparable hotel operating results, when combined with the presentation of GAAP operating profit, revenues and expenses, provide useful information to investors and management.
 


