FILE:HST/HST-8K-20050106164557.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
On December 31, 2004, Host Marriott Corporation adopted an amendment and restatement of the Host Marriott Corporation Non-Employee Directors' Deferred Stock Compensation Plan (the "Directors' Plan"). The Directors' Plan is a non-qualified deferred compensation plan pursuant to which participants may elect to defer receipt of compensation. The Directors' Plan was amended and restated to comply with the requirements of new Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code and to eliminate cash investment options. All fees deferred under the Directors' Plan will be deemed invested in stock equivalent units.
 
On December 31, 2004, Host Marriott, L.P. adopted an amendment and restatement of the Host Marriott, L.P. Executive Deferred Compensation Plan (the "Executive Plan") and approved entering into a model trust agreement with T. Rowe Price Trust Company in order to establish a "rabbi" trust for purposes of the Executive Plan. The Executive Plan is a non-qualified deferred compensation plan pursuant to which participants may elect to defer receipt of compensation. The Executive Plan was amended and restated to comply with the requirements of new Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code and to limit eligibility to participate to only executives at the senior vice president level and above, which includes executive officers.
 
 
 
The following exhibits are filed herewith.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

 
Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
WHEREAS, Host Marriott Corporation sponsors the Host Marriott Corporation Non-Employee Directors' Deferred Stock Compensation Plan (the Plan); and
 
WHEREAS, HMC desires to amend and restate the Plan to comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, Host Marriott Corporation hereby adopts this amendment and restatement of the Plan as provided herein, effective as of January 1, 2005.
 
 
The Host Marriott Corporation Non-Employee Directors' Deferred Stock Compensation Plan (the "Plan") is intended to advance the interests of Host Marriott Corporation and its shareholders by providing a means to attract and retain highly-qualified persons to serve as non-employee Directors and to promote ownership by non-employee Directors of a greater proprietary interest in Host Marriott Corporation, thereby aligning such Directors' interests more closely with the interests of shareholders of Host Marriott Corporation.
1.1
Purpose
.
 
This amendment and restatement of the Plan shall become effective as of January 1, 2005.
1.2
Effective Date.
 
 
The following terms shall be defined as set forth below:
 
2.1 "Board" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
 
2.2 "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended and the regulations issued thereunder.
 
2.3 "Committee" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.1.
 
2.4 "Company" means Host Marriott Corporation, a Maryland corporation, or any successor thereto.
 
2.5 "Contribution Date" means the Contribution Date as defined in the Employee Benefits and Other Employment Matters Allocation Agreement between Host Marriott Corporation, Host Marriott, L.P. and Crestline Capital Corporation.
 
2.6 "Deferral Date" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.4.
 
2.7 "Director" means any individual who is a member of the Board.
 
2.8 "Director Stock Awards" means the stock awards described in Article VII of this Plan.
 
2.9 "Disability" means that a Participant (i) is unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than twelve months, or (ii) is, by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than twelve months, receiving income replacement benefits for a period of not less than three months under an accident and health plan covering employees of the Participant's employer.
 
2.10 "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. References to any provision of the Exchange Act include rules thereunder and successor provisions and rules thereto.
 
2.11 "Fair Market Value" means the average of the highest and lowest quoted selling prices for the Shares on the relevant date, or (if there were no sales on such date) the average so computed on the nearest day before and the nearest day after the relevant date, as reported in The Wall Street Journal or a similar publication selected by the Committee.
 
2.12 "Fees" means all or part of any retainer and/or fees payable to a non-employee Director in his or her capacity as a Director.
 
2.13 "Participant" means a Director who is not employed by the Company or its affiliates and who is approved by the Board to participate in this Plan.
 
2.14 "Plan" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.1.
 
2.15 "Secretary" means the Corporate Secretary or any Assistant Corporate Secretary of the Company.
 
2.16 "Separation from Service" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 409A of the Code.
 
2.17 "Shares" means shares of the common stock of Company, par value $1.00 per share, for the period before the Contribution Date, and shares of the Company, par value $0.01 per share, for the period beginning on or after the Contribution Date.
 
2.18 "Special One-Time Director Stock Awards" means the stock awards described in Article IX of this Plan.
 
2.19 "Stock Units" means the credits to a Participant's Stock Unit Account under Article VI of this Plan, each of which represents the right to receive one Share upon settlement of the Stock Unit Account.
 
2.20 "Stock Unit Account" means the bookkeeping account established by the Company pursuant to Section 6.4.
 
2.21 "Year of Service" means service as a Director for a twelve (12) consecutive month period commencing on the date on which the Director is first elected or appointed to the Board of Directors.
 
 
Subject to adjustment as provided in Article XII, the maximum number of Shares that may be distributed in settlement of Stock Unit Accounts under this Plan shall not exceed 500,000. Such Shares may include authorized but unissued Shares or treasury Shares.
 
 
4.1 This Plan shall be administered by the Board's Compensation Policy Committee (the "Committee"), or such other committee which shall be composed of "Non-Employee Directors" within the meaning of Rule 16b-3 under the Exchange Act as may be designated by the Board. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Director who is a Participant under this Plan shall participate in any determination relating solely or primarily to his or her own Shares, Stock Units or Stock Unit Account.
 
4.2 It shall be the duty of the Committee to administer this Plan in accordance with its provisions and to make such recommendations of amendments or otherwise as it deems necessary or appropriate.
 
4.3 The Committee shall have the authority to make all determinations it deems necessary or advisable for administering this Plan, subject to the limitations in Section 4.1 and other explicit provisions of this Plan.
 
 
5.1 Each Director who is not an employee of the Company or its affiliates shall be eligible to defer Fees under Article VI of this Plan and to receive Director Stock Awards under Article VII of this Plan.
 
5.2 If such Director subsequently becomes an employee of the Company (or any of its subsidiaries), but does not incur a Separation from Service, such Director shall (a) continue as a Participant with respect to Fees previously deferred and (b) cease eligibility with respect to all future Fees, if any, earned while an employee and with respect to any further Director Stock Awards.
 
5.3 This Section 5.3 shall be effective as of the date the ownership limit of Article VIII of Host Marriott Corporation's Articles of Amendment and Restatement of Articles of Incorporation become effective. Notwithstanding any other provision to the contrary, a Director shall not be eligible to participate in the Plan and shall cease to be a Participant, to the extent such Director was a Participant immediately before the application of this Section 5.3 to such Director, if the participation of such Director would violate the ownership limits set forth in Article VIII of Host Marriott Corporation's Articles of Amendment and Restatement of Articles of Incorporation.
 
 
6.1 Each Director may, in lieu of receipt of Fees, defer such Fees in accordance with this Article VI, provided that such Director is eligible under Article V of this Plan to defer such Fees at the date any such Fees are otherwise payable.
General Rule.
 
6.2 Each eligible Director who wishes to defer Fees under this Plan must make an irrevocable written election prior to the start of the calendar year for which the Fees would otherwise be paid; provided, however, that with respect to any election made by a newly-elected or appointed Director, the following special rule shall apply: The election must be made with respect to services to be performed subsequent to the election within 30 days after the date the Director becomes eligible to participate in the Plan. An election by a Director shall be deemed to be continuing and therefore applicable to Fees to be paid in future years unless the Director revokes or changes such election by filing a new election form prior to the start of the calendar year for which the Fees would otherwise be paid or ceases to be a Participant in accordance with Section 5.3.
Timing of Election.
 
6.3 An election shall be made by completing and filing the specified election form with the Secretary of the Company within the period described in Section 6.2. At minimum, the form shall require the Director to specify the following:
Form of Election.
 
(a) a percentage of the Fees to be deferred into the Stock Unit Account; and
 
(b) the manner of settlement in accordance with Section 8.2.
 
In the event Directors' Fees are increased or decreased during any calendar year, a Participant's election in effect for such year will apply to the specified percentage of Fees as increased or decreased.
 
6.4 The Company will establish a Stock Unit Account for each Participant. All Fees deferred pursuant to this Article VI shall be credited to the Participant's Stock Unit Account as of the date the Fees would otherwise have been paid to the Participant (the "Deferral Date") and converted to Stock Units as follows: The number of Stock Units shall equal the deferred Fees divided by the Fair Market Value of a Share on the Deferral Date, with fractional units calculated to at least three (3) decimal places.
Establishment of Stock Unit Account.
 
6.5 As of each dividend payment date with respect to Shares, each Participant shall have credited to his or her Stock Unit Account an additional number of Stock Units equal to (a) the per-share cash dividend payable with respect to a Share on such dividend payment date, (b) multiplied by the number of Stock Units held in the Stock Unit Account as of the close of business on the record date for such dividend, (c) divided by the Fair Market Value of a Share on such dividend payment date. If dividends are paid on Shares in a form other than cash, then such dividends shall be notionally converted to cash, if their value is readily determinable, and credited in a manner consistent with the foregoing formula and, if their value is not readily determinable, shall be credited "in kind" to the Participant's Stock Unit Account.
Credit of Dividend Equivalents.
 
 
7.1 Effective as of the annual meeting of Shareholders on May 14, 1997, Participants will be entitled to receive an annual Director Stock Award equal to seven hundred and fifty (750) Shares. Commencing with the annual meeting on May 20, 1999, Participants will be entitled to receive, effective immediately following each annual meeting of Shareholders, an annual Director Stock Award equal to the number of Shares derived by dividing (a) the amount of the annual retainer fee to be paid to Participants for the year in question by (b) the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date immediately preceding the date of the annual meeting. Notwithstanding any other provision, however, a Participant shall not be entitled to receive an annual Director Stock Award if such award would violate the ownership limits set forth in Section 5.3.
Qualification and Amount.
 
7.2 A Participant's annual Director Stock Award will be fully vested and nonforfeitable when granted.
Vesting.
 
 
8.1 The Company will settle a Participant's Stock Unit Account in the manner described in Section 8.2 as soon as administratively feasible following notification of such Participant's Separation from Service.
Settlement of Account.
 
8.2 An election filed under Article VI shall specify whether the Participant's Stock Unit Account is to be settled by delivering to the Participant (or his or her beneficiary) the number of Shares equal to the number of whole Stock Units then credited to the Participant's Stock Unit Account, in (a) a lump sum, or (b) substantially equal annual installments over a period not to exceed ten (10) years. If, upon lump sum distribution or final distribution of an installment, less than one whole Stock Unit is credited to a Participant's Stock Unit Account, cash will be paid in lieu of fractional shares on the date of such distribution
Payment Options.
 
8.3 If payment of Stock Units is deferred and paid in installments, the Participant's Stock Unit Account shall continue to be credited with dividend equivalents as provided in Section 6.5.
Continuation of Dividend Equivalents.
 
8.4 If any "in kind" dividends were credited to the Participant's Stock Unit Account under Section 6.5, such dividends shall be payable to the Participant in full on the date of the first distribution of Shares under Section 8.2.
In Kind Dividends.
 
8.5 The Company will convert Director Stock Awards into Shares upon a Participant's Termination of Service. The Company will distribute Director Stock Awards, pursuant to the Participant's written, irrevocable election submitted in advance of the grant of each Director Stock Award, in either (a) one lump-sum distribution or (b) substantially equal annual installments over a ten (10) year period.
Conversion and Payment of Director Stock Awards.
 
8.6 A Participant will have voting and dividend rights with respect to the Shares attributable to the conversion of Director Stock Awards once converted in accordance with Section 8.5 whether or not some or all of the Shares have been distributed to the Participant.
Voting and Dividend Rights.
 
 
9.1 Subject to Section 9.2, Participants who are Directors as of May 1, 1997, will receive a Special One-Time Director Stock Award as follows:
Special One-Time Director Stock Awards.
 
 
9.2 An eligible Participant's Special One-Time Director Stock Award will become vested and nonforfeitable with respect to ten percent (10%) of the Special One-Time Director Stock Award for each Year of Service completed by such Participant, including Years of Service prior to the date of grant of the Special One-Time Director Stock Award. A Participant's Special One-Time Director Stock Award will become fully vested and nonforfeitable upon the Participant's death or Disability.
Vesting.
 
9.3 The Company will convert Special One-Time Director Stock Awards into Shares upon an eligible Participant's Separation from Service. The Company will distribute Special One-Time Director Stock Awards, pursuant to the Participant's written, irrevocable election submitted to the Secretary of the Company by May 14, 1997, in either (a) one lump-sum distribution or (b) substantially equal annual installments over a ten (10) year period.
Conversion and Payment of Special One-Time Director Stock Awards.
 
 
The interest of each Participant in any Fees deferred under this Plan (and any Stock Units or Stock Unit Account relating thereto) or in any Director Stock Award or in any Special One-Time Director Stock Award shall be that of a general creditor of the Company. Stock Unit Accounts, and Stock Units (and, if any, "in kind" dividends) credited thereto, Director Stock Awards and Special One-Time Director Stock Awards shall at all times be maintained by the Company as bookkeeping entries evidencing unfunded and unsecured general obligations of the Company.
 
 
Each Participant may designate, on a form provided by the Committee, one or more beneficiaries to receive the Shares described in Sections 8.2, 8.5 or 9.3 in the event of such Participant's death. The Company may rely upon the beneficiary designation last filed with the Committee, provided that such form was executed by the Participant or his or her legal representative and filed with the Committee prior to the Participant's death.
 
 
In the event any recapitalization, reorganization, merger, consolidation, spin-off, combination, repurchase, exchange of shares or other securities of the Company, stock split or reverse split, or similar corporate transaction or event affects Shares such that an adjustment is determined by the Board or Committee to be appropriate to prevent dilution or enlargement of Participants' rights under this Plan, then the Board or Committee will make an adjustment, if any, determined in its sole discretion to be appropriate or necessary, in the number or kind of Shares to be delivered upon settlement of Stock Unit Accounts, Director Stock Awards or Special One-Time Director Stock Awards under Articles VIII or IX.
 
 
It is the intent of the Company that this Plan comply in all respects with applicable provisions of Rule l6b-3 under the Exchange Act in the connection with the deferral of Fees so that Participants will be entitled to the benefits of Rule 16b-3 or other exemptive rules under Section 16 of the Exchange Act and will not be subjected to avoidable liability thereunder. Any contrary interpretation of the Plan shall be avoided.
 
 
14.1 Nothing contained in this Plan will confer upon any Participant any right to continue to serve as a Director.
No Right to Continue as a Director.
 
14.2 Except for dividend equivalents under Section 6.5 and voting and dividend rights under Section 8.6, nothing contained in this Plan will confer upon any Participant any rights of a shareholder of the Company unless and until Shares are in fact converted, issued or transferred to such Participant in accordance with Article VIII.
No Shareholder Rights Conferred.
 
14.3 The Board may amend, alter, suspend, discontinue or terminate the Plan without the consent of shareholders or Participants, except that any such action will be subject to the approval of the Company's shareholders at the next annual meeting of shareholders having a record date after the date such action was taken if such shareholder approval is required by any federal or state law or regulation or the rules of any stock exchange or automated quotation system on which the Shares may then be listed or quoted or if the Board determines in its discretion to seek such shareholder approval. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Plan, if and to the extent the Company shall determine that the terms of the Plan may result in the failure of the Plan, or amounts deferred by or for any Participant under the Plan, to comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code, or any applicable regulations or guidance promulgated by the Secretary of the Treasury in connection therewith, the Company shall have authority to take such action to amend, modify, cancel or terminate the Plan or distribute any or all of the amounts deferred by or for a Participant, as it deems necessary or advisable, including without limitation:
Change to the Plan.
 
(i) Any amendment or modification of the Plan to conform the Plan to the requirements of Section 409A of the Code or any regulations or other guidance thereunder (including, without limitation, any amendment or modification of the terms of any applicable to any Participant's Accounts regarding the timing or form of payment).
 
(ii) Immediate payment to the Participant of the amount otherwise payable to such Participant.
 
Any such amendment, modification, cancellation, or termination of the Plan may adversely affect the rights of a Participant without the Participant's consent.
 
14.4 The consideration for Shares issued or delivered in lieu of payment of Fees will be the Director's service during the period to which the Fees paid in the form of Shares related.
Consideration.
 
14.5 The Company will not be obligated to issue or deliver Shares in connection with this Plan in a transaction subject to the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or any other federal or state securities or tax law, any requirement under any listing agreement between the Company and any national securities exchange or automated quotation system or any other laws, regulations, the Company's Articles of Amendment and Restatement of Articles of Incorporation, or contractual obligations of the Company, until the Company is satisfied that such laws, regulations and other obligations of the Company have been complied with in full. Certificates representing Shares delivered under the Plan will be subject to such stop-transfer orders and other restrictions as may be applicable under such laws, regulations and other obligations of the Company, including any requirement that a legend or legends be placed thereon.
Compliance with Laws and Obligations.
 
14.6 Stock Units, Director Stock Awards, Special One-Time Director Stock Awards and any other right under the Plan that may constitute a "derivative security' as generally defined in Rule 16a-l(c) under the Exchange Act will not be transferable by a Participant except by will or the laws of descent and distribution (or to a designated beneficiary in the event of a Participant's death); provided, however, that such rights may be transferred to one or more trusts or other beneficiaries during the lifetime of the Participant in connection with the Participant's estate planning, but only if and to the extent then permitted under Rule 16b-3 and consistent with the terms of this Plan (including, but not limited to, the requirements of Section 5.3), the registration of the offer and sale of Shares on Form S-8 or a successor registration form of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Stock Units, Director Stock Awards, Special One-Time Director Stock Awards and other rights under the Plan may not be pledged, mortgaged, hypothecated or otherwise encumbered, and shall not be subject to the claims of creditors.
Limitations on Transferability.
 
14.7 The validity, construction and effect of the Plan and any agreement hereunder will be determined in accordance with the Delaware General Corporation Law, to the extent applicable, other laws (including those governing contracts) of the State of Maryland, without giving effect to principles of conflicts of laws, and applicable federal law.
Governing Law.
 
14.8 Unless earlier terminated by action of the Board or Executive Committee of the Board, the Plan will remain in effect until such time as no Shares remain available for delivery under the Plan and the Company has no further rights or obligations under the Plan.
Plan Termination.
 
 
I, the undersigned secretary of Host Marriott Corporation (the "Corporation"), do hereby certify that the attached copy of the Host Marriott Corporation Non-Employee Directors' Deferred Stock Compensation Plan as amended and restated (the "Plan") is a true and correct copy of the Plan and that there have been no amendments or modifications to the Plan that are not reflected in this copy.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and seal of Host Marriott Corporation as of the day of December, 2004.
    
 
 

 
Exhibit 10.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
WHEREAS, Host Marriott, L.P. sponsors the Host Marriott, L.P. Executive Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended and restated January 31, 2002 (the "Plan"); and
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 6.3 of the Plan the Board of Directors reserves the right to amend the Plan at any time; and
 
WHEREAS, as a result of the enactment of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code (as part of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004), it has become necessary to make certain changes to the Plan and desirable to make others; and
 
WHEREAS, Host Marriott, L.P. intends to comply fully with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code, and Treasury regulations to be issued from time to time interpreting the statute; and
 
NOW, THEREFORE, set forth herein are the terms of the Plan, as amended and restated effective January 1, 2005, for the benefit of certain key executives of the Employer. The terms and conditions in effect prior to the effective date of this amended and restated Plan remain in effect with regard to Accounts of Participants that were established prior to the effective date, subject, however, to any modifications that may be necessary or desirable to comply with Treasury regulations to be issued governing the transitioning of plans covered by Code Section 409A.
 
 
 
The name of this Plan is the Host Marriott, L.P. Executive Deferred Compensation Plan (the Plan).
 
 
The purpose of the Plan is to offer Participants the opportunity to defer voluntarily current Compensation for retirement income and other significant future financial needs for themselves, their families and other dependents, and to provide the Employer, if appropriate, a vehicle to address limitations on its contributions under any tax-qualified defined contribution plan. This Plan is intended to be a nonqualified "top-hat" plan; that is, an unfunded plan of deferred compensation maintained for a select group of management or highly compensated employees pursuant to Sections 201(2), 301(a)(3), and 401(a)(1) of ERISA, and an unfunded plan of deferred compensation under the Code.
 
 
Throughout the Plan, certain words and phrases have meanings, which are specifically defined for purposes of the Plan. These words and phrases can be identified in that the first letter of the word or words in the phrase is capitalized. The definitions of these words and phrases are set forth in Article II and elsewhere in the Plan document. Wherever appropriate, pronouns of any gender shall be deemed synonymous, as shall singular and plural pronouns. Headings of Articles and Sections are for convenience or reference only, and are not to be considered in the construction or interpretation of the Plan. The Plan shall be interpreted and administered to give effect to its purpose in Section 1.3 and to qualify as a nonqualified, unfunded plan of deferred compensation. In addition, the Plan is designed to provide a benefit that is not a "contingent", as such term is defined and applied in Treasury Regulation Section 401(k)-1(e)(6), upon a Participant's making elective contributions to the Qualified Retirement Plan. Both the form and the operation of the Plan shall be interpreted to assure compliance with such Regulation, or its successor, as amended from time to time.
 
 
 
Certain words and phrases are defined when first used in later paragraphs of this Agreement. Unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, the following words and phrases when used in this Agreement shall have the following respective meanings:
 
 
"Account" shall mean the interest of a Participant in the Plan as represented by the hypothetical bookkeeping entries kept by the Employer for each Participant. Each Participant's interest may be divided into one or more separate accounts or sub-accounts, including the Participant Deferral Account and the Matching Contribution Account, which reflect not only the Contributions into the Plan, but also gains and losses, and income and expenses allocated thereto, as well as distributions or any other withdrawals. The value of these accounts or sub-accounts shall be determined as of the Valuation Date. The existence of an account or bookkeeping entries for a Participant (or his Designated Beneficiary) does not create, suggest or imply that a Participant, Designated Beneficiary, or other person claiming through them under this Plan, has a beneficial interest in any asset of the Employer.
 
 
"Agreement" shall mean this agreement, together with any and all amendments or restatements thereto.
 
 
"Balance" shall mean the total of Contributions and Deemed Earnings credited to a Participant's Account under Article V, as adjusted for distributions or other withdrawals in accordance with the terms of this Plan and the standard bookkeeping rules established by the Employer.
 
 
"Board Committee" shall mean the Compensation Committee of the Employer's Board of Directors, or such other Committee of the Board as may be delegated with the duty of determining Participant eligibility under the Plan.
 
 
"Board of Directors" or "Board" shall mean the Board of Directors of the Employer.
 
 
"Change of Control" shall have the meaning set forth in Code Section 409A.
 
 
"Code" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and the regulations issued thereunder, as amended from time to time.
 
 
"Committee" shall mean the person or persons described in Article VIII who are charged with the day-to-day administration and operation of the Plan.
 
 
"Compensation" shall mean the base or regular cash salary payable to an Employee by the Employer, as well as incentives or bonuses payable to an Employee by the Employer, commissions payable to an Employee by the Employer, including any such amounts which are not includible in the Participant's gross income under Sections 125, 401(k), 402(h) or 403(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
 
 
"Contributions" shall mean the total of Participant Deferrals and Matching Contributions pursuant to Article IV, which represent each Participant's credits to his Account.
 
 
"Deemed Earnings" shall mean the gains and losses (realized and unrealized), and income and expenses credited or debited to Contributions based upon the Deemed Crediting Options in a Participant's Account as of any Valuation Date.
 
 
"Deemed Crediting Options" shall mean the hypothetical options made available to Plan Participants by the Employer for the purposes of determining the proper crediting of gains and losses, and income and expenses to each Participant's Account, subject to procedures and requirements established by the Committee. A Participant may reallocate his Account among such Deemed Crediting Options periodically at such frequency and upon such terms as the Committee may determine from time to time.
 
 
"Deferral Election Form" or "Annual Deferral Election Form" shall mean that written agreement of a Participant. The Deferral Election Form shall be in such form or forms as may be prescribed by the Committee, filed annually with the Employer, according to procedures and at such times as established by the Committee. Among other information the Committee may require of the Participant for proper administration of the Plan, such agreement shall establish the Participant's election to defer Compensation for a Plan Year under the Plan; the amount of the deferral into the
 
Plan for the Plan Year; the Participant's elections as to distribution of his Account, and the allocation of his Accounts among the Deemed Crediting Options provided under the Plan; and the Designated Beneficiary.
 
 
"Designated Beneficiary" or "Beneficiary" shall mean the person, persons or trust specifically named to be a direct or contingent recipient of all or a portion of a Participant's benefits under the Plan in the event of the Participant's death prior to the distribution of his full Account Balance. Such designation of a recipient or recipients may be made and amended, at the Participant's discretion, on the Deferral Election Form and according to procedures established by the Committee. No beneficiary designation or change of Beneficiary shall become effective until received and acknowledged by the Employer. In the event a Participant does not have a beneficiary properly designated, the beneficiary under this Plan shall be the Participant's estate.
 
 
"Disability" shall have the meaning set forth in Code Section 409A.
 
 
"Effective Date" of the Plan, as amended and restated, shall mean January 1, 2005.
 
 
"Eligible Employee" shall mean a person who (for any Plan Year or portion thereof) is: (1) an Employee of the Employer; (2) subject to US income tax laws; (3) a member of a select group of management or a highly compensated employee of the Employer; and (4) an executive having a title of Executive or Senior Vice President or higher with Compensation in excess of $210,000 annually, which such amount may be adjusted from time to time by the Committee to reflect cost of living increases.
 
 
"Employee" shall mean a full time common law employee of the Employer.
 
 
"Employer" shall mean Host Marriott, L.P. and any corporate successors and assigns, unless otherwise provided herein.
 
 
"ERISA" shall mean the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time.
 
 
"Key Employee" shall mean any Participant who is (i) one of the top-fifty most highly compensated officers with annual compensation in excess of $130,000 (as adjusted from time to time by Treasury regulations); (ii) a five percent owner of the Employer; or (iii) a one percent owner of the Employer with annual compensation in excess of $150,000 (as adjusted from time to time by Treasury regulations) of a publicly traded corporation.
 
 
"Leave of Absence" shall mean a period of time, not to exceed twelve (12) consecutive calendar months during which time a Participant shall not be an active Employee of the Employer, but shall be treated for purposes of this Plan as in continuous service with the Employer. A Leave of Absence may be either paid or unpaid, but must be agreed to in writing by both the Employer and the Participant. Unless otherwise required by Code Section 409A a Leave Of Absence that continues beyond the twelve (12) consecutive months shall be treated as a Separation from Service as of the first business day of the thirteenth month for purposes of the Plan.
 
 
"Matching Contribution" shall mean an amount credited to a Participant's Account in accordance with Section 4.4.
 
 
"Matching Contribution Account" shall mean that portion of a Participant's Account established to record Matching Contributions on behalf of a Participant.
 
 
"Participant" shall mean an Eligible Employee who participates in the Plan under Article III; a former Eligible Employee who has participated in the Plan and continues to be entitled to a benefit (in the form of an undistributed Account Balance) under the Plan, and any former Eligible Employee who has participated in the Plan under Article III and has not yet exceeded any Leave of Absence.
 
 
"Participant Deferral" shall mean voluntary Participant deferral amounts, which could have been received currently but for the election to defer and are credited to his Account for later distribution, subject to the terms of the Plan.
 
 
"Participant Deferral Account" shall mean that portion of a Participant's Account established to record Participant Deferrals on behalf of a Participant.
 
 
"Performance-Based Compensation" shall mean compensation that is (i) variable and contingent on the satisfaction of pre-established organizational or individual performance criteria; (ii) not readily ascertainable at the time; and (iii) based on services performed over a period of at least twelve months.
 
 
"Plan Year" shall mean the twelve (12) consecutive month period constituting a calendar year, beginning on January 1 and ending on December 31. However, in any partial year of the Plan that does not begin on January 1, "Plan Year" shall also mean the remaining partial year ending on December 31.
 
 
"Qualified Retirement Plan" shall mean the Retirement and Savings Plan and Trust sponsored by the Employer.
 
 
"Separation from Service" shall mean a Participant's separation from service as an Employee with the Employer as defined in Code Section 409A, other than for death, or Disability, or Leave of Absence. A transfer of employment within and among the Employer and any member of a controlled group, as provided in Code Section 409A(d)(6), shall not be deemed a Separation from Service.
 
 
"Unforeseeable Emergency" shall mean a severe financial hardship to the Participant, the Participant's spouse, or a dependent (as defined in Section 152(a) of the Code) of the participant, loss of the Participant's property due to casualty, or other similar extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances arising as a result of events beyond the control of the Participant as defined by Code Section 409A.
 
 
"Valuation Date" shall mean the close of each business day, as established and amended from time to time by guidelines and procedures of the Committee in its sole and exclusive discretion.
 
 
 
Only an Eligible Employee may become a Participant in this Plan. Moreover, a Participant shall not be permitted to make new Participant Deferrals to the Plan, if he ceases to be an Eligible Employee because he is no longer a member a select group of management or highly compensated employees, or otherwise. The Board Committee shall notify an Eligible Employee of his eligibility for a Plan Year in such form as it may determine most appropriate. Current Participants remain eligible until notified otherwise.
 
 
An Eligible Employee shall become a Participant in the Plan by the completion and timely filing with and subsequent acceptance by, the Employer of the Deferral Election Form, in such form and according to the terms and conditions established by the Committee. A Participant (or any Designated Beneficiary who becomes entitled) remains a Participant as to his Account until his Account Balance is fully distributed under the terms of the Plan.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The initial Deferral Election Form of a new Participant shall be filed with the Employer on a date established by the Committee, but in any event not later than 30 days following the date the Participant becomes eligible to participate in the Plan and only with respect to services to be performed subsequent to the election. Such first Deferral Election Form shall be applicable to a Participant's Compensation beginning with the first payroll in the month after such Form is filed and accepted by the Employer.
 
 
An election in a Deferral Election Form to defer Compensation for a Plan Year, once made by a Participant, shall be irrevocable. The Committee, however, shall reduce or eliminate Participant Deferrals upon granting a Participant's request for a distribution based upon an Unforeseeable Emergency.
 
 
The Employer shall accrue as a Matching Contribution in a Participant's Account an amount equal to $.50 for each $1.00 deferred under the Plan, up to a maximum of six percent (6%) of Compensation, less the amount of Employer matching contributions credited to the Participant's account in the Qualified Retirement Plan. The Committee, in its sole discretion, from time to time may limit the dollar amount of deferred Compensation that shall be taken into account for purposes of a Matching Contribution.
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Committee shall establish a portfolio of two or more Deemed Crediting Options, among which a Participant may allocate amounts credited to his Account, which are subject to Participant direction under this Plan. The Committee reserves the right, in its sole and exclusive discretion, to substitute, eliminate and otherwise change this portfolio of Deemed Crediting Options, as well as the right to establish rules and procedures for the selection and offering of these Deemed Crediting Options.
 
 
 
 
 
The Participant's Account will be valued on the Valuation Date at fair market value. On such date, Deemed Earnings will be allocated to each Participant's Account. Each Participant and Designated Beneficiary assumes the risk in connection with any decrease in the fair market value of his Account.
 
 
By deferring compensation pursuant to the Plan, each Participant hereby agrees that the Employer and Committee are in no way responsible for or guarantor of the investment results of the Participant's Account. The Committee shall have no duty to review, or to advise the Participant on, the investment of the Participant's Account; and in fact, shall not review or advise the Participant thereon. Furthermore, the Committee shall have no power to direct the investment of the Participant's Account other than promptly to carry out the Participant's deemed investment instructions when properly completed and transmitted to the Committee and accepted according to its rules and procedures.
 
 
 
A Participant shall be fully vested at all times in Participant Deferrals, as well as Deemed Earnings upon Participant Deferrals, credited to his Participant Deferral Account.
 
 
A Participant shall vest ratably in Matching Contributions, as well as Deemed Earnings upon Matching Contributions, credited to his Matching Contribution Account in accordance with the vesting schedule of the Qualified Retirement Plan. Vesting credit for Years of Service shall be determined in accordance with the methods used by the Qualified Retirement Plan.
 
Notwithstanding the above schedule, a Participant shall become fully vested in his Matching Contribution Account upon death, Disability or Change of Control. Upon Separation from Service, a Participant shall be entitled to the vested portion of his Matching Contribution Account, and any non-vested portion shall be forfeited.
 
 
 
A Participant's Account shall be distributed only in accordance with the provisions of this Article VII. All distributions from Accounts under the Plan shall be made in cash in American currency.
 
 
 
 
 
 
A Participant shall become entitled to receive a distribution from his Account at such time or times and by such method of payment as elected and specified in the Participant's applicable annual Deferral Election Form, and/or as may be mandated by the provisions of this Article VII based upon the following distribution options:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A Participant may request that all or a portion of his Account be distributed at any time prior to Separation from Service from the Employer by submitting a written request to the Committee, provided that the Participant has incurred an Unforeseeable Emergency, and the distribution is necessary to alleviate such Unforeseeable Emergency.
 
Such distribution shall be limited to an amount that does not exceed the amount necessary to
satisfy such emergency, plus amounts necessary to pay taxes reasonably anticipated as a result of the distribution, after taking into account the extent to which such hardship is or may be relieved through reimbursement or compensation by insurance or otherwise or by liquidation of the Participant's assets (to the extent the liquidation of such assets would not itself cause severe financial hardship). Such distribution shall be made as soon as administratively practicable. The Balance not distributed from the Participant's Account shall remain in the Plan. Such distributions will be made in compliance with Code Section 409A.
 
 
If at any time the value of the Participant's Account is less than $5,000 (or such other greater or lesser amount as may be specified as "minimal" under Treasury regulations), the Committee, in its sole and exclusive discretion, may make a distribution in lump sum of the value of the entire Account. If the value of a Participant's Account is zero upon the Valuation Date of any distribution, the Participant shall be deemed to have received a distribution of such Account and his participation in the Plan terminates. Provided, however, no distribution will be made to the extent such distribution would violate the requirements of Code Section 409A.
 
 
 
The Employer shall have overall responsibility for the establishment, amendment, termination, administration, and operation of the Plan. The Employer shall discharge this responsibility by the appointment and removal (with or without cause) of the members of the Committee, to which is delegated overall responsibility for administering, managing and operating the Plan.
 
 
The Committee shall consist of one or more members who shall be appointed by, and may be removed by, the Employer, and one of whom (who must be an officer of the Employer) shall be designated by the Employer as Chairman of the Committee. In the absence of such appointment, the Employer shall serve as the Committee. The Committee shall consist of officers or other Employees of the Employer, or any other persons who shall serve at the request of the Employer. Any member of the Committee may resign by delivering a written resignation to the Employer and to the Committee, and this resignation shall become effective upon the date specified therein. The members of the Committee shall serve at the will of the Employer, and the Employer may from time to time remove any Committee member with or without cause and appoint their successors. In the event of a vacancy in membership, the remaining members shall constitute the Committee with full order to act.
 
 
The Committee shall be the "Administrator" and "Named Fiduciary" only to the extent required by ERISA for top-hat plans and shall have the complete control and authority to enforce the Plan on behalf of any and all persons having or claiming any interest in the Plan in accordance with its terms. The Committee, in its sole and absolute discretion, shall interpret the Plan and shall determine all questions arising in the administration and application of the Plan. Any such interpretation by the Committee shall be final, conclusive and binding on all persons.
 
 
The Committee shall act by a majority of its members at the time in office. Committee action may be taken either by a vote at a meeting or by written consent without a meeting. The Committee may authorize any one or more of its members to execute any document or documents on behalf of the Committee. The Committee shall notify the Employer, in writing, of such authorization and the name or names of its member or members so designated in such cases. The Employer thereafter shall accept and rely on any documents executed by said member of the Committee or members as representing action by the Committee until the Committee shall file with the Employer a written revocation of such designation. The Committee may adopt such by-laws and regulations, as it deems desirable for the proper conduct of the Plan and to change or amend these by-laws and regulations from time to time. With the permission of the Employer, the Committee may employ and appropriately compensate accountants, legal counsel, benefit specialists, actuaries, plan administrators and record keepers and any other persons as it deems necessary or
 
desirable in connection with the administration and maintenance of the Plan. Such professionals and advisors shall not be considered members of the Committee for any purpose.
 
 
 
 
 
The Committee shall be entitled to rely upon certificates, reports, and opinions provided by an accountant, tax or pension advisor, actuary or legal counsel employed by the Employer or Committee. The Committee shall keep a record of all its proceedings and acts, and shall keep all such books of account, records, and other data as may be necessary for the proper administration of the Plan. The regularly kept records of the Committee and the Employer shall be conclusive evidence of the service of a Participant, Compensation, age, marital status, status as an Employee, and all other matters contained therein and relevant to this Plan. The Committee, in any of its dealings with Participants hereunder, may conclusively rely on any Deferral Election Form, written statement, representation, or documents made or provided by such Participants.
 
 
All the costs and expenses for maintaining the administration and operation of the Plan shall be borne by the Employer unless the Employer shall give notice (that Plan Participants bear this expense, in whole or in part) to: (a) Eligible Participants at the time they become a Participant by completion and filing of a Deferral Election Form; or (b) to existing Participants during annual re-enrollment. Such notice shall detail the administrative expense to be assessed a Plan Participant, how that expense will be assessed and allocated to the Participant Accounts, and any other important information concerning the imposition of this administrative expense. This
 
administration charge, if any, shall operate as a reduction to the bookkeeping Account of a Participant or his designated Beneficiary, and in the absence of specification otherwise shall reduce the Account, and be charged annually during the month of January.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It shall only be necessary to join the Employer as a party in any action or judicial proceeding affecting the Plan. No Participant or Designated Beneficiary or any other person claiming under the Plan shall be entitled to service of process or notice of such action or proceeding, except as may be expressly required by law. Any final judgment in such action or proceeding shall be binding on all Participants, Designated Beneficiaries or persons claiming under the Plan.
 
 
 
The Employer by action of its Board of Directors, or duly authorized Committee thereof, in accordance with its by-laws, reserves the right to amend the Plan, by resolution of the Employer, to the extent permitted under the Code and ERISA. However, no amendment to the Plan shall be effective to the extent that it has the effect of decreasing a Participant's (or Designated Beneficiary's) accrued benefit prior to the date of the amendment.
 
 
Notwithstanding Section 9.1, the Plan may be amended at any time, if in the opinion of the Employer, such amendment is necessary to ensure the Plan is treated as a nonqualified plan of deferred compensation under the Code and ERISA, or to bring it into conformance with Treasury or SEC regulations or requirements for such plans. This includes the right to amend this Plan, so that any Trust, if applicable, created in conjunction with this Plan, will be treated as a grantor Trust under Sections 671 through 679 of the Code, and to otherwise conform the Plan provisions and such Trust, if applicable, to the requirements of any applicable law. Additionally, if and to the extent the Company shall determine that the terms of the Plan may result in the failure of the Plan, or amounts deferred by or for any Participant under the Plan, to comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code, or any applicable regulations or guidance promulgated by the Secretary of the Treasury in connection therewith, the Company shall have authority to take such action to amend, modify, cancel or terminate the Plan or distribute any or all of the amounts deferred by or for a Participant, as it deems necessary or advisable, including without limitation:
 
(i) Any amendment or modification of the Plan to conform the Plan to the requirements of Section 409A of the Code or any regulations or other guidance thereunder (including, without limitation, any amendment or modification of the terms of any applicable to any Participant's Accounts regarding the timing or form of payment).
 
(ii) Immediate payment to the Participant of the amount otherwise payable to such Participant.
 
Any such amendment, modification, cancellation, or termination of the Plan may adversely affect the rights of a Participant without the Participant's consent.
 
 
The Employer intends to continue the Plan indefinitely. However, the Employer by action of its Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee thereof, in accordance with its by-laws, reserves the right to terminate the Plan at any time. However, no such termination shall deprive any participant or Designated Beneficiary of a right accrued under the Plan prior to the date of termination.
 
 
The Employer shall not enter into any consolidation or merger without the guarantee and assurance of the successor or surviving company or companies to the obligations contained under the Plan. Should such consolidation or merger occur, the term "Employer" as defined and used in this Agreement shall refer to the successor or surviving company.
 
 
 
Except insofar as the law has been superseded by Federal law, Maryland law shall govern the construction, validity and administration of this Plan as created by this Agreement. The parties to this Agreement intend that this Plan shall be a nonqualified unfunded plan of deferred compensation without plan assets and any ambiguities in its construction shall be resolved in favor of an interpretation which will effect this intention.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Benefits which may become payable during the pendency of such an action shall, at the sole discretion of the Employer, either be:
 
 
 
 
The Plan is not and shall not be deemed to constitute a contract between the Employer and any Employee, or to be a consideration for, or an inducement to, or a condition of, the employment of any Employee. Nothing contained in the Plan shall give or be deemed to give an Employee the right to remain in the employment of the Employer or to interfere with the right to be retained in the employ of the Employer, any legal or equitable right against the Employer, or to interfere with the right of the Employer to discharge any Employee at any time. It is expressly understood by the parties hereto that this Agreement relates to the payment of deferred compensation for the Employee's services, generally payable after separation from employment with the Employer, and is not intended to be an employment contract.
 
 
Any communication, benefit payment, statement of notice addressed to a Participant or Designated Beneficiary at the last post office address as shown on the Employer's records shall be binding on the Participant or Designated Beneficiary for all purposes of the Plan. The Employer shall not be obligated to search for any Participant or Designated Beneficiary beyond sending a registered letter to such last known address.
 
 
The Plan as contained in the provisions of this Agreement constitutes the entire Agreement between the parties. If any provision or provisions of the Plan shall for any reason be invalid or unenforceable, the remaining provisions of the Plan shall be carried into effect, unless the effect thereof would be to materially alter or defeat the purposes of the Plan. All terms of the plan and all discretion granted hereunder shall be uniformly and consistently applied to all the Employees, Participants and Designated Beneficiaries.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be deemed to create a trust of any kind or create any fiduciary relationship between the Employer and the Participant, Designated Beneficiary, other beneficiaries of the Participant, or any other person claiming through the Participant. Funds allocated hereunder shall continue for all purposes to be part of the general assets and funds of the Employer and no person other than the Employer shall, by virtue of the provisions of this Plan, have any beneficial interest in such assets and funds. The creation of a grantor Trust (so called "Rabbi Trust") under the Code (owned by and for the benefit of the Employer) to hold such assets or funds for the administrative convenience of the Employer shall not give nor be a representation to a Participant, Designated Beneficiary, or any other person, of a property or beneficial ownership interest in such Trust assets or funds even though the incidental advantages or benefits of the Trust to Plan Participants may be communicated to them.
 
 
Neither the establishment of the Plan nor any modification hereof nor the creation of any Account under the Plan nor the payment of any benefits under the Plan shall be construed as giving to any Participant or any other person any legal or equitable right against the Employer or any Director, officer or Employee thereof except as provided by law or by any Plan provision.
 
 
This Agreement is solely between the Employer and Participant. The Participant, Designated Beneficiary, estate or any other person claiming through the Participant, shall only have recourse against the Employer for enforcement of this Agreement. This Agreement shall be binding upon
 
and inure to the benefit of the Employer and its successors and assigns, and the Participant, successors, heirs, executors, administrators and beneficiaries.
 
 
The benefits payable under this Agreement are for services already rendered and shall be independent of, and in addition to, any other benefits or compensation, whether by salary, bonus, fees or otherwise, payable to the Participant under any compensation and/or benefit arrangements or plans, incentive cash compensations and stock plans and other retirement or welfare benefit plans, that now exist or may hereafter exist from time to time.
 
 
Except as may be required by law, the Employer may take any of the following actions if it gives notice to a Participant or Designated Beneficiary of an entitlement to benefits under the Plan, and the Participant or Designated Beneficiary fails to claim such benefit or fails to provide their location to the Employer within three (3) calendar years of such notice:
 
 
 
The Employer shall not be liable to any person for payment pursuant to applicable state unclaimed property laws.
 
 
The Employer shall withhold and report Federal, state and local income and payroll tax amounts on all Contributions to and distributions and withdrawals from a Participant's Account as may be required by law from time to time.
 

 
EXHIBIT 10.3
 
 
THIS TRUST AGREEMENT is made by and between , a corporation (the ), and T. ROWE PRICE TRUST COMPANY, a Maryland limited purpose trust company (the ).
                                        
                    
"Employer"
"Trustee"
 
 
WHEREAS, the Employer has established the (the ) to provide deferred compensation benefits for a select group of its management or highly compensated employees;
                                        
"Plan"
 
WHEREAS, the Employer has incurred or expects to incur liability under the terms of the Plan with respect to the participants of the Plan and their beneficiaries (collectively referred to as );
"Trust Beneficiaries"
 
WHEREAS, it is the intention of the Employer to make contributions to a trust to provide it with a source of funds to assist it in meeting some or all of its liabilities under the Plan;
 
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants herein contained, the Employer and the Trustee declare and agree as follows:
 
 
1.1 The Employer hereby establishes with the Trustee a trust to accept such sums of money and other property acceptable to the Trustee as from time to time shall be paid or delivered to the Trustee (the ). All such money and other property, all investments and reinvestments made therewith or proceeds thereof and all earnings and profits thereon, less all payments and charges as authorized herein, are hereinafter referred to as the (). The Trust Fund shall be held, administered and disposed of by the Trustee in accordance with the provisions of this Trust Agreement.
"Trust"
"Trust Fund"
 
1.2 It is the intention of the parties that this Trust shall constitute an unfunded arrangement and shall not affect the status of the Plan as an unfunded plan for purposes of Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (). This Trust is not intended to be subject to Part 4 of Title I of ERISA. The Employer represents that this Trust is not intended to be and is not subject to Part 4 of Title I of ERISA
"ERISA"
.
 
1.3 This Trust is intended to be a grantor trust, of which the Employer is the grantor, within the meaning of subpart E, part I, subchapter J, chapter 1, subtitle A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the ), and shall be construed accordingly.
"Code"
 
1.4 The Trust Fund shall be held separate and apart from other funds of the Employer and shall be used exclusively for the uses and purposes of Trust Beneficiaries and general creditors as herein set forth. Trust Beneficiaries shall have no preferred claim on, or any beneficial ownership interest in, any assets of the Trust Fund. Any rights credited under the Plan and this Trust Agreement shall be mere unsecured contractual rights of Trust Beneficiaries against the Employer. Any assets held in the Trust Fund will be subject to the claims of the Employer's general creditors under federal and state law in the event that the Employer is Insolvent, as defined in Section 8.1 hereof.
 
 
The Trustee accepts the Trust established under this Trust Agreement on the terms and subject to the provisions set forth herein, and it agrees to discharge and perform fully and faithfully all of the duties and obligations imposed upon it under this Trust Agreement.
 
 
[The Trust established hereby shall be revocable by the Employer.]
 
 
[The Trust established hereby shall be irrevocable and the Employer shall have no right or power to direct Trustee to return to the Employer or to divert to others any assets of the Trust Fund before all payment of benefits have been made to Trust Beneficiaries pursuant to the terms of the Plan[s]; provided, however, that (i) nothing in this Section 3 shall be deemed to limit or otherwise prevent the payment from the Trust Fund of expenses and other charges as provided in Sections 5.1(h), 10.1 and 10.2 of this Trust Agreement or the application of the Trust Fund as provided in Section 14 of this Trust Agreement and (ii) the Trust Fund shall at all times be subject to the claims of the general creditors of the Employer as set forth in Section 8 of this Trust Agreement. The Trustee shall have no duty to determine whether all benefit payments have been made to Trust Beneficiaries and may rely on the Employer's notification regarding such payment.]
 
 
4.1 The Trustee shall invest and reinvest the principal and income of the Trust Fund and keep the Trust Fund invested, without distinction between principal and income, solely as directed by the Employer, in publicly traded common and preferred stocks, publicly traded bonds and other evidences of indebtedness, governmental obligations, savings and time deposits, certificates of deposit, cash, guaranteed investment contracts, bank investment contracts, synthetic investment contracts, individual or group annuity contracts, regulated investment companies registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (including any investment company which has an investment management or other agreement with an affiliate of the Trustee). The Employer's investment direction to the Trustee may represent the aggregate of deemed investment elections of Trust Beneficiaries with respect to amounts allocated to each Trust Beneficiary's account under the Plan. The Trustee shall have no duty to question
 
any action or direction of the Employer or any failure to give directions, or to make any suggestion to the Employer as to the investment or reinvestment of, or the disposition of, such assets.
 
4.2 Notwithstanding any provisions of this Trust Agreement to the contrary, the Employer shall not direct the Trustee to invest any portion of the Trust Fund in any security or other obligation issued by Employer, other than a de minimis amount held in a common investment vehicle in which the Trustee invests.
 
[If Employer stock will be held in the Trust, delete the first sentence above and insert the following:]
 
The Trustee may invest in any security or other obligation issued by the Employer, as directed by the Employer. The Trustee shall exercise any right, including the right to vote or tender, appurtenant to such securities or obligations, solely upon the direction of the Employer, which rights may in no event be exercisable by or rest with Trust Beneficiaries. The Employer shall have the right, at any time and from time to time in its sole discretion, to substitute assets of equal fair market value for any asset in the Trust Fund. This right is exercisable by the Employer in a nonfiduciary capacity without the approval or consent of any person in a fiduciary capacity. The Employer shall be solely responsible for complying with any securities laws that may apply to any securities of the Employer held in the Trust Fund.]
 
4.3 During the term of this Trust, all income received in the Trust Fund, net of expenses and taxes, shall be accumulated and reinvested.
 
 
5.1 Subject to the provisions of Section 4, the Trustee shall have the following powers and authority with respect to property constituting a part of the Trust Fund:
 
(a) To receive and hold all contributions paid to it by the Employer; provided, however, that the Trustee shall have no duty to require any contributions to be made, or to determine that any of the contributions received comply with the conditions and limitations of the Plan.
 
(b) At the direction of the Employer, to sell, exchange or transfer any property at public or private sale for cash or on credit and grant options for the purchase or exchange thereof, including call options for property held in the Trust Fund and put options for the purchase of property.
 
(c) To participate in any plan of reorganization, consolidation, merger, combination, liquidation or other similar plan relating to any such property, and at the direction of the Employer, to consent to or oppose any such plan or any action thereunder, or any contract, lease, mortgage, purchase, sale or other action by any corporation or other entity.
 
(d) To deposit any such property with any protective, reorganization or similar committee and to pay part of the expenses and compensation of any such committee and any assessments levied with respect to any property so deposited.
 
(e) At the direction of the Employer, to exercise any conversion privilege or subscription right available in connection with any such property; to oppose or to consent to the reorganization, consolidation, merger or readjustment of the finances of any corporation, company or association, or to the sale, mortgage, pledge or lease of the property of any corporation, company or association any of the securities of which may at any time be held in the Trust Fund and to do any act with reference thereto, including the exercise of options, the making of agreements or subscriptions and the payment of expenses, assessments or subscriptions, which may be deemed necessary or advisable in connection therewith, and to hold and retain any securities or other property which it may so acquire.
 
(f) Subject to its proper indemnification as provided in Section 18, to commence or defend suits or legal proceedings and to represent the Trust in all suits or legal proceedings; to settle, compromise or submit to arbitration, any claims, debts or damages, due or owing to or from the Trust.
 
(g) At the direction of the Employer, to exercise any right, including the right to vote or tender, appurtenant to any securities or other such property.
 
(h) To engage any legal counsel, including counsel to the Employer or counsel to the Trustee, or any other suitable agents, to consult with such counsel or agents with respect to the construction of this Trust Agreement, the duties of the Trustee hereunder, the transactions contemplated by this Trust Agreement or any act which the Trustee proposes to take or omit, to rely upon the advice of such counsel or agents and to pay its reasonable fees, expenses and compensation out of the Trust Fund, if not paid by the Employer.
 
(i) To register any securities held by it in its own name or in the name of any custodian of such property or of its nominee, including the nominee of any system for the central handling of securities, with or without the addition of words indicating that such securities are held in a fiduciary capacity, to deposit or arrange for the deposit of any such securities with such a system and to hold any securities in bearer form.
 
(j) To make, execute and deliver, as Trustee, any and all deeds, leases, notes, bonds, guarantees, mortgages, conveyances, contracts, waivers, releases or other instruments in writing necessary or proper for the accomplishment of any of the foregoing powers.
(k) At the direction of the Employer, to transfer assets of the Trust Fund to a successor trustee as provided in Section 12.4.
 
Each and all of the foregoing powers may be exercised without a court order or approval.
 
 
6.1 The Employer shall provide the Trustee with payment instructions that indicate the amounts payable to each Trust Beneficiary, the form in which such amounts are to be paid (as provided for under the Plan) and the time of commencement for payment of such amounts. Except as otherwise provided herein, the Trustee shall make payments out of the Trust Fund to Trust Beneficiaries in accordance with such payment instructions. Pursuant to instructions by the Employer, the Trustee shall withhold federal and state income taxes from each payment made under this Trust Agreement at the rate(s) designated by the Employer and shall report and pay such amounts to the appropriate federal and state taxing authorities. The Trustee shall rely on Employer instructions and shall have no duty to inquire into the accuracy of such instructions.
 
6.2 If any check for a benefit directed to be made from the Trust has been mailed by the Trustee, by regular United States mail, to the last known address of the Trust Beneficiary and is returned unclaimed, or if a benefit payment check is not cashed by the Trust Beneficiary, the Trustee shall notify the Employer and the Employer shall be responsible for locating such Trust Beneficiary and for instructing the Trustee on the action to take with respect to the payment of such Trust Beneficiary's benefits.
 
6.3 The entitlement of a Trust Beneficiary to benefits under the Plan shall be determined by the Employer or its designee (which may not be the Trustee) and any claim for benefits shall be considered and reviewed under the claims procedures set forth in the Plan. The Trustee shall follow the instructions of the Employer and shall have no duty or right to inquire into the Employer's decision with respect to the payment of benefits and shall be fully indemnified therefor by the Employer.
 
6.4 The Employer may make payment of benefits directly to Trust Beneficiaries as they become due under the terms of the Plan. The Employer shall notify the Trustee of its decision to make payment of benefits directly prior to the time amounts are payable to Trust Beneficiaries. In addition, if the Trust Fund is not sufficient to make payments of benefits in accordance with the terms of the Plan, the Employer shall make the balance of each such payment as it falls due. The Trustee shall notify the Employer where the Trust Fund is not sufficient to make the requested benefit payments.
 
6.5 The Employer shall remain primarily liable to pay benefits under the Plan. However, the Employer's liability under the Plan shall be reduced or offset to the extent benefit payments are made from the Trust Fund.
 
 
7.1 Funding of the Trust Fund by the Employer is not mandatory.
 
7.2 The Employer may at any time or from time to time make additional deposits of money or other property acceptable to the Trustee to the Trust Fund to augment the principal to be held, administered and disposed of by the Trustee as provided in this Trust Agreement. Neither the Trustee nor any Trust Beneficiary shall have any right to compel such additional deposits.
 
 
8.1 Upon receipt of notification issued in accordance with Section 8.2(a) hereof, the Trustee shall cease payment of benefits to Trust Beneficiaries if the Employer is Insolvent. The Employer shall be considered for purposes of this Trust Agreement if: (i) the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer of the Employer provides written certification to the Trustee that the Employer is unable to pay its debts as they become due, or (ii) the Employer is subject to a pending proceeding as a debtor under the United States Bankruptcy Code.
"Insolvent"
 
8.2 At all times during the continuance of this Trust, as provided in Section 1.4 hereof, the principal and income of the Trust Fund shall be subject to the claims of general creditors of the Employer in the event of the Employer's Insolvency as set forth below:
 
(a) The Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer of the Employer shall have the duty to inform the Trustee in writing if the Employer becomes Insolvent. If a person claiming to be a creditor of the Employer alleges in writing to the Trustee that the Employer has become Insolvent, the Trustee shall determine solely through written certification of the Employer whether the Employer is Insolvent and, pending such determination, the Trustee shall discontinue payment of benefits to Trust Beneficiaries.
 
(b) Unless the Trustee has received written notice from the Employer or a person claiming to be creditor of the Employer alleging that the Employer is Insolvent, the Trustee shall have no duty to inquire whether the Employer is Insolvent. The Trustee may in all events rely on such certification concerning the Employer's solvency as may be furnished to the Trustee by the Employer in accordance with Section 8.2(a) hereof.
 
(c) If at any time the Trustee has received written notice of Insolvency from the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer of the Employer, the Trustee shall discontinue payments of benefits under the Plan to Trust Beneficiaries and shall hold the assets of the Trust Fund for the benefit of the Employer's general creditors. The Trustee shall deliver the assets of the Trust Fund to satisfy the claims of the Employer's general creditors as directed by final order of a court of competent jurisdiction. Nothing in this Trust Agreement shall in any way diminish any rights of Trust Beneficiaries to pursue their rights as general creditors of the Employer with respect to benefits due under the Plan or otherwise.
 
(d) The Trustee shall resume the payment of benefits to Trust Beneficiaries in accordance with this Trust Agreement only after the Board of Directors or Chief Executive Officer of the Employer has notified the Trustee in writing that the Employer is not Insolvent (or is no longer Insolvent).
 
8.3 If the Trustee discontinues the payment of benefits from the Trust Fund pursuant to Section 8.2 hereof and subsequently resumes such payments, the first payment to each Trust Beneficiary following such discontinuance shall, provided that there are sufficient assets in the Trust Fund, include the aggregate amount of all payments which would have been made to such Trust Beneficiary in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Plan during the period of such discontinuance, less the aggregate amount of any payments made to such Trust Beneficiary by the Employer during any such period of discontinuance.
 
 
A third party dealing with the Trustee shall not be required to make inquiry as to the authority of the Trustee to take any action nor be under any obligation to see to the proper application by the Trustee of the proceeds of sale of any property sold by the Trustee or to inquire into the validity or propriety of any act of the Trustee.
 
 
10.1 The Employer shall from time to time pay taxes of any and all kinds whatsoever which at any time are lawfully levied or assessed upon or become payable in respect of the Trust Fund, the income or any property forming a part thereof, or any security transaction pertaining thereto. To the extent that any taxes levied or assessed upon the Trust Fund are not paid by the Employer, the Trustee shall pay such taxes out of the Trust Fund. The Trustee shall if requested by the Employer, or may, in its discretion, contest the validity of taxes in any manner deemed appropriate by the Employer or its counsel, but at the Employer's expense, and only if it has received an indemnity bond or other security satisfactory to it to pay any such expenses. In the alternative, the Employer may itself contest the validity of any such taxes. The Trustee will withhold federal and state income taxes from any payments made to a Trust Beneficiary in accordance with Section 6.1 of this Agreement.
 
10.2 The Employer shall pay the Trustee a fee of $ annually as compensation for its services hereunder. The Trustee fee may be changed by the Trustee upon 90 days prior written notice to the Employer. The Employer also shall pay the administrative expenses and other expenses incurred by the Trustee in the performance of its duties under this Trust Agreement, including but not limited to brokerage commissions, fees of counsel engaged by the Trustee pursuant to Section 5.1(h) hereof and fees for preparation of annual trust tax returns. Such fees and expenses shall be charged against and paid from the Trust Fund, to the extent the Employer does not pay such fees and expenses.
                    
 
 
11.1 The Trustee shall keep or cause to be kept accurate and detailed accounts of any investments, receipts, disbursements and other transactions under the Trust and all accounts, books and records relating thereto shall be open to inspection and audit at all reasonable times by any person designated by the Employer. All such accounts, books
 
and records shall be preserved (in original form, or on microfilm, magnetic tape or any other similar process) for such period as the Trustee may determine, but the Trustee may only destroy such accounts, books and records after first notifying the Employer in writing of its intention to do so and transferring to Employer any of such accounts, books and records requested.
 
11.2 Within ninety (90) days after the close of each Plan Year (as such term is defined in the Plan), and within ninety (90) days after the removal or resignation of the Trustee or the termination of the Trust, the Trustee shall file with the Employer a written account setting forth all investments, receipts, disbursements and other transactions effected by it during the preceding Plan Year, or during the period from the close of the preceding Plan Year to the date of such removal, resignation or termination, including a description of all investments and securities purchased and sold with the cost or net proceeds of such purchases or sales and showing all cash, securities and other property held at the end of such Plan Year or other period. Upon the expiration of ninety (90) days from the date of filing such annual or other account, the Trustee shall to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law be forever released and discharged from all liability and accountability with respect to the propriety of its acts and transactions shown in such account except with respect to any such acts or transactions as to which the Employer shall within such ninety (90) day period file with the Trustee written objections.
 
11.3 The Trustee shall upon the Employer's reasonable request permit an independent public accountant selected by the Employer to have access during ordinary business hours to such records as may be necessary to audit the Trustee's accounts for the Trust.
 
11.4 As of each valuation date set forth in the Plan and at such other times as is necessary or as the Trustee and Employer agree, the fair market value of the assets held in the Trust Fund shall be determined. The valuation shall be based, without independent investigation, upon valuations provided by investment managers, trustees of common trust funds, sponsors of mutual funds and records of securities exchanges. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Trustee shall not be responsible for providing the value of any bank investment contracts, structured or synthetic investment contracts or insurance contracts, or for any asset which is not liquid or not publicly traded, the value of which shall be provided by the Employer. The Trustee may obtain the opinions of qualified appraisers, as necessary in the discretion of the Trustee, to determine the fair market value of any security or other obligation issued by the Employer, the fees of which appraiser shall, unless paid by the Employer, be paid from the Trust Fund.
 
11.5 Nothing contained in this Trust Agreement shall be construed as depriving the Trustee or Employer of the right to have a judicial settlement of the Trustee's accounts.
 
11.6 In the event of the removal or resignation of the Trustee, the Trustee shall deliver to the successor trustee all records which shall be required by the successor trustee to enable it to carry out the provisions of this Trust Agreement.
 
11.7 The Trustee shall prepare and file such tax reports and other returns as the Employer and the Trustee may from time to time agree to in writing.
 
 
12.1 At any time the Employer may remove the Trustee with or without cause, upon at least sixty (60) days advance written notice to the Trustee.
 
12.2 The Trustee may resign at any time upon at least sixty (60) days advance written notice to the Employer.
 
12.3 In the event of such removal or resignation, the Trustee shall duly file with the Employer a written account as provided in Section 11.2 of this Trust Agreement for the period since the last previous annual accounting, listing the investments of the Trust and any uninvested cash balance thereof, and setting forth all receipts, disbursements, distributions and other transactions respecting the Trust not included in any previous account, and if written objections to such account are not filed as provided in Section 11.2, the Trustee shall to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law be forever released and discharged from all liability and accountability with respect to the propriety of its acts and transactions shown in such account.
 
12.4 Prior to the effective date of the removal or resignation of the Trustee, the Employer shall designate a successor trustee qualified to act hereunder. In the event that the Employer fails to designate a successor trustee as of the effective date of the Trustee's resignation or removal, the Trustee shall have the right to apply to a court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor. All of the Trustee's expenses in such court proceeding, including attorneys' fees, shall, if not paid by the Employer, be allowed as administrative expenses of the Trust. Each such successor trustee, during such period as it shall act as such, shall have the powers and duties herein conferred upon the Trustee, and the word "Trustee" wherever used herein, except where the context otherwise requires, shall be deemed to include any successor trustee. Upon designation of a successor trustee and delivery to the resigned or removed Trustee of written acceptance by the successor trustee of such designation, such resigned or removed Trustee shall promptly assign, transfer, deliver and pay over to such Trustee, in conformity with the requirements of applicable law, the funds and properties in its control or possession then constituting the Trust Fund.
 
 
The Employer shall have the right to enforce any provision of this Trust Agreement, and any Trust Beneficiary shall have the right as a beneficiary of the Trust to enforce any provision of this Trust Agreement that affects the right, title and interest of such Trust Beneficiary in the Trust. In any action or proceedings affecting the Trust, the only necessary parties shall be the Employer, the Trustee and the Trust Beneficiaries and, except as otherwise required by applicable law, no other person shall be entitled to any
 
notice or service of process. Any judgment entered in such an action or proceedings shall, to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, be binding and conclusive on all persons having or claiming to have any interest in the Trust.
 
 
The Trust shall terminate when all payments, which have or may become payable pursuant to the terms of the Trust, have been made or the Trust Fund has been exhausted, and all remaining assets shall then be paid by the Trustee to Employer.
 
 
15.1 The Employer and the Trustee may from time to time by written instrument, amend any or all of the provisions of this Trust Agreement. [If the trust is irrevocable  add the following: Notwithstanding the foregoing, no such amendment shall conflict with the terms of the Plan(s) or shall make the Trust revocable after it has become irrevocable in accordance with Section 3 hereof.]
 
15.2 The Employer shall furnish the Trustee with a copy of all amendments to the Plan prior to their adoption.
 
 
Except insofar as applicable law may otherwise require and subject to Sections 1, 3 and 8 of this Trust Agreement: (i) no amount payable to or in respect of any Trust Beneficiary at any time under the Trust shall be subject to any manner of alienation by anticipation, sale, transfer, assignment, bankruptcy, pledge, attachment, charge or encumbrance of any kind, and any attempt to so alienate, sell, transfer, assign, pledge, attach, charge or otherwise encumber any such amount, whether presently or thereafter payable, shall be void; and (ii) the Trust Fund shall in no manner be liable for or subject to the debts or liabilities of any Trust Beneficiary.
 
 
17.1 Communications to the Employer shall be addressed to the Employer at ; provided, however, that upon the Employer's written request, such communications shall be sent to such other address as the Employer may specify.
                                
 
17.2 Communications to the Trustee shall be addressed to T. Rowe Price Trust Company at 100 East Pratt Street, Baltimore, Maryland 21202; Attention Legal Department; provided, however, that upon the Trustee's written request, such communications shall be sent to such other address as the Trustee may specify.
 
17.3 No communication shall be binding on the Trustee until it is received by the Trustee, and no communication shall be binding on the Employer until it is received by the Employer.
 
17.4 Any action of the Employer pursuant to this Trust Agreement, including all orders, requests, directions, instructions, approvals and objections of the Employer to the Trustee, shall be in writing or by such electronic transmission as agreed upon by the Employer and the Trustee, signed on behalf of the Employer by any duly authorized officer of the Employer. Any communication by a Trust Beneficiary with the Trustee must be in writing in order to have effect. The Trustee may rely on, and will be fully protected with respect to, any such action taken or omitted in reliance on any information, order, request, direction, instruction, approval, objection, or list delivered to the Trustee by the Employer.
 
 
The Employer shall indemnify and hold harmless the Trustee (including its affiliates, representatives, agents and employees) from and against any liability, cost or other expense, including, but not limited to, the payment of attorneys' fees that the Trustee incurs in prosecuting or defending against any claim or litigation in connection with the Trust or that the Trustee otherwise incurs in connection with this Trust Agreement or the Plan, unless such liability, cost or other expense arises from the Trustee's own willful misconduct or gross negligence.
 
 
19.1 . This Trust Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Employer and the Trustee and their respective successors and assigns.
Successors and Assigns
 
19.2 . The Trustee assumes no obligation or responsibility with respect to any action required by this Trust Agreement on the part of the Employer. The duties of the Trustee with respect to the Plan and this Trust are limited to those as set forth under the terms of this Trust Agreement.
No Assumption/Limitation of Duties
 
19.3 . Titles to the Sections as well as all headings and subheadings of this Trust Agreement are included for convenience only and shall not control the meaning or interpretation of any provision of this Trust Agreement.
Headings
 
19.4 . In the event of any conflict between the provisions of the Plan document and this Trust Agreement, the provisions of this Trust Agreement shall prevail.
Conflict with Plan
 
19.5 . Whenever used in this Trust Agreement, unless the context indicates otherwise, the singular shall include the plural, the plural shall include the singular, and the male gender shall include the female gender.
Construction
 
19.6 . If any provision of this Trust Agreement is held invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other provision, and this Agreement shall be construed and enforced as if such provision had not been included.
Severability
 
19.7 . This Trust Agreement and the Trust established hereunder shall be governed by and construed, enforced and administered in accordance with the laws of the State of Maryland and the Trustee shall be liable to account only in the courts of the State of Maryland.
Law to Govern
 
19.8 . This Trust Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be the original and all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
 
19.9 . If the Trustee is acting as a successor trustee with respect to the Trust, the Employer shall indemnify the Trustee against all liabilities with respect to the Trust arising prior to the appointment of the Trustee and its acceptance thereof.
Trustee as Successor Trustee
 
19.10 . This Agreement shall be effective as of the date of transfer to T. Rowe Trust Company of the assets which are to be held in trust pursuant to this Agreement but in any event no earlier than .
Effective Date
                            
 
19.11 . The person executing this Trust Agreement on behalf of the Employer certifies that he or she is duly authorized by the Employer consistent with the terms of the Plan to do so. The Employer represents that copies of all Plan documents as in effect on the date of this Trust Agreement have been delivered to the Trustee.
Signature Authority and Conformity with the Plan
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Trust Agreement has been duly executed by the parties hereto.
 
 


