FILE:HST/HST-8K-20050224163654.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 1.01 ENTRY INTO A MATERIAL DEFINITIVE AGREEMENT
 
2004 Annual Incentive Bonus Awards
 
On February 4, 2005, the Compensation Policy Committee (the Committee) of the Board of Directors of Host Marriott Corporation (the Company) discussed the 2004 annual incentive bonus awards for the "named executive officers" (as that term is defined in item 402(a)(3) of Regulation S-K) of the Company. On February 17, 2005, a portion of such awards were approved and the remainder deferred until additional information regarding a relative performance measure becomes available.
 
The Committee adopted the annual incentive bonus award program in 2003 to provide management employees of the Company, including executive officers, an opportunity to receive cash incentive awards based on the financial performance of the Company and the individual performance of each participant in the program. Under the annual incentive bonus award program, the Committee establishes criteria for the Company's financial objectives and reviews and approves the individual performance criteria for the named executive officers. In February 2004 the Committee set the following performance goals and criteria for the 2004 program:
 
 
 
 
Each objective was set with three separate levels  a threshold level, a target level and a high level. Executives were eligible for annual bonuses based on performance at these levels in an aggregate amount as determined by a percentage of base salary. For Mr. Nassetta the bonus parameters were 50% of base salary for performance at the threshold level, 100% of base salary for performance at the target level and 150% of base salary for performance at the high level. For all other named executive officers, the bonus
parameters were 37.5% of base salary for performance at the threshold level, 75% of base salary for performance at the target level and 120% of base salary for performance at the high level. Once the performance level has been established for each objective, the amount of the executive's bonus is dependent on the relative weighting of the criteria as set by the Committee. For 2004, the criteria for the named executive officers were weighted (i) 80% on the Company's annual financial performance, of which 70% was based on the Company's success in meeting its Absolute FFO Objective and 30% was based on the Company's success in meeting its Relative FFO Objective, and (ii) 20% on the executive's attainment of his Individual Business Objectives.
 
The table below reflects the 2004 annual bonus awards made to each of the Company's named executive officers for 2004 with respect to each officer meeting his Individual Business Objectives and the Company's success in meeting its Absolute FFO Objective.
 
 
The Committee deferred its review of the portion of each named executive officer's 2004 annual incentive bonus award based on the Company's Relative FFO Objective (representing approximately 30% of each named executive officer's total 2004 incentive award on the Company's annual financial performance) until such time as additional information regarding the financial performance of the other companies in the NAREIT lodging index becomes publicly available. The Committee intends to review this measure at a later time and this portion of the 2004 annual incentive bonus award will be granted at that time.
 
2005 Annual Incentive Performance Objectives
 
The Committee adopted the performance goals and criteria for the 2005 fiscal year for the Company's annual incentive award program. Based on the Committee's actions, the Company's financial objectives will be measured against achieving funds from operations per diluted share (FFO), as adjusted to exclude costs incurred in connection with the repayment of debt and preferred stock, and funds from operations per diluted share growth, as adjusted, as measured in comparison to other REITs in the NAREIT lodging index. A summary of the performance goals and criteria for 2005 is attached as an exhibit hereto and is hereby incorporated by reference into this Current Report.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits
 
The following exhibits are filed herewith:
 

Exhibit 10.44
 
 
The annual incentive bonus plan provides that management employees of the Company, including executive officers, may receive cash incentive awards based on the financial performance of the Company and the individual performance of each participant in the program. The Compensation Policy Committee determines these objectives at the beginning of each year.
 
The Company performance measures adopted by the Committee for 2005 are based on actual financial performance as determined by:
 
 
 
In addition, management recommended and the Committee reviewed and approved specific individual business objectives for each of the named executive officers.
 
Each of the financial performance objectives and the individual business objectives are set with three separate levels  a threshold level, a target level and a high level. Executives will be eligible for annual bonuses based on performance at these levels in an aggregate amount as determined by a percentage of his base salary. For Mr. Nassetta the bonus parameters are 50% of base salary for performance at the threshold level, 100% of base salary for performance at the target level and 150% of base salary for performance at the high level. For all other named executive officers, the bonus parameters are 37.5% of base salary for performance at the threshold level, 75% of base salary for performance at the target level and 120% of base salary for performance at the high level. Once the performance level is established for each objective, the amount of the executive's bonus is dependent on the relative weighting of the criteria as set by the Committee. For 2005, the criteria for the named executive officers are weighted (i) 80% on the Company's annual financial performance, of which 70% is based on the Company's success in meeting its financial objective of FFO per diluted share, as adjusted, and 30% on the Company's success in meeting the financial objective for relative FFO per diluted share, as adjusted, for the year, and (ii) 20% on the executive's attainment of his individual business objectives.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 


