FILE:HST/HST-8K-20060419132454.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 5.03. Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
On April 17, 2006, Host Marriott Corporation filed Articles of Amendment with the State Department of Assessments and Taxation of Maryland changing its name from "Host Marriott Corporation" to "Host Hotels & Resorts, Inc." The name change was effective upon the acceptance of the filing on April 17, 2006.
A copy of a press release relating to the name change and the Articles of Amendment are attached hereto as Exhibits 99.1 and 3.3, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 3.3
Host Marriott Corporation, a Maryland corporation (the "Corporation"), hereby certifies to the State Department of Assessments and Taxation of Maryland that:
: Article I of the charter of the Corporation (the "Charter") is hereby amended to change the name of the Corporation to:
FIRST
: The foregoing amendment to the Charter was approved by the Board of Directors of the Corporation and was limited to a change expressly authorized by Section 2-605(a)(1) of the Maryland General Corporation Law without action by the stockholders.
SECOND
: The undersigned President of the Corporation acknowledges these Articles of Amendment to be the corporate act of the Corporation and, as to all matters or facts required to be verified under oath, the undersigned President acknowledges that, to the best of his knowledge, information and belief, these matters and facts are true in all material respects and that this statement is made under the penalties for perjury.
THIRD
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused these Articles of Amendment to be executed in its name and on its behalf by its President and attested by its Secretary this 17th day of April, 2006.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
HOST MARRIOTT CORPORATION ANNOUNCES NAME AND TICKER SYMBOL CHANGES
BETHESDA, MD; April 17, 2006  Host Marriott Corporation (NYSE:HMT) today announced that it has changed its name to Host Hotels & Resorts, Inc. and that as of the start of trading on the New York Stock Exchange tomorrow, April 18, 2006, its common stock will begin trading under the ticker symbol HST and its Class C and Class E cumulative redeemable preferred stock will begin trading under the ticker symbols HST Pr C and HST Pr E, respectively. The Company also announced that the domain name for its website has been changed to .
www.hosthotels.com
About Host Hotels & Resorts
Host Hotels & Resorts, Inc. is a lodging real estate company that currently owns or holds controlling interests in 130 upper upscale and luxury hotel properties primarily operated under premium brands, such as Marriott
, Westin
, Sheraton
, Ritz-Carlton
, Hyatt
, W
, Four Seasons
, St. Regis
, The Luxury Collection
, Fairmont
, Hilton
and Swissotel
(*)
. For further information, please visit the Company's website at .
www.hosthotels.com
 


