FILE:HST/HST-8K-20070319082727.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
Host Hotels & Resorts, Inc., the general partner of Host Hotels & Resorts, L.P., is furnishing the pro forma financial information of Host Hotels & Resorts, L.P. in Exhibit 99.1, which is incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
See Item 7.01 above for information in the Exhibit deemed "Furnished or "Filed" as the case may be.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99.1
Host Hotels & Resorts, Inc. ("Host REIT"), together with Host Hotels & Resorts, L.P. ("Host L.P."), entered into a master agreement, and other transaction agreements, each as amended, to acquire a portfolio of 35 hotels from Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc, or Starwood. On April 10, 2006, we completed the initial stage of the transaction through the purchase of 28 hotels from Starwood. In May and June of 2006, a joint venture in Europe, in which we own a 32.1% general and limited partner interest, acquired five European hotels from Starwood. Additionally, we contributed the Sheraton Warsaw Hotel & Towers, which we purchased on April 10, 2006, to the joint venture. On July 5, 2006, Starwood and Host REIT agreed that Starwood will retain two hotels located in Fiji that were originally under contract as part of the master agreement.
The following unaudited pro forma balance sheet and statement of operations have been prepared based upon (i) the audited balance sheet and statement of operations of Host L.P. as of and for the year ended December 31, 2006; (ii) the unaudited combined statement of operations of the Starwood portfolio for the two months ended February 28, 2006; (iii) the results of the combined operations of the Starwood portfolio for the period from March 1, 2006 through April 9, 2006; and, (iv) certain assumptions, as set forth in the notes to the unaudited pro forma financial statements, that Host L.P. believes are reasonable under the circumstances.
The unaudited pro forma balance sheet as of December 31, 2006 reflects the following transactions as if they had been completed on December 31, 2006:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The unaudited pro forma statement of operations of Host L.P. for the year ended December 31, 2006 reflects all of the above transactions as well as the following transactions as if they had been completed on January 1, 2006:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The pro forma adjustments as presented are based on estimates and certain information that are currently available and may change as additional information becomes available, as estimates are refined or as additional events occur. The unaudited pro forma statements are for illustrative purposes only and do not purport to be indicative of the financial position and results of operations that would actually have been achieved had the transactions occurred on the dates indicated or which may be achieved in the future. In the opinion of management, all material adjustments necessary to reflect the effects of the transactions that can be factually supported within the SEC regulations covering the preparation of unaudited pro forma statements of operations have been made.
The unaudited pro forma statements of operations should be read in conjunction with the historical consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes of Host L.P. and the combined historical financial statements and accompanying notes of the Starwood portfolio acquired in the transactions which have previously been filed with the Commission.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following table shows our historical ratio of earnings to fixed charges and preferred OP unit distributions for the year ended December 31, 2006 and the pro forma ratio as adjusted for the transactions described in "Unaudited Pro Forma Financial Statements" herein.
 


