FILE:HST/HST-8K-20081118140953.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
On November 18, 2008, Host Hotels & Resorts, Inc. issued a press release updating its comparable hotel RevPAR guidance for the fourth quarter and full year 2008 and withdrawing its prior guidance for 2008. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Report.
The information in this Report, including the exhibit, is provided under Item 7.01 of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section with the exception of the items detailed in the paragraph below. Furthermore, the information in this Report, including the exhibit, shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into the filings of the registrant under the Securities Act of 1933 regardless of any general incorporation language in such filings, except as provided in the paragraph below.
The following excerpt from the press release is intended to be "filed" rather than "furnished" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. This and only this excerpt shall be deemed as incorporated by reference into the filings of the registrant under the Securities Act of 1933:
Although market conditions continue to be volatile, the Company now expects that comparable hotel RevPAR, which includes the operations for 115 of the Company's 117 hotels, will decline 9% to 11% in the fourth quarter and will decline approximately 3% for the full year.
Forward-looking Statements
The discussion in this Report on Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities regulations. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as "anticipate," "believe," "could," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "plan," "predict," "project," "will," "continue" and other similar terms and phrases, including references to assumption and forecasts of future results. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results to differ materially from those anticipated at the time the forward-looking statements are made. These risks include, but are not limited to: national and local economic and business conditions, including the potential for terrorist attacks, that will affect occupancy rates at our hotels and the demand for hotel products and services; operating risks associated with the hotel business; risks associated with the level of our indebtedness and our ability to meet covenants in our debt agreements; relationships with property managers; our ability to maintain our properties in a first-class manner, including meeting capital expenditure requirements; our ability to compete effectively in areas such as access, location, quality of accommodations and room rate structures; changes in travel patterns, taxes and government regulations which influence or determine wages, prices, construction procedures and costs; our ability to complete acquisitions and dispositions; and our ability to continue to satisfy complex rules in order for us to qualify as a Real Estate Investment Trust for federal income tax purposes and other risks and uncertainties associated with our business described in our filings with the Securities & Exchange Commission. The completion of this acquisition is subject to numerous closing conditions, including but not limited to those listed in this Current Report, and there can be no assurances that the transactions will be completed. Although we believe the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions, we can give no assurance that the expectations will be attained or that any deviation will not be material. All information is as of the date of this filing and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to conform the statement to actual results or changes in expectations.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
See Item 7.01 above for information in the Exhibit deemed "Furnished" or "Filed" as the case may be.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
HOST HOTELS & RESORTS, INC. REVISES FOURTH QUARTER AND FULL YEAR 2008 REVPAR GUIDANCE
BETHESDA, MD; November 18, 2008  Host Hotels & Resorts, Inc. (NYSE:HST) today announced that as a result of the worsening economy, which is significantly slowing travel and negatively impacting the Company's operations, the Company is revising its fourth quarter and full year 2008 comparable hotel RevPAR guidance, and withdrawing its remaining 2008 guidance, that was included in its third quarter earnings press release on October 10, 2008. Although market conditions continue to be volatile, the Company now expects that comparable hotel RevPAR, which includes the operations for 115 of the Company's 117 hotels, will decline 9% to 11% in the fourth quarter and will decline approximately 3% for the full year.
A H H & R
BOUT
OST
OTELS
ESORTS
Host Hotels & Resorts, Inc. is an S&P 500 and Fortune 500 company and is the largest lodging real estate investment trust and one of the largest owners of luxury and upper upscale hotels. The Company currently owns 117 properties with approximately 64,000 rooms, and also holds a minority interest in a joint venture that owns 11 hotels in Europe with approximately 3,500 rooms. Guided by a disciplined approach to capital allocation and aggressive asset management, the Company partners with premium brands such as Marriott, Ritz-Carlton, Westin, Sheraton, W, St. Regis, The Luxury Collection, Hyatt, Fairmont, Four Seasons, Hilton and Swisstel* in the operation of properties in over 50 major markets worldwide. For additional information, please visit the Company's website at www.hosthotels.com.
Note: This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities regulations. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as "anticipate," "believe," "could," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "plan," "predict," "project," "will," "continue" and other similar terms and phrases, including references to assumption and forecasts of future results. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results to differ materially from those anticipated at the time the forward-looking statements are made. These risks include, but are not limited to: national and local economic and business conditions, including the potential for terrorist attacks, that will affect occupancy rates at our hotels and the demand for hotel products and services; operating risks associated with the hotel business; risks associated with the level of our indebtedness and our ability to meet covenants in our debt agreements; relationships with property managers; our ability to maintain our properties in a first-class manner, including meeting capital expenditure requirements; our ability to compete effectively in areas such as access, location, quality of accommodations and room rate
structures; changes in travel patterns, taxes and government regulations which influence or determine wages, prices, construction procedures and costs; our ability to complete acquisitions and dispositions; and our ability to continue to satisfy complex rules in order for us to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes and other risks and uncertainties associated with our business described in the Company's filings with the SEC. Although the Company believes the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions, it can give no assurance that the expectations will be attained or that any deviation will not be material. All information in this release is as of November 17, 2008, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to conform the statement to actual results or changes in the Company's expectations.
 
 


