FILE:HST/HST-8K-20101013084500.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 13, 2010, Host Hotels & Resorts, Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the third quarter ended September 10, 2010. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Report.
The information in this Report, including the exhibit, is provided under Item 2.02 of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section with the exception of the items detailed in the paragraph below. Furthermore, the information in this Report, including the exhibit, shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into the filings of the registrant under the Securities Act of 1933 regardless of any general incorporation language in such filings, except as provided in the paragraph below.
The items listed below and contained in Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K are deemed to be of significance to investors and are intended to be "filed" rather than "furnished" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Further these, and only these items, shall be deemed as incorporated by reference into the filings of the registrant under the Securities Act of 1933. These items are:
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
See Item 2.02 above for information in the Exhibit deemed "Furnished" or "Filed" as the case may be.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99.1
HOST HOTELS & RESORTS, INC. REPORTS STRONG PERFORMANCE FOR THE THIRD QUARTER OF 2010
BETHESDA, MD; October 13, 2010  Host Hotels & Resorts, Inc. (NYSE: HST), the nation's largest lodging real estate investment trust (REIT), today announced results of operations for the third quarter ended September 10, 2010.
Highlights
 
 
 
 
Third Quarter Results
 
 
The Company's operating results include transactions, such as gains or losses on debt extinguishments, impairment charges, litigation costs, gains on dispositions and acquisition costs, that can significantly affect earnings, FFO per diluted share and Adjusted EBITDA. The net effect
of these items was a decrease to earnings per diluted share of $.02 and $.04 for the third quarter and year-to-date 2010, respectively, and an increase of $.02 and a decrease of $.16 in earnings per diluted share for the third quarter and year-to-date 2009, respectively.
 
 
For further detail of the transactions affecting net income, earnings per diluted share, FFO per diluted share and Adjusted EBITDA, refer to the notes to the "Reconciliation of Net Income to EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and FFO per Diluted Share."
Adjusted EBITDA, FFO, FFO per diluted share and comparable hotel adjusted operating profit margins are non-GAAP (generally accepted accounting principles) financial measures within the meaning of the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). See the discussion included in this press release for information regarding these non-GAAP financial measures.
O R
PERATING
ESULTS
Comparable hotel RevPAR for the third quarter of 2010 increased 8.8%. The increase in RevPAR was significantly affected by the improvement in average room rate for transient business of 6.8% combined with an increase in transient demand of 1.8%. Group demand increased 7.9%, combined with a 1.3% increase in rate. For year-to-date 2010, comparable hotel RevPAR increased 5.6%.
Comparable hotel adjusted operating profit margins for the third quarter of 2010 increased 150 basis points, despite a $5 million, or 50 basis point, decline in revenues from attrition and cancellation fees compared to 2009. For year-to-date 2010, comparable hotel operating profit margins decreased 20 basis points, compared to 2009, which includes a $33 million, or 90 basis point, decline in revenues from attrition and cancellation fees.
A I
CQUISITIONS
AND
NVESTMENTS
As previously announced, during the third quarter the Company completed the acquisition of three, high-quality hotel assets in New York, Chicago and London for a total investment of approximately
 
$430 million, including assumed consolidated debt of $166 million. Consistent with the Company's long-term strategy, each hotel is located in a key urban market and is operated under a premium brand.
Subsequent to quarter end, the Company acquired the 245-room JW Marriott Hotel Rio de Janeiro, Brazil for approximately $48 million, which represents the Company's second international acquisition this year and an expansion into a new strategic market. The property is consistently rated as one of the top Latin American hotels for leisure travel and is located beside the world famous Copacabana Beach.
B S
ALANCE
HEET
As of September 10, 2010, the Company had approximately $838 million of cash and cash equivalents and $543 million of available capacity under its credit facility. The Company intends to use $121 million of cash to defease the mortgage debt assumed with the September 2010 acquisition of the W New York-Union Square. Subsequent to the defeasance and the acquisition of the JW Marriott, Rio de Janeiro, the Company will have approximately $670 million of cash and cash equivalents.
On August 25, 2010, the Company redeemed $225 million of its 7
 1
/
8
% Series K senior notes that were due in November of 2013 and recorded a $7 million loss on debt extinguishment, which is included in interest expense.
During the third quarter of 2010, the Company issued 7.4 million shares of common stock at an average price of $14.08 for net proceeds of approximately $103.5 million. These sales were made in "at-the-market" offerings pursuant to two separate Sales Agency Financing Agreements with BNY Mellon Capital Markets, LLC, each of which had an aggregate offering price of $400 million. All shares available under the first agreement have been issued, while the second agreement has approximately $350 million of capacity remaining.
C E
APITAL
XPENDITURES
Capital expenditures totaled approximately $49 million and $149 million for the quarter and year-to-date 2010, respectively. These expenditures included return on investment and repositioning projects of approximately $17 million and $50 million for the quarter and year-to-date 2010. The Company anticipates that capital expenditures will be between $300 million and $320 million during 2010.
D
IVIDEND
On September 16, 2010, the Company's board of directors authorized a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.01 per share on its common stock. The dividend is payable on October 15, 2010 to stockholders of record on September 30, 2010.
2010 O
UTLOOK
The Company anticipates that for 2010:
 
 
 
Based upon these parameters, the Company estimates that its full year 2010 guidance is as follows:
 
 
 
 
A H H & R
BOUT
OST
OTELS
ESORTS
Host Hotels & Resorts, Inc. is an S&P 500 and Fortune 500 company and is the largest lodging real estate investment trust and one of the largest owners of luxury and upper upscale hotels. The Company currently owns 104 properties in the United States and 9 international properties totaling approximately 62,000 rooms, and also holds a non-controlling interest in a joint venture that owns 11 hotels in Europe with approximately 3,500 rooms. Guided by a disciplined approach to capital allocation and aggressive asset management, the Company partners with premium brands such as Marriott, Ritz-Carlton, Westin, Sheraton, W, St. Regis, Le Meridien, The Luxury Collection, Hyatt, Fairmont, Four Seasons, Hilton and Swisstel* in the operation of properties in over 50 major markets worldwide. For additional information, please visit the Company's website at www.hosthotels.com.
Note: This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities regulations. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as "anticipate," "believe," "could," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "should," "plan," "predict," "project," "will," "continue" and other similar terms and phrases, including references to assumption and forecasts of future results. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results to differ materially from those anticipated at the time the forward-looking statements are made. These risks include, but are not limited to: national and local economic and business conditions, including the effect on travel of potential terrorist attacks, that will affect occupancy rates at our hotels and the demand for hotel products and services; operating risks associated with the hotel business; risks associated with the level of our indebtedness and our ability to meet covenants in our debt agreements; relationships with property managers; our ability to maintain our properties in a first-class manner, including meeting capital expenditure requirements; our ability to compete effectively in areas such as access, location, quality of accommodations and room rate structures; changes in travel patterns, taxes and government regulations which influence or determine wages, prices, construction procedures and costs; our ability to complete acquisitions and dispositions; and our ability to continue to satisfy complex rules in order for us to remain a REIT for federal income tax purposes and other risks and uncertainties associated with our business described in the Company's filings with the SEC. Although the Company believes the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions, it can give no assurance that the expectations will be attained or that any deviation will not be material. All information in this release is as of October 12, 2010, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to conform the statement to actual results or changes in the Company's expectations.
 
 
Host Hotels & Resorts, Inc., herein referred to as "we" or "Host," is a self-managed and self-administered real estate investment trust (REIT) that owns hotel properties. We conduct our operations as an umbrella partnership REIT through an operating partnership, Host Hotels & Resorts, L.P., or Host LP, of which we are the sole general partner. When distinguishing between Host and Host LP, the primary difference is approximately 2% of the partnership interests in Host LP held by outside partners as of September 10, 2010, which is non-controlling interests in Host LP in our consolidated balance sheets and is included in net income/loss attributable to non-controlling interests in our consolidated statements of operations. Readers are encouraged to find further detail regarding our organizational structure in our annual report on Form 10-K.
For information on our reporting periods and non-GAAP financial measures (including Adjusted EBITDA, FFO per diluted share and comparable hotel adjusted operating profit margin) which we believe is useful to investors, see the Notes to the Financial Information included in this release.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For a discussion of additional items that may affect forecasted results see Notes to the Financial Information.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
F
ORECASTS
Our forecast of earnings per diluted share, FFO per diluted share, EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and comparable hotel adjusted operating profit margins are forward-looking statements and are not guarantees of future performance and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause actual results and performance to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forecasts. Although we believe the expectations reflected in the forecasts are based upon reasonable assumptions, we can give no assurance that the expectations will be attained or that the results will not be materially different. Risks that may affect these assumptions and forecasts include the following: the level of RevPAR and margin growth may change significantly and the continued economic uncertainty and volatility in the credit markets have created limited visibility for advance bookings for both transient and group business and, accordingly, our ability to predict operating results; the amount and timing of acquisitions and dispositions of hotel properties is an estimate that can substantially affect financial results, including such items as net income, depreciation and gains on dispositions; the level of capital expenditures may change significantly, which will directly affect the level of depreciation expense and net income; the amount and timing of debt payments may change significantly based on market conditions, which will directly affect the level of interest expense and net income; the number of shares of our common stock may change based on market conditions; and other risks and uncertainties associated with our business described herein and in our filings with the SEC.
R P S O
EPORTING
ERIODS
FOR
TATEMENT
OF
PERATIONS
The results we report in our consolidated statements of operations are based on results of our hotels reported to us by our hotel managers. Our hotel managers use different reporting periods. Marriott International, Inc., or Marriott, the manager of the majority of our properties, uses a fiscal year ending on the Friday closest to December 31 and reports twelve weeks of operations for the first three quarters and sixteen or seventeen weeks for the fourth quarter of the year for its Marriott-managed hotels. In contrast, other managers of our hotels, such as Starwood and Hyatt, report results on a monthly basis. Additionally, Host, as a REIT, is required by tax laws to report results on a calendar year. As a result, we elected to adopt the reporting periods used by Marriott except that our fiscal year always ends on December 31 to comply with REIT rules. Our first three quarters of operations end on the same day as Marriott but our fourth quarter ends on December 31 and our full year results, as reported in our consolidated statement of operations, always includes the same number of days as the calendar year.
Two consequences of the reporting cycle we have adopted are: (1) quarterly start dates will usually differ between years, except for the first quarter which always commences on January 1, and (2) our first and fourth quarters of operations and year-to-date operations may not include the same number of days as reflected in prior years. For example, the third quarter of 2010 ended on September 10, and the third quarter of 2009 ended on September 11, though both quarters reflect twelve weeks of operations. In contrast, the September 10, 2010 year-to-date operations included 253 days of operations, while the September 11, 2009 year-to-date operations included 254 days of operations.
While the reporting calendar we adopted is more closely aligned with the reporting calendar used by the manager of a majority of our properties, one final consequence of our calendar is we are unable to report the month of operations that ends after our fiscal quarter-end until the following quarter because our hotel managers using a monthly reporting period do not make mid-month results available to us. Hence, the month of operation that ends after our fiscal quarter-end is included in our quarterly results of operations in the following quarter for those hotel managers (covering approximately 42% of our hotels). As a result, our quarterly results of operations include results from hotel managers reporting results on a monthly basis as follows: first quarter (January, February), second quarter (March to May), third quarter (June to August) and fourth quarter (September to December). While this does not affect full-year results, it does affect the reporting of quarterly results.
 
 
R P H O S C H R
EPORTING
ERIODS
FOR
OTEL
PERATING
TATISTICS
AND
OMPARABLE
OTEL
ESULTS
In contrast to the reporting periods for our consolidated statement of operations, our hotel operating statistics (i.e., RevPAR, average daily rate and average occupancy) and our comparable hotel results are always reported based on the reporting cycle used by Marriott for our Marriott-managed hotels. This facilitates year-to-year comparisons, as each reporting period will be comprised of the same number of days of operations as in the prior year (except in the case of fourth quarters comprised of seventeen weeks (such as fiscal year 2008) versus sixteen weeks). This means, however, that the reporting periods we use for hotel operating statistics and our comparable hotels results will typically differ slightly from the reporting periods used for our statements of operations for the first and fourth quarters and the full year. Results from hotel managers reporting on a monthly basis are included in our operating statistics and comparable hotels results consistent with their reporting in our consolidated statement of operations herein:
 
 
 
 
C H O S
OMPARABLE
OTEL
PERATING
TATISTICS
We present certain operating statistics (i.e., RevPAR, average daily rate and average occupancy) and operating results (revenues, expenses, adjusted operating profit and associated margins) for the periods included in this report on a comparable hotel basis. We define our comparable hotels as properties (i) that are consolidated by us and the operations of which are included in our consolidated results, whether as continuing operations or discontinued operations for the entirety of the reporting periods being compared and (ii) that have not sustained substantial property damage or business interruption, or undergone large-scale capital projects during the reporting periods being compared. Of the 112 full-service hotels that we owned on September 10, 2010, 108 have been classified as comparable hotels. The 71 select-service hotels leased from HPT are not included as comparable hotels. The operating results of the following hotels that we owned or leased as of September 10, 2010 are excluded from comparable hotel results for these periods:
 
 
 
 
 
The operating results of the eight hotels we disposed of during the first three quarters of 2010 and during 2009 are not included in comparable hotel results for the periods presented herein. Moreover, because these statistics and operating results are for our hotel properties, they exclude results for our non-hotel properties and other real estate investments. Due to the current significant renovations associated with a multi-year capital project at the San Diego Marriott Hotel & Marina, this hotel has been classified as non-comparable for all periods presented.
 
 
N-GAAP F M
ON
INANCIAL
EASURES
Included in this press release are certain "non-GAAP financial measures," which are measures of our historical or future financial performance that are not calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP, within the meaning of applicable SEC rules. They are as follows: (i) FFO and FFO per diluted share, (ii) EBITDA, (iii) Adjusted EBITDA and (iv) Comparable Hotel Operating Results. The following discussion defines these terms and presents why we believe they are useful supplemental measures of our performance.
FFO and FFO per Diluted Share
We present FFO and FFO per diluted share as non-GAAP measures of our performance in addition to our earnings per share (calculated in accordance with GAAP). We calculate FFO per diluted share for a given operating period as our FFO (defined as set forth below) for such period divided by the number of fully diluted shares outstanding during such period. The National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (NAREIT) defines FFO as net income (calculated in accordance with GAAP) excluding gains (losses) from sales of real estate, the cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles, real estate-related depreciation and amortization and adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. We present FFO on a per share basis after making adjustments for the effects of dilutive securities and the payment of preferred stock dividends, in accordance with NAREIT guidelines.
We believe that FFO per diluted share is a useful supplemental measure of our operating performance and that the presentation of FFO per diluted share, when combined with the primary GAAP presentation of earnings per share, provides beneficial information to investors. By excluding the effect of real estate depreciation, amortization and gains and losses from sales of real estate, all of which are based on historical cost accounting and which may be of lesser significance in evaluating current performance, we believe such measures can facilitate comparisons of operating performance between periods and with other REITs, even though FFO per diluted share does not represent an amount that accrues directly to holders of our common stock. Historical cost accounting for real estate assets implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time. As noted by NAREIT in its April 2002 "White Paper on Funds From Operations," since real estate values have historically risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors have considered presentation of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient by themselves. For these reasons, NAREIT adopted the definition of FFO in order to promote an industry-wide measure of REIT operating performance.
EBITDA
Earnings before Interest Expense, Income Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization (EBITDA) is a commonly used measure of performance in many industries. Management believes EBITDA provides useful information to investors regarding our results of operations because it helps us and our investors evaluate the ongoing operating performance of our properties and facilitates comparisons between us and other lodging REITs, hotel owners who are not REITs and other capital-intensive companies. Management uses EBITDA to evaluate property-level results and as one measure in determining the value of acquisitions and dispositions and, like FFO per diluted share, it is widely used by management in the annual budget process.
Adjusted EBITDA
Historically, management has adjusted EBITDA when evaluating our performance because we believe that the exclusion of certain additional recurring and non-recurring items described below provides useful supplemental information to investors regarding our ongoing operating performance and that the presentation of Adjusted EBITDA, when combined with the primary GAAP presentation of net income, is beneficial to an investor's complete understanding of our operating performance and is a relevant measure in calculating certain credit ratios. We adjust EBITDA for the following items, which may occur in any period, and refer to this measure as Adjusted EBITDA:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Limitations on the Use of FFO per Diluted Share, EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA
We calculate FFO per diluted share in accordance with standards established by NAREIT, which may not be comparable to measures calculated by other companies who do not use the NAREIT definition of FFO or calculate FFO per diluted share in accordance with NAREIT guidance. In addition, although FFO per diluted share is a useful measure when comparing our results to other REITs, it may not be helpful to investors when comparing us to non-REITs. EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA, as presented, may also not be comparable to measures calculated by other companies. This information should not be considered as an alternative to net income, operating profit, cash from operations or any other operating performance measure calculated in accordance with GAAP. Cash expenditures for various long-term assets (such as renewal and replacement capital expenditures), interest expense (for EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA purposes only) and other items have been and will be incurred and are not reflected in the EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and FFO per diluted share presentations. Management compensates for these limitations by separately considering the impact of these excluded items to the extent they are material to operating decisions or assessments of our operating performance. Our consolidated statement of operations and cash flows include interest expense, capital expenditures, and other excluded items, all of which should be considered when evaluating our performance, as well as the usefulness of our non-GAAP financial measures. Additionally, FFO per diluted share, EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered as a measure of our liquidity or indicative of funds available to fund our cash needs, including our ability to make cash distributions. In addition, FFO per diluted share does not measure, and should not be used as a measure of, amounts that accrue directly to stockholders' benefit.
 
 
Comparable Hotel Operating Results
We present certain operating results for our hotels, such as hotel revenues, expenses, adjusted operating profit (and the related margin) and food and beverage adjusted profit (and the related margin), on a comparable hotel, or "same store," basis as supplemental information for investors. Our comparable hotel results present operating results for hotels owned during the entirety of the periods being compared without giving effect to any acquisitions or dispositions, significant property damage or large scale capital improvements incurred during these periods. We present these comparable hotel operating results by eliminating corporate-level costs and expenses related to our capital structure, as well as depreciation and amortization. We eliminate corporate-level costs and expenses to arrive at property-level results because we believe property-level results provide investors with supplemental information into the ongoing operating performance of our hotels. We eliminate depreciation and amortization because, even though depreciation and amortization are property-level expenses, these non-cash expenses, which are based on historical cost accounting for real estate assets, implicitly assume that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time. As noted earlier, because real estate values have historically risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors have considered presentation of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient by themselves.
As a result of the elimination of corporate-level costs and expenses and depreciation and amortization, the comparable hotel operating results we present do not represent our total revenues, expenses, operating profit or operating profit margin and should not be used to evaluate our performance as a whole. Management compensates for these limitations by separately considering the impact of these excluded items to the extent they are material to operating decisions or assessments of our operating performance. Our consolidated statements of operations include such amounts, all of which should be considered by investors when evaluating our performance.
We present these hotel operating results on a comparable hotel basis because we believe that doing so provides investors and management with useful information for evaluating the period-to-period performance of our hotels and facilitates comparisons with other hotel REITs and hotel owners. In particular, these measures assist management and investors in distinguishing whether increases or decreases in revenues and/or expenses are due to growth or decline of operations at comparable hotels (which represent the vast majority of our portfolio) or from other factors, such as the effect of acquisitions or dispositions. While management believes that presentation of comparable hotel results is a "same store" supplemental measure that provides useful information in evaluating our ongoing performance, this measure is not used to allocate resources or to assess the operating performance of each of these hotels, as these decisions are based on data for individual hotels and are not based on comparable hotel results. For these reasons, we believe that comparable hotel operating results, when combined with the presentation of GAAP operating profit, revenues and expenses, provide useful information to investors and management.
 


