FILE:HST/HST-8K-20101201181136.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01Other Events
The purpose of this Current Report on Form 8-K is to set forth the following information previously filed as part of, or as an exhibit or financial statement schedule to, the Host Hotels & Resorts, Inc.'s (the "Company") Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year December 31, 2009, which information has been revised to reflect certain reclassifications required by U.S. generally accepted accounting principals ("US GAAP") due to the disposition of The Ritz-Carlton, Dearborn. The revised information includes:
 
 
 
 
 
This information is attached hereto as exhibits 12 and 99.1 through 99.4 and is incorporated herein by reference.
On June 2, 2010, the Company sold The Ritz-Carlton, Dearborn for net proceeds of approximately $3 million. In accordance with US GAAP, the results of this property were presented in the Company's continuing operations for all fiscal years included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") on March 1, 2010 (the "2009 Annual Report") as it did not meet the held-for-sale criteria as of December 31, 2009. In accordance with the accounting pronouncement regarding the impairment or disposal of long-lived assets, the Company reported the results of this hotel as discontinued operations beginning with its Form 10-Q for the quarter and year-to-date periods ended June 18, 2010. The Company is also required by US GAAP to reclassify results of operations from a property disposed or held for sale as discontinued operations during all reported periods. Accordingly, the information included in this Current Report reflects the reclassification of the results of this property as discontinued operations.
The Company has also updated the footnotes to the audited consolidated financial statements to disclose certain significant transactions listed below that occurred subsequent to December 31, 2009. However, investors are cautioned that the MD&A with respect to the three years ended December 31, 2009 presented herein represents the MD&A that the Company filed as part of its 2009 Annual Report updated only to reflect the effect on its results of operations and financial position discussed therein of the sale of the The Ritz-Carlton, Dearborn discussed above. The MD&A presented herein has not been updated or amended to reflect any other information, uncertainties, transactions, risks, events or trends occurring, or known to management, including those listed below, that have occurred subsequent to March 1, 2010, the date on which the Company filed its 2009 Annual Report with the SEC. The items for which the MD&A presented herein have not been updated or amended (but for which the footnotes to the audited consolidated financial statements have been updated) include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition, neither the footnotes to the audited consolidated financial statements nor the MD&A presented herein have been amended or updated to reflect the following information:
 
 
 
Investors should read the information contained in this current report together with the other information contained in the Company's 2009 Annual Report, the Company's periodic reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 26, 2010, June 18, 2010 and September 10, 2010 filed with the SEC on May 3, 2010, July 27, 2010 and October 15, 2010, respectively, and other information filed with, or furnished to, the SEC after March 1, 2010.
 
ITEM 9.01.    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: November 30, 2010
 

EXHIBIT 12
 
 

EXHIBIT 23.1
The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Host Hotels & Resorts, Inc.:
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statements (Nos. 333-78091, 333-98207, 333-155689, 333-155690, 333-144195, 333-150159 and 333-117229) on Form S-3 and (Nos. 333-75055, 333-28683, 333-75057, 333-75059 and 033-66622) on Form S-8 of Host Hotels & Resorts, Inc. of our report dated February 26, 2010, except as to Notes 2, 6, 10, 12, 15 and 19, which are as of November 30, 2010, with respect to the consolidated balance sheets of Host Hotels & Resorts, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the related consolidated statements of operations, equity and comprehensive income (loss) and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2009 and the related financial statement schedule as of December 31, 2009, which report appears in the current report on Form 8-K of Host Hotels & Resorts, Inc. dated November 30, 2010.
 
McLean, Virginia
November 30, 2010
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
Selected Financial Data
The selected financial data presented below as of and for each of the years in the five-year period ended December 31, 2009, is derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of Host Hotels & Resorts, Inc. The consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2009 are included elsewhere herein. The following table presents certain selected historical financial data which has been updated to reflect the impact of the disposition of one property and the retrospective application of two accounting standards and should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes, and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" appearing elsewhere herein:
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.2
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in Exhibit 99.3.
Overview
As of February 17, 2010, we own 110 luxury and upper-upscale hotel properties and we are the largest lodging REIT in the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trust's composite index. A REIT is a legal entity that owns real estate assets and, through payments of dividends to stockholders, is permitted to reduce or eliminate federal income taxes at the corporate level. Host operates as a self-managed and self-administered REIT and owns approximately 98% of the partnership interests of Host LP.
Our hotels are operated under brand names that are among the most respected and widely recognized in the lodging industry. The majority of our properties are luxury and upper-scale that are located in central business districts of major cities, near airports and in resort/conference destinations that benefit from significant barriers to entry by competitors. In 2009, approximately 77% of our revenues were generated by our urban and resort/conference hotels. While our hotels are still subject to competitive pressures, we believe this strategy should allow us to achieve room rate and occupancy premiums in excess of those of our competitors. We seek to maximize the value of our portfolio through aggressive asset management by assisting the managers of our hotels in optimizing property operations and by completing strategic capital improvements.
Our Customers
The majority of our customers fall into three broad groups: transient business, group business, and contract business, which accounted for approximately 56%, 37% and 7%, respectively, of our 2009 room sales. Similar to the majority of the lodging industry, we further categorize business within these categories based on characteristics they have in common as follows:
Transient business broadly represents individual business or leisure travelers. Business travelers make up the majority of transient demand at our hotels. Therefore, we will be more significantly affected by trends in business travel versus leisure demand. The four key subcategories of the transient business group are:
 
 
 
 
 
Group business represents clusters of guestrooms booked together, usually with a minimum of 10 rooms. Examples include a company training session or a social event such as a family reunion. The three key sub-categories of the group business category are:
 
 
 
The final category is contract demand, which refers to blocks of rooms sold to a specific company for an extended period of time at significantly discounted rates. Contract rates are usually utilized by hotels that are located in markets that are experiencing consistently lower levels of demand. Airline crews are typical generators of contract demand for our hotels.
Understanding Our Performance
    Our hotels are operated by third-party managers under long-term agreements under which they typically earn base and incentive management fees based on the levels of revenues and profitability of each individual hotel. We provide operating funds, or working capital, which the managers use to purchase inventory and to pay wages, utilities, property taxes and other hotel-level expenses. We generally receive a cash distribution from our hotel managers each four-week or monthly accounting period, which reflects hotel-level sales less property-level operating expenses (excluding depreciation).
Our Revenues and Expenses.
Hotel revenue is approximately 97% of our total revenue. The following table presents the components of our hotel revenue as a percentage of our total revenue:
 
 
Hotel operating expenses are approximately 98% of our total operating costs and expenses. The following table presents the components of our hotel operating expenses as a percentage of our total operating costs and expenses:
 
The expense components listed above are based on those presented in our consolidated statements of operations. It is also worth noting that wage and benefit costs are spread among various line items, however, taken separately these costs represent approximately 55% of our hotel operating expenses.
    Revenue per available room, or RevPAR, is a commonly used measure within the hotel industry to evaluate hotel operations. RevPAR is defined as the product of the average daily room rate charged and the average daily occupancy achieved. RevPAR does not include food and beverage or parking, telephone or other guest service revenues generated by the property. Although RevPAR does not include these ancillary revenues, it is generally considered the leading indicator of core revenues for many hotels.
Key Performance Indicators.
RevPAR changes that are driven predominately by occupancy have different implications on overall revenue levels, as well as incremental operating profit than do changes that are driven predominately by average room rate. For example, increases in occupancy at a hotel would lead to increases in rooms revenues and ancillary revenues, such as food and beverage, as well as additional incremental costs (including housekeeping services, utilities and room amenity costs). RevPAR increases due to higher room rates, however, would not result in additional room-related costs. As a result, changes in RevPAR driven by increases or decreases in average room rates have a greater effect on profitability than changes in RevPAR caused by occupancy levels.
In discussing our operating results, we present RevPAR and certain other financial data for our hotels on a comparable hotel basis. Comparable hotels are those properties that we have owned for the entirety of the
 
reporting periods being compared. Comparable hotels do not include the results of properties acquired or sold, or that incurred business interruption due to significant property damage, large scale capital improvements or significant events during these periods.
We also evaluate the performance of our business through non-GAAP financial measures, including funds from operations ("FFO") per diluted share and comparable hotel adjusted operating profit. We use FFO per diluted share as a supplemental measure of company-wide profitability. Another key profitability indicator we use is hotel adjusted operating profit, which is a non-GAAP measure used to evaluate the profitability of our comparable hotels. Hotel adjusted operating profit measures property-level results before debt service and is a supplemental measure of individual property-level profitability. The comparable hotel adjusted operating profit that we discuss is an aggregation of the adjusted operating profit for each of our comparable hotels. Each of the non-GAAP measures should be considered by investors as supplemental measures to GAAP performance measures such as total revenues, operating profit and earnings per share. We provide a more detailed discussion of these non-GAAP financial measures, how management uses such measures to evaluate our financial condition and operating performance as well as certain limitations of such measures. See "Non-GAAP Financial Measures."
Summary of 2009 Operating Results
During 2009, the economic recession, both domestically and internationally, and the continued fall-out from the collapse of the credit markets in 2008 contributed to a significant decrease in GDP, corporate profits and business and consumer spending, as well as a significant increase in the unemployment rate. These factors combined to depress overall lodging demand, which resulted in historical levels of decline in occupancy and average room rates. In addition to these economic drivers, political pressure and public relations concerns over corporate travel further diminished booking activity and reduced attendance at group events, resulting in lower banquet, food and beverage and other revenues. Meeting planners were able to take advantage of historically high room availability, which has resulted in a shift in pricing power, leading to lower average room rates. Overall, comparable RevPAR decreased 19.9% in 2009 as a result of a decrease in occupancy of 5.4 percentage points and a decrease of 13.5% in average room rate with a similar decline in food and beverage revenues of 20.1%. As a result, total revenue decreased $975 million, or 19.0%, to approximately $4.1 billion for the year.
Net income declined $672 million in 2009 to a loss of $258 million. The decline in net income primarily reflects the decline in operating profit due to the decrease in overall lodging demand described above. The net loss also reflects $131 million of impairment charges incurred during 2009, $77 million of which are included in discontinued operations. Diluted earnings per common share decreased $1.17 to a $.45 loss in 2009. FFO per diluted share decreased $1.20, to $.51, for 2009. The declines in diluted earnings per common share and FFO per diluted share reflect the decline in operations and the issuance of approximately 104 million common shares throughout the year. The declines in earnings and FFO per share during 2009 also reflect $131 million of impairment charges and an expense accrual of approximately $41 million related to a potential litigation loss. During 2008, impairment charges totaled $3 million.
Management was able to partially mitigate the decline in our operations by working with our managers to minimize margin deterioration. During the year, we worked with our operators to implement significant contingency plans, which included right-sizing the work force to the amount of business being generated, reducing discretionary spending, delaying the implementation of brand standards, closing restaurant outlets or modifying hours of operations, as well as closing specific floors or towers to reflect the decrease in occupancy. In addition to our cost-cutting measures, our managers accessed additional revenue channels, particularly e-commerce channels, in an effort to offset the decline in revenues from more traditional sources.
 
Financing Activities
Maintaining financial flexibility was an important strategic focus throughout 2009. Despite the disruption in the credit markets, we raised approximately $1.9 billion in cash during the year through debt and equity issuances and hotel sales. The proceeds have primarily been used to repay short-term debt maturities and to maintain higher than historical cash levels. As a result of these efforts:
 
 
 
 
We believe, as a result of these efforts and the overall strength of our balance sheet, we will have sufficient liquidity to withstand the current decline in our operating cash flow and to take advantage of investment opportunities going forward (for a detailed discussion, see "Liquidity and Capital Resources").
Investing Activities
    Acquisition opportunities that conform to our portfolio criteria were nearly nonexistent in 2009 both domestically and internationally due to significantly depressed operating levels, ongoing capital market disruption and the uncertain economic outlook. We believe that the current operating environment, combined with the significant number of hotel properties encumbered with very high levels of debt coming due in the next several years, may result in owners and/or lenders making these properties available for sale due to their inability to repay the debt at maturity. We believe that these opportunities may begin to reach the market in 2011 and 2012 as distressed owners and their lenders will first explore other options. We have been actively exploring potential acquisitions and expect to be able to take advantage of these opportunities over time as they arise.
Acquisitions/Dispositions.
We disposed of six non-core properties in 2009 where we believed the potential for future returns were lower than our target levels and recognized proceeds of approximately $204 million, including the return of reserves held by the manager, that were subsequently used to repay debt and invest in our portfolio. We recognized a gain on the dispositions totaling approximately $26 million, net of tax.
On September 11, 2009, we sold our remaining 3.6% limited partnership interest in CBM JV for approximately $13 million and recorded the gain on property transaction of $5 million, net of taxes. As a result of this transaction, we will no longer have any continuing involvement in CBM JV.
    Our capital expenditures program consists of renewal and replacement, ROI/repositioning and value enhancement projects in a broad array of areas including lobbies and public spaces, food and beverage facilities, spas, retail outlets, meeting space and rooms as well as energy conservation and other non-public areas of the property. We completed $340 million of capital expenditures in 2009, which included $176 million in ROI/repositioning expenditures and value enhancement projects at numerous properties. These
Capital Expenditures
.
 
projects included the completion of a 62,750 square foot ballroom addition at the Swisstel Chicago for approximately $52 million, the construction of the 12,000 square foot ballroom at The Ritz-Carlton, Amelia Island and the construction of the 10,000 square foot ballroom at the Harbor Beach Marriott Resort & Spa, which is scheduled for completion in the first quarter of 2010. In addition to the ROI/repositioning projects, we spent $164 million on renewal and replacement capital expenditures.
We believe that our properties are in a strong competitive position with respect to their market competitors as a result of strategic focus on maintaining and upgrading our properties through a dedicated capital expenditures program. While overall spending on capital projects declined in 2009, we have invested over $2.5 billion in the last five years, including the renovation of approximately 42,000 rooms and 2.3 million square feet of meeting space. We anticipate that we will spend $270 million to $300 million on capital projects for 2010, and we continue to look for additional ways to strategically reinvest in our portfolio using our scale and relationships to drive more cost efficient purchasing and improve the overall quality of our assets.
2010 Outlook
While economic indicators suggest that the economy and the lodging industry have begun a tentative recovery in the wake of the difficult recessionary environment in 2009, we believe that several factors, primarily uncertainty in the strength and sustainability of an economic recovery and persistently high unemployment, will continue to negatively affect lodging industry fundamentals in 2010. We do not anticipate a significant improvement in the lodging industry until key economic indicators, particularly GDP, business investment, employment, corporate profits and consumer spending, experience sustained quarter-over-quarter growth.
The factors discussed above will likely continue to negatively affect the group and transient demand segments in 2010. We believe occupancy, after reaching near historical lows, will begin to improve due to the back-log of demand from long-delayed meetings and travel. However, we believe the recovery in occupancy will be muted as concerns over corporate expenditures will continue to diminish booking activity and decrease attendance at group events, resulting in lower banquet, food and beverage and other revenues. Similarly, the reduction in corporate travel budgets and cost concerns will continue to negatively affect transient business and leisure travel. We believe the increase in occupancy will be offset by continued rate pressure in the lodging industry. Historically, as occupancy improves average rates will increase as the mix of business shifts away from lower-rated discount and contract business to higher-rated corporate and group business. Eventually, average rates will increase further as additional demand moves the pricing power away from the consumer. For example, while we have experienced an increase in short-term group bookings, our overall group booking pace remains below 2008 levels. We believe that this is the result of meeting planners taking advantage of the historically low occupancy in the industry to book unoccupied rooms at a discount closer to their meeting date. This shift to short-term group bookings also negatively affects our ability to predict our group bookings and overall results. Similarly, for our transient business, travelers will continue to take advantage of discount booking options until the industry can sustain occupancy growth.
We believe that the lodging supply growth for upper upscale and luxury hotels will begin to abate in 2010, and will be significantly lower in 2011 and 2012 as the recession and the disruption in the credit markets caused a significant decline in new hotel construction starts beginning in the second half of 2008. This may be particularly relevant for the markets and lodging sectors in which we compete due to the long-term planning and high level of investment associated with these properties. While we do not believe the anticipated decline in supply growth will have a significant effect on operations for 2010, we believe that it will have a positive effect on our hotels' performance in later years, as any demand growth which occurs will not be coupled with an increase in lodging supply.
The general economic trends discussed above make it difficult to predict our future operating results in 2010. We may experience further declines in hotel revenues or earnings at our properties for any number of reasons, including, but not limited to, greater than anticipated weakness in the economy, changes in travel patterns and the continued impact of the trends identified above.
 
Results of Operations
The following table reflects certain line items from our audited statements of operations and other significant operating statistics (in millions, except operating statistics and percentages):
 
 
Hotel Sales Overview
 
    The decrease in hotel sales and food and beverage revenues is primarily attributable to decreased occupancy, which drives lower room rates and less demand for catering and banquet business, as well as other ancillary revenues such as spas, golf, parking, internet connectivity and other fees. Sales for properties disposed of in 2009 and 2008 have been reclassified as discontinued operations as well as for the sale of The Ritz-Carlton, Dearborn in June 2010. See "Discontinued Operations" below.
2009 Compared to 2008.
 
Consistent with the portfolio as a whole, comparable hotel RevPAR decreased 19.9%, with a 5.4 percentage point decrease in occupancy and a 13.5% decrease in average room rates. Another factor that contributed to the decrease in revenues was corporate travelers downgrading from luxury properties to other hotel segments due to political and public relations concerns regarding corporate expenditures on luxury services. This had a significant affect on our Ritz-Carlton properties as well as our resort locations.
While management evaluates the performance of each individual hotel against its competitive set in a given market, overall we evaluate the portfolio operating results using three different criteria: property type (i.e. urban, suburban, resort/conference or airport), geographic region and mix of business (i.e. transient, group or contract).
    The following tables set forth performance information for 2009 and 2008:
Comparable Hotel Sales by Property Type.
 
 
Consistent with 2008, our urban properties continued to outperform the portfolio as a whole. We believe the location of these assets provides a diversified demand base that helped drive higher levels of occupancy, which partially mitigated the decline in average room rate compared to other property types. As noted above, our resort/conference properties were particularly affected by traveler concerns regarding corporate expenditures for luxury hotels and services.
 
    The following tables set forth performance information for 2009 and 2008:
Comparable Hotel Sales by Geographic Region.
 
 
Other than the DC Metro region, all of our regions had substantial declines in RevPAR, though results reflect the different dynamics of the major markets within each region. RevPAR at hotels in our top performing DC Metro region declined 5.8%, though individual properties within the region varied from an increase of 7.4% to a decline of 25.4% in RevPAR, with the strongest performers being our downtown properties that benefited from government and government-related activity. Similarly, the 15.8% RevPAR decline in the South Central region included a RevPAR decrease of 3.7% in New Orleans and a decline of 21.4% in Houston.
    The majority of our customers fall into three broad groups: transient, group and contract business. The information below is derived from business mix data for 111 of our hotels for which business mix data is available from our managers.
Hotel Sales by Business Mix.
In 2009, transient RevPAR decreased 18.6% when compared to 2008, reflecting a slight decline in total room nights and a decline in average rate of 17.7%. The decline primarily reflects a shift from the higher-rated premium and corporate business to the price-sensitive transient discount business. Room nights for premium and corporate business declined 17.3%, despite a decline in average rates of 18.9%, which led to a RevPAR decline of 32.9% in this business. This was slightly offset by the 8.6% growth in room nights from price-sensitive transient discount business as customers, particularly leisure travelers, utilized discount programs implemented by our managers and third-party travel websites offering discounted rates.
Group RevPAR declined approximately 23.2% reflecting a decline in total room nights of 17.2% and a decline in average room rates of 7.2%. The decline in room rate was primarily due to corporate group discounts and short-term group rate concessions. The primary driver of the decline in room nights was a significant reduction in corporate group business of 32.8%. In addition to significant reductions in corporate group meetings, this also reflects low attendance at group meetings and groups increasingly renegotiating rates.
Hotel sales declined in 2008 due to decreases in occupancy at our properties, as well as decreases in food and beverage and other revenue items. Sales for properties disposed of in 2009, 2008 and 2007 have been reclassified as discontinued operations as well as for the sale of The Ritz-Carlton, Dearborn in June 2010. See "Discontinued Operations" below.
2008 Compared to 2007.    
 
Comparable hotel RevPAR decreased 2.6%. The decrease in RevPAR was the result of a 2.4 percentage point decrease in occupancy which was slightly offset by a .7% increase in average room rates. Occupancy was negatively affected by the decrease in overall lodging demand.
Food and beverage revenues for our comparable hotels decreased 2.9%, primarily due to decreased sales from our catering and banquet business and meeting room rentals and the decline in occupancy at our hotels. Other revenues for our comparable hotels, which primarily represent spa, golf, parking, internet connectivity and other fees, were down slightly.
    The following tables set forth performance information for 2008 and 2007:
Comparable Hotel Sales by Property Type.
 
 
For 2008, RevPAR decreased across all of our hotel property types. RevPAR at our resort/conference properties was particularly affected by the current economic recession due to reduced consumer spending and increased travel costs. In particular, our Hawaiian properties experienced a dramatic decline in RevPAR as a result of decreased airlift to the Hawaiian islands and overall weak demand in this market. RevPAR at our urban, airport and suburban hotels also declined due to the overall decline in lodging demand.
    The following tables set forth performance information for 2008 and 2007:
Comparable Hotel Sales by Geographic Region.
 
 
 
In terms of RevPAR growth, our International region was the top performing region due to RevPAR growth at our Chilean and Canadian hotels and the impact of favorable foreign currency exchange rates. Comparable hotel RevPAR growth in our Florida region was driven by RevPAR growth at the Harbor Beach Marriott where we benefited from prior year disruption caused by rooms' renovations and the Orlando World Center Marriott where significant discounting drove transient demand. RevPAR results were partially offset by rooms' renovations at three hotels in the Florida region, as well as the impact of Hurricane Fay. RevPAR growth in the South Central region was the result of year-over-year growth in our Houston market which had a strong fourth quarter due to Hurricane Ike induced demand as well as our San Antonio properties, which experienced strong group business because of recent renovations in the fourth quarter of 2007.
The RevPAR decline in our Pacific region was driven by the 17.1% RevPAR decline at our Hawaiian properties and a 3.8% decline at our San Diego properties. The region's best performer based on RevPAR growth was the San Francisco market which had a 1.9% increase in RevPAR. However, the RevPAR growth was concentrated in the first half of the year, as RevPAR in San Francisco declined significantly in the fourth quarter. RevPAR in our New England region also declined, reflecting decreased demand at our Boston hotels due to fewer city-wide events and softening leisure demand. In addition, we experienced higher group attrition and cancellations than in prior periods.
The North Central region underperformed other regions, as results in Chicago were particularly weak due primarily to renovations at three of our Chicago properties and lower transient demand. The Atlanta region also underperformed in comparison to the overall portfolio due to weak group bookings, lower transient demand and increased supply. RevPAR in our Mountain region also declined as the Phoenix market continued to struggle due to lower group and transient demand and rooms renovations at two hotels.
    The information below is derived from business mix data for 108 of our hotels for which business mix data is available from our managers.
Hotel Sales by Business Mix.
In 2008, overall transient average daily rates decreased 1.3% when compared to 2007 while our overall group average room rate increased almost 3.9% over the prior year as most of the business was contracted prior to any significant downturn.
Property-level Operating Expenses.
 
The overall decrease in operating expenses is consistent with lower overall demand at our properties and our hotel managers actively implementing contingency plans and cost saving measures to manage operating margin decline. Our operating costs and expenses, which are both fixed and variable, are affected by changes in occupancy, inflationary increases and revenues (which affect management fees), though the effect on specific costs will differ. Property-level operating expenses exclude the costs associated with hotels we have sold during the periods presented as well as for the sale of The Ritz-Carlton, Dearborn in June 2010, which are included in discontinued operations.
2009 compared to 2008 and 2008 compared to 2007.    
 
    The decrease in room expenses was primarily due to a decrease in occupancy. We also benefited from cost cutting measures implemented by our managers that reduced controllable expenses, such as closing rooms in unused sections of the hotels, and reducing management staff and labor hours per occupied room.
Rooms.
    The decline in food and beverages costs was primarily driven by a decrease in occupancy, which led to a reduction in food and beverages cost of goods sold, and reductions in restaurant hourly and management staff.
Food and Beverage.
The decline in these expenses reflected a reduction in controllable expenses such as marketing and general and administration expenses that were driven by a decrease in the wages and benefits allocated to these expenses, reflecting a decline in management staffing and bonus payouts. Additionally, utilities declined 11.5% as a result of a decline in prices, lower occupancy levels and milder weather.
Other departmental and support expenses.    
    Our base management fees, which are generally calculated as a percentage of total revenues, declined 20% for the year, which is consistent with our revenue decline. The incentive management fees, which are based on the level of operating profit at each property after the owner has received a priority return on its investment, declined 67% during 2009 as a result of the decline in operating profit at the hotel level.
Management fees.
    These expenses generally do not vary significantly based on occupancy and include expenses such as property taxes and insurance. For 2009, the slight increase was primarily driven by the increase in ground rent expense related to the New York Marriott Marquis, which was largely offset by decreases in insurance, equipment rental and other property-level costs.
Other property-level expenses.
During 2009, the increase in depreciation expense was primarily due to $20 million of impairment charges included in continuing operations as well as an increase in depreciation expense due to our extensive $1.8 billion capital expenditure program from 2006 to 2008.
Depreciation and amortization.    
During 2009, we identified properties to be tested for impairment based on certain events or circumstances that occurred which indicated that their carrying amount may not be recoverable as compared to projected undiscounted cash flows, as prescribed by GAAP. We tested these properties for impairment based on management's estimate of expected future undiscounted cash flows over our expected holding period. As a result of these analyses, we recorded non-cash property impairment charges totaling $97 million for the year based on the difference between the fair value of these properties and their carrying amounts. Of these property impairment charges, $77 million has been included in discontinued operations for the year-to-date period. During 2008, we identified one property for impairment and recorded $3 million of impairment charges, which are included in discontinued operations. See "Critical Accounting PoliciesImpairment testing" for further discussion of our policies regarding impairments.
In addition, our investment in the European joint venture exceeded its fair value on an other-than-temporary basis, and we recorded an impairment charge of $34 million which is included in equity in earnings (losses) of affiliates. See "Other Income Statement Line ItemsEquity in Earnings (Losses) of Affiliates" for further detail.
Other Income Statement Line Items
    Corporate and other expenses primarily consist of employee salaries and benefits, including stock-based compensation expense, as well as other costs such as travel, corporate insurance, audit fees, building rent and system costs. Corporate expenses increased approximately $58 million in 2009 from 2008 and decreased approximately $11 million in 2008 from 2007. The increase in 2009 includes an expense accrual of approximately $41 million, or $.07 per common share, based on a range of possible outcomes for a potential litigation loss. See "Legal Proceedings." Additionally, higher corporate expenses reflected an increase in stock expense in a return to more normalized levels, as well as an increase in the stock price during 2009.
Corporate and Other Expense
s.
 
    We recorded a gain on insurance settlement of $7 million in 2008 and $51 million in 2007. The gains primarily relate to the insurance proceeds received for both business interruption and property damage following Hurricanes Katrina and Wilma which occurred during September and October 2005, respectively. The hurricanes caused substantial business interruption and property damage at our New Orleans Marriott and at five of our hotels located in southern Florida. The gain represents the insurance proceeds received in excess of the insurance receivable recorded on the balance sheet at the date of loss. The insurance receivable reflected the book value of the property and equipment written off and repairs and maintenance costs incurred from the hurricanes. We recognize the gains on insurance settlements once all contingencies are met, and, as a result, none of the property insurance proceeds were recognized in income during 2005 or 2006.
Gain on Insurance Settlement.
    The $13 million decline in interest income for 2009 when compared to 2008 is primarily due to lower rates for 2009 compared to 2008. The $17 million decline in interest income for 2008 when compared to 2007 is primarily due to lower interest rates during 2008, as well as a slightly lower weighted average cash balance for the full year 2008 compared to 2007.
Interest Income
.
Interest expense increased 1% to $379 million in 2009. Interest expense includes $27 million, $30 million and $25 million of non-cash interest expense for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, related to our exchangeable debentures associated with the implementation of the new U.S. GAAP requirement. See "Critical Accounting PoliciesImplementation of New Accounting Standards."
Interest Expense.
    
The decrease of $69 million in interest expense for 2008 from 2007 is primarily due to an expense of $45 million related to call premiums and the acceleration of the amortization of deferred financing costs associated with debt prepayments during 2007 compared to a $14 million gain in 2008 related to the repurchase of $100 million principal amount of our 2004 Debentures. The decline in interest expense also reflects the decrease in our weighted average interest rate of 0.4 percentage points to 6.4%.
    In 2009, our share of losses from affiliates increased by $22 million compared to 2008 primarily due to the $34 million non-cash impairment charge related to our investment in the joint venture in Europe and the overall decline in operations at these hotels. Results also were affected by the settlement of a lawsuit in 2009 relating to the return of an initial deposit for a terminated acquisition, which resulted in a gain of $8 million. We recognized a loss of $11 million in 2008 due to uncertainties surrounding this litigation.
Equity in Earnings (Losses) of Affiliates.
We evaluate the recoverability of our investment in affiliates based on our assessment of the fair value of our investment in comparison to our carrying value. In 2009, we determined that the carrying value of our investment in our joint venture in Europe exceeded its fair value on an other-than-temporary basis. As a result, we recorded an impairment charge of $34 million which is included in equity in earnings (losses) of affiliates. See "Critical Accounting Policies" for further discussion.
Other-than-Temporary Impairment of an Investment
    Net income attributable to non-controlling interest decreased $25 million in 2009 and $12 million in 2008 due to a decline in the net income of Host LP during both years. Host LP net income reflects the operations at our hotels and is significantly affected by the gain on dispositions, which were $26 million, $24 million and $164 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
Net Income/Loss Attributable to Non-controlling interests.
 
    Discontinued operations consist of two hotels disposed of in 2010, six hotels disposed of in 2009 (including one hotel for which the ground lease expired and will revert back to the ground lessor), two hotels disposed of during 2008 and nine hotels disposed of in 2007 and represent the results of operations and the gains on the disposition of these hotels during the periods. The following table summarizes the revenues, income before taxes, and the gain on dispositions, net of tax, of the hotels which have been reclassified to discontinued operations, which includes assets held for sale and the results of sold hotels prior to their disposition, in the consolidated statements of operations for the periods presented (in millions):
Discontinued Operations.
 
Liquidity and Capital Resources
We seek to maintain a capital structure and liquidity profile with an appropriate balance of cash, debt and equity to provide financial flexibility to pursue opportunities given the cyclical nature of the lodging industry. Consistent with our strategic goals and the overall economic climate in 2009, we focused on preserving capital, increasing liquidity and extending debt maturities. We raised approximately $1.9 billion through debt and equity issuances and hotel sales. We used the proceeds from these transactions and available cash to repay $153 million face amount of senior notes and debentures with a carrying value of $144 million for $139 million, to repay $410 million outstanding under our credit facility and to repay $342 million in mortgage debt. We also repaid $470 million of debt in the first quarter of 2010 as discussed below. We intend to use the remaining proceeds to repay debt, acquire new properties and invest in our portfolio through our capital expenditure program. We believe we have sufficient liquidity and access to the capital markets to withstand declines in operating cash flow, pay our near-term debt maturities and fund our capital expenditure programs. We expect to maintain higher than historical cash levels until the credit markets stabilize and operating conditions improve.
Overview.    
The chart below details our significant cash flows for the three years ended December 31, 2009:
 
    We use cash for acquisitions, capital expenditures, debt payments, operating costs, corporate and other expenses and dividends to stockholders. As a REIT, we are required to distribute at least 90% of our taxable income (excluding net capital gain) to our stockholders. During 2009, we took advantage of guidance issued by the IRS to satisfy up to 90% of our REIT distribution requirements through the issuance of stock dividends. Therefore, we declared a $.25 per share special dividend in the fourth quarter, which was paid
Cash Requirements.
 
90% with common stock and 10% with cash. Funds used to make cash distributions are provided by Host LP. Our sources of cash are cash from operations, proceeds from the sale of assets, borrowings under our credit facility and debt and equity issuances.
Set forth below is a schedule of our debt maturities through 2012. As of December 31, 2009, our weighted average interest rate is 6.6% and our weighted average maturity is 4.4 years. Our remaining near term debt maturities in 2010 and 2011 are relatively low. Maturities in 2011 total $430 million and include the $300 million Orlando World Center Marriott mortgage, which is subject to extension, in whole or in part, at our option if certain requirements are met. See "Financial Condition" for more information on our debt maturities. During the first quarter of 2010, we used the proceeds from the issuance of the 2009 Debentures and available cash to redeem the remaining $346 million of 7% Series M senior notes which were due in August 2012 and to repay the $124 million mortgage on the Atlanta Marriott Marquis. Due to these repayments, the $470 million in maturities have been excluded in the chart below:
 
 
    As of December 31, 2009, we had over $1.6 billion of cash and cash equivalents, which was an increase of $1.1 billion from December 31, 2008. We also had $600 million available under our credit facility at December 31, 2009. During the first quarter of 2010, we redeemed or repaid $470 million of outstanding debt with our available cash. We depend primarily on external sources of capital to finance future growth, including acquisitions. As a result, the liquidity and debt capacity provided by our credit facility and the ability to issue senior unsecured debt are key components of our capital structure. Therefore, our financial flexibility (including our ability to incur debt, pay dividends and make investments) is contingent on our ability to maintain compliance with the financial covenants, which include, among others, the allowable amounts of leverage, coverage and fixed charges. During 2009, as operations at our hotels declined, management completed several debt and equity transactions in order to mitigate the effects of the decline in operations on our financial flexibility. As a result of these efforts, we have significantly decreased our near-term debt maturities, reduced our secured mortgage indebtedness and maintained compliance with our senior note and credit facility covenants, despite the decline in operating results at our hotels.
Capital Resources.
If, at any time, we determine that market conditions are favorable, after taking into account our liquidity requirements, we may seek to issue and sell shares of Host common stock in registered public offerings, including through sales directly on the NYSE under our current "at the market" offering program referred to above, or to issue and sell shares of Host preferred stock. We may also seek to cause Host LP to issue, in offerings exempt from registration under the securities laws, debentures exchangeable for shares of our common
 
stock or senior notes. Given our total debt level, typically a portion will come due every year and for that reason we may also continue to redeem or refinance senior notes and mortgage debt from time to time, taking advantage of favorable market conditions when available. In February 2010, Host's Board of Directors authorized repurchases up to $400 million of senior notes, exchangeable debentures and mortgage debt (other than in accordance with its terms). We may purchase senior notes for cash through open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions, a tender offer or, in some cases, through the early redemption of such securities pursuant to their terms. Repurchases of debt, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors. Any refinancing or retirement before the maturity date would affect earnings and FFO per diluted share, as defined below, as a result of the payment of any applicable call premiums and the acceleration of previously deferred financing costs. Accordingly, in light of our priorities in managing our capital structure and liquidity profile, and given the movement in prevailing conditions in the capital markets, we may, at any time, subject to applicable securities laws, be considering, or be in discussions with respect to, the purchase or sale of common stock, exchangeable debentures and/or senior notes. Any such transactions may, subject to applicable securities laws, occur contemporaneously.
As of February 17, 2010, subsequent to the repayment of the $124 million mortgage loan on the Atlanta Marriott Marquis, our secured mortgage indebtedness totaled approximately $1.1 billion, which represents approximately 20% of our overall indebtedness, and is secured by 11 of our hotels. Accordingly, 99 of our hotels are unencumbered by mortgage debt. Given the flexibility provided by the structure of our balance sheet, we will look to access the capital markets for senior notes and exchangeable debentures and the secured mortgage debt market, based on relative pricing and capacity to fund our cash requirements. We may, at any time, seek to access such markets in the event that we determine that the terms and conditions available to us are advantageous based upon prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other circumstances. See "Financial Condition" for further discussion of our restrictive covenants.
    We are subject to counterparty credit risk, which relates to the ability of counterparties to meet their contractual payment obligations or the potential non-performance of counterparties to deliver contracted commodities or services at the contracted price. As a result of the recent bankruptcy and insolvency of several high-profile, well-respected financial institutions, we have performed additional assessments to determine the impact, if any, of these market developments on our financial condition. We are exposed to credit risk with respect to cash held at various financial institutions, access to our credit facility and amounts due or payable under our derivative contracts. Our credit exposure in each of these cases is limited. Our exposure with regard to our cash and the $600 million available under our credit facility is mitigated as the credit risk is spread among a diversified group of investment grade financial institutions. At December 31, 2009, our exposure risk related to our derivative contracts totaled $3.4 million and the counterparties were investment grade financial institutions.
Counterparty Credit Risk.
    During 2009, our primary sources of cash included cash from operations, proceeds from debt and equity issuances and proceeds from the sale of assets. Uses of cash during the year primarily consisted of capital expenditures, operating costs and debt repayments and repurchases. Uses of cash during 2010 will include the repayment or repurchase of our debt maturing in the near-term, capital expenditures at our hotels and dividends on our preferred stock. Other uses may include, among other things, investment in our European, Asian or other joint ventures or hotel acquisitions. We anticipate that our primary sources of cash for 2010 will include cash from operations and proceeds from hotel dispositions and equity issuances.
Sources and Uses of Cash.
    Our cash provided by operations for 2009 decreased $468 million to $552 million compared to 2008, due primarily to declines in operations at our hotels.
Cash Provided by Operations.
    Approximately $116 million of cash was used in investing activities during 2009. This included approximately $340 million of capital expenditures, partially offset by the return of a $39 million investment in the European joint venture and $212 million of net proceeds from the disposition of assets.
Cash Used in Investing Activities.
 
Capital Expenditures
In 2009, total capital expenditures decreased $332 million to $340 million. Our renewal and replacement capital expenditures for 2009 were approximately $164 million, which reflects a decrease of approximately 56% from 2008 levels. Our renewal and replacement capital expenditures are generally funded by the furniture, fixture and equipment funds established at certain of our hotels (typically funded with approximately 5% of property revenues) and by our available cash. We also spent approximately $176 million in 2009 on ROI/repositioning projects, which reflects a decrease of approximately 41% compared to 2008 levels. While capital expenditures declined in 2009, they have totaled approximately $2.5 billion over the past five years. As a result, we believe that our properties are in a strong competitive position with respect to their market competitors.
Acquisitions/Dispositions and Investments
During 2009, we disposed of six non-core properties where we believed the potential for revenue growth was low. Proceeds from these sales were approximately $204 million, including the return of reserves held by the manager, and were used to repay debt and invest in our portfolio. We recognized a gain on the dispositions totaling approximately $26 million, net of tax, in 2009.
On September 11, 2009, we sold our remaining 3.6% limited partnership interest in CBM JV for approximately $13 million and recorded the gain on property transaction of $5 million, net of taxes. As a result of this transaction, we no longer have any continuing involvement in CBM JV.
We did not complete any acquisitions in 2009 or 2008. We believe that the current operating environment, combined with the significant number of hotel properties encumbered with very high levels of debt, may result in owners and/or lenders making these properties available for sale due to their inability to repay the debt at maturity. We believe that these opportunities may not reach the market until 2011 and 2012 or subsequent years as distressed owners and their lenders will first explore other options. However, we have been actively exploring potential acquisitions and expect to be able to take advantage of these opportunities over time as they arise. We may also purchase mortgage debt that is secured by hotel properties or mezzanine debt where we believe we can buy the debt at a discount and earn attractive returns through principal and interest payments or the eventual ownership of the hotel through foreclosure.
We may acquire additional properties through various structures, including transactions involving single assets, portfolios, joint ventures and acquisitions of all or substantially all of the securities or assets of other REITs or similar real estate entities. We anticipate that our acquisitions will be financed through a combination of methods, including proceeds from sales of properties from our existing portfolio, the incurrence of debt, available cash, advances under our credit facility, proceeds from equity offerings of Host, or issuance of OP units by Host LP.
 
The following table summarizes significant investment activities and dispositions that have been completed since the beginning of January 2008 (in millions):
 
 
    Net cash provided by financing activities was $698 million for 2009, as compared to cash used in financing activities of $284 million in 2008. During 2009, we received proceeds of approximately $1.7 billion through the issuance of debt and equity securities.
Cash Provided by/Used in Financing Activities.
Debt Transactions
During 2009, we completed several significant debt transactions that provided financial flexibility and extended our debt maturity profile. On December 22, 2009, Host LP issued $400 million, 2
 1
/
2
% Exchangeable Senior Debentures (the "2009 Debentures") and received proceeds of $391 million, net of underwriting fees and expenses. The debentures are currently exchangeable at a rate of $14.08 per share and we have the option, upon exchange, to provide the exchange value in either cash, shares of Host common stock, or a combination thereof. In January 2010, the proceeds from the issuance and available cash were used to redeem the remaining $346 million in 7% Series M senior notes and to repay the $124 million mortgage on the Atlanta Marriott Marquis. Additionally, we received proceeds of $380 million from the issuance of the $400 million, 9% Series T notes in May 2009 and closed a $120 million floating rate mortgage loan secured by our JW Marriott, Washington D.C. in March 2009. During 2009, proceeds from these transactions, along with the proceeds from our equity transactions and available cash, were used to repay $153 million face amount of senior notes and debentures with a carrying value of $144 million for $139 million, to repay $410 million outstanding under our credit facility and to repay $342 million in mortgage debt.
 
The following table summarizes significant debt (net of deferred financing costs) transactions since the beginning of January 2008 (in millions):
 
 
Equity Transactions
We issued approximately 104 million shares of common stock in 2009 for net proceeds of $767 million. On April 29, 2009, we issued 75.75 million shares of common stock at $6.60 per share and received net proceeds of approximately $480 million, after underwriting discounts and commissions and transaction expenses.
 
On August 19, 2009, we entered into a Sales Agency Financing Agreement with BNY Mellon Capital Markets, LLC, through which we may issue and sell, from time to time, shares of common stock having an aggregate offering price of up to $400 million (the "ATM Program"). The sales will be made in "at the market" offerings under SEC rules, including sales made directly on the New York Stock Exchange. BNY Mellon Capital Markets, LLC is acting as sales agent. During the fourth quarter, Host issued approximately 15 million shares of common stock for net proceeds of $157 million, net of $2 million of commissions, at an average net price per share of approximately $10.49. Since the inception of the ATM Program, we have issued nearly 28 million shares for net proceeds of over $287 million, net of $3 million of commissions, at an average net price per share of approximately $10.27. We may continue to sell shares of common stock under this program from time-to-time based on market conditions, although we are not under an obligation to sell any shares.
During 2009, our cash common stock dividend payments decreased $480 million from $522 million in 2008 to $42 million. In the fourth quarter of 2009, our Board of Directors declared a special dividend of $0.25 per share on our common stock. The special dividend was paid on December 18, 2009 to stockholders of record as of November 6, 2009. In reliance on the specific terms of guidance issued by the IRS, we paid 90% of the dividend with Host common stock, with the remaining 10% paid with cash. Our 2009 dividend payments also include the fourth quarter 2008 dividend of $.05 per share, which was paid in the first quarter of 2009. The dividend payments for 2008 include $.20 per share dividends for each of the first, second and third quarters thereof, as well as the fourth quarter 2007 dividend of $.40, which was paid in the first quarter of 2008.
The following table summarizes significant equity transactions since the beginning of January 2008 (in millions):
 
 
Financial Condition
As of December 31, 2009, our total debt was approximately $5.8 billion of which 88% carried a fixed rate of interest. Total debt was comprised of (in millions):
 
 
Aggregate debt maturities at December 31, 2009 are as follows (in millions):
 
 
The following summary is a description of the material provisions of the indentures governing our various senior notes issued by Host LP, which we refer to collectively as the senior notes indenture. We pay interest on each series of our outstanding senior notes at specified dates in arrears at the respective annual rates indicated on the table above. Under the terms of our senior notes indenture, our senior
Senior Notes.    
 
notes are equal in right of payment with all of Host LP's unsubordinated indebtedness and senior to all subordinated obligations of Host LP. The notes outstanding under our senior notes indenture are guaranteed by certain of our existing subsidiaries and are secured by pledges of equity interests in many of our subsidiaries. The guarantees and pledges ratably benefit the notes outstanding under our senior notes indenture, as well as our credit facility, certain other senior debt, and interest rate swap agreements and other hedging agreements with lenders that are parties to the credit facility. The pledges are permitted to be released in the event that our leverage ratio falls below 6.0x for two consecutive fiscal quarters. Because our leverage ratio is below this threshold, we have the right to release all pledges at any time. In October 2005, we exercised this right for pledges of capital stock that would have been otherwise required subsequent to this date.
.    Under the terms of the senior notes indenture, our ability to incur indebtedness and pay dividends is subject to restrictions and the satisfaction of various conditions, including the achievement of an EBITDA-to-interest coverage ratio of at least 2.0x by Host LP. Furthermore, Host LP is able to make distributions to enable Host to pay dividends on its preferred stock under the senior notes indenture when our EBITDA-to-interest coverage ratio is above 1.7 to 1.0. This ratio is calculated in accordance with the terms of our senior notes indenture based on pro forma results for the four prior fiscal quarters giving effect to transactions such as acquisitions, dispositions and financings, as if they occurred at the beginning of the period. Under the terms of our senior notes indenture, interest expense excludes items such as the gains and losses on the extinguishment of debt, deferred financing charges related to the senior notes or the credit facility, amortization of debt premiums or discounts that were recorded at acquisition of a loan to establish the debt at fair value and approximately $27 million of interest expense recorded in 2009 related to our exchangeable debentures, all of which are included in interest expense on our consolidated statements of operations. Our subsidiaries are subject to the restrictive covenants in the indenture, however, in certain circumstances, we are permitted to designate certain subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries. These unrestricted subsidiaries are not subject to the restrictive covenants (unless they are guarantors) and may engage in transactions to dispose of or encumber their assets or otherwise incur additional indebtedness without complying with the restrictive covenants in the indenture. If we were to designate additional subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries, neither the EBITDA generated by nor the interest expense allocated to these entities would be included in our ratio calculations. Other covenants limiting our ability to incur indebtedness and pay dividends include maintaining total indebtedness of less than 65% of adjusted total assets (using undepreciated real estate book values), excluding intangible assets, and secured indebtedness of less than 45% of adjusted total assets. So long as we maintain the required level of interest coverage and satisfy these and other conditions in the senior notes indenture, we may pay preferred or common dividends and incur additional debt under the senior notes indenture, including debt incurred in connection with an acquisition. The decline in operations over the past two years has caused a decline in our EBITDA-to-interest coverage ratio. If economic conditions continue to weaken, we would expect this trend to continue. However, even if we are below the coverage levels otherwise required to incur debt and pay dividends, we are still permitted to incur certain types of debt, including (i) credit facility debt, (ii) refinancing debt, (iii) up to $300 million of mortgage debt whose proceeds would be used to repay debt under credit facility (and permanently reduce our ability to borrow under the credit facility by such amount), and (iv) up to $100 million of other debt. We also are permitted to pay dividends of estimated taxable income necessary to maintain Host's REIT status.
Restrictive Covenants
Our senior notes indenture also imposes restrictions on customary matters, such as our ability to pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase our equity interests; make investments; permit payment or dividend restrictions on certain of our subsidiaries; sell assets; guarantee indebtedness; enter into transactions with affiliates; create certain liens; and sell certain assets or merge with or into other companies. Our senior notes indenture also imposes a requirement to maintain unencumbered assets (as defined in the indenture as undepreciated property value) of not less than 125% of the aggregate amount of senior note debt plus other debt not secured by mortgages. This coverage requirement must be maintained at all times and is distinct from the coverage requirements necessary to incur debt or pay dividends discussed above (whose consequences, where we fall below the coverage level, are limited to restricting our ability to incur new debt or pay dividends, but which would not otherwise cause a default under our senior notes indenture).
 
We are in compliance with all of our financial covenants under the senior notes indenture as of December 31, 2009. The following table summarizes the financial tests contained in the senior notes indenture as of December 31, 2009:
 
 
We separately account for the liability and equity components of our exchangeable debentures to reflect the fair value of the liability component based on our non-convertible borrowing cost at the issuance date. Accordingly, for our 2
Exchangeable DebenturesGeneral.    
 1
/
2
% Exchangeable Senior Debentures (the "2009 Debentures"), our 2
 5
/
8
% Exchangeable Senior Debentures (the "2007 Debentures") and our 3
 1
/
4
% Exchangeable Senior Debentures (the "2004 Debentures") (collectively, the "Debentures"), we record the liability components of the Debentures at fair value as of the date of issuance and amortize the resulting discount as an increase to interest expense over the expected life of the debt; however, there is no effect on our cash interest payments. We measured the fair value of the debt components of the 2009 Debentures, 2007 Debentures and 2004 Debentures at issuance based on effective interest rates of 6.9%, 6.5% and 6.8%, respectively. As a result, we attributed $247 million of the proceeds received to the conversion feature of the Debentures. This amount represents the excess proceeds received over the fair value of the debt at the date of issuance and is included in additional paid-in capital on the condensed consolidated balance sheets. The following details the initial allocations between the debt and equity components of the debentures, net of the original issue discount, based on the effective interest rate at the time of issuance, as well as the debt balances at December 31, 2009:
 
Interest expense recorded for the Debentures for the periods presented consists of the following (in millions):
 
    On December 22, 2009, Host LP issued $400 million of 2
2009 Exchangeable Senior Debentures.
 1
/
2
% Exchangeable Senior Debentures and received proceeds of $391 million, net of underwriting fees and expenses. The 2009 Debentures mature on October 15, 2029 and are equal in right of payment with all of our other senior notes. Interest is payable quarterly in arrears on January 15, April 15, July 15 and October 15 of each year. Holders have the right to require us to repurchase the 2009 Debentures on October 15, 2015, October 15, 2019 and October 15, 2024 for cash equal to 100% of the principal amount plus accrued interest. Holders may exchange their 2009 Debentures prior to maturity under certain conditions, including at any time at which the closing sale price of our common stock is more than 130% of the exchange price per share for at least 20 of 30 consecutive trading days during certain periods or any time up to two days prior to the date on which the
 
debentures have been called for redemption. On exchange, we must deliver cash, shares or a combination thereof at our option in an amount equal to the exchange value (which is the applicable exchange rate multiplied by the average exchange price of our common shares). The current exchange rate is 71.0101 shares for each $1,000 of principal amount of the 2009 Debentures, which is equivalent to an exchange price of $14.08 per share. The exchange rate is adjusted for certain circumstances, including the payment of common dividends. We can redeem for cash all or part of, the 2009 Debentures at any time on or after October 20, 2015 upon 15 days notice at a redemption price of 100% of the principal amount plus accrued interest. If we elect to redeem the debentures and the exchange value exceeds the cash redemption price, we would expect holders to elect to exchange their debentures at the exchange value described above rather than receive the cash redemption price. The 2009 Debentures are not exchangeable as of December 31, 2009.
    On March 23, 2007, Host LP issued $600 million 2
2007 Exchangeable Senior Debentures.
5
/
8
% Exchangeable Senior Debentures and received proceeds of $589 million, net of underwriting fees and expenses and original issue discount. During 2009, we repurchased approximately $74 million face amount of the 2007 Debentures for approximately $66 million. As of December 31, 2009, we have $526 million face amount of the 2007 Debentures that remain outstanding. The outstanding 2007 Debentures mature on April 15, 2027 and are equal in right of payment with all of our other senior notes. Interest is payable quarterly in arrears on January 15, April 15, July 15 and October 15 of each year beginning on July 15, 2007. We can redeem for cash all, or part of, the 2007 Debentures at any time on or after April 20, 2012 upon 15 days notice at a redemption price of 100% of the principal amount plus accrued interest. Holders have the right to require us to repurchase the 2007 Debentures on April 15, 2012, April 15, 2017 and April 15, 2022 for cash equal to 100% of the principal amount plus accrued interest. Holders may exchange their 2007 Debentures prior to maturity under certain conditions, including when the closing sale price of Host's common stock is more than 130% of the exchange price per share for at least 20 of 30 consecutive trading days during certain periods or any time up to two days prior to the date on which the debentures have been called for redemption. On exchange, we must deliver cash in an amount equal to not less than the lower of the exchange value (which is the applicable exchange rate multiplied by the average price of our common shares) and the aggregate principal amount of the 2007 Debentures to be exchanged and, at our option, shares, cash or a combination thereof for any excess above the principal value. If we elect to redeem the debentures and the exchange value exceeds the cash redemption price, we would expect holders to elect to exchange their debentures at the exchange value described above rather than receive the cash redemption price. The exchange rate at December 31, 2009 was 32.0239 shares of our common stock per $1,000 principal amount of debentures, which is equivalent to an exchange price of $31.23 per share of Host common stock. The exchange rate may be adjusted under certain circumstances including the payment of common dividends exceeding $.20 per share in any given quarter. The 2007 Debentures are not exchangeable as of December 31, 2009.
    On March 16, 2004, Host LP issued $500 million of 3.25% Exchangeable Senior Debentures and received proceeds of $484 million, net of discounts, underwriting fees and expenses. During 2008 and 2009, we repurchased $175 million face amount of the 2004 Debentures for approximately $151 million and recorded gains on repurchase of approximately $17 million. As of December 31, 2009, $325 million face amount of the 2004 Debentures remain outstanding. The outstanding 2004 Debentures mature on April 15, 2024 and are equal in right of payment with all of our other senior notes. Interest is payable quarterly in arrears on January 15, April 15, July 15 and October 15 of each year. Holders have the right to require us to repurchase the 2004 Debentures on April 15, 2010, April 15, 2014 and April 15, 2019 for cash equal to 100% of the principal amount. Holders may exchange their 2004 Debentures prior to maturity under certain conditions, including at any time at which the closing sale price of our common stock is more than 120% of the exchange price per share, for at least 20 of 30 consecutive trading days during certain periods or any time up to two days prior to the date on which the debentures have been called for redemption. The exchange rate at December 31, 2009 was 65.3258 shares for each $1,000 of principal amount of the 2004 Debentures, (which is equivalent to an exchange price of $15.31 per share). The exchange rate is adjusted for certain circumstances, including the payment of common dividends. We can redeem for cash all, or part of, the 2004 Debentures at any time subsequent to April 19, 2009 upon 30 days notice at the applicable redemption price as set forth in the indenture. If we elect to redeem the debentures and the exchange value exceeds the cash redemption price, we
2004 Exchangeable Senior Debentures.
 
would expect holders to elect to exchange their debentures for stock rather than receive the cash redemption price. The 2004 Debentures are not exchangeable as of December 31, 2009.
    On May 25, 2007, we entered into a second amended and restated bank credit facility with Deutsche Bank AG New York Branch, as Administrative Agent, Bank of America, N.A., as Syndication Agent, Citicorp North America Inc., Socit Gnrale and Calyon New York Branch, as Co-Documentation Agents and certain other agents and lenders. The credit facility provides aggregate revolving loan commitments in the amount of $600 million. During any period in which our leverage ratio equals or exceeds 7.0x, new borrowings are limited to such amount as does not cause the aggregate outstanding principal amount under the credit facility to exceed $300 million. The credit facility also includes subcommitments for (i) the issuance of letters of credit in an aggregate amount of $10 million and (ii) loans in certain foreign currencies in an aggregate amount of $300 million, (A) $150 million of which may be loaned to certain of our Canadian subsidiaries in Canadian Dollars and (B) $300 million of which may be loaned to us in Pounds Sterling and Euros. The credit facility has an initial scheduled maturity of September 2011. We have an option to extend the maturity for an additional year if certain conditions are met as of September 2011. These conditions include the payment of a fee to the lenders, that no default or event of default exists and maintaining a leverage ratio below 6.75x. Subject to certain conditions, we also have the option to increase the amount of the facility by up to $190 million to the extent that any one or more lenders, whether or not currently party to the credit facility, commits to be a lender for such amount.
Credit Facility.
In 2008, we entered into a $210 million term loan under the credit facility. In 2008, we also borrowed $200 million under the revolver portion of our credit facility at a rate of LIBOR plus 65 basis points based on our leverage. The term loan and the credit facility were repaid in 2009, and as of December 31, 2009, have no amounts outstanding under the credit facility. Based on our leverage at December 31, 2009, we have $600 million of available capacity under the revolver portion of our credit facility.
The obligations under the credit facility are guaranteed by certain of our existing subsidiaries and are currently secured by pledges of equity interests in many of our subsidiaries. The pledges are permitted to be released in the event that certain conditions are satisfied, including the requirement that our leverage ratio falls below 6.0x for two consecutive fiscal quarters. As a result of having satisfied such conditions as of December 31, 2009, we are not required to pledge our equity interests in any newly acquired or formed subsidiary, and at our election, we may obtain a release of all existing pledges for so long as our leverage ratio continues to be below 6.0x. The guarantees and pledges ratably benefit our credit facility, as well as the notes outstanding under our senior notes indenture and interest rate swap agreements and other hedging agreements with lenders that are parties to the credit facility.
    The credit facility contains covenants concerning allowable leverage, fixed charge coverage and unsecured interest coverage. Due to the decline in operations over the past two years, our unsecured interest coverage ratio and fixed charge coverage ratio have declined and our leverage ratio has increased. If economic conditions continue to weaken, we would expect this trend to continue. We are permitted to make borrowings and maintain amounts outstanding under the credit facility so long as our leverage ratio is not in excess of 7.25x and our unsecured coverage ratio is not less than 1.75x. If our leverage ratio equals or exceeds 7.0x, new borrowings are limited to such amount as does not cause the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the credit facility to exceed $300 million. However, to the extent our borrowings under the credit facility revolver exceed $300 million on the date that our leverage ratio exceeds 7.0x, we are not required to repay the excess for one year. The financial covenants for the credit facility do not apply when there are no borrowings under the credit facility. Hence, so long as there are no amounts outstanding, we would not be in default if we do not satisfy the financial covenants and we do not lose the potential to draw under the credit facility in the future if we were ever to come back into compliance with the financial covenants. These calculations are performed in accordance with our credit facility based on pro forma results for the prior four fiscal quarters giving effect to transactions such as acquisitions, dispositions and financings as if they occurred at the beginning of the period. Under the terms of the credit facility, interest expense excludes items such as the gains and losses on the
Financial Covenants.
 
extinguishment of debt, deferred financing charges related to the senior notes or the credit facility, amortization of debt premiums or discounts that were recorded at acquisition of a loan to establish the debt at fair value and, approximately $27 million of interest expense recorded in 2009 as a result of the adoption of a new accounting standard relating to our exchangeable debentures, all of which are included in interest expense on our consolidated statements of operations. Additionally, total debt used in the calculation of our leverage ratio is based on a "net debt" concept under which cash and cash equivalents in excess of $100 million is deducted from our total debt balance.
We are in compliance with all of our financial covenants under the credit facility. The following table summarizes the financial tests contained in the credit facility as of December 31, 2009:
 
 
    We pay interest on revolver borrowings under the credit facility at floating rates plus a margin that is set with reference to our leverage ratio. In the case of LIBOR borrowings in U.S. Dollars, as well as Euros and Pounds Sterling denominated borrowings, the rate of interest ranges from 65 basis points to 150 basis points over LIBOR. We also have the option to pay interest based on the higher of the overnight Federal Funds Rate plus 50 basis points and the Prime Lending Rate, plus, in both cases, the applicable spread ranging from 0 to 50 basis points. Based on our leverage ratio at December 31, 2009 of 5.3x, we can borrow at a rate of LIBOR plus 90 basis points or Prime plus 0 basis points. To the extent that amounts under the credit facility remain unused, we pay a quarterly commitment fee on the unused portion of the loan commitment of 10 to 15 basis points, depending on our average revolver usage during the applicable period.
Interest and Fees.
    The credit facility contains restrictive covenants on customary matters. Certain covenants become less restrictive at any time that our leverage ratio falls below 6.0x. In particular, at any time that our leverage ratio is below 6.0x, we will not be subject to limitations on capital expenditures, and the limitations on acquisitions, investments and dividends contained in the credit facility will be superseded by the generally less restrictive corresponding covenants in our senior notes indenture. Additionally, the credit facility's restrictions on incurrence of debt and the payment of dividends are generally consistent with our senior notes indenture. These provisions, under certain circumstances, limit debt incurrence to debt incurred under the credit facility or in connection with a refinancing, and limit dividend payments to those necessary to maintain our tax status as a REIT.
Other Covenants.
.    As of December 31, 2009, we had 12 hotels that were secured by mortgage debt. After the repayment of the $124 million mortgage on the Atlanta Marriott Marquis, we had 11 hotels that are secured by mortgage debt. Substantially all of our mortgage debt is recourse solely to specific assets except in instances of fraud, misapplication of funds and other customary recourse provisions. As of December 31, 2009, secured debt represented approximately 21% of our total debt and our aggregate secured debt had an average interest rate of 5.1% and an average maturity of 3.2 years.
Mortgage and Other Debt
 
The following table summarizes our outstanding debt and scheduled amortization and maturities related to mortgage and other debt as of December 31, 2009 (in millions):
 
 
 
    For the entities that we consolidate in our financial statements that have third party non-controlling partnership interests, the portion of mortgage debt included in the above table that is attributable to the non-controlling interests, based on their percentage of ownership of the partnerships, is approximately $68 million. Additionally, we have non-controlling interests in partnerships and joint ventures that are not consolidated and are accounted for under the equity method. The portion of the mortgage and other debt of these partnerships attributable to us, based on our percentage of ownership of the partnerships, was $332 million at December 31, 2009. Nearly all of this debt balance is attributable to our 32.1% ownership interest in the European joint venture. The mortgage debt related to our European joint venture hotels contains operating covenants that could result in the joint venture being required to escrow cash from operations or make principal repayments without penalty. The debt of all our unconsolidated partnerships is non-recourse to us. See "Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations."
Mortgage Debt of Consolidated and Unconsolidated Partner Interests.
As of December 31, 2009, we have approximately $4.5 billion of senior notes outstanding and $100 million of preferred stock that are rated by Moody's Investors Service, Standard & Poor's and Fitch Ratings. Moody's rating on our senior note debt is Ba1 and our preferred stock is Ba2, both with a negative outlook. During 2009, Standard & Poor's downgraded our senior note debt one notch from BBB-, the lowest investment grade rating, to BB+. Standard & Poor's rating on our preferred stock is at B. In addition, Standard & Poor's has maintained its negative outlook. During 2009, Fitch Ratings downgraded our senior note debt from BB+ to BB-. The rating on our preferred stock was also downgraded from BB- to B. Fitch Ratings has also placed us on negative outlook. If our operations or our credit ratios continue to decline, the ratings on our securities could be further reduced. If we were unable to subsequently improve our credit ratings, our cost to issue senior notes, either in connection with a refinancing or otherwise, or additional preferred stock would likely increase.
Credit Ratings.    
.    Host is required to distribute at least 90% of its annual taxable income, excluding net capital gain, to its stockholders in order to maintain its qualification as a REIT, including taxable income recognized for federal income tax purposes but with regard to which we do not receive cash. Funds used by Host to pay dividends on its common and preferred stock are provided through distributions from Host LP. As of February 17, 2010, Host is the owner of substantially all of the preferred OP units and approximately 98% of the common OP units. The remaining 2% of the common OP units are held by various third-party limited partners.
Dividend Policy
Host intends to reinstate its quarterly common dividend payment and to pay a $.01 per share dividend with respect to its common stock beginning in the first quarter of 2010 even if we do not have taxable income in 2010. Host's policy on common dividends is generally to distribute, over time, 100% of its taxable income. We suspended our regular quarterly common dividend beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008 and, for 2009, instead declared a $.25 per share special common dividend in the fourth quarter, described in more detail below. Host intends to continue paying dividends on its preferred stock, regardless of the amount of its taxable income, unless contractually restricted. The amount of any future dividend will be determined by Host's Board of Directors.
On September 14, 2009, Host's Board of Directors authorized a special dividend of $0.25 per share of common stock of Host, payable in cash and shares of Host common stock, at the election of the stockholder. The dividend was paid on December 18, 2009 to holders of record as of November 6, 2009. In order to comply with Host's remaining REIT taxable income distribution requirements for the year ended December 31, 2008, while retaining capital and maintaining maximum financial flexibility, Host's Board of Directors determined that the cash component of the dividend (other than cash paid in lieu of fractional shares) would not exceed 10% in the aggregate. After giving effect to stockholder elections and the effect of the cash limitation, the dividend paid consisted of approximately 13.4 million shares of Host common stock (90% of the dividend) and $15.6 million of cash (10% of the dividend).
Pursuant to the Third Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of Host LP, as amended (the "Partnership Agreement"), common OP unit holders received the cash distribution of 10% of the $0.25 per
 
share dividend paid by Host to its common stockholders, or $0.025 per OP unit, but did not receive an equivalent per unit distribution for the 90% of the dividend paid with Host common stock. Therefore, subsequent to the issuance of shares of common stock to stockholders of Host, the conversion factor used to convert OP units into shares of Host common stock was adjusted from 1.0 to 1.021494, so that upon redemption, to the extent Host exercises its right to provide payment of the redemption price with shares of Host common stock, each OP unit may now be redeemed for 1.021494 shares of Host common stock. The above adjustment to the conversion factor was made to avoid any unintended dilution as a result of the portion of Host's dividend paid with shares of its common stock to its stockholders.
Investors should take into account the 2% non-controlling position of Host LP common OP units when analyzing common and preferred dividend payments by Host to its stockholders, as these holders share, on a pro rata basis, in amounts being distributed by Host LP to holders of its corresponding common and preferred OP units. For example, if Host paid a $1 per share dividend on its common stock, it would be based on payment of a $1.021494 per common unit distribution by Host LP to Host, as well as to other common OP unit holders. Additionally, when Host pays a preferred dividend, Host LP pays an equivalent per unit distribution on its preferred OP units.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations
    We are party to various transactions, agreements or other contractual arrangements with unconsolidated entities (which we refer to as "off-balance sheet arrangements") under which we have certain contingent liabilities and guarantees. As of December 31, 2009, we are party to the following material off-balance sheet arrangements:
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements.
.    In March 2006, we formed a joint venture, HHR Euro CV, to acquire hotels in Europe. We serve as the general partner for the European joint venture and have a 32.1% ownership interest (including our general and limited partner interests). Due to the ownership structure and the non-Host limited partners' rights to cause the dissolution and liquidation of the European joint venture at any time, it is not consolidated in our financial statements. Our investment balance at December 31, 2009 in the joint venture is approximately 96 million ($138 million), which includes the effect of the impairment of the investment recorded in 2009 (described below).
Unconsolidated Investments
As of December 31, 2009, the aggregate size of the European joint venture was approximately 1.1 billion ($1.6 billion), including total capital contributions of approximately 448 million ($602 million), of which a total of approximately 142 million ($190 million) was from our contribution of cash and the Sheraton Warsaw Hotel & Towers. Under the joint venture's partnership agreement, the aggregate size of the European joint venture can increase to approximately 540 million of equity (of which approximately 170 million would be contributed by Host LP) and, once all funds have been invested, would represent approximately 1.5 billion of assets.
The European joint venture has 718 million in mortgage debt, none of which is recourse to us, and all of which either has, or has the potential to trigger covenant defaults, cash sweeps or non-payment defaults. The European joint venture has initiated discussions with the lenders of mortgage loans totaling 414 million that are due in 2013 and 2014 that have breached financial covenants. These loans are secured by nine properties in total, comprising one portfolio of six hotels located in Spain, Italy, Poland and the United Kingdom and one portfolio of three hotels located in Brussels. Each portfolio is cross-collateralized, meaning that a default under one loan in the portfolio could trigger a default on the loans for the other properties in the portfolio. The joint venture has the right to cure certain covenants, including debt service coverage and loan-to-value covenants, a limited number of times by making cash deposits. If discussions with the lenders are unsuccessful, and the European joint venture does not elect to cure the defaults, the lenders may, among other remedies, accelerate the loans. These mortgage loans are non-recourse to Host and our partners and a default under these loans does not trigger a default under any of Host's debt.
 
The terms of this joint venture agreement limit the life of the investment to 2016, with two one-year extensions. During the second quarter, we determined that our investment was impaired based on the reduction of distributable cash flows from the joint venture, which has been caused primarily by a decline in cash flows generated by the properties. We believe this impairment to be other-than-temporary as defined by GAAP because the time period over which the joint venture may be able to improve operations such that our investment would be fully recoverable is constrained by the remaining life of the joint venture. As a result, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge totaling $34 million during 2009 based on the difference between the estimated fair value of our investment and its carrying value. This impairment is included in equity in earnings (losses) of affiliates in the consolidated statement of operations. See "-Critical Accounting Policies" and Note 3, "Investments in Affiliates," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements.
Other-than-Temporary Impairment of an Investment
During 2008, we entered into three foreign currency forward purchase contracts to hedge approximately 50% of the foreign currency exposure resulting from the eventual repatriation of our net investment in the European joint venture. We hedged 60 million (approximately $88 million) of our investment and the forward purchase will occur between August 2011 and May 2014. During 2009 and 2008, we recorded approximately $(4) million and $6 million, respectively related to the change in the fair value of the forward purchase contracts. The current value of the forward contracts of $2 million is included in accumulated other comprehensive income in the accompanying balance sheet. The derivatives are considered a hedge of the foreign currency exposure of a net investment in a foreign operation, and, in accordance with SFAS 133, are marked-to-market with changes in fair value recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income within the stockholders' equity portion of our balance sheet. For additional detail on the foreign currency forward purchase contracts and our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, see "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk."
On March 25, 2008, we entered into a joint venture, structured as a Singapore Corporation, to explore investment opportunities in various markets throughout Asia, including India, China and Japan, and Australia (the "Asian joint venture"). We own a 25% interest in the Asian joint venture. The initial term of the Asian joint venture is for a period of seven years. Due to the ownership structure of the Asian joint venture, and our partner's rights to cause the dissolution and liquidation of the Asian joint venture at any time, it is not consolidated in our financial statements. As of December 31, 2009, the Asian joint venture does not own any hotels. As of December 31, 2009, we are the asset manager for two third-party owned hotel properties in Asia in exchange for fees, and we are seeking additional asset management opportunities in Asia.
.    Under tax sharing agreements with former affiliated companies (such as Marriott International, HMS Host and Barcel Crestline Corporation), we are obligated to pay certain taxes (federal, state, local and foreign, including any related interest and penalties) relating to periods in which the companies were affiliated with us. For example, a taxing authority could adjust an item deducted by a former affiliate during the period that this former affiliate was owned by us. This adjustment could produce a tax liability that we may be obligated to pay under the tax sharing agreement. Additionally, under the partnership agreement between Host and Host LP, Host LP is obligated to pay certain taxes (federal, state, local and foreign, including any related interest and penalties) incurred by Host, as well as any liabilities the IRS may successfully assert against Host. We do not expect any amounts paid under the tax sharing arrangements to be material.
Tax Sharing Arrangements
    For reasons relating to federal and state income tax considerations of the former and current owners of three hotels, we have agreed to restrictions on selling the hotels, or repaying or refinancing the mortgage debt for varying periods depending on the hotel. Two of these agreements will expire in 2010 and the third will expire in 2028.
Tax Indemnification Agreements.
 
.    We have certain guarantees, which consist of commitments we have made to third parties for leases or debt, that are not on our books due to various dispositions, spin-offs and contractual arrangements, but that we have agreed to pay in the event of certain circumstances including default by an unrelated party. We consider the likelihood of any material payments under these guarantees to be remote. The largest guarantees (by dollar amount) are listed below:
Guarantees
 
 
 
Information on other guarantees and other off-balance sheet arrangements may be found in Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements.
    The table below summarizes our obligations for principal and estimated interest payments on our debt, future minimum lease payments on our operating and capital leases, projected capital expenditures and other long-term liabilities, each as of December 31, 2009 (in millions):
Contractual Obligations.
 
 
 
Critical Accounting Policies
Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with GAAP, which requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities at the date of our financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. While we do not believe the reported amounts would be materially different, application of these policies involves the exercise of judgment and the use of assumptions as to future uncertainties and, as a result, actual results could differ from these estimates. We evaluate our estimates and judgments, including those related to the impairment of long-lived assets, on an ongoing basis. We base our estimates on experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. All of our significant accounting policies are disclosed in the notes to our consolidated financial statements. The following represent certain critical accounting policies that require us to exercise our business judgment or make significant estimates.
    Investments in hotel properties are stated at acquisition cost and allocated to land, property and equipment, identifiable intangible assets and assumed debt and other liabilities at fair value. Any remaining unallocated acquisition costs would be treated as goodwill. Property and equipment are recorded at fair value based on current replacement cost for similar capacity and allocated to buildings, improvements, furniture, fixtures and equipment using appraisals and valuations performed by management and independent third parties. Identifiable intangible assets are typically contracts including ground and retail leases and management and franchise agreements, which are recorded at fair value, although no value is generally allocated to contracts which are at market terms. Above-market and below-market contract values are based on the present value of the difference between contractual amounts to be paid pursuant to the contracts acquired and our estimate of the fair value of contract rates for corresponding contracts measured over the period equal to the remaining non-cancelable term of the contract. Intangible assets are amortized using the straight-line method over the remaining non-cancelable term of the related agreements. In making estimates of fair values for purposes of allocating purchase price, we may utilize a number of sources that may be obtained in connection with the acquisition or financing of a property and other market data, including third-party appraisals and valuations.
Purchase Price Allocations to Hotels
.
We analyze our assets for impairment throughout the year when events or circumstances occur that indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable and, as a result, recorded $97 million of property impairments in the first and second quarters of 2009. We consider a property to be impaired when the sum of future undiscounted cash flows over our remaining estimated holding period is less than the carrying value of the asset. For impaired assets, we record an impairment charge equal to the excess of the property's carrying value over its fair value. To the extent that a property has a substantial remaining estimated useful life and management does not believe that it is more likely than not the property will be disposed of prior to the end of its useful life, it would be unusual for undiscounted cash flows to be insufficient to recover the property's carrying value. In the absence of other factors, we assume that the estimable life is equal to the GAAP depreciable life, because of the continuous property maintenance and improvement capital expenditures required under our management agreements. We adjust our assumptions with respect to the remaining useful life of the property if situations dictate otherwise, such as an expiring ground lease, or it is more likely than not that the asset will be sold prior to its previously expected useful life.
Impairment Testing.
    
We test for impairment in several situations, including when a property has current or projected loss from operations, when it becomes more likely than not that a hotel will be sold before the end of its previously estimated useful life, or when other events, trends, contingencies or changes in circumstances indicate that a triggering event has occurred and an asset's carrying value may not be recoverable. In the evaluation of the impairment of our assets, we make many assumptions and estimates, including:
 
 
 
 
 
While we consider all of the above indicators, as a preliminary indicator to determine if the carrying value may not be recovered by undiscounted cash flows, we reviewed the actual year-to-date and the projected cash flows from operations to identify properties with actual or projected annual operating losses or minimal operating profit as of December 31, 2009. The projected cash flows are prepared by our third-party managers and consider items such as booking pace, occupancy, room rate and property-level operating costs. We review the projections and may adjust them as we deem appropriate. As a result of our review, we identified 16 properties that required further consideration of property and market specific conditions or factors to determine if the property was impaired using an undiscounted cash flow analysis. We assumed a 2.5% rate of growth of projected cash flows over the estimated useful life of the individual properties, which growth rate was adjusted lower than the historical growth rate in order to reflect the current economic climate. Management considered a range of RevPAR and operating margin declines compared to the prior year operating results in evaluating the projected cash flows from operations. Based on this test, no properties exhibited an impaired value at December 31, 2009. For purposes of this test, if we had assumed a growth rate of 0%, two of the 16 properties identified above would have required further analysis, including testing the property using a probability weighted undiscounted cash flow analysis. Management believes its assumptions and estimates reflect current market conditions. Management will adjust these measures as appropriate for changes therein in future periods and we could incur additional impairment changes if economic conditions continue to remain weak.
    We review our equity method investments for other-than-temporary impairment based on the occurrence of any triggering events that would indicate that the carrying amount of the investment exceeds its fair value on an other-than-temporary basis. Triggering events can include a decline in distributable cash flows from the investment, a change in the expected useful life or other significant events which would decrease the value of the investment. Our investments primarily consist of joint ventures which own hotel properties; therefore, we will generally have few observable inputs and will determine the fair value based on a discounted cash flow analysis of the investment, as well as considering the impact of other elements (i.e. control premiums, etc.). We use certain inputs, such as available third-party appraisals and forecast net operating income for the hotel properties, to estimate the expected cash flows. If an equity method investment is impaired, a loss is recorded for the difference between the fair value and the carrying value of the investment.
Other-than-Temporary Impairment of an Investment.
    Our policy for the classification of a hotel as held for sale is intended to ensure that the sale of the asset is probable, will be completed within one year and that actions required to complete the sale are unlikely to change or that the planned sale will be withdrawn. This policy is consistent with our experience with real estate transactions under which the timing and final terms of a sale are frequently not known until purchase agreements are executed, the buyer has a significant deposit at risk and no financing contingencies exist which could prevent the transaction from being completed in a timely manner. Specifically, we will typically classify properties that we are actively marketing as held for sale when all of the following conditions are met:
Classification of Assets as "Held for Sale".
 
 
 
 
To the extent a property is classified as held for sale and its fair value less selling costs is lower than the net book value of the property, we will record an impairment loss. See the discussion above concerning the use of estimates and judgments in determining fair values for impairment tests.
    Depreciation expense is based on the estimated useful life of our assets and amortization expense for leasehold improvements is the shorter of the lease term or the estimated useful life of the related assets. The lives of the assets are based on a number of assumptions including cost and
Depreciation and Amortization Expense.
 
timing of capital expenditures to maintain and refurbish the assets, as well as specific market and economic conditions. While management believes its estimates are reasonable, a change in the estimated lives could affect depreciation expense and net income (loss) or the gain or loss on the sale of any of our hotels.
    We have approximately $71 million, net of a valuation allowance of $37 million, of consolidated deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2009. The objective of financial accounting and reporting standards for income taxes is to recognize the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in a company's financial statements or tax returns. We have considered various factors, including future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, future projected taxable income and tax planning strategies in determining a valuation allowance for our deferred tax assets, and we believe that it is more likely than not that we will be able to realize the $71 million of deferred tax assets in the future. When a determination is made that all, or a portion, of the deferred tax assets may not be realized, an increase in income tax expense would be recorded in that period.
Valuation of Deferred Tax Assets.
    We will occasionally enter into derivative products including interest rate and foreign currency swaps, caps and collars. Derivative instruments are subject to fair value reporting at each reporting date and the increase or decrease in fair value is recorded in net income (loss) or accumulated other comprehensive income, based on the applicable hedge accounting guidance. We estimate the fair value of these instruments through the use of third party valuations, which utilize the market standard methodology of netting the discounted future cash receipts and the discounted expected cash payments. We incorporate credit valuation adjustments to appropriately reflect both our own nonperformance risk and the respective counterparty's nonperformance risk in the fair value measurements. In adjusting the fair value of our derivative contracts for the effect of nonperformance risk, we have considered the impact of netting any applicable credit enhancements, such as collateral postings, thresholds, mutual puts and guarantees. The variable cash flow streams are based on an expectation of future interest and exchange rates derived from observed market interest and exchange rate curves. The values of these instruments will change over time as cash receipts and payments are made and as market conditions change. Any event that impacts the level of actual and expected future interest or exchange rates will impact our valuations. The fair value of our derivatives is likely to fluctuate from year to year based on changing levels of interest and exchange rates and shortening terms to maturity.
Valuation of Derivative Contracts.
    We recognize costs resulting from our share-based payment transactions in our financial statements over their vesting periods. We classify share-based payment awards granted in exchange for employee services as either equity awards or liability awards. The classification of our restricted stock awards as either an equity award or a liability award is based upon cash settlement options. Equity classified awards are measured based on the fair value on the date of grant. Liability classified awards are remeasured to fair value each reporting period. The value of these restricted stock awards, less estimated forfeitures, is recognized over the period during which an employee is required to provide service in exchange for the award  the requisite service period (usually the vesting period). No compensation cost is recognized for awards for which employees do not render the requisite service. These awards were classified as liability awards due to settlement features that allowed the recipient to have a percentage of the restricted stock awards withheld to meet tax requirements in excess of the minimum required by tax statutes.
Stock Compensation.
During 2009, we implemented a new employee stock plan for our senior management that included the following awards:
    These awards are classified as liability awards due to their cash settlement features. Therefore, they are remeasured to fair value each reporting period. We utilize a simulation, or Monte Carlo model, to determine the fair value of our restricted stock awards with vesting based on market conditions. The utilization of this model requires us to make certain estimates related to the volatility of the share price of our common stock, risk-free interest rates, the risk profile of our common shares compared to our peer group and the amount of our awards expected to be forfeited.
Restricted stock awards with vesting based on market conditions.
 
    These awards are earned based on an employee's achieving a specified performance target, which will be based on the employee's specific management business objectives. Compensation cost will be recognized when the achievement of the performance condition is considered probable of achievement. If a performance condition has more than one outcome that is probable of achievement, recognition of compensation cost will be based on the condition that is the most likely outcome. These awards are also considered liability awards due to the cash-settlement provisions. Therefore, the value of the shares to be issued will be based on the share price on the reporting date.
Restricted stock awards with vesting based on performance conditions.
    The stock option awards are equity awards, as they do not include cash settlement features. Therefore, the value of the award is determined on the grant date using a binomial pricing model and is not adjusted for future changes in the fair value. Vesting for these awards is based on service conditions. The utilization of the binomial model requires us to make certain estimates related to the volatility of the share price of our common stock, risk-free interest rates and the amount of our awards expected to be forfeited.
Stock option awards.
    During 2009, we granted restricted stock awards to all of our employees with vesting based on service conditions. These awards are equity classified awards as they do not have an option for excess tax withholding similar to that for awards to senior management.
Other awards.
    Judgment is required with respect to the consolidation of partnership and joint venture entities in the evaluation of control, including assessment of the importance of rights and privileges of the partners based on voting rights, as well as financial interests that are not controllable through voting interests. We have investments in entities that own hotel properties and other investments which we record using the equity method of accounting. These entities are considered to be voting interest entities. The debt on these investments is non-recourse to us and the effect of their operations on our results of operations is not material. While we do not believe we are required to consolidate any of our current partnerships or joint ventures presented under the equity method, if we were required to do so, then all of the results of operations and the assets and liabilities would be included in our financial statements.
Consolidation Policies.
Application of New Accounting Standards.
    This new accounting pronouncement provides principles on the recognition and measurement of the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and goodwill acquired in a business combination. The pronouncement particularly requires the assets acquired, liabilities assumed and non-controlling interests to be measured at the acquisition date fair value, including contingent considerations. Furthermore, the pronouncement prohibits acquisition-related costs, such as due diligence, legal and accounting fees, from being applied in determining the fair value of the acquired assets. We adopted the provisions of this pronouncement on January 1, 2009. We do not believe the adoption of this pronouncement will materially affect the recognition and measurement related to our future business combinations.
Business Combinations.
The FASB recently amended its guidance surrounding a company's analysis to determine whether any of its variable interests constitute controlling financial interests in a variable interest entity. This analysis identifies the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity as the enterprise that has both of the following characteristics:
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities.    
 
 
Additionally, an enterprise is required to assess whether it has an implicit financial responsibility to ensure that a variable interest entity operates as designed when determining whether it has the power to direct the
 
activities of the variable interest entity that most significantly impact the entity's economic performance. The new guidance also requires ongoing reassessments of whether an enterprise is the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity. The guidance is effective for the first annual reporting period that begins after November 15, 2009 and, accordingly, we will reevaluate our interests in variable interest entities for the period beginning on January 1, 2010 to determine that the entities are reflected properly in the financial statements as investments or consolidated entities. We do not anticipate that the implementation of this guidance will have any material effect on our financial statements.
Comparable Hotel Operating Statistics
We present certain operating statistics (i.e., RevPAR, average daily rate and average occupancy) and operating results (revenues, expenses and adjusted operating profit) for the periods included in this report on a comparable hotel basis. We define our comparable hotels as properties (i) that are owned or leased by us and the operations of which are included in our consolidated results, whether as continuing operations or discontinued operations for the entirety of the reporting periods being compared and (ii) that have not sustained substantial property damage or business interruption, or undergone large-scale capital projects during the reporting periods being compared.
All of the 111 hotels that we owned on December 31, 2009 have been classified as comparable hotels. The operating results of the eight hotels we disposed of in 2009 and 2008 are not included in comparable hotel results for the periods presented herein. Moreover, because these statistics and operating results are for our hotel properties, they exclude results for our non-hotel properties and other real estate investments.
We evaluate the operating performance of our comparable hotels based on both geographic region and property type. These divisions are generally consistent with groupings recognized in the lodging industry.
Geographic regions consist of the following (only states in which we own hotels are listed):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Property types consist of the following:
 
 
 
 
 
Reporting Periods.
    The results we report are based on results of our hotels reported to us by our hotel managers. Our hotel managers use different reporting periods. Marriott, the manager of a significant percentage of our properties, uses a year ending on the Friday closest to December 31 and reports twelve weeks of operations for the first three quarters and sixteen or seventeen weeks for the fourth quarter of the year for its Marriott-managed hotels. In contrast, other managers of our hotels, such as Hyatt and Starwood, report results on a monthly basis. Host, as a REIT, is required by federal income tax law to report results on a calendar year. As a result, we elected to adopt the reporting periods used by Marriott modified so that our fiscal year always ends on December 31 to comply with REIT rules. Our first three quarters of operations end on the same day as Marriott but our fourth quarter ends on December 31 and our full year results, as reported in our statement of operations, always includes the same number of days as the calendar year.
For Consolidated Statement of Operations.
Two consequences of the reporting cycle we have adopted are: (1) quarterly start dates will usually differ between years, except for the first quarter which always commences on January 1, and (2) our first and fourth quarters of operations and year-to-date operations may not include the same number of days as reflected in prior years. For example, set forth below are the quarterly start and end dates for 2010, 2009 and 2008. Note that the second and third quarters of each year both reflect twelve weeks of operations. In contrast, the first and fourth quarters reflect differing days of operations.
 
While the reporting calendar we adopted is more closely aligned with the reporting calendar used by Marriott, another consequence of our calendar is we are unable to report the month of operations that ends after our fiscal quarter-end until the following quarter because our hotel managers using a monthly reporting period do not make mid-month results available to us. Hence, the month of operation that ends after our fiscal quarter-end is included in our quarterly results of operations in the following quarter for those hotel managers (covering approximately 43% of total revenues of our hotels). As a result, our quarterly results of operations include results from hotel managers reporting results on a monthly basis as follows: first quarter (January, February), second quarter (March to May), third quarter (June to August) and fourth quarter (September to December). While this does not affect full year results, it does affect the reporting of quarterly results.
    In contrast to the reporting periods for our consolidated statement of operations, our hotel operating statistics (i.e., RevPAR, average daily rate and average occupancy) and our comparable hotel results are reported based on the reporting cycle used by Marriott for our Marriott-managed hotels. However, for years such as 2008, where Marriott reports its operations based on a 53-week year and a fourth quarter of 17 weeks, for comparable purposes, we exclude the extra week of operations, and we still reflect 52 weeks for the full year and 16 weeks for the fourth quarter. This facilitates year-to-year comparisons, as each reporting period will be comprised of the same number of days of operations as in the prior year. This means, however, that the reporting periods we use for hotel operating statistics and our comparable hotel results will typically differ slightly from the reporting periods used for our statements of operations for the first and fourth quarters and the full year. Set forth below are the quarterly start and end dates that are used for our hotel operating statistics and comparable hotel results reported herein. Results from hotel managers reporting on a monthly basis are included in our operating statistics and comparable hotel results consistent with their reporting in our consolidated statement of operations.
For Hotel Operating Statistics and Comparable Hotel Results.
 
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
We use certain "non-GAAP financial measures," which are measures of our historical financial performance that are not calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP, within the meaning of applicable SEC rules. They are as follows: (i) FFO per diluted share, and (ii) Comparable Hotel Operating Results. The following discussion defines these terms and presents why we believe they are useful measures of our performance.
    We present FFO per diluted share as a non-GAAP measure of our performance in addition to our earnings per share (calculated in accordance with GAAP). We calculate FFO per diluted share for a given operating period as our FFO (defined as set forth below) for such period divided by the number of fully diluted shares outstanding during such period. NAREIT defines FFO as net income (calculated in accordance with GAAP) excluding gains (or losses) from sales of real estate, the cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles, real estate-related depreciation and amortization and adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. FFO is presented on a per share basis after making adjustments for the effects of dilutive securities, including the payment of preferred stock dividends, in accordance with NAREIT guidelines.
FFO Per Diluted Share.
We believe that FFO per diluted share is a useful supplemental measure of our operating performance and that presentation of FFO per diluted share, when combined with the primary GAAP presentation of earnings per share, provides beneficial information to investors. By excluding the effect of real estate depreciation, amortization and gains and losses from sales of real estate, all of which are based on historical cost accounting and which may be of lesser significance in evaluating current performance, we believe that such a measure can facilitate comparisons of operating performance between periods and between other REITs, even though FFO per diluted share does not represent an amount that accrues directly to holders of our common stock. Historical cost accounting for real estate assets implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time. As noted by NAREIT in its April 2002 "White Paper on Funds From Operations," since real estate values have historically risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors have considered presentation of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient by themselves. For these reasons, NAREIT adopted the definition of FFO in order to promote an industry-wide measure of REIT operating performance.
We calculate FFO per diluted share, in accordance with standards established by NAREIT, which may not be comparable to measures calculated by other companies who do not use the NAREIT definition of FFO or calculate FFO per diluted share in accordance with NAREIT guidance. In addition, although FFO per diluted share is a useful measure when comparing our results to other REITs, it may not be helpful to investors when comparing us to non-REITs. This information should not be considered as an alternative to net income, operating profit, cash from operations, or any other operating performance measure prescribed by GAAP. Cash expenditures for various long-term assets (such as renewal and replacement capital expenditures) and other items have been and will be incurred and are not reflected in the FFO per diluted share presentations. Management compensates for these limitations by separately considering the impact of these excluded items to the extent they are material to operating decisions or assessments of our operating performance. Our consolidated statements of operations and cash flows include depreciation, capital expenditures and other excluded items, all of which should be considered when evaluating our performance, as well as the usefulness of our non-GAAP financial
 
measures. FFO per diluted share should not be considered as a measure of our liquidity or indicative of funds available to fund our cash needs, including our ability to make cash distributions. In addition, FFO per diluted share does not measure, and should not be used as a measure of, amounts that accrue directly to our stockholders' benefit.
The following tables provide a reconciliation of net income available to common shareholders per share to FFO per diluted share (in millions, except per share amounts):
 
 
 
 
 
 
We present certain operating results for our hotels, such as hotel revenues, expenses, and adjusted operating profit, on a comparable hotel, or "same store" basis as supplemental information for investors. We present these comparable hotel operating results by eliminating corporate-level costs and expenses related to our capital structure, as well as depreciation and amortization. We eliminate corporate-level costs and expenses to arrive at property-level results because we believe property-level results provide investors with more specific insight into the ongoing operating performance of our hotels. We eliminate depreciation and amortization, because even though depreciation and amortization are property-level expenses, these non-cash expenses, which are based on historical cost accounting for real estate assets, implicitly assume that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time. As noted earlier, because real estate values historically have risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors have considered presentation of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient by themselves.
Comparable Hotel Operating Results.    
As a result of the elimination of corporate-level costs and expenses and depreciation and amortization, the comparable hotel operating results we present do not represent our total revenues, expenses or operating profit and these comparable hotel operating results should not be used to evaluate our performance as a whole. Management compensates for these limitations by separately considering the impact of these excluded items to the extent they are material to operating decisions or assessments of our operating performance. Our consolidated statements of operations include such amounts, all of which should be considered by investors when evaluating our performance.
We present these hotel operating results on a comparable hotel basis because we believe that doing so provides investors and management with useful information for evaluating the period-to-period performance of our hotels and facilitates comparisons with other hotel REITs and hotel owners. In particular, these measures assist management and investors in distinguishing whether increases or decreases in revenues and/or expenses are due to growth or decline of operations at comparable hotels (which represent the vast majority of our portfolio) or from other factors, such as the effect of acquisitions or dispositions. While management believes
 
that presentation of comparable hotel results is a "same store" supplemental measure that provides useful information in evaluating our ongoing performance, this measure is not used to allocate resources or assess the operating performance of these hotels, as these decisions are based on data for individual hotels and are not based on comparable portfolio hotel results. For these reasons, we believe that comparable hotel operating results, when combined with the presentation of GAAP operating profit, revenues and expenses, provide useful information to investors and management.
The following table presents certain operating results and statistics for our comparable hotels for the periods presented herein:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interest Rate Sensitivity
Our future income, cash flows and fair values relevant to financial instruments are dependent upon prevalent market interest rates. Market risk refers to the risk of loss from adverse changes in market prices and interest rates. Currently, we have no derivative financial instruments held for trading purposes. We use derivative financial instruments to manage, or hedge, interest rate risks.
Currently, our interest payments on 88% of our debt are fixed in nature (this percentage does not include $300 million of mortgage debt for which we have swapped fixed interest payments for floating interest payments), which largely mitigates the effect of changes in interest rates on our cash interest payments. Valuations for mortgage debt and the credit facility are determined based on the expected future payments, discounted at risk-adjusted rates. Senior notes and the exchangeable senior debentures are valued based on quoted market prices. If market rates of interest on our variable rate debt increase or decrease by 100 basis points, interest expense would increase or decrease, respectively, our future earnings and cash flows by approximately $7 million in 2010.
The table below presents scheduled maturities and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates.
 
 
During 2009, we entered into three interest rate swap agreements for a notional amount totaling $300 million related to The Ritz-Carlton, Naples and Newport Beach Marriott Hotel & Spa mortgage loan in the amount of $300 million. We entered into the derivative instruments to hedge changes in the fair value of the fixed-rate mortgage that occur as a result of changes in the 3-month LIBOR rate. As a result, we will pay a floating interest rate equal to the 3-month LIBOR, plus a spread which ranges from 2.7% to 3.2%, as opposed to the fixed rate of 5.531%, on the notional amount of $300 million through March 1, 2014. We have designated these derivatives as fair value hedges. The derivatives are valued based on the prevailing market yield
Fair Value Interest Rate Hedges.    
 
curve on the date of measurement. We also evaluate counterparty credit risk in the calculation of the fair value of the swaps. As of December 31, 2009, we recorded a liability of $1 million related to the fair value of the swaps. At the same time, we record the change in the fair value of the underlying debt due to change in the 3-month LIBOR rate as a reduction to the carrying amount of the debt, or $.7 million, at December 31, 2009. The difference between the change in the fair value of the swap and the change in the fair value in the underlying debt is considered the ineffective portion of the hedging relationship. We recognized a loss of $.3 million related to the ineffective portion of the hedging relationship in 2009. Changes in the fair value of these instruments are recognized as gains/losses on derivatives.
In connection with the mortgage debt secured by the JW Marriott, Washington, D.C., we entered into an interest rate cap agreement which caps the LIBOR rate at 3% through the life of the loan. At December 31, 2009, the variable interest rate on the loan was 7.5% and the fair value of the cap was $1.8 million. We also evaluate counterparty credit risk in the calculation of the fair value of the cap. We recognized a gain of $.3 million based on the changes in the fair value of the derivative during the year. Changes in the fair value of these instruments are recognized as gains/losses on derivatives.
Interest Rate Cap Derivative.    
Exchange Rate Sensitivity
As we have non-U.S. operations (specifically, the ownership of hotels in Canada, Mexico and Chile and an investment in our European joint venture), currency exchange risk arises as a normal part of our business. To manage the currency exchange risk applicable to ownership in non-U.S. hotels, where possible, we may enter into forward or option contracts. The foreign currency exchange agreements that we have entered into were strictly to hedge foreign currency risk and not for trading purposes.
During 2008, we entered into three foreign currency forward purchase contracts totaling 60 million (approximately $88 million) to hedge a portion of the foreign currency exposure resulting from the eventual repatriation of our net investment in the European joint venture. Pursuant to these transactions, we will sell the Euro amount, and receive the U.S. Dollar amount on the forward purchase date. These derivatives are considered a hedge of the foreign currency exposure of a net investment in a foreign operation and are marked-to-market with changes in fair value and recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income within the equity portion of our balance sheet. We also evaluate counterparty credit risk in the calculation of the fair value of the swaps. The following table summarizes our three foreign currency purchase contracts (in millions):
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.3
The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Host Hotels & Resorts, Inc.:
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Host Hotels & Resorts, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the related consolidated statements of operations, equity and comprehensive income (loss), and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2009. In connection with our audits of the consolidated financial statements, we also have audited the financial statement schedule III included as Exhibit 99.4. These consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Host Hotels & Resorts, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2009, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.
/s/ KPMG LLP
McLean, Virginia
February 26, 2010 (except as to notes 2, 6, 10, 12, 15 and 19 which are as of November 30, 2010)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Supplemental schedule of noncash investing and financing activities:
During 2009, 2008 and 2007, we issued approximately 3.4 million, 8.8 million and 0.5 million shares, respectively, upon the conversion of Host LP units, or OP units, held by non-controlling interests valued at $18 million, $119 million and $12 million, respectively.
On December 18, 2009, we issued 13.4 million shares of common stock valued at $140 million to our stockholders as part of our special common dividend.
On March 12, 2008, we acquired the remaining limited partnership interests in Pacific Gateway Ltd., a subsidiary partnership of Host LP, which owns the San Diego Marriott Hotel and Marina, and other economic rights formerly held by our partners, including the right to receive 1.7% of the hotel's sales, in exchange for 5,575,540 OP Units. The OP Units were valued at $93 million based on the closing stock price on such date for Host Hotels & Resorts, Inc., of $16.68.
 
 
Description of Business
Host Hotels & Resorts, Inc., or Host, a Maryland corporation that operates through an umbrella partnership structure, is primarily the owner of hotel properties. We operate as a self-managed and self-administered real estate investment trust, or REIT, with our operations conducted solely through an operating partnership, Host Hotels & Resorts, L.P., or Host LP and its subsidiaries. We are the sole general partner of Host LP and as of December 31, 2009, own approximately 98% of the partnership interests, which are referred to as OP units.
As of December 31, 2009, we owned, or had controlling interests in, 111 luxury and upper-upscale, hotel lodging properties located throughout the United States, Toronto and Calgary, Canada, Mexico City, Mexico and Santiago, Chile operated primarily under the Marriott, Ritz-Carlton, Hyatt, Fairmont, Four Seasons, Hilton, Westin Sheraton, W, St. Regis and Luxury Collection brand names.
Basis of Presentation and Principles of Consolidation
The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries and controlled affiliates. If we determine that we are an owner in a variable interest entity and that our variable interest will absorb a majority of the entity's expected losses if they occur, receive a majority of the entity's expected residual returns if they occur, or both, then we will consolidate the entity. Additionally, we consolidate entities (in the absence of other factors determining control) when we own over 50% of the voting shares or, in the case of partnership investments, when we own a majority of the general partnership interest and can control the entity. The control factors we consider include the ability of non-controlling interests to participate in or block management decisions. All material intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated.
Use of Estimates in the Preparation of Financial Statements
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
We consider all highly liquid investments with a maturity of 90 days or less at the date of purchase to be cash equivalents.
Restricted Cash
Restricted cash includes reserves for debt service, real estate taxes, insurance, furniture, fixtures and equipment, as well as cash collateral and excess cash flow deposits due to mortgage debt agreement restrictions and provisions. For purposes of the statements of cash flows, changes in restricted cash that are used for furniture, fixture and equipment replacement funds controlled by our lenders are shown as investing activities. The remaining changes in restricted cash are the direct result of restrictions under our loan agreements, and, as such, are reflected in cash from financing activities.
 
 
The following table represents our restricted cash balances as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, which are restricted as a result of lender requirements (in millions):
 
Property and Equipment
Property and equipment is recorded at cost. For newly developed properties, cost includes interest and real estate taxes incurred during development and construction. Replacements and improvements and capital leases are capitalized, while repairs and maintenance are expensed as incurred. Depreciation is computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets, generally 40 years for buildings and three to ten years for furniture and equipment. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the shorter of the lease term or the useful lives of the related assets.
We capitalize certain inventory (such as china, glass, silver, linen) at the time of a hotel opening, or when significant inventory is purchased (in conjunction with a major rooms renovation or when the number of rooms or meeting space at a hotel is expanded). These amounts are then amortized over the estimated useful life of three years. Subsequent replacement purchases are expensed when placed in service.
We maintain a furniture, fixtures and equipment replacement fund for renewal and replacement capital expenditures at certain hotels, which is generally funded with approximately 5% of property revenues.
We analyze our assets for impairment when events or circumstances occur that indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. We consider a property to be impaired when the sum of future undiscounted cash flows over our remaining estimated holding period is less than the carrying value of the asset. We test for impairment in several situations, including when a property has a current or projected loss from operations, when it becomes more likely than not that a hotel will be sold before the end of its previously estimated useful life, or when other events, trends, contingencies or changes in circumstances indicate that a triggering event has occurred and an asset's carrying value may not be recoverable. For impaired assets, we record an impairment charge equal to the excess of the property's carrying value over its fair value. In the evaluation of the impairment of our assets, we make many assumptions and estimates, including assumptions on the projected cash flows, both from operations and the eventual disposition, the expected useful life and holding period of the asset, the future required capital expenditures and fair values, including consideration of capitalization rates, discount rates and comparable selling prices.
We will classify a hotel as held for sale when the sale of the asset is probable, will be completed within one year and actions to complete the sale are unlikely to change or that the sale will be withdrawn. Accordingly, we typically classify assets as held for sale when our Board of Directors has approved the sale, a binding agreement
 
 
to purchase the property has been signed under which the buyer has committed a significant amount of nonrefundable cash and no significant financing contingencies exist which could prevent the transaction from being completed in a timely manner. If these criteria are met, we will record an impairment loss if the fair value less costs to sell is lower than the carrying amount of the hotel and will cease recording depreciation. We will classify the loss, together with the related operating results, including interest expense on debt assumed by the buyer or that is required to be repaid as a result of the sale, as discontinued operations on our consolidated statements of operations and classify the assets and related liabilities as held for sale on the balance sheet. Gains on sales of properties are recognized at the time of sale or deferred and recognized as income in subsequent periods as conditions requiring deferral are satisfied or expire without further cost to us.
We recognize the fair value of any liability for conditional asset retirement obligations including environmental remediation liabilities when incurred, which is generally upon acquisition, construction, or development and/or through the normal operation of the asset, if sufficient information exists to reasonably estimate the fair value of the obligation.
Intangible Assets
In conjunction with our acquisition of hotel properties, we may identify intangible assets. Identifiable intangible assets are typically contracts, including ground and retail leases and management and franchise agreements, which are recorded at fair value, although no value is generally allocated to contracts which are at market terms. These contract values are based on the present value of the difference between contractual amounts to be paid pursuant to the contracts acquired and our estimate of the fair value of contract rates for corresponding contracts measured over the period equal to the remaining non-cancelable term of the contract. Intangible assets are amortized using the straight-line method over the remaining non-cancelable term of the related agreements.
Non-Controlling Interests
We adjust the non-controlling interests of Host LP each period so that the amount presented equals the greater of its carrying value based on the accumulated historical cost or its redemption value. The historical cost is based on the proportional relationship between the historical cost of equity held by our common stockholders relative to that of the unitholders of Host LP. The redemption value is based on the amount of cash or Host stock, at our option, that would be paid to the non-controlling interests of the operating partnership if the partnership were terminated. Therefore, we have assumed that the redemption value is equivalent to the number of shares issuable upon conversion of the outside OP Units valued at the market price of Host common stock at the balance sheet date. Subsequent to the stock dividend issued in 2009 (see Note 4  Equity), one OP unit may now be exchanged into 1.021494 shares of Host common stock. At year end 2008, outside OP Units were exchangeable for Host common shares on a one-for-one basis. The table below details the historical cost and redemption values for the non-controlling interests (in millions):
Host LP.    
 
 
 
 
Net income (loss) is allocated to the non-controlling interests of Host LP based on their weighted average ownership percentage during the period.
As of December 31, 2009, we consolidate three majority-owned partnerships with mandatorily redeemable non-controlling interests with finite lives ranging from 99 to 100 years that terminate between 2081 and 2095. Third party partnership interests that have finite lives are included in non-controlling interests-other consolidated partnerships in the consolidated balance sheets and totaled $22 million and $24 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the fair values of the non-controlling interests in these partnerships were approximately $44 million and $66 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2009, none of our partnerships have infinite lives as defined by GAAP.
Other Consolidated Partnerships.    
Net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests of Host LP and of other non-controlling consolidated partnerships is not included in the determination of net income (loss). However, net income (loss) has been reduced by the amount attributable to non-controlling interests, which totaled ($6) million, $19 million and $31 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, in the determination of net income (loss) attributable to Host.
Distributions from Investments in Affiliates
We classify the distributions from our equity investments in the statements of cash flows based upon an evaluation of the specific facts and circumstances of each distribution to determine its nature. For example, distributions from cash generated by property operations are classified as cash flows from operating activities. However, distributions received as a result of property sales would be classified as cash flows from investing activities.
Other-than-Temporary Impairments
We review our equity method investments for other-than-temporary impairment based on the occurrence of any triggering events that would indicate that the carrying amount of the investment exceeds its fair value on an other-than-temporary basis. Triggering events can include a decline in distributable cash flows from the investment, a change in the expected useful life or other significant events which would decrease the value of the investment. Our investments primarily consist of joint ventures which own hotel properties; therefore, we will generally have few observable inputs and will determine the fair value based on a discounted cash flow analysis of the investment, as well as considering the impact of other elements (i.e. control premiums, etc.). We use certain inputs such as available third-party appraisals and forecast net operating income for the hotel properties to estimate the expected cash flows. If an equity method investment is impaired, a loss is recorded for the difference between the fair value and the carrying value of the investment.
Income Taxes
We have elected to be taxed as a REIT under the applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and, as such, are not subject to federal income tax, provided we distribute all of our taxable income annually to our stockholders and comply with certain other requirements. In addition to paying federal and state income tax on any retained income, we are subject to taxes on "built-in-gains" on sales of certain assets. Our taxable REIT subsidiaries are subject to federal, state and foreign income tax. The consolidated income tax provision or benefit includes the income tax provision or benefit related to the operations of the taxable REIT subsidiaries, state income taxes incurred by Host and Host LP and foreign income taxes incurred by Host LP, as well as each of their respective subsidiaries.
 
 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the estimated future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities from a change in tax rates is recognized in earnings in the period when the new rate is enacted. However, deferred tax assets are recognized only to the extent that it is more likely than not that they will be realized based on consideration of available evidence, including future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, future projected taxable income and tax planning strategies.
Deferred Charges
Financing costs related to long-term debt are deferred and amortized over the remaining life of the debt using the effective interest method.
Foreign Currency Translation
As of December 31, 2009, our foreign operations consist of four properties located in Canada, one property located in Mexico, two in Chile, an investment in a joint venture in Europe and an investment in a joint venture in Asia. The operations of these properties and our investments are maintained in their functional currency, which is generally the local currency, and then translated to U.S. dollars using the average exchange rates for the period. The assets and liabilities of the properties and the investment are translated to U.S. dollars using the exchange rate in effect at the balance sheet date. The resulting translation adjustments are reflected in accumulated other comprehensive income.
Derivative Instruments
We are subject to market exposures in several aspects of our business including foreign currency exposure related to our investment in the European joint venture, our consolidated international hotels, interest rate exposure for the interest payments for our floating rate debt and the fair value of our fixed rate debt. We may, from time to time, enter into derivative instruments to either protect against fluctuations in the fair value of our investments in foreign entities or the fair value of our debt instruments. Prior to entering into the derivative contract, we evaluate whether the transaction would qualify for hedge accounting and continue to evaluate hedge effectiveness through the life of the contract. Gains and losses on contracts that meet the requirements for fair value hedge accounting are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value, with offsetting changes recorded to net income (loss) or accumulated other comprehensive income, based on the applicable accounting guidance. We incorporate credit valuation adjustments to appropriately reflect both our own nonperformance risk and the respective counterparty's nonperformance risk in the fair value measurements. In adjusting the fair value of its derivative contracts for the effect of nonperformance risk, we have considered the impact of netting any applicable credit enhancements, such as collateral postings, thresholds, mutual puts and guarantees.
In situations where we have floating rate debt, we may purchase interest rate swaps or interest rate caps, which would be considered derivative instruments. If the requirements for hedge accounting are met and the instruments qualify as cash flow hedges, amounts paid or received under these agreements would be recognized over the life of the agreements as adjustments to interest expense, and the fair value of the derivatives would be recorded on the accompanying balance sheet, with offsetting adjustments or charges recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income.
 
 
Other Comprehensive Income
The components of total accumulated other comprehensive income in the balance sheets are as follows (in millions):
 
Revenues
Our consolidated results of operations reflect revenues and expenses of our hotels. Revenues are recognized when the services are provided. Additionally, we collect sales, use, occupancy and similar taxes at our hotels which we present on a net basis (excluded from revenues) on our statements of operations.
 
 
Earnings Per Common Share
Basic earnings per common share is computed by dividing net income available to common stockholders by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding. Diluted earnings per common share is computed by dividing net income available to common stockholders as adjusted for potentially dilutive securities, by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding plus other potentially dilutive securities. Dilutive securities may include shares granted under comprehensive stock plans, other non-controlling interests that have the option to convert their limited partnership interests to common OP units and convertible debt securities. No effect is shown for any securities that are anti-dilutive.
 
 
Accounting for Share-Based Payments
At December 31, 2009, we maintained two stock-based employee compensation plans, which are accounted for in accordance with GAAP. See Note 8, "Employee Stock Plans."
 
 
Concentrations of Credit Risk
Financial instruments that potentially subject us to significant concentrations of credit risk consist principally of cash and cash equivalents. We are exposed to credit risk with respect to cash held at various financial institutions, access to our credit facility, and amounts due or payable under our derivative contracts. At December 31, 2009, our exposure risk related to our derivative contracts totaled $3.4 million and the counterparties are investment grade financial institutions. Our credit risk exposure with regard to our cash and the $600 million available under our credit facility is spread among a diversified group of investment grade financial institutions.
Application of New Accounting Standards
This new accounting pronouncement provides principles on the recognition and measurement of the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and goodwill acquired in a business combination. The pronouncement particularly requires the assets acquired, liabilities assumed and non-controlling interests to be measured at the acquisition date fair value, including contingent considerations. Furthermore, the pronouncement prohibits acquisition-related costs, such as due diligence, legal and accounting fees, from being capitalized or applied in determining the fair value of the acquired assets. We adopted the provisions of this pronouncement on January 1, 2009. We do not believe the adoption of this pronouncement will materially affect the recognition and measurement related to our future business combinations.
Business Combinations.    
The FASB recently amended its guidance surrounding a company's analysis to determine whether any of its variable interests constitute controlling financial interests in a variable interest entity. This analysis identifies the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity as the enterprise that has both of the following characteristics:
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities.    
 
 
Additionally, an enterprise is required to assess whether it has an implicit financial responsibility to ensure that a variable interest entity operates as designed when determining whether it has the power to direct the activities of the variable interest entity that most significantly impact the entity's economic performance. The new guidance also requires ongoing reassessments of whether an enterprise is the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity. The guidance is effective for the first annual reporting period that begins after November 15, 2009 and, accordingly, we will reevaluate our interests in variable interest entities for the period beginning on January 1, 2010 to determine that the entities are reflected properly in the financial statements as investments or consolidated entities. We do not anticipate that the implementation of this guidance will have any material effect on our financial statements.
Reclassifications
Certain prior year financial statement amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current year presentation.
 
 
 
Property and equipment consists of the following as of December 31:
 
The aggregate cost of real estate for federal income tax purposes is approximately $9,601 million at December 31, 2009.
During 2009, we recorded non-cash impairment charges totaling $97 million of which $20 million of impairment charges is included in depreciation and amortization and the remaining $77 million of impairment charges is recorded in discontinued operations. See "Note 12Fair Value Measurements."
 
We own investments in voting interest entities which we do not consolidate and, accordingly, are accounted for under the equity method of accounting. The debt of these affiliates is non-recourse to, and not guaranteed by, us. Investments in affiliates consists of the following:
 
 
 
European Joint Venture
In March 2006, we formed a joint venture, HHR Euro CV, to acquire hotels in Europe (the "European joint venture"). We serve as the general partner for the European joint venture and have a 32.1% ownership interest (including our limited and general partner interests). The initial term of the European joint venture is ten years, subject to two one-year extensions with partner approval. As of December 31, 2009, five of the hotels owned by HHR Euro CV are leased to HHR TRS CV, an entity of which we also serve as a general partner and have a 9.8% ownership interest, including our general and limited partner interests. Due to the ownership structure and the non-Host limited partners' rights to cause the dissolution and liquidation of the European joint venture and HHR TRS CV at any time, they are not consolidated in our financial statements. As general partner, we earn a management fee based on the amount of equity commitments and equity investments. In 2009, 2008 and 2007, we recorded approximately $6 million, $6 million and $5 million of management fees, respectively.
During 2008, we entered into three foreign currency forward purchase contracts totaling 60 million (approximately $88 million) to hedge a portion of the foreign currency exposure resulting from the eventual repatriation of our net investment in the European joint venture. These derivatives are considered a hedge of the foreign currency exposure of a net investment in a foreign operation, and, in accordance with SFAS 133, are marked-to-market with changes in fair value recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income within the stockholders' equity portion of our balance sheet. We also evaluate counterparty credit risk in the calculation of the fair value of the derivatives. Changes in the fair value of the derivative instruments totaled $(4) million and $6 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively, and are included in other comprehensive income. The balance in accumulated other comprehensive income related to the foreign currency forward purchase contracts was $2 million and $6 million at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively.
Our unconsolidated investees assess impairment of real estate properties based on whether estimated undiscounted future cash flows from each individual property are less than book value. If a property is impaired, a loss is recorded for the difference between the fair value and net book value of the hotel. In 2008, we recognized a charge of approximately $2 million related to the impairment of one such property in equity in earnings of affiliates. We also review our investments for other-than-temporary impairment based on the occurrence of any events that would indicate that the carrying amount of the investment exceeds its fair value on an other-than-temporary basis. During the second quarter of 2009, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge totaling $34 million in equity in earnings (losses) of affiliates based on the difference between the estimated fair value of our investment and its carrying value. As of December 31, 2009, no further impairment was recorded. See "Note 12Fair Value Measurements."
Asian Joint Venture
On March 25, 2008, we entered into a joint venture, structured as a Singapore Corporation that will explore investment opportunities in various markets throughout Asia, including China, Japan, Vietnam, and India, as well as in Australia (the "Asian joint venture"). We own a 25% interest in the joint venture, which has an initial term of seven years. Due to the ownership structure of the Asian joint venture and our partner's rights to cause the dissolution and liquidation of the joint venture, it is not consolidated in our financial statements. As of December 31, 2009, the Asian joint venture did not own any hotels.
CBM Joint Venture LP
CBM Joint Venture Limited Partnership ("CBM JV") owns 115 Courtyard by Marriott hotels, which are operated by Marriott International pursuant to long-term management agreements. On September 11, 2009, we
 
 
sold our remaining 3.6% limited partnership interest in CBM JV for approximately $13 million and recorded the gain on property transaction of $5 million, net of taxes. As a result of this transaction, we no longer have any ownership interest in CBM JV.
Other Investments
We own a 49% limited partner interest in Tiburon Golf Ventures, L.P., which owns the golf club surrounding The Ritz-Carlton, Naples Golf Resort. We also own minority interests in three partnerships that directly or indirectly own two hotels. The total carrying value of these partnerships is less than $500,000, and we do not have any guarantees or commitments in relation to these partnerships.
Combined summarized balance sheet information as of December 31 for our affiliates follows:
 
Combined summarized operating results for our affiliates for the years ended December 31 follows:
 
 
 
 
Debt consists of the following:
 
 
Senior Notes
Under the terms of our senior notes indenture, which includes our Exchangeable Senior Debentures, our senior notes are equal in right of payment with all of Host LP's unsubordinated indebtedness and senior to all subordinated obligations of Host LP. The face amount of our senior notes as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 was $4.7 billion and $4.0 billion, respectively. The senior notes balance as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 includes discounts of approximately $145 million and $89 million, respectively. The notes under our senior notes indenture are guaranteed by certain of our existing subsidiaries and are secured by pledges of equity interests in many of our subsidiaries. The guarantees and pledges ratably benefit the notes under our senior notes indenture, as well as our credit facility, certain other senior debt, and interest rate swap agreements and other hedging agreements, if any, with lenders that are parties to the credit facility. We pay interest on each series of our senior notes semi-annually in arrears at the respective annual rates indicated on the table above.
General.
 
We had the following activities during 2009 and 2008:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The gains on the repurchased debentures are recorded in interest expense in the consolidated financial statements. We evaluated the fair value of the debt repurchased based on the fair value of the cash flows at the date of the repurchase discounted at risk adjusted rates. Based on this calculation, the fair value of the debt repurchased was generally greater than the conversion price; therefore, substantially all of the repurchase price was allocated to the debt portion of the debentures.
    Under the terms of the senior notes indenture, our ability to incur indebtedness and pay dividends is subject to restrictions and the satisfaction of various conditions, including the achievement of an EBITDA-to-interest coverage ratio of at least 2.0x by Host LP. Furthermore, Host LP is able to make distributions to enable Host to pay dividends on its preferred stock under the senior notes indenture when our EBITDA-to-interest coverage ratio is above 1.7 to 1.0. This ratio is calculated in accordance with the terms of our senior notes indenture based on pro forma results for the four prior fiscal quarters giving effect to transactions such as acquisitions, dispositions and financings, as if they occurred at the beginning of the period. For example, under the terms of our senior notes indenture interest expense excludes items such as the gains and losses on the extinguishment of debt, deferred financing charges related to the senior notes or the credit facility, amortization of debt premiums or discounts that were recorded at acquisition of a loan to establish the debt at fair value and approximately $27 million, $30 million and $25 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, of non-cash interest expense related to our exchangeable debentures, all of which are included in interest expense on our consolidated statements of operations. Our subsidiaries are subject to the restrictive covenants in the indenture, however, in certain circumstances, we are permitted to designate certain subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries. These unrestricted subsidiaries are not subject to the restrictive covenants (unless they are guarantors) and may engage in transactions to dispose of or encumber their assets or otherwise incur additional
Restrictive Covenants.
 
 
indebtedness without complying with the restrictive covenants in the indenture. If we were to designate additional subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries, neither the EBITDA generated by nor the interest expense allocated to these entities would be included in our ratio calculations. Other covenants limiting our ability to incur indebtedness and pay dividends include maintaining total indebtedness of less than 65% of adjusted total assets (using undepreciated real estate values) excluding intangible assets and secured indebtedness of less than 45% of adjusted total assets. So long as we maintain the required level of interest coverage and satisfy these and other conditions in the senior notes indenture, we may pay preferred or common dividends and incur additional debt under the senior notes indenture, including debt incurred in connection with an acquisition. In addition, even if we are below the coverage levels otherwise required to incur debt and pay dividends, we are still permitted to incur certain types of debt, including (i) credit facility debt, (ii) refinancing debt, (iii) up to $300 million of mortgage debt whose proceeds would be used to repay debt under credit facility (and permanently reduce our ability to borrow under the credit facility by such amount), and (iv) up to $100 million of other debt. Our senior notes indenture also imposes restrictions on customary matters, such as our ability to pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase our equity interests; make investments; permit payment or dividend restrictions on certain of our subsidiaries; sell assets; guarantee indebtedness; enter into transactions with affiliates; create certain liens; and sell certain assets or merge with or into other companies. Our senior notes indenture also imposes a requirement to maintain unencumbered assets (as defined in the indenture as undepreciated property value) of not less than 125% of the aggregate amount of senior note debt plus other debt not secured by mortgages. This coverage requirement must be maintained at all times and is distinct from the coverage requirements necessary to incur debt or pay dividends discussed above (whose consequences, where we fall below the coverage level, are limited to restricting our ability to incur new debt or pay dividends, but which would not otherwise cause a default under our senior notes indenture).
We are in compliance with all of our financial covenants under the senior notes indenture. The following table summarizes the financial tests contained in the senior notes indenture as of December 31, 2009:
 
 
 
 
Exchangeable Debentures
We separately account for the liability and equity components of our exchangeable debentures to reflect the fair value of the liability component based on our non-convertible borrowing cost at the issuance date. Accordingly, for the 2009 Debentures, 2007 Debentures and 2004 Debentures (collectively, the "Debentures"), we record the liability components of the Debentures at fair value as of the date of issuance and amortize the resulting discount as an increase to interest expense over the expected life of the debt; however, there is no effect on our cash interest payments. We measured the fair value of the debt components of the 2009 Debentures, 2007 Debentures and 2004 Debentures at issuance based on effective interest rates of 6.9%, 6.5% and 6.8%, respectively. As a result, we attributed $247 million of the proceeds received to the conversion feature of the Debentures. This amount represents the excess proceeds received over the fair value of the debt at the date of issuance and is included in additional paid-in capital on the condensed consolidated balance sheets. The following details the initial allocations between the debt and equity components of the debentures, net of the original issue discount, based on the effective interest rate at the time of issuance, as well as the debt balances at December 31, 2009:
 
Interest expense recorded for the Debentures for the periods presented consists of the following (in millions):
 
    On December 22, 2009, Host LP issued $400 million of 2
2009 Exchangeable Senior Debentures
.
 1
/
2
 % exchangeable senior debentures and received proceeds of $391 million, net of underwriting fees and expenses. The 2009 Debentures mature on October 15, 2029 and are equal in right of payment with all of our other senior notes. Interest is payable quarterly in arrears on January 15, April 15, July 15 and October 15 of each year beginning on January 15, 2010. We can redeem for cash all, or part of, the 2009 Debentures at any time on or after October 20, 2015 upon 15 days notice at a redemption price of 100% of the principal amount plus accrued interest. Holders have the right to require us to repurchase the 2009 Debentures on October 15, 2015, October 15, 2019 and October 15, 2024 for cash equal to 100% of the principal amount plus accrued interest. Holders may exchange their 2009 Debentures prior to maturity under certain conditions, including at any time at which the closing sale price of our common stock is more than 130% of the exchange price per share for at least 20 of 30 consecutive trading days during certain periods or any time up to two days prior to the date on which the debentures have been called for redemption. On exchange, we must deliver cash, shares or a combination thereof at our option in an amount equal to the exchange value (which is the applicable exchange rate multiplied by the average exchange price of our common shares). The exchange rate at December 31, 2009 was 71.0101 shares of our common stock per $1,000 principal amount of debentures, which is equivalent to an exchange price of
 
 
$14.08 per share of Host common stock, or approximately 28 million shares. The exchange rate may be adjusted under certain circumstances, including the payment of common dividends. The 2009 Debentures are not currently exchangeable.
    On March 23, 2007, Host LP issued $600 million of 2
2007 Exchangeable Senior Debentures.
 5
/
8
% 2007 Debentures and received proceeds of $589 million, net of underwriting fees and expenses and original issue discount. During 2009, we repurchased approximately $74 million face amount of the 2007 Debentures for approximately $66 million. As of December 31, 2009, we have $526 million face amount of the 2007 Debentures that remain outstanding. The 2007 Debentures mature on April 15, 2027 and are equal in right of payment with all of our other senior notes. Interest is payable quarterly in arrears on January 15, April 15, July 15 and October 15 of each year beginning on July 15, 2007. Holders have the right to require us to repurchase the 2007 Debentures on April 15, 2012, April 15, 2017 and April 15, 2022 for cash equal to 100% of the principal amount plus accrued interest. Holders may exchange their 2007 Debentures prior to maturity under certain conditions, including when the closing sale price of Host's common stock is more than 130% of the exchange price per share for at least 20 of 30 consecutive trading days during certain periods or any time up to two days prior to the date on which the debentures have been called for redemption. On exchange, we must deliver cash in an amount equal to not less than the lower of the exchange value (which is the applicable exchange rate multiplied by the average price of our common shares) and the aggregate principal amount of the 2007 Debentures to be exchanged, and, at our option, shares, cash or a combination thereof for any excess above the principal value. We can redeem for cash all, or part of, the 2007 Debentures at any time on or after April 20, 2012 upon 15 days notice at a redemption price of 100% of the principal amount plus accrued interest. If we elect to redeem the debentures and the exchange value exceeds the cash redemption price, we would expect holders to elect to exchange their debentures at the exchange value described above rather than receive the cash redemption price. The exchange rate at December 31, 2009 was 32.0239 shares of our common stock per $1,000 principal amount of debentures, which is equivalent to an exchange price of $31.23 per share of Host common stock. The exchange rate may be adjusted under certain circumstances including the payment of common dividends exceeding $.20 per share in any given quarter.
    On March 16, 2004, Host LP issued $500 million of 3
2004 Exchangeable Senior Debentures.
1
/
4
% 2004 Debentures and received net proceeds of $484 million, net of discounts, underwriting fees and expenses. During 2008 and 2009, we repurchased $175 million face amount of the 2004 Debentures with a carrying value of $168 million for approximately $151 million and recorded gains on repurchase of approximately $17 million. As of December 31, 2009, $325 million of the 2004 Debentures remain outstanding. The outstanding 2004 Debentures mature on April 15, 2024 and are equal in right of payment with all of our other senior notes. Interest is payable quarterly in arrears on January 15, April 15, July 15 and October 15 of each year. Holders have the right to require us to repurchase the 2004 Debentures on April 15, 2010, April 15, 2014 and April 15, 2019 for cash equal to 100% of the principal amount. Holders may exchange their 2004 Debentures prior to maturity under certain conditions, including at any time at which the closing sale price of our common stock is more than 120% of the exchange price per share, for at least 20 of 30 consecutive trading days during certain periods or any time up to two days prior to the date on which the debentures have been called for redemption. The exchange rate at December 31, 2009 was 65.3258 shares for each $1,000 of principal amount of the 2004 Debentures, or a total of approximately 21 million shares (which is equivalent to an exchange price of $15.31 per share). The exchange rate is adjusted for certain circumstances, including the payment of common dividends. We can redeem for cash all, or part of, the 2004 Debentures at any time subsequent to April 19, 2009 upon 30 days notice at the applicable redemption price as set forth in the indenture. If we elect to redeem the debentures and the exchange value exceeds the cash redemption price, we would expect holders to elect to exchange their debentures for stock rather than receive the cash redemption price.
 
 
Authorization for Senior Notes and Exchangeable Debentures Repurchase
In May 2009, our Board of Directors authorized us to repurchase up to $750 million of senior notes and exchangeable debentures. We may purchase senior notes and exchangeable debentures through open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions, tender offers or, in some cases, through the early redemption of such securities pursuant to their terms. Repurchases of debt, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors. Any refinancing or retirement before the maturity date would affect earnings as a result of the payment of any applicable call premiums and the acceleration of previously deferred financing costs. In February of 2010, this program was terminated with $680 million of remaining capacity, and a new $400 million program was authorized. This new program includes the ability to repurchase senior notes, exchangeable debentures, mortgage debt and preferred stock.
Credit Facility
On May 25, 2007, we entered into a second amended and restated bank credit facility with Deutsche Bank AG New York Branch, as Administrative Agent, Bank of America, N.A., as Syndication Agent, Citicorp North America Inc., Socit Gnrale and Calyon New York Branch, as Co-Documentation Agents and certain other agents and lenders. The credit facility provides aggregate revolving loan commitments in the amount of $600 million. During any period in which our leverage ratio equals or exceeds 7.0x, new borrowings are limited to such amount as does not cause the aggregate outstanding principal amount under the credit facility to exceed $300 million. The credit facility also includes subcommitments for (i) the issuance of letters of credit in an aggregate amount of $10 million and (ii) loans in certain foreign currencies in an aggregate amount of $300 million, (A) $150 million of which may be loaned to certain of our Canadian subsidiaries in Canadian Dollars and (B) $300 million of which may be loaned to us in Pounds Sterling and Euros. The credit facility has an initial scheduled maturity of September 2011. We have an option to extend the maturity for an additional year if certain conditions are met as of September 2011. These conditions include the payment of a fee to the lenders, that no default or event of default exists and maintaining a leverage ratio below 6.75x. Subject to certain conditions, we also have the option to increase the amount of the facility by up to $190 million to the extent that any one or more lenders, whether or not currently party to the credit facility, commits to be a lender for such amount.
In the second quarter of 2008, we entered into a $210 million term loan under the credit facility. The term loan bore interest at LIBOR plus 175 basis points, with a LIBOR floor of 2.25%. In the third quarter of 2009, we repaid the entire $210 million term loan. In September 2008, we also borrowed $200 million under the revolver portion of our credit facility at a rate of LIBOR plus 65 basis points based on our leverage. During the second quarter of 2009, we repaid the $200 million outstanding on the revolver portion of our credit facility. Based on our leverage at December 31, 2009, we have $600 million available under our credit facility.
The obligations under the credit facility are guaranteed by certain of our existing subsidiaries and are currently secured by pledges of equity interests in many of our subsidiaries. The pledges are permitted to be released in the event that certain conditions are satisfied, including the requirement that our leverage ratio falls below 6.0x for two consecutive fiscal quarters. As a result of having satisfied such conditions as of December 31, 2009, we are not required to pledge our equity interests in any newly acquired or formed subsidiary, and at our election, we may obtain a release of all existing pledges for so long as our leverage ratio continues to be below 6.0x. The guarantees and pledges ratably benefit our credit facility, as well as the notes outstanding under our senior notes indenture and interest rate swap agreements and other hedging agreements with lenders that are parties to the credit facility.
    The credit facility contains covenants concerning allowable leverage, fixed charge coverage and unsecured interest coverage. Due to the decline in operations during the year, our unsecured
Financial Covenants.
 
 
interest coverage ratio and fixed charge coverage ratio have declined and our leverage ratio has increased relative to year end 2008. We are permitted to make borrowings and maintain amounts outstanding under the credit facility so long as our leverage ratio is not in excess of 7.25x and our unsecured coverage ratio is not less than 1.75x. If our leverage ratio equals or exceeds 7.0x, new borrowings are limited to such amount as does not cause the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the credit facility to exceed $300 million. However, to the extent our borrowings under the credit facility revolver exceed $300 million on the date that our leverage ratio exceeds 7.0x, we are not required to repay the excess for one year. The financial covenants for the credit facility do not apply when there are no borrowings under the credit facility. Hence, so long as there are no amounts outstanding, we would not be in default if we do not satisfy the financial covenants and we do not lose the potential to draw under the credit facility in the future if we were ever to come back into compliance with the financial covenants. These calculations are performed in accordance with our credit facility based on pro forma results for the prior four fiscal quarters giving effect to transactions such as acquisitions, dispositions and financings as if they occurred at the beginning of the period. For example, under the terms of the credit facility interest expense excludes items such as the gains and losses on the extinguishment of debt, deferred financing charges related to the senior notes or the credit facility, amortization of debt premiums or discounts that were recorded at acquisition of a loan to establish the debt at fair value and approximately $27 million, $30 million and $25 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, of interest expense recorded as a result of the adoption of a new accounting pronouncement relating to our exchangeable debentures, all of which are included in interest expense on our consolidated statements of operations. Additionally, total debt used in the calculation of our leverage ratio is based on a "net debt" concept under which cash and cash equivalents in excess of $100 million is deducted from our total debt balance.
We are in compliance with all of our financial covenants under the credit facility. The following table summarizes the financial tests contained in the credit facility as of December 31, 2009:
 
 
    We pay interest on revolver borrowings under the credit facility at floating rates plus a margin that is set with reference to our leverage ratio. In the case of LIBOR borrowings in U.S. Dollars, as well as Euros and Pounds Sterling denominated borrowings, the rate of interest ranges from 65 basis points to 150 basis points over LIBOR. We also have the option to pay interest based on the higher of the overnight Federal Funds Rate plus 50 basis points and the Prime Lending Rate, plus, in both cases, the applicable spread ranging from 0 to 50 basis points. Based on our leverage ratio at December 31, 2009 of 5.3x, we can borrow at a rate of LIBOR plus 90 basis points or Prime plus 0 basis points. To the extent that amounts under the credit facility remain unused, we pay a quarterly commitment fee on the unused portion of the loan commitment of 10 to 15 basis points, depending on our average revolver usage during the applicable period.
Interest and Fees.
    The credit facility contains restrictive covenants on customary matters. Certain covenants become less restrictive at any time that our leverage ratio falls below 6.0x. In particular, at any time that our leverage ratio is below 6.0x, we will not be subject to limitations on capital expenditures, and the limitations on acquisitions, investments and dividends contained in the credit facility will be superseded by the generally less restrictive corresponding covenants in our senior notes indenture. Additionally, the credit facility's restrictions on incurrence of debt and the payment of dividends are generally consistent with our senior notes
Other Covenants.
 
 
indenture. These provisions, under certain circumstances, limit debt incurrence to debt incurred under the credit facility or in connection with a refinancing, and limit dividend payments to those necessary to maintain our tax status as a REIT.
Mortgage Debt
All of our mortgage debt is recourse solely to specific assets except for environmental liabilities, fraud, misapplication of funds and other customary recourse provisions. As of December 31, 2009, we have 12 assets that are secured by mortgage debt with an average interest rate of 5.1% that mature between 2011 and 2023. As of December 31, 2009, we are in compliance with the covenants under all of our mortgage debt obligations.
We had the following mortgage debt issuances and repayments since January 2008. Interest for our mortgage debt is payable on a monthly basis:
 
 
Interest Rate Derivative Instruments
We have entered into several derivatives to manage our exposures to risks associated with changes in interest rates. None of our derivatives have been entered into for trading purposes. See Note 12  Fair Value Measurements.
 
 
Aggregate Debt Maturities
Aggregate debt maturities at December 31, 2009 are as follows (in millions):
 
 
Interest
The following are included in interest expense for the years ended December 31, (in millions):
 
 
Amortization of property and equipment under capital leases totaled $1 million for 2009 and $2 million for both 2008 and 2007 and is included in depreciation and amortization on the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
 
 
 
We have authorized 1,050 million shares of common stock, with a par value of $0.01 per share, of which 646.3 million and 525.3 million were outstanding as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Fifty million shares of no par value preferred stock are authorized, with 4.0 million shares outstanding as of December 31, 2009 and 2008.
Issuances
On April 29, 2009, we issued 75,750,000 shares of common stock at $6.60 per share and received net proceeds of approximately $480 million, after underwriting discounts and commissions and transaction expenses.
On August 19, 2009, we entered into a Sales Agency Financing Agreement with BNY Mellon Capital Markets, LLC, through which we may issue and sell, from time to time, shares of common stock having an aggregate offering price of up to $400 million. During 2009, we issued approximately 28 million shares of common stock through this program at an average price of approximately $10.27 per share for net proceeds of approximately $287 million. We may continue to sell shares of common stock under this program from time to time based on market conditions, although we are not under obligation to sell any shares.
On December 22, 2009, Host LP issued the 2009 Debentures for proceeds of $391 million, net of underwriting fees and expenses. We separately account for the debt and equity portion of the debentures to reflect the fair value of the liability component based on our non-convertible borrowing cost at the issuance date. The excess proceeds received over the fair value of the liability are allocated to the equity component of the debentures. Accordingly, we allocated $82 million to the equity portion of the 2009 Debentures upon their issuance. See Note 4, "Debt."
Dividends
On September 14, 2009, Host announced that its Board of Directors authorized a special dividend of $0.25 per share of common stock of Host, which was paid on December 18, 2009 to holders of record as of November 6, 2009. The dividend was paid with cash or with shares of common stock, at the election of the stockholder. In order to comply with Host's remaining REIT taxable income distribution requirements for the year ended December 31, 2008, while retaining capital and maintaining maximum financial flexibility, Host's Board of Directors determined that the cash component of the dividend (other than cash paid in lieu of fractional shares) would not exceed 10% in the aggregate. As a result, we issued 13.4 million shares of Host common stock valued at $140 million on December 18, 2009, and paid cash in the amount of $16 million, for a total dividend of $156 million.
The table below presents the amount of common and preferred dividends declared per share as follows:
 
Stock Repurchase
During 2008, the Company's Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to $500 million of common stock and equity-related securities. These securities may be purchased in the open market or through private transactions, depending on market conditions. During 2008, the Company repurchased 6.5 million shares valued at approximately $100 million. The shares repurchased constitute authorized but unissued shares.
 
 
Additionally, as part of this program, we repurchased $175 million face amount of the Debentures in the fourth quarter of 2008 and the first quarter of 2009, for approximately $151 million. See Note 4, "Debt." This program was terminated in the third quarter of 2009 and no additional common shares or equity related securities have been repurchased as part of this program. At the time of termination, there was $249 million left under the Board's authorization for future repurchases.
Preferred Stock
As of December 31, 2009, we have one class of publicly-traded preferred stock outstanding: 4,034,300 shares of 8
 7
/
8
% Class E preferred stock. Holders of the preferred stock are entitled to receive cumulative cash dividends at 8
 7
/
8
% per annum of the $25.00 per share liquidation preference, which are payable quarterly in arrears. After June 2, 2009, we have the option to redeem the Class E preferred stock for $25.00 per share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends to the date of redemption. The preferred stock ranks senior to the common stock. The preferred stockholders generally have no voting rights. Accrued preferred dividends at December 31, 2009 and 2008 were approximately $2 million.
 
We elected to be taxed as a REIT effective January 1, 1999, pursuant to the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. In general, a corporation that elects REIT status and meets certain tax law requirements regarding the distribution of its taxable income to its stockholders as prescribed by applicable tax laws and complies with certain other requirements (relating primarily to the nature of its assets and the sources of its revenues) is generally not subject to federal and state income taxation on its operating income distributed to its stockholders. In addition to paying federal and state income taxes on any retained income, we are subject to taxes on "built-in-gains" resulting from sales of certain assets. Additionally, our taxable REIT subsidiaries are subject to federal, state and foreign income tax. The consolidated income tax provision or benefit includes the income tax provision or benefit related to the operations of the taxable REIT subsidiaries, state income taxes incurred by Host and Host LP and foreign income taxes incurred by Host LP, as well as each of their respective subsidiaries.
Where required, deferred income taxes are accounted for using the asset and liability method. Under this method, deferred income taxes are recognized for temporary differences between the financial reporting bases of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and for operating loss, capital loss and tax credit carryovers based on enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when such amounts are realized or settled. However, deferred tax assets are recognized only to the extent that it is more likely than not that they will be realized based on consideration of available evidence, including future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, future projected taxable income and tax planning strategies.
Total deferred tax assets and liabilities at December 31, 2009 and 2008 are as follows (in millions):
 
 
 
We have recorded a 100% valuation allowance of approximately $36 million against the net deferred tax asset related to the net operating loss and asset tax credit carryovers as of December 31, 2009 with respect to our hotel in Mexico. There is a $1 million valuation allowance against the deferred tax asset related to the net operating loss and capital loss carryovers as of December 31, 2009 with respect to our hotels in Canada. The net increase in the valuation allowance for the year ending December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008 was approximately $9 million and $3 million, respectively. We expect that all net operating loss and alternative minimum tax credit carryovers for U.S. federal income tax purposes to be realized. The primary components of our net deferred tax asset were as follows (in millions):
 
At December 31, 2009, we have aggregate gross domestic and foreign net operating loss, capital loss and tax credit carryovers of approximately $169 million. We have deferred tax assets related to these loss and tax credit carryovers of approximately $62 million, with a valuation allowance of approximately $37 million. Our net operating loss carryovers expire through 2027, and our foreign capital loss carryovers have no expiration period. Our domestic alternative minimum tax credits have no expiration period and our foreign asset tax credits expire through 2017.
Our U.S. and foreign income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes was as follows (in millions):
 
The (benefit) provision for income taxes for continuing operations consists of (in millions):
 
 
 
The total (benefit) provision for income taxes, including the amounts associated with discontinued operations, was ($39) million, ($3) million and $3 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
The differences between the income tax (benefit) provision calculated at the statutory U.S. federal income tax rate of 35% and the actual income tax (benefit) provision recorded each year for continuing operations are as follows (in millions):
 
Cash paid for income taxes, net of refunds received, was $5 million in 2009 and $7 million in each of 2008 and 2007.
Current accounting literature prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken in a tax return. We must determine whether it is "more-likely-than-not" that a tax position will be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. Once it is determined that a position meets the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold, the position is measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon settlement to determine the amount of benefit to recognize in the financial statements. This accounting standard applies to all tax positions related to income taxes. A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows (in millions):
 
All of such amount, if recognized, would impact our reconciliation between the income tax provision (benefit) calculated at the statutory federal income tax rate of 35% and the actual income tax provision (benefit) recorded each year. In 2009, we recognized an income tax benefit of $7 million relating to the reduction of previously accrued income taxes after an evaluation of the exposure items and the expiration of the related statutes of limitation. No such amount was recognized in 2007 or 2008.
It is reasonably possible that the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits will decrease within 12 months of the reporting date due to the expiration of certain statutes of limitation. An estimate of the range of such possible decrease is zero to $.5 million. As of December 31, 2009, the tax years that remain subject to examination by major tax jurisdictions generally include 2006-2009.
We recognize interest accrued related to unrecognized tax benefits in interest expense and penalties in operating expenses. During each of the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, we recognized approximately $0.1 million of interest expense related to the unrecognized tax benefits. We had approximately $0.5 million and $0.4 million of interest accrued at December 31, 2009, and 2008, respectively.
 
 
 
Hotel Leases
We lease substantially all of our hotels (the "Leases") to a wholly owned subsidiary that qualifies as a taxable REIT subsidiary due to federal income tax restrictions on a REIT's ability to derive revenue directly from the operation and management of a hotel.
In a series of related transactions in 1995 and 1996, we sold and leased back 53 Courtyard by Marriott ("Courtyard") properties and 18 Residence Inn by Marriott ("Residence Inn") properties to Hospitality Properties Trust ("HPT"). These leases, which are accounted for as operating leases and are included in the table below, have initial terms expiring between 2010 and 2012 and are renewable at our option. Minimum rent payments are $59 million annually for the Courtyard properties and $21 million annually for the Residence Inn properties, and additional rent based upon sales levels are payable to HPT under the terms of the leases.
Hospitality Properties Trust Relationship.    
In 1998, we sublet the HPT properties (the "Subleases") to separate sublessee subsidiaries of Barcel Crestline Corporation (the "Sublessee"), subject to the terms of the applicable HPT lease. The term of each Sublease expires simultaneously with the expiration of the initial term of the HPT lease to which it relates and automatically renews for the corresponding renewal term under the HPT lease, unless either we or the Sublessee elect not to renew the Sublease provided, however, that neither party can elect to terminate fewer than all of the Subleases in a particular pool of HPT properties (one for the Courtyard properties and one for the Residence Inn properties). Rent payable by the Sublessee under the Subleases consists of the minimum rent payable under the HPT lease and an additional percentage rent payable to us. The percentage rent payable by the Sublessee is generally sufficient to cover the additional rent due under the HPT lease, with any excess being retained by us. Rent payable under the subleases is guaranteed by the parent of the subtenants up to a maximum of approximately $21.6 million for the Courtyard leases, of which approximately $6.7 million has been funded through December 31, 2009, and approximately $10.8 million for the Residence Inn leases, of which approximately $5.9 million has been funded through December 31, 2009. To the extent the parent of the subtenants fails to perform or fully funds its guarantee obligation, we will be responsible for funding any rent shortfalls to HPT. At the expiration of these leases, HPT will return our initial security deposit of approximately $67 million, plus additional cash collateral of approximately $7.8 million. We gave notice that we will terminate the lease on the 18 Residence Inn properties effective December 31, 2010, at which time we expect our $17 million security deposit will be returned by HPT. In 2010, we also intend to give notice that we will terminate the lease on the 53 Courtyard by Marriott properties effective December 31, 2012.
Other Lease Information
As of December 31, 2009, all or a portion of 35 of our hotels are subject to ground leases, generally with multiple renewal options, all of which are accounted for as operating leases. For lease agreements with scheduled rent increases, we recognize the lease expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Certain of these leases contain provisions for the payment of contingent rentals based on a percentage of sales in excess of stipulated amounts. Additionally, the rental payments under one lease are based on real estate tax assessments. We also have leases on facilities used in our former restaurant business, some of which we subsequently subleased. These leases and subleases contain one or more renewal options, generally for five or ten-year periods. The restaurant leases are accounted for as operating leases. Our lease activities also include leases entered into by our hotels for various types of equipment, such as computer equipment, vehicles and telephone systems. Equipment leases are accounted for as either operating or capital leases depending on the characteristics of the
 
 
particular lease arrangement. Equipment leases that are characterized as capital leases are classified as furniture and equipment and are depreciated over the life of the lease. The amortization charge applicable to capitalized leases is included in depreciation expense in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
The following table presents the future minimum annual rental commitments required under non-cancelable leases for which we are the lessee as of December 31, 2009. Minimum payments for the operating leases have not been reduced by aggregate minimum sublease rentals from restaurants and the Sublessee of approximately $7 million and $198 million, respectively, payable to us under non-cancelable subleases.
 
We remain contingently liable on certain leases relating to our former restaurant business. Such contingent liabilities aggregated $20 million as of December 31, 2009. However, management considers the likelihood of any material funding related to these leases to be remote.
Rent expense is included in other property-level expenses line item and consists of (in millions):
 
 
We maintain two stock-based compensation plans, the Comprehensive Stock and Cash Incentive Plan (the "2009 Comprehensive Plan"), whereby we may award to participating employees (i) restricted shares of our common stock, (ii) options to purchase our common stock and (iii) deferred shares of our common stock and the employee stock purchase plan (ESPP). At December 31, 2009, there were approximately 19.2 million shares of common stock reserved and available for issuance under the 2009 Comprehensive Plan.
We recognize costs resulting from our share-based payment transactions in our financial statements over their vesting periods. We classify share-based payment awards granted in exchange for employee services as either equity awards or liability awards. The classification of our restricted stock awards as either an equity
 
 
award or a liability award is based upon cash settlement options. Equity awards are measured based on the fair value on the date of grant. Liability classified awards are re-measured to fair value each reporting period. The value of all restricted stock awards, less estimated forfeitures, is recognized over the period during which an employee is required to provide service in exchange for the awardthe requisite service period (usually the vesting period). No compensation cost is recognized for awards for which employees do not render the requisite service. All restricted stock awards to senior executives outstanding as of December 31, 2009 have been classified as liability awards, primarily due to settlement features that allow the recipient to have a percentage of the restricted stock awards withheld to meet tax requirements in excess of the statutory minimum withholding. Restricted stock awards to our other employees, including upper-middle management, have been classified as equity awards as these awards do not have this optional tax withholding feature.
On May 14, 2009, our stockholders approved the 2009 Comprehensive Plan, which authorized 25 million shares that can be issued for stock-based compensation to employees and directors. Shares described below that were granted after this date were issued under this plan. We granted 4.8 million restricted shares to senior executives that vest in 2010 and 2011 and 1.0 million stock options under this plan. We also granted 0.2 million restricted shares to other employees at a per share price of $10.40.
Prior to the adoption of the 2009 Comprehensive Plan, we granted 2.4 million restricted shares and 0.4 million stock options to senior executives that had a requisite service period through December 31, 2009. These shares were granted under our previous 1997 Comprehensive Stock and Cash Incentive Plan (the "1997 Comprehensive Plan", which is not in effect as of December 31, 2009. We also granted 0.2 million restricted shares to upper-middle management during 2009 through the 1997 Comprehensive Plan.
During 2009, 2008 and 2007, we recorded compensation expense of approximately $20.5 million, $2.8 million and $4.4 million, respectively. Shares granted in 2009, 2008 and 2007 totaled 9.0 million, 0.3 million and 0.1 million, respectively, while 2.2 million, 0.3 million and 0.3 million vested during those years. Approximately 6.5 million shares are unvested as of December 31, 2009 with a weighted average fair value of $6.86.
Senior Executive Restricted Stock
During the 2009, we granted shares to senior executives that vested through year end 2011 in three annual installments (the "2009  2011 Plan"). Vesting for these shares is determined based on (1) personal performance based on the achievement of specific management business objectives or (2) market performance based on the achievement of total shareholder return on a relative basis. These awards are considered liability awards; therefore we recognize compensation expense over the requisite period based on the fair value of the award at the balance sheet date. The fair value of the personal performance awards are based on management's estimate of shares that will vest during the requisite service period at the balance sheet market rate. The fair value of the awards that vest based on market performance is estimated using a simulation or Monte Carlo method. For the purpose of the simulation at year end 2009, we assumed a volatility of 82.0%, which is calculated based on the volatility of our stock price over the last three years, a risk-free interest rate of 1.70%, which reflects the yield on a 3-year Treasury bond, and stock betas of 1.075 and 1.38 compared to the Lodging composite index and the REIT composite index, respectively, based on three years of historical price data. The number of shares issued is adjusted for forfeitures.
The majority of shares that vested in 2009 were granted on February 5, 2009 under the 1997 Comprehensive Plan. Approximately 1.2 million shares were granted that vest based on the satisfaction of personal performance goals set by each individual executive, of which approximately 0.9 million shares vested during 2009. Approximately 0.6 million shares were granted that vest based on the achievement of total shareholder return on
 
 
a relative basis compared to the NAREIT index, of which approximately 87.5%, or, 0.6 million shares, vested during 2009. Approximately 0.6 million shares were granted that vest based on the achievement of total shareholder return in comparison to eight other lodging companies, of which none vested during 2009. The 0.6 million shares that did not vest based on the achievement of market conditions are still outstanding and may be earned based on our cumulative relative market performance for the period from January 1, 2009 through December 31, 2011.
The majority of shares that vest in 2010 and 2011 were granted on August 25, 2009 under the 2009 Comprehensive Plan. Approximately 2.3 million shares were granted that vest based on the satisfaction of personal performance goals set by each individual executive. Approximately 1.2 million shares were granted that vest based on the achievement of total shareholder return on a relative basis compared to the NAREIT index. Approximately 1.2 million shares were granted that vest based on the achievement of total shareholder return in comparison to eight other lodging companies.
During the first quarter of 2006, we granted shares to senior executives that vested through year end 2008 in three annual installments (the "20062008 Plan"). The plan concluded as of December 31, 2008 and all shares were either vested or forfeited. Vesting for these shares was determined both on continued employment and market performance based on the achievement of total shareholder return on an absolute and relative basis. Approximately 110,000 shares that vested as of December 31, 2008 were issued on February 5, 2009. There are no shares outstanding under this plan as of December 31, 2009.
We made an additional grant of shares to senior executives in February 2006 ("2006 supplemental grant"). Twenty-five percent of this award vested immediately and was expensed on the date of grant, while the remaining 75% vested over a three-year period that began in February 2006 based on continued employment. Approximately 94,000 shares that vested as of February 2009 were issued on February 9, 2009. We recognized compensation expense from January 1, 2009 through February 9, 2009 based on the market price at February 9, 2009. There are no shares outstanding under this plan as of December 31, 2009.
During 2009, 2008 and 2007, we recorded compensation expense of approximately $19 million, $2 million and $3 million respectively, related to the restricted stock awards to senior executives. Based on the valuation criteria above, the total unrecognized compensation cost that relates to nonvested restricted stock awards at December 31, 2009 was approximately $40 million, which, if earned, will be recognized over the weighted average of one year. The following table is a summary of the status of our senior executive plans for the three years ended December 31, 2009. The fair values for the awards below are based on the fair value at the respective transaction dates, as the awards are classified as liability awards.
 
 
 
 
Upper Middle Management and Broad-Based Restricted Stock Issuances
We maintain a restricted stock program for our upper-middle management. Vesting for these shares is determined based on continued employment and, accordingly, we recognize compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the service period of three years. Additionally, in August 2009, we issued restricted shares to eligible employees in a broad-based issuance. These shares vest over a two-year period.
We recorded compensation expense related to these shares of $1.4 million, $1.1 million and $1.6 million during 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The total unrecognized compensation cost, measured on the grant date, that relates to nonvested restricted stock awards at December 31, 2009 was approximately $1.4 million, which, if earned, will be recognized over the weighted average remaining service period of one year. The following table is a summary of the status of our upper-middle management plan for the three years ended December 31, 2009. The fair values for the awards below are based on the fair value at the grant date of the respective awards, which is equal to the market value on such date, as the awards are classified as equity awards.
 
 
Employee Stock Options
As part of the 2009 Comprehensive Plan, we granted 1.4 million stock options during the year. The options expire ten years after the grant date. Vesting for these shares is based on continuing employment. The fair value of the stock options was estimated on the date of grant based on a Simulation/Monte Carlo method. During 2009, 464,000 of the options were issued under the 1997 Comprehensive Plan that vested on December 31, 2009. These options were valued assuming a volatility of 49.7%, an average dividend of 5%, and an average risk free interest rate of 2.06%. The remaining 931,000 options, which vest in two equal installments in 2010 and 2011, were granted under the 2009 Comprehensive Plan. These options were valued assuming a volatility of 57%, an average dividend of 5% and an average risk free interest rate of 2.24%.
On December 31, 2009, approximately 464,000 of the options vested and we recorded approximately $0.8 million in compensation expense for these options in 2009. No other options were granted between December 2002 and December 2008. The following table summarizes the stock option grants during the year.
 
 
 
The following table is a summary of the status of our stock option plans that have been approved by our stockholders. We do not have stock option plans that have not been approved by our stockholders.
 
The following table summarized the information about stock options at December 31, 2009.
 
Employee Stock Purchase Plan
Under the terms of the employee stock purchase plan ("ESPP"), eligible employees may purchase common stock through payroll deductions at 90% of the lower of market value at the beginning or end of the plan period and is therefore compensatory under SFAS 123R. Effective January 1, 2008, we updated the plan so that shares vested on a calendar quarter basis and employees made their purchase options on a quarterly basis. Prior to 2008, the shares vested on an annual basis. We record compensation expense for the employee stock purchase plan based on the fair value of the employees' purchase rights, which is estimated using an option-priced model. The compensation expense reflected in net income was not material for all periods presented.
 
We contribute to defined contribution plans for the benefit of employees meeting certain eligibility requirements and electing participation in the plans. The discretionary amount to be matched by us is determined annually by the Board of Directors. We provide medical benefits to a limited number of retired employees meeting restrictive eligibility requirements. Our recorded liability for this obligation is not material. Payments for these items were not material for the three years ended December 31, 2009.
 
We disposed of two hotels in 2010 (one of which was classified as held-for-sale on our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2009), six hotels in 2009, two hotels in 2008 and nine hotels in 2007. The 2009 dispositions include one hotel for which our ground lease expired in 2009 and, in connection therewith, the hotel
 
 
will revert back to the ground lessor in 2010. The operations for these hotels are included in discontinued operations on the accompanying statements of operations. The following table summarizes the revenues, income before taxes, and the gain on dispositions, net of tax, of the hotels which have been reclassified to discontinued operations, which includes assets held for sale and the results of sold hotels prior to their disposition in the consolidated statements of operations for the periods presented (in millions):
 
 
Eight of our properties sustained damage from hurricanes during 2005. Two of these properties, the New Orleans Marriott and the Fort Lauderdale Marina Marriott, had extensive damage that required us to temporarily close all or part thereof. Property damage was $37 million. Our insurance coverage for the properties entitles us to receive recoveries for damage as well as payments for business interruption. During 2007, we received property insurance proceeds of $38 million and recorded a gain on property insurance proceeds of $22 million. Gains on property insurance proceeds represent proceeds received in excess of the insurance receivable, which receivable represents the book value of the damaged assets that were written-off. All gains resulting from insurance proceeds are recognized at the point in time that all contingencies are resolved. We did not receive any property insurance proceeds in 2009 or 2008.
During 2008 and 2007, we also recorded a gain on business interruption insurance proceeds of $7 million and $36 million, respectively, related to hurricanes in those years. We did not receive any business interruption insurance proceeds in 2009.
 
We have adopted the provisions under GAAP for both recurring and non-recurring fair value measurements. Our recurring fair value measurements consist of the valuation of our derivative instruments, which may or may not be designated as accounting hedges. Non-recurring fair value measurements during 2009 consisted of the impairment of four of our hotel properties and an other-than-temporary impairment of our investment in the European joint venture.
In evaluating the fair value of both financial and non-financial assets and liabilities, GAAP outlines a valuation framework and creates a fair value hierarchy that distinguishes between market assumptions based on market data (observable inputs) and a reporting entity's own assumptions about market data (unobservable inputs). The requirements are intended to increase the consistency and comparability of fair value measurements and the related disclosures. Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability at the measurement date in an orderly transaction (an exit price). Assets and liabilities are measured using inputs from three levels of the fair value hierarchy, as defined by GAAP. The three levels are as follows:
Level 1Inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that we have the ability to access at the measurement date. An active market is defined as a market in which transactions occur with sufficient frequency and volume to provide pricing on an ongoing basis.
Level 2Inputs include quoted prices in active markets for similar assets and liabilities, quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active (markets with few transactions), inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability (i.e., interest rates, yield curves, etc.), and inputs that derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data correlation or other means.
 
 
Level 3Unobservable inputs reflect our assumptions about the pricing of an asset or liability when observable inputs are not available.
The following table details the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities that are required to be measured at fair value on a recurring basis, as well as when non-recurring fair value measurements that we completed during 2009 due to the impairment of non-financial assets.
 
 
During 2009, we entered into three interest rate swap agreements for a notional amount totaling $300 million related to The Ritz-Carlton, Naples and Newport Beach Marriott Hotel & Spa mortgage loan in the amount of $300 million. We entered into the derivative instruments to hedge changes in the fair value of the fixed-rate mortgage that occur as a result of changes in the 3-month LIBOR rate. As a result, we will pay a floating interest rate equal to the 3-month LIBOR plus a spread which ranges from 2.7% to 3.2%, as opposed to the fixed rate of 5.531%, on the notional amount of $300 million through March 1, 2014. We have designated these derivatives as fair value hedges. The derivatives are valued based on the prevailing market yield curve on the date of measurement. We also evaluate counterparty credit risk in the calculation of the fair value of the swaps. As of December 31, 2009, we recorded a liability of $1 million related to the fair value of the swaps. At the same time, we record the change in the fair value of the underlying debt due to change in the 3-month LIBOR rate as a reduction to the carrying amount of the debt, or $.7 million, at December 31, 2009. The difference between the change in the fair value of the swap and the change in the fair value in the underlying debt is considered the ineffective portion of the hedging relationship. We recognized a loss of $.3 million related to the ineffective portion of the hedging relationship in 2009.
Interest rate swap derivatives.    
In connection with the mortgage debt secured by the JW Marriott, Washington, D.C., we entered into an interest rate cap agreement which caps the LIBOR rate at 3% through the life of the loan. At December 31, 2009, the variable interest rate on the loan was 7.5% and the fair value of the cap was $1.8 million. The interest rate cap is valued based on the prevailing market yield curve on the date of
Interest Rate Cap Derivative.    
 
 
measurement. We also evaluate counterparty credit risk in the calculation of the fair value of the cap. We recognized a gain of $.3 million based on the changes in the fair value of the derivative during the year. Changes in the fair value of these instruments are recorded in gain on foreign currency and derivatives on the consolidated statements of operations.
    During 2008, we entered into three foreign currency forward purchase contracts totaling 60 million (approximately $88 million) to hedge a portion of the foreign currency exposure resulting from the eventual repatriation of our net investment in the European joint venture. Under these transactions, we will sell the Euro amount, and receive the U.S. Dollar amount on the forward purchase date. These derivatives are considered a hedge of the foreign currency exposure of a net investment in a foreign operation and are marked-to-market with changes in fair value recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income within the equity portion of our balance sheet. The forward purchase contracts are valued based on the forward yield curve of the Euro to U.S. Dollar forward exchange rate on the date of measurement. We also evaluate counterparty credit risk in the calculation of the fair value of the swaps. The following table summarizes our three foreign currency purchase contracts (in millions):
Foreign Currency Forward Purchase Contracts.
 
During 2009, we reviewed our hotel portfolio for impairment and identified several properties that may be sold prior to the end of their previously estimated useful lives or that had current or projected operating losses or other events or circumstances indicating a reduction in value or change in intended use. Properties exhibiting these characteristics were tested for impairment based on management's estimate of expected future undiscounted cash flows from operations and sale during our expected remaining hold period. The fair value of these properties was determined based on either a discounted cash flow analysis or negotiated sales price. Based on these assessments, we recorded non-cash impairment charges totaling $97 million for 2009 of which $20 million is included in depreciation and amortization and the remaining $77 million in discontinued operations.
Impairment of Hotel Properties.    
During 2009, we determined that our investment in the European joint venture was impaired based on the reduction of distributable cash flows from the joint venture, which has been caused primarily by a decline in cash flows generated by the properties. We believe this impairment to be other-than-temporary as defined by GAAP because the time period over which the joint venture may be able to improve operations such that our investment would be fully recoverable is constrained by the remaining life of the joint venture. As a result, during the second quarter we recorded a non-cash impairment charge totaling $34 million in equity in earnings (losses) of affiliates based on the difference between our investment's estimated fair value and its carrying value. As of December 31, 2009, we determined that our investment was not impaired.
Other-than-temporary impairment of investment.    
Although permitted under GAAP, we did not elect the fair measurement option for any of our other financial assets or liabilities. Notes receivable and other financial assets are valued based on the expected future cash flows discounted at risk-adjusted rates. Valuations for secured debt and our credit facility are determined based on the expected future payments discounted at risk-
Fair Value of Other Financial Assets and Liabilities.    
 
 
adjusted rates. Senior notes and the Exchangeable Senior Debentures are valued based on quoted market prices. The fair values of financial instruments not included in this table are estimated to be equal to their carrying amounts. The fair value of certain financial assets and liabilities and other financial instruments are shown below:
 
Notes receivable and other financial assets are valued based on the expected future cash flows discounted at risk-adjusted rates. Valuations for secured debt and our credit facility are determined based on the expected future payments discounted at risk-adjusted rates. Senior notes and the Exchangeable Senior Debentures are valued based on quoted market prices. The fair values of financial instruments not included in this table are estimated to be equal to their carrying amounts.
 
We have entered into various agreements with Marriott, including the management of approximately 60% of our hotels, financing for joint ventures or partnerships, including our JW Marriott Hotel, Mexico City, Mexico and certain limited administrative services.
In 2009, 2008 and 2007, we paid Marriott $105 million, $178 million and $197 million, respectively, in hotel management fees and approximately $1 million, in franchise fees for each of 2009, 2008 and 2007. Included in the management fees are amounts paid to The Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company, LLC (Ritz-Carlton), Courtyard Management Corporation and Residence Inn Management Corporation.
We enter into negotiations with Marriott from time to time in order to secure mutually beneficial modifications to the terms of management agreements on an individual or portfolio-wide basis, most typically in connection with repositioning projects or substantial capital investments at our properties. We negotiated amendments to various management agreements with Marriott in 2005 and agreed, among other matters, to waive performance termination tests through the end of fiscal year 2009, to modify certain extension tests which condition the manager's ability to renew the management agreements, and to extend certain contracts for ten additional years. As part of this negotiation, Marriott agreed to make cash payments to us, over time, to reduce an existing cap on the costs and expenses related to chain services that are provided on a centralized basis, as well as to establish a cap on certain other costs, to provide us with an incentive to increase our capital expenditures at the hotels through 2008, to waive certain deferred management fees, and to modify the incentive management fee on certain contracts. We agreed to use a portion of Marriott's cash payments for brand reinvestment projects at various hotels in our portfolio.
 
Our hotels are subject to management agreements under which various operators, including Marriott, Ritz-Carlton, Hyatt, Swisstel, Hilton, Four Seasons, Fairmont and Starwood, operate our hotels in exchange for the payment of a management fee. The agreements generally provide for both base and incentive management fees
 
 
that are based on hotel sales and operating profit, respectively. As part of the management agreements, the manager furnishes the hotels with certain chain services which are generally provided on a central or regional basis to all hotels in the manager's hotel system. Chain services include central training, advertising and promotion, national reservation systems, computerized payroll and accounting services, and such additional services as needed which may be more efficiently performed on a centralized basis. Costs and expenses incurred in providing such services are allocated among the hotels managed, owned or leased by the manager on a fair and equitable basis. In addition, our managers will generally have a guest rewards program which will be charged to all of the hotels that participate in the program.
We are obligated to provide the manager with sufficient funds, generally 5% of revenue generated at the hotel, to cover the cost of (a) certain non-routine repairs and maintenance to the hotels which are normally capitalized; and (b) replacements and renewals to the hotels' furniture, fixtures and equipment. Under certain circumstances, we will be required to establish escrow accounts for such purposes under terms outlined in the agreements.
Marriott International
As of December 31, 2009, 65 of our hotels were subject to management agreements under which Marriott or one of their subsidiaries manages the hotels, generally for an initial term of 15 to 20 years with one or more renewal terms at the option of Marriott. Marriott typically receives a base fee of three percent of gross revenues and incentive management fees generally equal to 20% of operating profit after we have received a priority return. We have the option to terminate certain management agreements if specified performance or extension thresholds are not satisfied. A single agreement may be canceled under certain conditions, although such cancellation will not trigger the cancellation of any other agreement.
Additionally, while most of our management agreements are not terminable prior to their full term, we have negotiated rights with respect to 18 specified Marriott-branded hotels to terminate management agreements in connection with the sale of these hotels, subject to certain limitations, including the number of agreements that can be terminated per year, limitations measured by EBITDA, and limitations requiring that a significant part of such hotels maintain the Marriott brand affiliation. The described termination rights may be exercised without payment of a termination fee, except for one of the specified hotels wherein a termination fee is required if it does not maintain the Marriott brand affiliation.
We have a franchise agreement with Marriott for one hotel. Pursuant to the franchise agreement, we pay a franchise fee based on a percentage of room sales and food and beverage sales, as well as certain other fees for advertising and reservations. Franchise fees for room sales are approximately six percent of sales, while fees for food and beverage sales are approximately three percent of sales. The franchise agreement has a term of 30 years.
Ritz-Carlton
As of December 31, 2009, we hold management agreements with Ritz-Carlton, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Marriott, to manage nine of our hotels. These agreements have an initial term of 15 to 25 years with one or more renewal terms at the option of Ritz-Carlton. Base management fees vary from two to five percent of sales and incentive management fees, if any, are generally equal to 20% of available cash flow or operating profit, after we have received a priority return as defined in the agreements.
Starwood
As of December 31, 2009, 21 of our hotels are subject to operating and license agreements with Starwood, under which Starwood operates the hotels, for an initial term of 20 years, with two renewal terms of 10 years
 
 
each. Starwood receives compensation in the form of a base fee of 1% of annual gross operating revenues, and an incentive fee of 20% of annual gross operating profit, after we have received a priority return of 10.75% on our purchase price and other investments in the hotels.
The license agreements address matters relating to the subject brand, including rights to use service marks, logos, symbols and trademarks, such as those associated with Westin, Sheraton, W, Luxury Collection and St. Regis, as well as matters relating to compliance with certain standards and policies and (including through other agreements in the case of certain hotels) the provision of certain system program and centralized services. The license agreements have an initial term of 20 years each, with two renewal terms of 10 years each at the option of the licensor. Licensors receive compensation in the form of license fees of 5% of room sales and 2% of food and beverage sales.
We have termination rights relating to the operating agreements on 11 specified hotels upon the sale of those hotels. Such termination rights are active as of December 31, 2009, with respect to two of such hotels. With respect to one of those hotels, we have the limited right to also terminate one license agreement annually and, in February 2010, we disposed of this hotel. With respect to nine of the 11 specified hotels, we have the right beginning in 2016 to sell 35% of such hotels (measured by EBITDA), not to exceed two hotels annually, free and clear of the existing operating agreement over a period of time without the payment of a termination fee. With respect to any termination of an operating agreement on sale, the proposed purchaser would need to meet the requirements for transfer under the applicable license agreement.
Other Managers
As of December 31, 2009, we also hold management agreements with hotel management companies such as Hyatt, Hilton, Four Seasons and Fairmont for 15 of our hotels. These agreements generally provide for an initial term of 10 to 20 years, with renewal terms at the option of either party or, in some cases, the hotel management company of up to an additional one to 15 years. The agreements generally provide for payment of base management fees equal to one to four percent of sales. These agreements also provide for incentive management fees generally equal to 10 to 30 percent of available cash flow, operating profit, or net operating income, as defined in the agreements, after we have received a priority return.
 
We consider each one of our hotels to be an operating segment, none of which meets the threshold for a reportable segment. We also allocate resources and assess operating performance based on individual hotels. All of our other real estate investment activities (primarily our leased hotels and office buildings) are immaterial and meet the aggregation criteria, and thus, we report one segment: hotel ownership. Our foreign operations consist of four properties located in Canada, two properties located in Chile and one property located in Mexico. There were no intersegment sales during the periods presented. The following table presents revenues and long-lived assets for each of the geographical areas in which we operate (in millions):
 
 
 
 
We have certain guarantees which consist of commitments we have made to third parties for leases or debt that are not recognized in our consolidated financial statements due to various dispositions, spin-offs and contractual arrangements, but that we have agreed to pay in the event of certain circumstances including default by an unrelated party. We consider the likelihood of any material payments under these guarantees to be remote. The guarantees are listed below:
 
 
 
 
 
On February 8, 2010, we received an adverse jury verdict in a trial in the 166th Judicial District Court of Bexar County, Texas involving the sale of land encumbered by a ground lease for the San Antonio Marriott Rivercenter hotel. The jury found that we intentionally interfered with the attempted sale by Keystone-Texas Property Holding Corporation of the land under the San Antonio Marriott Rivercenter and slandered title to the property. The jury awarded damages that range from $42 million to $56 million, including statutory interest, as well as exemplary damages on the latter claim. The verdict is not yet final and is subject to post-trial motions. Based on the range of possible outcomes, we accrued an additional potential litigation loss of approximately $41 million in the fourth quarter consistent with generally accepted accounting principles, which is included in corporate expenses on the consolidated statements of operations. We believe that a number of legal rulings decided by the trial court were in error and had an adverse effect on the jury's verdict. We intend to vigorously pursue these issues in post trial motions and, if necessary, on appeal.
 
 
 
 
The sum of the basic and diluted earnings per common share for the four quarters in all years presented differs from the annual earnings per common share due to the required method of computing the weighted average number of shares in the respective periods.
 
Acquisitions
For our acquisitions, we record the assets acquired, liabilities assumed and non-controlling interests at fair value as of the acquisition date. Furthermore, acquisition-related costs, such as broker fees, due diligence costs
 
 
and legal and accounting fees, are expensed in the period incurred and are not capitalized or applied in determining the fair value of the acquired assets. During 2010, we have acquired four hotel assets. The acquisitions are consistent with our strategy of acquiring luxury and upper-upscale hotels in major urban markets. We recorded the purchase price of the acquired assets and liabilities at the estimated fair value on the date of purchase. The purchase price allocations are estimated based on available information, however, we are still in the process of finalizing the acquisition accounting for the below transactions:
On September 30, 2010, we acquired the 245-room JW Marriott, Rio de Janeiro for approximately R$81 million ($48 million);
On September 2, 2010, we formed a joint venture with a subsidiary of Istithmar World to purchase the 270-room W New York, Union Square. We have a 90% interest and serve as the managing member of the joint venture and, therefore, consolidate the entity. The joint venture purchased the hotel for $188 million, which, in addition to cash consideration, includes the assumption of $115 million of mortgage debt, with a fair value of $119 million, and contingent and deferred consideration valued at $8 million. Additionally, in conjunction with the acquisition, the joint venture purchased restricted cash, FF&E reserve funds and other working capital at the hotel of $10 million. The joint venture acquired the hotel as part of the settlement agreement reached with the previous owners and mezzanine lenders on July 22, 2010;
On July 22, 2010, we acquired the leasehold interest in the 266-room Le Meridien Piccadilly in London, England for 64 million ($98 million), including cash consideration of approximately 31 million ($47 million) and the assumption of a 33 million ($51 million) mortgage. As part of the purchase of the leasehold interest, we acquired restricted cash and working capital at the hotel of 4 million ($6 million). In connection with the acquisition, we assumed a capital lease obligation which we valued at 14 million ($21 million). The capital lease obligation is included in debt on the accompanying consolidated balance sheet and increased the book value of the leasehold interest purchased. We also recorded a deferred tax liability and corresponding goodwill of 11 million ($17 million) related to the difference in the hotel valuation measured at fair value on the acquisition date and the tax basis of the asset. The final allocation of the fair value of assets and the capital lease obligation are in part dependent upon valuation determined by third party appraisals, which have not been completed; and
On August 11, 2010, we acquired the 424-room Westin Chicago River North for approximately $165 million.
The following table summarizes the estimated fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in our acquisitions (in millions):
 
 
 
Our summarized unaudited consolidated pro forma results of operations, assuming the acquisitions occurred on January 1, 2008, are as follows (in millions, except per share amounts):
 
Debt
On November 10, 2010, we issued an irrevocable notice to prepay the $71 million, 9.8% mortgage loan on the JW Marriot, Desert Springs on December 10, 2010. There was no prepayment penalty.
On October 22, 2010, we issued $500 million of 6% Series U senior notes that mature on November 1, 2020. We used $250 million of the proceeds to redeem a portion of our 7
 1
/
8
% Series K senior notes due 2013 on November 29, 2010. As a result of the repurchase, we will record a $5 million loss on debt extinguishment in the fourth quarter of 2010.
On October 20, 2010, we defeased the $115 million mortgage debt that was assumed in connection with the acquisition of a 90% controlling interest in a joint venture that owns the W New York, Union Square for $120 million, which included approximately $5 million in defeasance, prepayment and other costs. The loan had a book value of $119 million and, accordingly, we will record a loss on debt extinguishment of $1 million in the fourth quarter of 2010.
On August 25, 2010, we redeemed $225 million of our 7
 1
/
8
% Series K senior notes due in 2013. As a result of the repurchase, we recorded a $7 million loss on debt extinguishment.
On July 20, 2010, we drew 37 million ($56 million) under our credit facility at an interest rate of one-month LIBOR plus 90 basis points to fund the acquisition of the leasehold interest in the Le Meridien Piccadilly.
On February 11, 2010, Host repaid the $124 million Atlanta Marquis mortgage loan on the optional prepayment date.
On January 20, 2010, we redeemed the remaining $346 million outstanding of our 7% Series M senior notes that were due in August 2012. As a result of the repurchase, we recorded an $8 million loss on debt extinguishments.
 
 
Capital Transactions
During 2010, we issued the remaining 8.1 million shares of common stock available under the 2009 Sales Agency Financing Agreement with BNY Mellon Capital Markets, LLC at an average price of $13.58 per share for proceeds of $109 million, net of $1 million of commissions. On August 19, 2010, we entered into a new Sales Agency Financing Agreement with BNY Mellon Capital Markets, LLC on similar terms, through which we may issue and sell, from time to time, shares of common stock having an aggregate offering price of up to $400 million. The sales will be made in "at the market" offerings under Securities and Exchange Commission rules, including sales made directly on the New York Stock Exchange. BNY Mellon Capital Markets, LLC is acting as sales agent. As of November 30, 2010, we issued approximately 12.9 million shares of common stock through this new program at an average price of $15.47 per share for proceeds of $198 million, net of $2 million of commissions. We may continue to sell shares of common stock under its new program from time to time based on market conditions, although it is not under an obligation to sell any shares. We have approximately $200 million remaining under the new program.
On June 18, 2010, we redeemed 4.0 million shares of our 8
 7
/
8
% Class E cumulative redeemable preferred stock at a redemption price of $25.00 per share, plus accrued dividends. The original issuance costs for the Class E preferred stock are treated as a deemed dividend in the statement of operations and have been reflected as a deduction to net income available to common stockholders for the purpose of calculating our basic and diluted earnings per share. As a result of the redemption, we currently have no preferred stock outstanding.
Other Investments
Hospitality Property Trust Leases
In late June 2010, HPT sent notices of default because the subtenants failed to meet net worth covenants, which would have triggered an event of default by us under the master leases between us and HPT. As a result, we terminated the subleases effective July 6, 2010 and we started to act as owner under the management agreements. Accordingly, for the remaining portion of the third quarter of 2010, we recorded the operations of the hotels as opposed to rental income. As a result, we recorded $50 million of hotel revenues for the 71 properties, as well as $43 million of rental income earned prior to the termination of the subleases for the year-to-date 2010. Additionally, we recorded $37 million of hotel expenses related to the 71 properties, as well as $57 million of rental expense due to HPT for year-to-date 2010. The property revenues and rental income recorded less the hotel expenses and rental expenses resulted in a slight loss for the period.
We will continue to perform all obligations under the master leases. The subtenants remain obligated to us for outstanding rent payment obligations to the extent that operating cash generated by the hotels is less than rent that would have been paid under the terminated subleases. At the expiration of the master leases, HPT is obligated to pay us deferred proceeds related to the initial sale of the properties of approximately $67 million, subject to damages arising out of an event of default, if any, under the master leases, plus additional amounts of approximately $7.8 million. We gave notice to HPT that we will not extend the term of the master lease on the 18 Residence Inn properties which results in the termination and expiration of the master lease on those properties effective December 31, 2010, at which time we expect that $17 million of deferred proceeds will be paid to us by HPT. In the fourth quarter of 2010, we also intend to give notice that we will not extend the term of the master lease on the 53 Courtyard by Marriott properties, which will result in termination and expiration of the master lease on those properties effective December 31, 2012.
 
 
Note Receivable
On April 13, 2010, we acquired, at a discount, the two most junior tranches of a 427 million ($581 million) mortgage loan that is secured by six hotels located in Europe. The two junior tranches purchased by us have a face value of 64 million ($87 million) and are subordinate to 363 million ($494 million) of senior debt. Interest payments for the tranches are based on the 90-day EURIBOR rate plus 303 basis points, or approximately 3.8%, and the loan is performing. The loan matures in October of 2011 and there is a one-year extension option, subject to debt service coverage requirements.
 

EXHIBIT 99.4
SCHEDULE III
Page 1 of 3
 
 
 
SCHEDULE III
Page 2 of 3
Notes:
 
 
 
SCHEDULE III
Page 3 of 3
 
 
 
 
 








