FILE:HST/HST-8K-20101104113345.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 29, 2010, Host Hotels & Resorts, L.P. ("Host L.P."), for whom Host Hotels & Resorts, Inc. ("Host REIT") acts as a sole general partner, gave notice that it intends to redeem $250 million of the $500 million in aggregate principal amount outstanding of Host L.P.'s 7 
 1
/
8
% Series K senior notes due 2013. The redemption date for the Series K senior notes is November 29, 2010 pursuant to an irrevocable notice delivered by the trustee on Host L.P.'s behalf on October 29, 2010. The Series K senior notes were issued pursuant to a supplement to Host L.P.'s Amended and Restated Indenture, dated August 5, 1998, originally among HMH Properties, Inc. (now Host L.P.), the subsidiary guarantors named therein, and HSBC Bank USA f/k/a Marine Midland Bank (now succeeded by The Bank of New York Mellon), as trustee. Under the terms of the Series K senior notes, the redemption price will be 101.188% of the principal amount thereof, together with accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the redemption date.
The Series K senior notes are being redeemed with a portion of the proceeds from Host L.P.'s issuance of $500 million aggregate principal amount of 6% Series U senior notes due 2020, which were issued on October 25, 2010.
Forward-Looking Statements
The discussion in this report on Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities regulations. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as "anticipate," "believe," "could," "estimate," "expect," "forecast," "intend," "may," "plan," "predict," "project," "will," "continue" and other similar terms and phrases, including references to assumptions and forecasts of future results. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results to differ materially from those anticipated at the time the forward-looking statements are made. These risks include, but are not limited to: national and local economic and business conditions, including the potential for terrorist attacks, that will affect occupancy rates at our hotels and the demand for hotel products and services; operating risks associated with the hotel business; risks associated with the level of our indebtedness and our ability to meet covenants in our debt agreements; relationships with property managers; our ability to maintain our properties in a first-class manner, including meeting capital expenditure requirements; the effect of anticipated renovations on our hotel occupancy and financial results; our ability to compete effectively in areas such as access, location, quality of accommodations and room rate structures; changes in travel patterns, taxes and government regulations, which influence or determine wages, prices, construction procedures and costs; our ability to complete acquisitions and dispositions; and our ability to continue to satisfy complex rules in order for us to qualify as a real estate investment trust for federal income tax purposes and other risks and uncertainties associated with our business described in our filings with the SEC. Although we believe the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions, we can give no assurance that the expectations will be attained or that any deviation will not be material. All information is as of the date of this filing, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to conform the statement to actual results or changes in expectations.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


