FILE:HST/HST-8K-20110517200942.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.07. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
Annual Meeting of Stockholders
Host Hotels & Resorts, Inc. ("Host") held its Annual Meeting of Stockholders on May 12, 2011. Stockholders were asked to vote on four proposals: the election of directors, the ratification of KPMG LLP as Host's auditors for 2011, an advisory vote on executive compensation, and an advisory vote on the frequency of votes on executive compensation.
Proposal 1  Election of Directors
Final votes regarding the election of eight directors for terms expiring at the 2012 annual meeting of stockholders are set forth below. Accordingly, each director nominee was elected for a one year term.
 
Proposal 2  Ratification of Appointment of Independent Registered Public Accountants
Final votes on the ratification of the appointment of KPMG LLP as independent auditors of Host to serve for the 2011 calendar year are set forth below. Accordingly, the appointment of KPMG LLP was ratified.
 
Proposal 3  Advisory Vote on Executive Compensation
The final non-binding, advisory votes on the compensation of Host's named executive officers are set forth below.
 
Proposal 4  Frequency of Advisory Vote on Executive Compensation
Final non-binding, advisory votes on the frequency of an advisory vote on executive compensation are set forth below.
 
Host's Board of Directors recommended an annual advisory vote on executive compensation. In light of Host's Board of Directors' recommendation of an annual advisory vote on executive compensation and taking into account the preferences of the stockholders, as set forth above, Host's Board of Directors has determined that it will hold an advisory vote on the compensation of the Host's named executive officers annually until the next required vote on the frequency of such an advisory vote.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


