FILE:HST/HST-8K-20110720084851.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 20, 2011, Host Hotels & Resorts, Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the second quarter ended June 17, 2011. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Report.
The information in this Report, including the exhibit, is provided under Item 2.02 of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section with the exception of the items detailed in the paragraph below. Furthermore, the information in this Report, including the exhibit, shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into the filings of the registrant under the Securities Act of 1933 regardless of any general incorporation language in such filings, except as provided in the paragraph below.
The items listed below and contained in Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K are deemed to be of significance to investors and are intended to be "filed" rather than "furnished" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Further these, and only these items, shall be deemed as incorporated by reference into the filings of the registrant under the Securities Act of 1933. These items are:
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
See Item 2.02 above for information in the Exhibit deemed "Furnished" or "Filed" as the case may be.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99.1
BETHESDA, MD; July 20, 2011  Host Hotels & Resorts, Inc. (NYSE: HST), the nation's largest lodging real estate investment trust (REIT), today announced results of operations for the second quarter ended June 17, 2011.
H
IGHLIGHTS
 
 
O R
PERATING
ESULTS
 
A portion of the increase in total revenues was due to the revenues generated by the 14 hotels acquired since July 2010, as well as the inclusion of property-level revenues for 53 leased, select-service hotels for which the Company previously recorded rental income. Total revenues increased $128 million and $175 million, for the second quarter and year-to-date, respectively, as a result of these transactions.
 
The Company's operating results include transactions, such as losses on debt extinguishments, litigation costs, acquisition costs and non-cash impairment charges that can affect earnings and FFO per diluted share. The net effect of these items was a decrease to earnings per diluted share of $.01 for the second quarter of 2011 and 2010, and $.02 for year-to-date 2011 and 2010.
 
For further detail of the transactions affecting net income, earnings per diluted share, FFO and FFO per diluted share, refer to the notes to the "Reconciliation of Net Loss to EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and FFO per Diluted Share." Adjusted EBITDA, FFO, FFO per diluted share and comparable hotel adjusted operating profit margins (discussed below) are non-GAAP (generally accepted accounting principles) financial measures within the meaning of the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). See the discussion included in this press release for information regarding these non-GAAP financial measures.
O R
PERATING
ESULTS
Comparable hotel RevPAR increased 6.7% for the second quarter, as a result of the improvement of average room rate of 5.0%, combined with an increase in occupancy of 1.1 percentage points. For year-to-date 2011, comparable hotel RevPAR increased 6.1%, with the majority of the increase driven by rate improvement. Comparable hotel adjusted operating profit margins increased 115 basis points and 65 basis points for the second quarter and year-to-date 2011, respectively. During the quarter, eleven of the Company's comparable hotels were undergoing significant renovation projects, including two of the Company's larger properties, the Sheraton New York Hotel & Towers and the Philadelphia Marriott Downtown.
A
CQUISITIONS
As previously announced, on April 29, 2011, the Company invested AUD45 million ($48 million) to acquire a 75% common voting interest and a preferred interest in the entity that owns the 364-room Hilton Melbourne South Wharf. The Company assumed an existing AUD80 million ($86 million) mortgage loan in connection with the acquisition.
On July 14, 2011, the Company reached an agreement to acquire the 888-room Grand Hyatt Washington, D.C. for $442 million, which may include the assumption of a $166 million mortgage loan. The Grand Hyatt, which includes over 43,000 square feet of meeting space, is centrally located in the nation's capital with easy access to historic monuments and the convention center. The transaction is expected to be completed in September and is subject to customary closing conditions.
 
E J V
UROPEAN
OINT
ENTURE
On June 27, 2011, the Company signed an amendment to the partnership agreement to expand its investment in the European joint venture through the establishment of a new fund (the "Euro JV Fund II"). The new fund has a target size of 450 million of new equity and a target investment of approximately 1 billion after taking into account leverage. Each of the current partners in the European joint venture owns a 33.3% limited partner interest in the Euro JV Fund II, while an affiliate of the Company owns a 0.1% general partner interest. On June 28, 2011, as part of the expansion, the Company transferred the Le Mridien Piccadilly to the Euro JV Fund II for a transfer price of 64 million, including the assumption of the 32 million mortgage loan. Cash received in the transfer was used to repay 25 million ($41 million) outstanding under the Company's credit facility.
On July 6, 2011, the Euro JV Fund II reached an agreement to acquire the 396-room Pullman Bercy in Paris for approximately 96 million. With a strong location in Paris' growing business district of Bercy, the hotel provides a first-class meeting platform with 19,400 square feet of meeting space. The Euro JV Fund II has agreed to invest an additional 9 million for the renovation of the rooms and public space at the hotel and Accor will continue to operate the hotel under the Pullman brand. The transaction is subject to a waiver by the city of Paris of its right to purchase the hotel, as well as other customary closing conditions, and is expected to close in September.
R I E
ETURN
ON
NVESTMENT
XPENDITURES
The Company invested $75 million and $121 million in return on investment (ROI) projects during the second quarter and year-to-date of 2011, respectively. These projects are designed to increase cash flow and improve profitability by capitalizing on changing market conditions and the favorable locations of the Company's properties. Major ROI projects substantially completed during the second quarter include: the first phase of our re-development project at the 1,756-room Sheraton New York Hotel & Towers and the expansion and renovation of 21,000 square feet of meeting space at the St. Regis Hotel, Houston. The Company expects that its investment in ROI expenditures for 2011 will total approximately $220 million to $240 million.
R R E
ENEWAL
AND
EPLACEMENT
XPENDITURES
The Company also spent approximately $71 million and $119 million in the second quarter and year-to-date of 2011, respectively, for renewal and replacement expenditures designed to ensure that the high-quality standards of both the Company and its operators are maintained. Major renewal and replacement projects substantially completed during the second quarter include phase-one of the renovation at the New York Marriott Marquis, which included 991 of its guest rooms, and the renovation of the meeting space and the 1,200 rooms in the main tower of the Philadelphia Marriott Downtown. The Company expects that renewal and replacement expenditures for 2011 will total approximately $320 million to $345 million.
 
B S
ALANCE
HEET
During the second quarter of 2011, the Company issued approximately 11 million shares of common stock at an average price of $17.29 per share, for net proceeds of approximately $189 million. These sales were made in "at-the-market" offerings pursuant to an April 2011 Sales Agency Financing Agreement with BNY Mellon Capital Markets, LLC, which had an initial aggregate offering price of $400 million. There is approximately $209 million of issuance capacity remaining under the agreement.
On May 11, 2011 and May 25, 2011, the Company issued $425 million and $75 million, respectively, of 5
 7
/
8
% Series W senior notes maturing in 2019, for net proceeds of $489 million. Proceeds from the Series W senior notes were used to redeem the remaining $250 million 7
 1
/
8
% Series K senior notes due November of 2013 and to repay $50 million outstanding under the credit facility.
On May 27, 2011, the Company gave notice of its intent to redeem $150 million of the outstanding $325 million 3.25% Exchangeable Senior Debentures. Subsequent to the end of the second quarter, holders of approximately $134 million of the debentures elected to exchange their debentures for shares of the Company's common stock totaling approximately 8.8 million shares, rather than receive the cash redemption proceeds, while the remaining $16 million of debentures were redeemed for cash.
As of June 17, 2011, the Company had approximately $634 million of cash and cash equivalents. Subsequent to the contribution of the Le Mridien Piccadilly to the Euro JV Fund II, and the partial redemption of the 3.25% Exchangeable Senior Debentures, the Company has total debt outstanding of $5.6 billion and approximately $479 million of available capacity under its credit facility.
D
IVIDEND
On June 15, 2011, the Company's board of directors authorized a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.03 per share on its common stock. The dividend was paid on July 15, 2011 to stockholders of record on June 30, 2011. Based on the current guidance for 2011, the Company intends to declare, subject to approval by the Company's board of directors, an aggregate annual dividend for 2011 of between $0.14 and $0.15 per share.
2011 O
UTLOOK
The Company anticipates that for 2011:
 
 
 
Based upon these parameters, the Company estimates that its full year 2011 guidance is as follows:
 
 
 
 
See the 2011 Forecast Schedules and Notes to Financial Information for other assumptions used in the forecasts and items that may affect forecasted results.
A H H & R
BOUT
OST
OTELS
ESORTS
Host Hotels & Resorts, Inc. is an S&P 500 and Fortune 500 company and is the largest lodging real estate investment trust and one of the largest owners of luxury and upper-upscale hotels. The Company currently owns 106 properties in the United States and 16 international properties totaling approximately 65,000 rooms. The Company also holds non-controlling interests in a joint venture in Europe that owns 12 hotels with approximately 3,800 rooms and a joint venture in India that is developing seven hotels in three cities with approximately 1,800 rooms. Guided by a disciplined approach to capital allocation and aggressive asset management, the Company partners with premium brands such as Marriott, Ritz-Carlton, Westin, Sheraton, W, St. Regis, Le Mridien, The Luxury Collection, Hyatt, Fairmont, Four Seasons, Hilton, Swisstel, ibis, Pullman, and Novotel* in the operation of properties in over 50 major markets worldwide. For additional information, please visit the Company's website at www.hosthotels.com.
Note: This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities regulations. These forward-looking statements include forecast results and are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as "anticipate," "believe," "could," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "should," "plan," "predict," "project," "will," "continue" and other similar terms and phrases, including references to assumption and forecasts of future results. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results to differ materially from those anticipated at the time the forward-looking statements are made. These risks include, but are not limited to: national and local economic and business conditions, including the effect on travel of potential terrorist attacks, that will affect occupancy rates at our hotels and the demand for hotel products and services; operating risks associated with the hotel business; risks associated with the level of our indebtedness and our ability to meet covenants in our debt agreements; relationships with property managers; our ability to maintain our properties in a first-class manner, including meeting capital expenditure requirements; our ability to compete effectively in areas such as access, location, quality of accommodations and room rate structures; changes in travel patterns, taxes and government regulations which influence or determine wages, prices, construction procedures and costs; our ability to complete acquisitions and dispositions; the risk that the Company's board of directors will determine to pay dividends at a rate different than currently anticipated and our ability to continue to satisfy complex rules in order for us to remain a REIT for federal income tax purposes and other risks and uncertainties associated with our business described in the Company's annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K filed with the SEC. The completion of the acquisitions of the Pullman Bercy, Paris and the Grand Hyatt Washington, D.C. are subject to numerous closing conditions and there can be no assurances that the transactions will be completed. These closing conditions include, but are not limited to: the accuracy of the representations and warranties and compliance with covenants, the absence of material events or conditions, other customary closing conditions and with respect to the acquisition of the Pullman Bercy, Paris, a waiver by the city of Paris of its right to purchase the hotel. Although the Company believes the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions, it can give no assurance that the expectations will be attained or that any deviation will not be material. All information in this release is as of July 20, 2011, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to conform the statement to actual results or changes in the Company's expectations.
 
 
Host Hotels & Resorts, Inc., herein referred to as "we" or "Host," is a self-managed and self-administered real estate investment trust (REIT) that owns hotel properties. We conduct our operations as an umbrella partnership REIT through an operating partnership, Host Hotels & Resorts, L.P. (Host LP), of which we are the sole general partner. When distinguishing between Host and Host LP, the primary difference is approximately 1.5% of the partnership interests in Host LP held by outside partners as of June 17, 2011, which is non-controlling interests in Host LP in our consolidated balance sheets and is included in net income/loss attributable to non-controlling interests in our consolidated statements of operations. Readers are encouraged to find further detail regarding our organizational structure in our annual report on Form 10-K.
For information on our reporting periods and non-GAAP financial measures (including Adjusted EBITDA, FFO per diluted share and comparable hotel adjusted operating profit margin) which we believe is useful to investors, see the Notes to the Financial Information included in this release.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effective January 1, 2011, the Company has modified its definition of Adjusted EBITDA to exclude pursuit costs for completed acquisitions, and, as a result, they no longer have an effect on Adjusted EBITDA, but continue to be a deduction to FFO. For a discussion of additional items that may affect forecasted results see Notes to the Financial Information.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
F
ORECASTS
Our forecast of earnings per diluted share, FFO, FFO per diluted share, EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and comparable hotel adjusted operating profit margins are forward-looking statements and are not guarantees of future performance and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause actual results and performance to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forecasts. Although we believe the expectations reflected in the forecasts are based upon reasonable assumptions, we can give no assurance that the expectations will be attained or that the results will not be materially different. Risks that may affect these assumptions and forecasts include the following: potential changes in overall economic outlook make it inherently difficult to forecast the level of RevPAR and margin growth; the amount and timing of acquisitions and dispositions of hotel properties is an estimate that can substantially affect financial results, including such items as net income, depreciation and gains on dispositions; the level of capital expenditures may change significantly, which will directly affect the level of depreciation expense and net income; the amount and timing of debt payments may change significantly based on market conditions, which will directly affect the level of interest expense and net income; the amount and timing of transactions involving shares of our common stock may change based on market conditions; and other risks and uncertainties associated with our business described herein and in our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K filed with the SEC.
R P S O
EPORTING
ERIODS
FOR
TATEMENT
OF
PERATIONS
The results we report in our consolidated statements of operations are based on results of our hotels reported to us by our hotel managers. Our hotel managers use different reporting periods. Marriott International, Inc. (Marriott), the manager of the majority of our properties, uses a fiscal year ending on the Friday closest to December 31 and reports twelve weeks of operations for the first three quarters and sixteen or seventeen weeks for the fourth quarter of the year for its Marriott-managed hotels. In contrast, other managers of our hotels, such as Starwood and Hyatt, report results on a monthly basis. Additionally, Host, as a REIT, is required by tax laws to report results on a calendar year. As a result, we elected to adopt the reporting periods used by Marriott except that our fiscal year always ends on December 31 to comply with REIT rules. Our first three quarters of operations end on the same day as Marriott but our fourth quarter ends on December 31 and our full year results, as reported in our consolidated statement of operations, always includes the same number of days as the calendar year.
Two consequences of the reporting cycle we have adopted are: (1) quarterly start dates will usually differ between years, except for the first quarter which always commences on January 1, and (2) our first and fourth quarters of operations and year-to-date operations may not include the same number of days as reflected in prior years. For example, the second quarter of 2011 ended on June 17, and the second quarter of 2010 ended on June 18, though both quarters reflect twelve weeks of operations. In contrast, the July 17, 2011 year-to-date operations included 168 days of operations, while the June 18, 2010 year-to-date operations included 169 days of operations.
While the reporting calendar we adopted is more closely aligned with the reporting calendar used by the manager of a majority of our properties, one final consequence of our calendar is we are unable to report the month of operations that ends after our fiscal quarter-end until the following quarter because our hotel managers using a monthly reporting period do not make mid-month results available to us. Hence, the month of operation that ends after our fiscal quarter-end is included in our quarterly results of operations in the following quarter for those hotel managers (covering approximately 42% of our hotels). As a result, our quarterly results of operations include results from hotel managers reporting results on a monthly basis as follows: first quarter (January, February), second quarter (March to May), third quarter (June to August) and fourth quarter (September to December). While this does not affect full-year results, it does affect the reporting of quarterly results.
 
 
R P H O S C H R
EPORTING
ERIODS
FOR
OTEL
PERATING
TATISTICS
AND
OMPARABLE
OTEL
ESULTS
In contrast to the reporting periods for our consolidated statement of operations, our hotel operating statistics (i.e., RevPAR, average daily rate and average occupancy) and our comparable hotel results are always reported based on the reporting cycle used by Marriott for our Marriott-managed hotels. This facilitates year-to-year comparisons, as each reporting period will be comprised of the same number of days of operations as in the prior year (except in the case of fourth quarters comprised of seventeen weeks (such as fiscal year 2008) versus sixteen weeks). This means, however, that the reporting periods we use for hotel operating statistics and our comparable hotels results will typically differ slightly from the reporting periods used for our statements of operations for the first and fourth quarters and the full year. Results from hotel managers reporting on a monthly basis are included in our operating statistics and comparable hotels results consistent with their reporting in our consolidated statement of operations herein:
 
 
 
 
C H O S
OMPARABLE
OTEL
PERATING
TATISTICS
We present certain operating statistics (i.e., RevPAR, average daily rate and average occupancy) and operating results (revenues, expenses, adjusted operating profit and associated margins) for the periods included in this report on a comparable hotel basis. We define our comparable hotels as properties (i) that are owned or leased by us and the operations of which are included in our consolidated results, whether as continuing operations or discontinued operations for the entirety of the reporting periods being compared and (ii) that have not sustained substantial property damage or business interruption, or undergone large-scale capital projects during the reporting periods being compared. Of the 123 hotels that we owned on June 17, 2011, 107 have been classified as comparable hotels. The operating results of the following hotels that we owned or leased as of June 17, 2011 are excluded from comparable hotel results for these periods:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The operating results of the two hotels we disposed of during 2010, as well as the 53 Courtyard by Marriott properties leased from HPT, are not included in comparable hotel results for the periods presented herein. Moreover, because these statistics and operating results are for our hotel properties, they exclude results for our non-hotel properties and other real estate investments.
N-GAAP F M
ON
INANCIAL
EASURES
Included in this press release are certain "non-GAAP financial measures," which are measures of our historical or future financial performance that are not calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP, within the meaning of applicable SEC rules. They are as follows: (i) FFO and FFO per diluted share, (ii) EBITDA, (iii) Adjusted EBITDA and (iv) Comparable Hotel Operating Results. The following discussion defines these terms and presents why we believe they are useful supplemental measures of our performance.
FFO and FFO per Diluted Share
We present FFO and FFO per diluted share as non-GAAP measures of our performance in addition to our earnings per share (calculated in accordance with GAAP). We calculate FFO per diluted share for a given operating period as our FFO (defined as set forth below) for such period, as adjusted for the effect of dilutive securities, divided by the number of fully diluted shares outstanding during such period. NAREIT defines FFO as net income (calculated in accordance with GAAP) excluding gains (losses) from sales of real estate, the cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles, real estate-related depreciation and amortization and adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. We present FFO on a per share basis after making adjustments for the effects of dilutive securities and the payment of preferred stock dividends, in accordance with NAREIT guidelines.
We believe that FFO per diluted share is a useful supplemental measure of our operating performance and that the presentation of FFO per diluted share, when combined with the primary GAAP presentation of earnings per share, provides beneficial information to investors. By excluding the effect of real estate depreciation, amortization and gains and losses from sales of real estate, all of which are based on historical cost accounting and which may be of lesser significance in evaluating current performance, we believe such measures can facilitate comparisons of operating performance between periods and with other REITs, even though FFO per diluted share does not represent an amount that accrues directly to holders of our common stock. Historical cost accounting for real estate assets implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time. As noted by NAREIT in its April 2002 "White Paper on Funds From Operations," since real estate values have historically risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors have considered presentation of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient by themselves. For these reasons, NAREIT adopted the definition of FFO in order to promote an industry-wide measure of REIT operating performance.
EBITDA
Earnings before Interest Expense, Income Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization (EBITDA) is a commonly used measure of performance in many industries. Management believes EBITDA provides useful information to investors regarding our results of operations because it helps us and our investors evaluate the ongoing operating performance of our properties and facilitates comparisons between us and other lodging REITs, hotel owners who are not REITs and other capital-intensive companies. Management uses EBITDA to evaluate property-level results and as one measure in determining the value of acquisitions and dispositions and, like FFO per diluted share, it is widely used by management in the annual budget process.
Adjusted EBITDA
Historically, management has adjusted EBITDA when evaluating our performance because we believe that the exclusion of certain additional recurring and non-recurring items described below provides useful supplemental information to investors regarding our ongoing operating performance and that the presentation of Adjusted EBITDA, when combined with the primary GAAP presentation of net income, is
 
 
beneficial to an investor's complete understanding of our operating performance and is a relevant measure in calculating certain credit ratios. We adjust EBITDA for the following items, which may occur in any period, and refer to this measure as Adjusted EBITDA:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Limitations on the Use of FFO per Diluted Share, EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA
We calculate FFO per diluted share in accordance with standards established by NAREIT, which may not be comparable to measures calculated by other companies who do not use the NAREIT definition of FFO or calculate FFO per diluted share in accordance with NAREIT guidance. In addition, although FFO per diluted share is a useful measure when comparing our results to other REITs, it may not be helpful to investors when comparing us to non-REITs. EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA, as presented, may also not be comparable to measures calculated by other companies. This information should not be considered as an alternative to net income, operating profit, cash from operations or any other operating performance measure calculated in accordance with GAAP. Cash expenditures for various long-term assets (such as
 
 
renewal and replacement capital expenditures), interest expense (for EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA purposes only) and other items have been and will be incurred and are not reflected in the EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and FFO per diluted share presentations. Management compensates for these limitations by separately considering the impact of these excluded items to the extent they are material to operating decisions or assessments of our operating performance. Our consolidated statement of operations and cash flows include interest expense, capital expenditures, and other excluded items, all of which should be considered when evaluating our performance, as well as the usefulness of our non-GAAP financial measures. Additionally, FFO per diluted share, EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered as a measure of our liquidity or indicative of funds available to fund our cash needs, including our ability to make cash distributions. In addition, FFO per diluted share does not measure, and should not be used as a measure of, amounts that accrue directly to stockholders' benefit.
Comparable Hotel Operating Results
We present certain operating results for our hotels, such as hotel revenues, expenses, adjusted operating profit (and the related margin) and food and beverage adjusted profit (and the related margin), on a comparable hotel, or "same store," basis as supplemental information for investors. Our comparable hotel results present operating results for hotels owned during the entirety of the periods being compared without giving effect to any acquisitions or dispositions, significant property damage or large scale capital improvements incurred during these periods. We present these comparable hotel operating results by eliminating corporate-level costs and expenses related to our capital structure, as well as depreciation and amortization. We eliminate corporate-level costs and expenses to arrive at property-level results because we believe property-level results provide investors with supplemental information into the ongoing operating performance of our hotels. We eliminate depreciation and amortization because, even though depreciation and amortization are property-level expenses, these non-cash expenses, which are based on historical cost accounting for real estate assets, implicitly assume that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time. As noted earlier, because real estate values have historically risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors have considered presentation of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient by themselves.
As a result of the elimination of corporate-level costs and expenses and depreciation and amortization, the comparable hotel operating results we present do not represent our total revenues, expenses, operating profit or operating profit margin and should not be used to evaluate our performance as a whole. Management compensates for these limitations by separately considering the impact of these excluded items to the extent they are material to operating decisions or assessments of our operating performance. Our consolidated statements of operations include such amounts, all of which should be considered by investors when evaluating our performance.
We present these hotel operating results on a comparable hotel basis because we believe that doing so provides investors and management with useful information for evaluating the period-to-period performance of our hotels and facilitates comparisons with other hotel REITs and hotel owners. In particular, these measures assist management and investors in distinguishing whether increases or decreases in revenues and/or expenses are due to growth or decline of operations at comparable hotels (which represent the vast majority of our portfolio) or from other factors, such as the effect of acquisitions or dispositions. While management believes that presentation of comparable hotel results is a "same store" supplemental measure that provides useful information in evaluating our ongoing performance, this measure is not used to allocate resources or to assess the operating performance of each of these hotels, as these decisions are based on data for individual hotels and are not based on comparable hotel results. For these reasons, we believe that comparable hotel operating results, when combined with the presentation of GAAP operating profit, revenues and expenses, provide useful information to investors and management.
 


