FILE:HST/HST-8K-20111108211034.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On November 8, 2011, Host Hotels & Resorts, Inc. (the "Company") announced that effective January 1, 2012, James F. Risoleo will assume the new role of Executive Vice President and Managing Director  Europe and will no longer serve as Executive Vice President, Chief Investment Officer. Mr. Risoleo joined the Company in 1996 as Senior Vice President for Acquisitions, and was elected Executive Vice President in 2000. He is currently responsible for the Company's development, acquisition and disposition activities, including oversight of the Company's European and Asian joint venture investments. Mr. Risoleo will continue his role as a member of executive management of the Company.
In his new role, Mr. Risoleo will be responsible for the management of the Company's European business activities. His focus will be on development, acquisition and disposition activities in Europe as well as the European Joint Venture in which the Company holds an interest with APG Strategic Real Estate Pool NV, a Dutch Pension Fund, and Jasmine Hotel Pte Ltd., an affiliate of the real estate investment company of the Government of Singapore Investment Corporation Pte Ltd. The European Joint Venture currently owns 13 luxury and upper-upscale hotels in seven countries. The Company is a significant investor in the European Joint Venture and serves as managing partner.
A copy of the press release issued by the Company, dated November 8, 2011, announcing Mr. Risoleo's new role is attached to this Current Report on Form 8K as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99.1
HOST HOTELS & RESORTS, INC. ANNOUNCES NEW ROLE FOR JIM RISOLEO
BETHESDA, MD  November 8, 2011  Host Hotels & Resorts, Inc. (NYSE: HST) today announced that Jim Risoleo will assume a new position with the company as executive vice president and managing director  Europe, effective January 1, 2012. This new position comes as a result of Mr. Risoleo's decision to relocate out of the D.C. area, where Host's corporate headquarters is located. Mr. Risoleo has served as executive vice president, chief investment officer since 2000, having joined Host in 1996.
In his new role, Mr. Risoleo will be responsible for the management of the Company's European business activities. His focus will be on acquisition and disposition activities for the Company as well as for the European Joint Venture in which the Company holds an interest with APG Strategic Real Estate Pool NV, a Dutch Pension Fund, and Jasmine Hotel Pte Ltd., an affiliate of the real estate investment company of the Government of Singapore Investment Corporation Pte Ltd. The European Joint Venture currently owns 13 luxury and upper-upscale hotels in seven countries. Host is a significant investor in the Venture and serves as managing partner. Mr. Risoleo will continue his role as a member of executive management of the Company.
"With a successful 15-year career at Host, I am thrilled that Jim has decided to manage our European operations and continue to be an integral member of our team," said W. Edward Walter, president and chief executive officer of Host Hotels & Resorts, Inc. "His contributions have been invaluable and instrumental in our domestic and international growth and formation of our joint ventures in both Europe and Asia."
A H H & R
BOUT
OST
OTELS
ESORTS
Host Hotels & Resorts, Inc. is an S&P 500 and Fortune 500 company and is the largest lodging real estate investment trust and one of the largest owners of luxury and upper-upscale hotels. The Company currently owns 105 properties in the United States and 16 properties internationally totaling approximately 65,000 rooms. The Company also holds non-controlling interests in a joint venture in Europe that owns 13 hotels with approximately 4,200 rooms and a joint venture in India that is developing seven hotels in three cities with approximately 1,800 rooms. Guided by a disciplined approach to capital allocation and aggressive asset management, the Company partners with premium brands such as Marriott, Ritz-Carlton, Westin, Sheraton, W, St. Regis, Le Mridien, The Luxury Collection, Hyatt, Fairmont, Four Seasons, Hilton, Swisstel, ibis, Pullman, and Novotel* in the operation of properties in over 50 major markets worldwide. For additional information, please visit the Company's website at www.hosthotels.com.
 


