FILE:HST/HST-8K-20120726160240.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 26, 2012, Host Hotels & Resorts, L.P. ("Host L.P."), for whom Host Hotels & Resorts, Inc. ("Host Inc.") acts as a sole general partner, gave notice that it intends to redeem $400 million of the $650 million in aggregate principal amount outstanding of Host L.P.'s 6
 3
/
8
% Series O Senior Notes due 2015. The redemption date for the Series O senior notes is August 27, 2012 pursuant to an irrevocable notice delivered by the trustee on Host L.P.'s behalf on July 26, 2012. The Series O senior notes were issued pursuant to a supplement to Host L.P.'s Amended and Restated Indenture, dated August 5, 1998, originally among HMH Properties, Inc. (now Host L.P.), the subsidiary guarantors named therein, and HSBC Bank USA f/k/a Marine Midland Bank (now succeeded by The Bank of New York Mellon), as trustee. Under the terms of the Series O senior notes, the redemption price will be 101.063% of the principal amount thereof, together with accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the redemption date.
The Series O senior notes are being redeemed with a portion of the proceeds from the $500 million credit facility term loan completed by Host L.P. on July 25, 2012.
Forward-Looking Statements
In this Current Report on Form 8-K, we make forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as "anticipate," "believe," "could," "expect," "may," "intend," "predict," "project," "plan," "will," "estimate" and other similar terms and phrases. Forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and assumptions, are not guarantees of future performance, and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated at the time the forward-looking statements are made. These risks and uncertainties include our ability to deploy the proceeds of the credit facility term loan as currently planned, those risk factors discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10K for the year ended December 31, 2011, and in other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Although we believe the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions, we can give no assurance that we will attain these expectations or that any deviations will not be material. Except as otherwise required by the federal securities laws, we disclaim any obligations or undertaking to publicly release updates to any forward-looking statement contained in this report to conform the statement to actual results or changes in our expectations.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


