FILE:HST/HST-8K-20120717082741.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 17, 2012, Host Hotels & Resorts, Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the second quarter ended June 15, 2012. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Report.
The information in this Report, including the exhibit, is provided under Item 2.02 of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section with the exception of the items detailed in the paragraph below. Furthermore, the information in this Report, including the exhibit, shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into the filings of the registrant under the Securities Act of 1933 regardless of any general incorporation language in such filings, except as provided in the paragraph below.
The items listed below and contained in Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K are deemed to be of significance to investors and are intended to be "filed" rather than "furnished" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Further these, and only these items, shall be deemed as incorporated by reference into the filings of the registrant under the Securities Act of 1933. These items are:
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
See Item 2.02 above for information in the Exhibit deemed "Furnished" or "Filed" as the case may be.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
NEWS RELEASE
HOST HOTELS & RESORTS, INC. REPORTS RESULTS FOR THE SECOND QUARTER OF 2012
BETHESDA, MD; July 17, 2012  Host Hotels & Resorts, Inc. (NYSE: HST), the nation's largest lodging real estate investment trust ("REIT"), today announced results of operations for the second quarter ended June 15, 2012.
 
 
N/M=Not Meaningful
 
The increase in total revenues for the second quarter and year-to-date 2012 reflect the improved performance of the Company's owned hotels due to improvements in comparable hotel RevPAR of 6.1% for both the second quarter and year-to-date and improvements in comparable food and beverage revenues of 5.7% and 5.8% for the second quarter and year-to-date, respectively. In addition, the improvement in operating results for year-to-date 2012 includes operations for the ten hotels (nearly 4,000 rooms) acquired in the first half of 2011, which increased revenues by an incremental $56 million. If the Company reported its results on a calendar quarter basis, then comparable hotel RevPAR would have increased 6.8% for the second quarter 2012 compared to 2011.
The increase in comparable hotel RevPAR was primarily driven by improvements in average room rates coupled with continued occupancy growth. For the quarter and year-to-date, average room rates improved 3.7% and 3.3%, respectively, while occupancy improved 1.7 percentage points to 77.6% and
1.9 percentage points to 73.7%, respectively. The improvements in revenues led to strong margin growth as comparable hotel adjusted operating profit margins increased 120 basis points and 110 basis points for the second quarter and year-to-date 2012, respectively.
I
NVESTMENTS
 
 
 
A
CQUISITIONS
On July 16, 2012, the Company acquired the 888-room Grand Hyatt Washington, D.C. for approximately $400 million. The Grand Hyatt includes over 43,000 square feet of meeting space and is centrally located in the nation's capital, with easy access to historic monuments, museums and the convention center. The acquisition has been funded with available cash and a draw under the revolver portion of the Company's credit facility. The Company intends to repay a portion of the revolver draw, as well as other debt, with proceeds from a five-year term loan currently under negotiation. The Company has received commitments from a number of banks and expects to raise approximately $400 million with a current floating interest rate of LIBOR plus 180 basis points (or approximately a 2.1% all-in interest rate). The Company expects the term loan to close by the end of July, subject to customary closing conditions.
 
B S
ALANCE
HEET
During the quarter, the Company continued to actively pursue its strategy of extending its debt maturities and lowering its overall cost of debt. On June 7, 2012 the Company entered into a $100 million mortgage loan secured by the Hyatt Regency Reston and due in 2016, with an additional one-year extension at the Company's option, subject to meeting certain financial covenants. The loan bears interest at a rate of 1-month LIBOR plus 310 basis points (3.34% at June 15, 2012). Using these proceeds and proceeds from $650 million of senior notes issued last year and in the first quarter for a weighted average interest rate of 5.3% and available cash, the Company repaid or redeemed approximately $1 billion of debt during the quarter, with an average GAAP interest rate of 6.8%.
After taking into consideration the acquisition of the Grand Hyatt and the related revolver and expected term loan financing and use of proceeds to repay approximately $400 million of debt, the Company would have approximately $760 million of availability under its credit facility, approximately $150 million of cash and cash equivalents and total debt of approximately $5.3 billion.
During the second quarter of 2012, the Company issued approximately 3.1 million shares of common stock at an average price of $15.75 per share, for net proceeds of approximately $48 million. These sales were made in "at-the-market" offerings pursuant to April 2012 Sales Agency Financing Agreements with BNY Mellon Capital Markets, LLC and Scotiabank, which had an initial aggregate offering price of $400 million. There is approximately $350 million of issuance capacity remaining under the agreements.
D
IVIDEND
On June 18, 2012, the Company's board of directors authorized a regular quarterly cash dividend of $.07 per share on its common stock. The dividend was paid on July 16, 2012 to stockholders of record on June 29, 2012. The amount of any future dividend is dependent on the Company's taxable income and will be determined by the Company's Board of Directors.
2012 O
UTLOOK
The Company anticipates that for 2012:
 
 
 
 
 
Based upon these parameters, the Company estimates that its full year 2012 guidance is as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
See the 2012 Forecast Schedules and Notes to Financial Information for other assumptions used in the forecasts and items that may affect forecasted results.
A H H & R
BOUT
OST
OTELS
ESORTS
Host Hotels & Resorts, Inc. is an S&P 500 and Fortune 500 company and is the largest lodging real estate investment trust and one of the largest owners of luxury and upper-upscale hotels. The Company currently owns 105 properties in the United States and 16 properties internationally totaling approximately 65,000 rooms. The Company also holds non-controlling interests in a joint venture in Europe that owns 13 hotels with approximately 4,200 rooms and a joint venture in Asia that owns one hotel with approximately 300 rooms in Australia and a minority interest in seven hotels with approximately 1,750 rooms in India, two of which recently opened in Bangalore and five that are in various stages of development in two cities. Guided by a disciplined approach to capital allocation and aggressive asset management, the Company partners with premium brands such as Marriott, Ritz-Carlton, Westin, Sheraton, W, St. Regis, Le Mridien, The Luxury Collection, Hyatt, Fairmont, Four Seasons, Hilton, Swisstel, ibis, Pullman, and Novotel* in the operation of properties in over 50 major markets worldwide. For additional information, please visit the Company's website at www.hosthotels.com.
Note: This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities regulations. These forward-looking statements include forecast results and are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as "anticipate," "believe," "could," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "should," "plan," "predict," "project," "will," "continue" and other similar terms and phrases, including references to assumption and forecasts of future results. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results to differ materially from those anticipated at the time the forward-looking statements are made. These risks include, but are not limited to: national and local economic and business conditions, including the effect on travel of potential terrorist attacks, that will affect occupancy rates at our hotels and the demand for hotel products and services; operating risks associated with the hotel business; risks associated with the level of our indebtedness and our ability to meet covenants in our debt agreements; relationships with property managers; our ability to maintain our properties in a first-class manner, including meeting capital expenditure requirements; our ability to compete effectively in areas such as access, location, quality of accommodations and room rate structures; changes in travel patterns, taxes and government regulations which influence or determine wages, prices, construction procedures and costs; our ability to complete acquisitions and dispositions; our ability to complete the term loan on the basis of commitments currently received, which is subject to various closing conditions, including the accuracy of representations and warranties; the risk that the Company's board of directors will determine to pay dividends at a rate different than currently anticipated and our ability to continue to satisfy complex rules in order for us to remain a REIT for federal income tax purposes and other risks and uncertainties associated with our business described in the Company's annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K filed with the SEC. Although the Company believes the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions, it can give no assurance that the expectations will be attained or that any deviation will not be material. All information in this release is as of July 17, 2012, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to conform the statement to actual results or changes in the Company's expectations.
 
 
Host Hotels & Resorts, Inc., herein referred to as "we" or "Host," is a self-managed and self-administered real estate investment trust ("REIT") that owns hotel properties. We conduct our operations as an umbrella partnership REIT through an operating partnership, Host Hotels & Resorts, L.P. ("Host LP"), of which we are the sole general partner. When distinguishing between Host and Host LP, the primary difference is approximately 1.4% of the partnership interests in Host LP held by outside partners as of June 15, 2012, which is non-controlling interests in Host LP in our consolidated balance sheets and is included in net income attributable to non-controlling interests in our consolidated statements of operations. Readers are encouraged to find further detail regarding our organizational structure in our annual report on Form 10-K.
For information on our reporting periods and non-GAAP financial measures (including Adjusted EBITDA, NAREIT and Adjusted FFO per diluted share and comparable hotel adjusted operating profit margin) which we believe is useful to investors, see the Notes to the Financial Information included in this release.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Debt
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For a discussion of additional items that may affect forecasted results, see Notes to the Financial Information.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
F
ORECASTS
Our forecast of earnings per diluted share, NAREIT and Adjusted FFO per diluted share, EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and comparable hotel adjusted operating profit margins are forward-looking statements and are not guarantees of future performance and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause actual results and performance to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forecasts. Although we believe the expectations reflected in the forecasts are based upon reasonable assumptions, we can give no assurance that the expectations will be attained or that the results will not be materially different. Risks that may affect these assumptions and forecasts include the following: potential changes in overall economic outlook make it inherently difficult to forecast the level of RevPAR and margin growth; the amount and timing of acquisitions and dispositions of hotel properties is an estimate that can substantially affect financial results, including such items as net income, depreciation and gains on dispositions; the level of capital expenditures may change significantly, which will directly affect the level of depreciation expense and net income; the amount and timing of debt payments may change significantly based on market conditions, which will directly affect the level of interest expense and net income; the amount and timing of transactions involving shares of our common stock may change based on market conditions; and other risks and uncertainties associated with our business described herein and in our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K filed with the SEC.
R P S O
EPORTING
ERIODS
FOR
TATEMENT
OF
PERATIONS
The results we report in our consolidated statements of operations are based on results of our hotels reported to us by our hotel managers. Our hotel managers use different reporting periods. Marriott International, Inc. ("Marriott"), the manager of approximately 55% of our properties, uses a fiscal year ending on the Friday closest to December 31 and reports twelve weeks of operations for the first three quarters and sixteen or seventeen weeks for the fourth quarter of the year for its Marriott-managed hotels. In contrast, other managers of our hotels, such as Starwood and Hyatt, report results on a monthly basis. Additionally, Host, as a REIT, is required by tax laws to report results on a calendar year. As a result, we elected to adopt the reporting periods used by Marriott except that our fiscal year always ends on December 31 to comply with REIT rules. Our first three quarters of operations end on the same day as Marriott but our fourth quarter ends on December 31 and our full year results, as reported in our consolidated statement of operations, always includes the same number of days as the calendar year.
Two consequences of the reporting cycle we have adopted are: (1) quarterly start dates will usually differ between years, except for the first quarter which always commences on January 1, and (2) our first and fourth quarters of operations and year-to-date operations may not include the same number of days as reflected in prior years. For example, the second quarter of 2012 ended on June 15, and the second quarter of 2011 ended on June 17, though both quarters reflect twelve weeks of operations. In contrast, the June 15, 2012 year-to-date operations included 167 days of operations, while the June 17, 2011 year-to-date operations included 168 days of operations.
While the reporting calendar we adopted is more closely aligned with the reporting calendar used by the manager of a majority of our properties, one final consequence of our calendar is we are unable to report the month of operations that ends after our fiscal quarter-end until the following quarter because our hotel managers using a monthly reporting period do not make mid-month results available to us. Hence, the month of operation that ends after our fiscal quarter-end is included in our quarterly results of operations in the following quarter for those hotel managers (covering approximately 45% of our hotels). As a result, our quarterly results of operations include results from hotel managers reporting results on a monthly basis as follows: first quarter (January, February), second quarter (March to May), third quarter (June to August) and fourth quarter (September to December). While this does not affect full-year results, it does affect the reporting of quarterly results.
R P H O S C H R
EPORTING
ERIODS
FOR
OTEL
PERATING
TATISTICS
AND
OMPARABLE
OTEL
ESULTS
In contrast to the reporting periods for our consolidated statement of operations, our hotel operating statistics (i.e., RevPAR, average daily rate and average occupancy) and our comparable hotel results are always reported based on the reporting cycle used by Marriott for our Marriott-managed hotels. This facilitates year-to-year comparisons, as each reporting period will be comprised of the same number of days of operations as in the prior year (except in the case of fourth quarters comprised of seventeen weeks (such as fiscal year 2008) versus sixteen weeks). This means, however, that the reporting periods we use for hotel operating statistics and our comparable hotels results will typically differ slightly from the reporting periods used for our statements of operations for the first and fourth quarters and the full year. Results from hotel managers reporting on a monthly basis are included in our operating statistics and comparable hotels results consistent with their reporting in our consolidated statement of operations herein:
 
 
 
 
 
C H O S
OMPARABLE
OTEL
PERATING
TATISTICS
To facilitate a year-to-year comparison of our operations, we present certain operating statistics (i.e., RevPAR, average daily rate and average occupancy) and operating results (revenues, expenses, adjusted operating profit and associated margins) for the periods included in this report on a comparable hotel basis. Because these statistics and operating results are for our hotel properties, they exclude results for our non-hotel properties and other real estate investments. We define our comparable hotels as properties:
(i) that are owned or leased by us and the operations of which are included in our consolidated results, whether as continuing operations or discontinued operations, for the entirety of the reporting periods being compared; and
(ii) that have not sustained substantial property damage or business interruption (for example, the New Orleans Marriott which was substantially damaged by Hurricane Katrina), or undergone large-scale capital projects (as further defined below) during the reporting periods being compared.
The hotel business is capital-intensive and renovations are a regular part of the business. Generally, hotels under renovation remain comparable hotels. A large scale capital project that would cause a hotel to be excluded from our comparable hotel set is an extensive renovation of several core aspects of the hotel, such as rooms, meeting space, lobby, bars, restaurants and other public spaces. Both quantitative and qualitative factors are taken into consideration in determining if the renovation would cause a hotel to be removed from the comparable hotel set, including unusual or exceptional circumstances such as: a reduction or increase in room count, rebranding, a significant alteration of the business operations, or the closing of the hotel during the renovation.
We do not include an acquired hotel in our comparable hotel set until the operating results for that hotel have been included in our consolidated results for one full calendar year. For example, we acquired the Westin Chicago River North in August of 2010. The hotel was not included in our comparable hotels until January 1, 2012. Hotels that we sell are excluded from the comparable hotel set once the transaction has closed. Similarly, hotels are excluded from our comparable hotel set from the date that they sustain substantial property damage or business interruption or commence a large-scale capital project. In each case, these hotels are returned to the comparable hotel set when the operations of the hotel have been included in our consolidated results for one full calendar year after completion of the repair of the property damage or cessation of the business interruption, or the completion of large-scale capital projects, as applicable.
Of the 120 hotels that we owned on June 15, 2012, 106 have been classified as comparable hotels. The operating results of the following hotels that we owned as of June 15, 2012 are excluded from comparable hotel results for these periods:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For purposes of this forecast, we have assumed that for full year 2012 we will have 104 comparable hotels as, in addition to those listed above, we will also exclude from comparable hotel results (i) the results of the Hartford Marriott Rocky Hill, which was classified as held for sale at June 15, 2012, following its expected disposition and (ii) the results of the Orlando World Center Marriott Resort & Convention Center, as it is expected to experience significant business interruption beginning in the third quarter due to a large-scale capital project, which includes faade restoration, the shutdown of the main pool and a complete restoration and enhancement, including new water slides and activity areas, and new pool dining facilities and the renovation of one tower of guestrooms, meeting space and restaurants.
The operating results of (i) two hotels that we have disposed of in 2012 and 2011, (ii) the Le Mridien Piccadilly, which was transferred to the European joint venture in 2011, and (iii) the 53 Courtyard by Marriott properties leased from HPT, are not included in comparable hotel results for the periods presented herein.
N-GAAP F M
ON
INANCIAL
EASURES
Included in this press release are certain "non-GAAP financial measures," which are measures of our historical or future financial performance that are not calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP, within the meaning of applicable SEC rules. They are as follows: (i) FFO and FFO per diluted share (both NAREIT and Adjusted), (ii) EBITDA, (iii) Adjusted EBITDA and (iv) Comparable Hotel Operating Results. The following discussion defines these terms and presents why we believe they are useful supplemental measures of our performance.
NAREIT FFO and NAREIT FFO per Diluted Share
We present NAREIT FFO and NAREIT FFO per diluted share as non-GAAP measures of our performance in addition to our earnings per share (calculated in accordance with GAAP). We calculate NAREIT FFO per diluted share as our NAREIT FFO (defined as set forth below) for a given operating period, as adjusted for the effect of dilutive securities, divided by the number of fully diluted shares outstanding during such period, in accordance with NAREIT guidelines. NAREIT defines FFO as net income (calculated in accordance with GAAP) excluding gains and losses from sales of real estate, the cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles, real estate-related depreciation, amortization and impairments and adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. Adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures are calculated to reflect our pro rata FFO of those entities on the same basis.
We believe that NAREIT FFO per diluted share is a useful supplemental measure of our operating performance and that the presentation of NAREIT FFO per diluted share, when combined with the primary GAAP presentation of earnings per share, provides beneficial information to investors. By excluding the effect of real estate depreciation, amortization, impairments and gains and losses from sales of depreciable real estate, all of which are based on historical cost accounting and which may be of lesser significance in evaluating current performance, we believe that such measures can facilitate comparisons of operating performance between periods and with other REITs, even though NAREIT FFO per diluted share does not represent an amount that accrues directly to holders of our common stock. Historical cost accounting for real estate assets implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time. As noted by NAREIT in its April 2002 "White Paper on Funds From Operations," since real estate values have historically risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors have considered presentation of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient by themselves. For these reasons, NAREIT adopted the FFO metric in order to promote an industry-wide measure of REIT operating performance.
Adjusted FFO per Diluted Share
We also present Adjusted FFO per diluted share when evaluating our performance because management believes that the exclusion of certain additional items described below provides useful supplemental information to investors regarding our ongoing operating performance. Management historically has made the adjustments detailed below in evaluating our performance, in our annual budget process and for our compensation programs. We believe that the presentation of Adjusted FFO per diluted share, when combined with both the primary GAAP presentation of earnings per share and FFO per diluted share as defined by NAREIT, provides useful supplemental information that is beneficial to an investor's complete understanding of our operating performance. We adjust NAREIT FFO per diluted share for the following items, which may occur in any period, and refer to this measure as Adjusted FFO per diluted share:
 
 
 
 
EBITDA
Earnings before Interest Expense, Income Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization ("EBITDA") is a commonly used measure of performance in many industries. Management believes EBITDA provides useful information to investors regarding our results of operations because it helps us and our investors evaluate the ongoing operating performance of our properties after removing the impact of the Company's capital structure (primarily interest expense) and its asset base (primarily depreciation and amortization). Management also believes the use of EBITDA facilitates comparisons between us and other lodging REITs, hotel owners who are not REITs and other capital-intensive companies. Management uses EBITDA to evaluate property-level results and as one measure in determining the value of acquisitions and dispositions and, like FFO and Adjusted FFO per diluted share, is widely used by management in the annual budget process and for our compensation programs.
Adjusted EBITDA
Historically, management has adjusted EBITDA when evaluating the performance of Host Inc. and Host L.P. because we believe that the exclusion of certain additional items described below provides useful supplemental information to investors regarding our ongoing operating performance and that the presentation of Adjusted EBITDA, when combined with the primary GAAP presentation of net income, is beneficial to an investor's complete understanding of our operating performance. Adjusted EBITDA also is a relevant measure in calculating certain credit ratios. We adjust EBITDA for the following items, which may occur in any period, and refer to this measure as Adjusted EBITDA:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Limitations on the Use of NAREIT FFO per Diluted Share, Adjusted FFO per Diluted Share, EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA
We calculate NAREIT FFO per diluted share in accordance with standards established by NAREIT, which may not be comparable to measures calculated by other companies who do not use the NAREIT definition of FFO or do not calculate FFO per diluted share in accordance with NAREIT guidance. In addition, although FFO per diluted share is a useful measure when comparing our results to other REITs, it may not be helpful to investors when comparing us to non-REITs. We also calculate Adjusted FFO per diluted share, which is not in accordance with NAREIT guidance and may not be comparable to measures calculated by other REITs. EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA, as presented, may also not be comparable to measures calculated by other companies. This information should not be considered as an alternative to net income, operating profit, cash from operations or any other operating performance measure calculated in accordance with GAAP. Cash expenditures for various long-term assets (such as renewal and replacement capital expenditures), interest expense (for EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA purposes only) and other items have been and will be incurred and are not reflected in the EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, NAREIT FFO per diluted share and Adjusted FFO per diluted share presentations. Management compensates for these limitations by separately considering the impact of these excluded items to the extent they are material to operating decisions or assessments of our operating performance. Our consolidated statement of operations and cash flows include interest expense, capital expenditures, and other excluded items, all of which should be considered when evaluating our performance, as well as the usefulness of our non-GAAP financial measures. Additionally, NAREIT FFO per diluted share, Adjusted FFO per diluted share, EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered as a measure of our liquidity or indicative of funds available to fund our cash needs, including our ability to make cash distributions. In addition, NAREIT FFO per diluted share and Adjusted FFO per diluted share do not measure, and should not be used as a measure of, amounts that accrue directly to stockholders' benefit.
Comparable Hotel Operating Results
We present certain operating results for our hotels, such as hotel revenues, expenses, adjusted operating profit (and the related margin) and food and beverage adjusted profit (and the related margin), on a comparable hotel, or "same store," basis as supplemental information for investors. Our comparable hotel results present operating results for hotels owned during the entirety of the periods being compared without giving effect to any acquisitions or dispositions, significant property damage or large scale capital improvements incurred during these periods. We present these comparable hotel operating results by eliminating corporate-level costs and expenses related to our capital structure, as well as depreciation and amortization. We eliminate corporate-level costs and expenses to arrive at property-level results because we believe property-level results provide investors with supplemental information into the ongoing operating performance of our hotels. We eliminate depreciation and amortization because, even though depreciation and amortization are property-level expenses, these non-cash expenses, which are based on historical cost accounting for real estate assets, implicitly assume that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time. As noted earlier, because real estate values have historically risen or fallen with market conditions, many real estate industry investors have considered presentation of historical cost accounting for operating results to be insufficient by themselves.
As a result of the elimination of corporate-level costs and expenses and depreciation and amortization, the comparable hotel operating results we present do not represent our total revenues, expenses, operating profit or operating profit margin and should not be used to evaluate our performance as a whole. Management compensates for these limitations by separately considering the impact of these excluded items to the extent they are material to operating decisions or assessments of our operating performance. Our consolidated statements of operations include such amounts, all of which should be considered by investors when evaluating our performance.
We present these hotel operating results on a comparable hotel basis because we believe that doing so provides investors and management with useful information for evaluating the period-to-period performance of our hotels and facilitates comparisons with other hotel REITs and hotel owners. In particular, these measures assist management and investors in distinguishing whether increases or decreases in revenues and/or expenses are due to growth or decline of operations at comparable hotels (which represent the vast majority of our portfolio) or from other factors, such as the effect of acquisitions or dispositions. While management believes that presentation of comparable hotel results is a "same store" supplemental measure that provides useful information in evaluating our ongoing performance, this measure is not used to allocate resources or to assess the operating performance of each of these hotels, as
 
 
these decisions are based on data for individual hotels and are not based on comparable hotel results. For these reasons, we believe that comparable hotel operating results, when combined with the presentation of GAAP operating profit, revenues and expenses, provide useful information to investors and management.
 


