FILE:TIF/TIF-8K-20050523172725.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 ----------------------- FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT ----------------------- Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d) of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report: May 23, 2005 TIFFANY & CO. (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware 1-9494 13-3228013 (State or other jurisdiction (Commission (I.R.S. Employer of incorporation) File Number) Identification No.) 727 Fifth Avenue, New York, New York 10022 (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (212) 755-8000 Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below): [ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 8.01 Other Events. Registrant makes various grants and awards of cash, stock and stock units, and provides various benefits, to its directors, executive officers and other management employees pursuant to its 1998 Directors Option Plan and the 1998 and 2005 Employee Incentive Plans and pursuant to various retirement plans, formal agreements and informal agreements. The Compensation Committee of Registrant's Board of Directors made various changes to date in fiscal 2005. Forms of changed awards, terms and agreements subject to such changes made to date in fiscal 2005 are attached as exhibits hereto and are incorporated herein by reference. Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits. (c) Exhibits 4.3 Amended and Restated 1998 Employee Incentive Plan effective May 19, 2005. 10.49a Form of Indemnity Agreement, approved by the Board of Directors on March 11, 2005 for use with all directors and executive officers. Corrected version. 10.140a Form of Terms of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Unit Grants to Executive Officers under Registrant's 1998 Employee Incentive Plan and 2005 Employee Incentive Plan. 10.141a Form of Non-Competition and Confidentiality Covenants for use in connection with Performance-Based Restricted Stock Unit Grants to Registrant's Executive Officers and Time-Vested Restricted Unit Awards made to other officers of Registrant's affiliated companies pursuant to the Registrant's 1998 Employee Incentive Plan and pursuant to the Tiffany and Company Un-funded Retirement Income Plan to Recognize Compensation in Excess of Internal Revenue Code Limits. 10.143a Terms of Stock Option Award (Standard Non-Qualified Option) under Registrant's 1998 Employee Incentive Plan as revised May 19, 2005. 10.144a Terms of Stock Option Award (Transfereable Non-Qualified Option)under Registrant's 1998 Employee Incentive Plan as revised May 19, 2005(form used for Executive Officers). 10.145 2005 Employee Incentive Plan as adopted May 19, 2005. 10.146 Form of Terms of Time-Vested Restricted Stock Unit Grants under Registrant's 1998 Employee Incentive Plan and 2005 Employee Incentive Plan.
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. TIFFANY & CO. BY: /s/ Patrick B. Dorsey ______________________________________ Patrick B. Dorsey Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary Date: May 23, 2005
EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit No. Description 4.3 Amended and Restated 1998 Employee Incentive Plan effective May 19, 2005. 10.49a Form of Indemnity Agreement, approved by the Board of Directors on March 11, 2005 for use with all directors and executive officers. Corrected version. 10.140a Form of Terms of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Unit Grants to Executive Officers under Registrant's 1998 Employee Incentive Plan and 2005 Employee Incentive Plan. 10.141a Form of Non-Competition and Confidentiality Covenants for use in connection with Performance-Based Restricted Stock Unit Grants to Registrant's Executive Officers and Time-Vested Restricted Unit Awards made to other officers of Registrant's affiliated companies pursuant to the Registrant's 1998 Employee Incentive Plan and pursuant to the Tiffany and Company Un-funded Retirement Income Plan to Recognize Compensation in Excess of Internal Revenue Code Limits. 10.143a Terms of Stock Option Award (Standard Non-Qualified Option) under Registrant's 1998 Employee Incentive Plan as revised May 19, 2005. 10.144a Terms of Stock Option Award (Transfereable Non-Qualified Option)under Registrant's 1998 Employee Incentive Plan as revised May 19, 2005(form used for Executive Officers). 10.145 2005 Employee Incentive Plan as adopted May 19, 2005. 10.146 Form of Terms of Time-Vested Restricted Stock Unit Grants under Registrant's 1998 Employee Incentive Plan and 2005 Employee Incentive Plan.

Exhibit 4.3 AMENDED AND RESTATED TIFFANY & CO. 1998 EMPLOYEE INCENTIVE PLAN Section 1 General 1.1 Purpose. The Tiffany & Co. Employee Incentive Plan (the "Plan") has been established by Tiffany & Co., a Delaware corporation, (the "Company") to (i) attract and retain employees; (ii) motivate Participants to achieve the Company's operating and strategic goals by means of appropriate incentives; (iii) provide incentive compensation opportunities that are competitive with those of other companies competing with the Company and its Related Companies for employees; and (iv) further link Participants' interests with those of the Company's other stockholders through compensation that is based on the Company's Common Stock, thereby promoting the long-term financial interests of the Company and its Related Companies, including the growth in value of the Company's stockholders' equity and the enhancement of long-term returns to the Company's stockholders. 1.2 Participation. Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, the Committee shall, from time to time, determine and designate from among Eligible Individuals those persons who will be granted one or more Awards under the Plan. Eligible Individuals who are granted Awards become "Participants" in the Plan. In the discretion of the Committee, a Participant may be granted any Award permitted under the provisions of the Plan, and more than one Award may be granted to a Participant. Awards need not be identical but shall be subject to the terms and conditions specified in the Plan. Subject to the last two sentences of subsection 2.2 of the Plan, Awards may be granted as alternatives to or in replacement for awards outstanding under the Plan, or any other plan or arrangement of the Company or a Related Company (including a plan or arrangement of a business or entity, all or a portion of which is acquired by the Company or a Related Company). 1.3 Operation, Administration, and Definitions. The operation and administration of the Plan, including the Awards made under the Plan, shall be subject to the provisions of Section 4 (relating to operation and administration). Initially capitalized terms used in the Plan shall be defined as set forth in the Plan (including in the definitional provisions of Section 7 of the Plan). Section 2 Options and SARs 2.1 Definitions. (a) The grant of an "Option" entitles the Participant to purchase Shares at an Exercise Price established by the Committee. Options granted under this 1998 EMPLOYEE INCENTIVE PLAN Page 1 Amended & Restated to Reflect 2 for 1 Stock Split on 7/20/99 and 7/21/2000 Amendment to Plan Approved May 18, 2000 Amendment to Plan Approved May 15, 2003 Amendment to Plan Approved May 19, 2005
Section 2 may be either Incentive Stock Options or Non-Qualified Stock Options, as determined in the discretion of the Committee. An "Incentive Stock Option" is an Option that is intended to satisfy the requirements applicable to an "incentive stock option" described in section 422(b) of the Code. A "Non-Qualified Option" is an Option that is not intended to be an "incentive stock option" as that term is described in section 422(b) of the Code. (b) The grant of a stock appreciation right (an "SAR") entitles the Participant to receive, in cash or Shares, value equal to all or a portion of the excess of: (a) Fair Market Value of a specified number of Shares at the time of exercise, over (b) an Exercise Price established by the Committee. 2.2 Exercise Price. The per-Share "Exercise Price" of each Option and SAR granted under this Section 2 shall be established by the Committee or shall be determined by a formula established by the Committee at the time the Option or SAR is granted; except that the Exercise Price shall not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of a Share as of the Pricing Date. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the "Pricing Date" shall be the date on which the Option or SAR is granted unless the Option or SAR is granted on a date on which the principal exchange on which the Shares are then listed or admitted to trading is closed for trading, in which case the "Pricing Date" shall be the most recent date on which such exchange was open for trading prior to such grant date; except that the Committee may provide that: (i) the Pricing Date is the date on which the recipient is hired or promoted (or similar event), if the grant of the Option or SAR occurs not more than 90 days after the date of such hiring, promotion or other event; and (ii) if an Option or SAR is granted in tandem with, or in substitution for, an outstanding Award, the Pricing Date is the date of grant of such outstanding Award. Except as provided in subsection 4.2(c), the Exercise Price of any Option or SAR may not be decreased after the grant of the Award. Neither an Option nor an SAR may be surrendered as consideration in exchange for a new Award with a lower Exercise Price. 2.3 Exercise. Options and SARs shall be exercisable in accordance with such terms and conditions and during such periods as may be established by the Committee provided that no Option or SAR shall be exercisable after, and each Option and SAR shall become void no later than, the tenth (10th) anniversary date of the date of grant of such Option or SAR. 2.4 Payment of Option Exercise Price. The payment of the Exercise Price of an Option granted under this Section 2 shall be subject to the following: (a) The Exercise Price may be paid by ordinary check or such other form of tender as the Committee may specify. (b) If permitted by the Committee, the Exercise Price for Shares purchased upon the exercise of an Option may be paid in part or in full by tendering Shares (by either actual delivery of Shares or by attestation, with such 1998 EMPLOYEE INCENTIVE PLAN Page 2 Amended & Restated to Reflect 2 for 1 Stock Split on 7/20/99 and 7/21/2000 Amendment to Plan Approved May 18, 2000 Amendment to Plan Approved May 15, 2003 Amendment to Plan Approved May 19, 2005
Shares valued at Fair Market Value as of the date of exercise). The Committee may refuse to accept payment in Shares if such payment would result in an accounting charge to the Company. (c) The Committee may permit a Participant to elect to pay the Exercise Price upon the exercise of an Option by irrevocably authorizing a third party to sell Shares acquired upon exercise of the Option (or a sufficient portion of such Shares) and remit to the Company a sufficient portion of the sale proceeds to pay the entire Exercise Price and any tax withholding resulting from such exercise. Section 3 Other Stock Awards 3.1 Definition. A "Stock Award" is a grant of Shares or of a right to receive Shares (or their cash equivalent or a combination of both). 3.2 Restrictions on Stock Awards. Each Stock Award shall be subject to such conditions, restrictions and contingencies as the Committee shall determine. These may include continuous service and/or the achievement of Performance Goals. Section 4 Operation and Administration 4.1 Effective Date and Duration. Subject to approval of the stockholders of the Company at the Company's 1998 annual meeting, the Plan shall be effective as of May 1, 1998 (the "Effective Date") and shall remain in effect as long as any Awards under the Plan are outstanding; provided, however, that, no Award may be granted or otherwise made under the Plan after April 30, 2005. 4.2 Shares Subject to Plan. (a) (i) Subject to the following provisions of this subsection 4.2, the maximum number of Shares that may be delivered to Participants and their beneficiaries under the Plan shall be equal to the sum of: (I) Twelve Million (12,000,000) Shares; (II) any Shares available for future awards under the Company's 1986 Stock Option Plan, as amended (the "1986 Plan") as of May 1, 1998; (III) any Shares that are represented by awards granted under the 1986 Plan which are forfeited, expire or are canceled without delivery of Shares or which result in the forfeiture of Shares back to the Company; and (IV) up to One Million (1,000,000) Shares, to the extent authorized by the Board, which are reacquired in the open market or in a private transaction after the Effective Date, provided, however that the aggregate number of shares available under categories (II), (III), and (IV), shall not exceed Three Million (3,000,000) Shares. 1998 EMPLOYEE INCENTIVE PLAN Page 3 Amended & Restated to Reflect 2 for 1 Stock Split on 7/20/99 and 7/21/2000 Amendment to Plan Approved May 18, 2000 Amendment to Plan Approved May 15, 2003 Amendment to Plan Approved May 19, 2005
(ii) Any Shares granted under the Plan that are forfeited because of the failure to meet an Award contingency or condition shall again be available for delivery pursuant to new Awards granted under the Plan. To the extent any Shares covered by an Award are not delivered to a Participant or a Participant's beneficiary because the Award is forfeited or canceled, or the Shares are not delivered because the Award is settled in cash, such Shares shall not be deemed to have been delivered for purposes of determining the maximum number of Shares available for delivery under the Plan. (iii) If the Exercise Price of any Option granted under the Plan or the 1986 Plan is satisfied by tendering Shares to the Company (by either actual delivery or attestation) or by the Company withholding shares, only the number of Shares issued net of the Shares tendered or withheld shall be deemed delivered for purposes of determining the maximum number of Shares available for delivery under the Plan. (iv) Shares delivered under the Plan in settlement, assumption or substitution of outstanding awards (or obligations to grant future awards) under the plans or arrangements of another entity shall not reduce the maximum number of Shares available for delivery under the Plan, to extent that such settlement, assumption or substitution occurs as a result of the Company or a Related Company acquiring another entity (or an interest in another entity). (b) Subject to adjustment under paragraph 4.2(c), the following additional maximum limitations are imposed under the Plan: (i) The aggregate maximum number of Shares that may be issued under Options intended to be Incentive Stock Options shall be One Million (1,000,000) shares. (ii) The aggregate maximum number of Shares that may be issued in conjunction with Awards granted pursuant to Section 3 (relating to Stock Awards) and Section 8 (relating to Other Incentive Awards to the extent such Awards are settled with Shares) shall be One Million (1,000,000) shares. (iii)Unless the Committee determines that an Award to a Named Executive Officer shall not be designed to comply with the Performance-Based Exception, the following limitations shall apply: (A) In any fiscal year of the Company, the aggregate number of Shares that may be granted to any Participant pursuant to any and all Awards (including Options, SARs and Stock Awards) shall not exceed Four Hundred Thousand (400,000); and 1998 EMPLOYEE INCENTIVE PLAN Page 4 Amended & Restated to Reflect 2 for 1 Stock Split on 7/20/99 and 7/21/2000 Amendment to Plan Approved May 18, 2000 Amendment to Plan Approved May 15, 2003 Amendment to Plan Approved May 19, 2005
(B) In any fiscal year of the Company, the maximum aggregate cash payout with respect to Other Incentive Awards granted in any fiscal year of the Company pursuant to Section 8 of the Plan which may be made to any Named Executive Officer shall be Two Million Dollars ($2,000,000). (c) If the outstanding Shares are increased or decreased, or are changed into or exchanged for cash, property or a different number or kind of shares or securities, or if cash, property, Shares or other securities are distributed in respect of such outstanding Shares, in either case as a result of one or more mergers, reorganizations, reclassifications, recapitalizations, stock splits, reverse stock splits, stock dividends, dividends (other than regular, quarterly dividends), or other distributions, spin-offs or the like, or if substantially all of the property and assets of the Company are sold, then, unless the terms of the transaction shall provide otherwise, appropriate adjustments shall be made in the number and/or type of Shares or securities for which Awards may thereafter be granted under the Plan and for which Awards then outstanding under the Plan may thereafter be exercised. Any such adjustments in outstanding Awards shall be made without changing the aggregate Exercise Price applicable to the unexercised portions of outstanding Options or SARs. The Committee shall make such adjustments to preserve the benefits or potential benefits of the Plan and the Awards; such adjustments may include, but shall not be limited to, adjustment of: (i) the number and kind of shares which may be delivered under the Plan; (ii) the number and kind of shares subject to outstanding Awards; (iii) the Exercise Price of outstanding Options and SARs; (iv) the limits specified in subsections 4.2(a)(i) and 4.2(b) above: and (v) any other adjustments that the Committee determines to be equitable. No right to purchase or receive fractional shares shall result from any adjustment in Options, SARs or Stock Awards pursuant to this paragraph 4.2(c). In case of any such adjustment, Shares subject to the Option, SAR or Stock Award shall be rounded up to the nearest whole Share. 4.3 Limit on Distribution. Distribution of Shares or other amounts under the Plan shall be subject to the following: (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, the Company shall have no obligation to deliver any Shares under the Plan or make any other distribution of benefits under the Plan unless such delivery or distribution would comply with all applicable laws (including, without limitation, the requirements of the Securities Act of 1933) and the applicable requirements of any securities exchange or similar entity, and the Committee may impose such restrictions on any Shares acquired pursuant to the Plan as the Committee may deem advisable, including, without limitation, restrictions under applicable federal securities laws, under the 1998 EMPLOYEE INCENTIVE PLAN Page 5 Amended & Restated to Reflect 2 for 1 Stock Split on 7/20/99 and 7/21/2000 Amendment to Plan Approved May 18, 2000 Amendment to Plan Approved May 15, 2003 Amendment to Plan Approved May 19, 2005
requirements of any Stock exchange or market upon which such Shares are then listed and/or traded, and under any blue sky or state securities laws applicable to such Shares. In the event that the Committee determines in its discretion that the registration, listing or qualification of the Shares issuable under the Plan on any securities exchange or under any applicable law or governmental regulation is necessary as a condition to the issuance of such Shares under an Option or Stock Award, such Option or Stock Award shall not be exercisable or exercised in whole or in part unless such registration, listing and qualification, and any necessary consents or approvals have been unconditionally obtained. (b) Distribution of Shares under the Plan may be effected on a non-certificated basis, to the extent not prohibited by applicable law or the applicable rule of any stock exchange. 4.4 Tax Withholding. Before distribution of Shares under the Plan, the Company may require the recipient to remit to the Company an amount sufficient to satisfy any federal, state or local tax withholding requirements or, in the discretion of the Committee, the Company may withhold from the Shares to be delivered and/or otherwise issued Shares sufficient to satisfy all or a portion of such tax withholding requirements. Whenever under the Plan payments are to be made in cash, such payments may be net of an amount sufficient to satisfy any federal, state or local tax withholding requirements. Neither the Company nor any Related Company shall be liable to a Participant or any other person as to any tax consequence expected, but not realized, by any Participant or other person due to the receipt or exercise of any Award hereunder. 4.5 Payment for Shares. Subject to the limitations of subsection 4.2 on the number of Shares that may be delivered under the Plan, the Committee may use available Shares as the form of payment for compensation, grants or rights earned or due under any other compensation plans or arrangements of the Company or a Related Company, including the plans and arrangements of the Company or a Related Company acquiring another entity (or an interest in another entity). The Committee may provide in the Award Agreement that the Shares to be issued upon exercise of an Option or an SAR or receipt of a Stock Award shall be subject to such further conditions, restrictions or agreements as the Committee in its discretion may specify, including without limitation, conditions on vesting or transferability, and forfeiture and repurchase provisions. 4.6 Dividends and Dividend Equivalents. An Award may provide the Participant with the right to receive dividends or dividend equivalent payments with respect to Shares which may be either paid currently or credited to an account for the Participant, and which may be settled in cash or Shares as determined by the Committee. Any such settlements, and any such crediting of dividends or dividend equivalents or reinvestment in Shares may be subject to such conditions, restrictions and contingencies as the Committee shall establish, including reinvestment of such credited amounts in Share equivalents. 1998 EMPLOYEE INCENTIVE PLAN Page 6 Amended & Restated to Reflect 2 for 1 Stock Split on 7/20/99 and 7/21/2000 Amendment to Plan Approved May 18, 2000 Amendment to Plan Approved May 15, 2003 Amendment to Plan Approved May 19, 2005
4.7 Settlements; Deferred Delivery. Awards may be settled through cash payments, the delivery of Shares, the granting of replacement Awards, or combinations thereof, all subject to such conditions, restrictions and contingencies as the Committee shall determine. The Committee may establish provisions for the deferred delivery of Shares upon the exercise of an Option or SAR or receipt of a Stock Award with the deferral evidenced by use of "Stock Units" equal in number to the number of Shares whose delivery is so deferred. A "Stock Unit" is a bookkeeping entry representing an amount equivalent to the Fair Market Value of one Share. Stock Units represent an unfunded and unsecured obligation of the Company except as otherwise provided by the Committee. Settlement of Stock Units upon expiration of the deferral period shall be made in Shares or otherwise as determined by the Committee. The amount of Shares, or other settlement medium, to be so distributed may be increased by an interest factor or by dividend equivalents. Until a Stock Unit is settled, the number of Shares represented by a Stock Unit shall be subject to adjustment pursuant to paragraph 4.2(c). Unless otherwise specified by the Committee, any deferred delivery of Shares pursuant to an Award shall be settled by the delivery of Shares no later than the 60th day following the date the person to whom such deferred delivery must be made ceases to be an employee of the Company or a Related Company. 4.8 Transferability. Unless otherwise provided by the Committee, any Option and SAR granted under the Plan, and, until vested, any Stock Award or other Shares-based Award granted under the Plan, shall by its terms be nontransferable by the Participant otherwise than by will, the laws of descent and distribution or pursuant to a "domestic relations order", as defined in the Code or Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act or the rules thereunder, and shall be exercisable by, or become vested in, during the Participant's lifetime, only the Participant. 4.9 Form and Time of Elections. Unless otherwise specified herein, each election required or permitted to made by any Participant or other person entitled to benefits under the Plan, and any permitted modification, or revocation thereof, shall be in writing filed with the secretary of the Company at such times, in such form, and subject to such restrictions and limitations, not inconsistent with the terms of the Plan, as the Committee shall require. 4.10 Award Agreements with Company; Vesting and Acceleration of Vesting of Awards. At the time of an Award to a participant under the Plan, the Committee may require a Participant to enter into an agreement with the Company (an "Award Agreement") in a form specified by the Committee, agreeing to the terms and conditions of the Plan and to such additional terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the Plan, as the Committee may, in its sole discretion, prescribe, including, but not limited to, conditions to the vesting or exercisability of an Award, such as continued service to the Company or a Related Company for a specified period of time. The Committee may waive such conditions to and/or accelerate exerciability or vesting of an Option, SAR or Stock Award, either automatically upon the occurrence of specified events (including in connection with a change of control of the Company) or otherwise in its discretion. 1998 EMPLOYEE INCENTIVE PLAN Page 7 Amended & Restated to Reflect 2 for 1 Stock Split on 7/20/99 and 7/21/2000 Amendment to Plan Approved May 18, 2000 Amendment to Plan Approved May 15, 2003 Amendment to Plan Approved May 19, 2005
4.11 Limitation of Implied Rights. (a) Neither a Participant nor any other person shall, by reason of the Plan or any Award Agreement, acquire any right in or title to any assets, funds or property of the Company or any Related Company whatsoever, including, without limitation, any specific funds, assets, or other property which the Company or any Related Company, in their sole discretion, may set aside in anticipation of a liability under the Plan. A Participant shall have only a contractual right to the Shares or amounts, if any, payable under the Plan, unsecured by the assets of the Company or of any Related Company. Nothing contained in the Plan or any Award Agreement shall constitute a guarantee that the assets of such companies shall be sufficient to pay any benefits to any person. (b) Neither the Plan nor any Award Agreement shall constitute a contract of employment, and selection as a Participant will not give any employee the right to be retained in the employ of the Company or any Related Company, nor any right or claim to any benefit under the Plan, unless such right or claim has specifically accrued under the terms of the Plan or an Award. Except as otherwise provided in the Plan, no Award under the Plan shall confer upon the holder thereof any right as a stockholder of the Company prior to the date on which the individual fulfills all conditions for receipt of such rights. 4.12 Evidence. Evidence required of anyone under the Plan may be by certificate, affidavit, document or other information which an officer of the Company acting on it considers pertinent and reliable, and signed, made or presented by the proper party or parties. 4.13 Action by Company or Related Company. Any action required or permitted to be taken by the Company or any Related Company shall be by resolution of its board of directors, or by action of one or more members of such board (including a committee of such board) who are duly authorized to act for such board, or (except to the extent prohibited by applicable law or applicable rules of any Stock exchange) by a duly authorized officer of the Company or such Related Company. 4.14 Gender and Number. Where the context admits, words in any gender shall include any other gender, words in the singular shall include the plural and the plural shall include the singular. 4.15 Liability for Cash Payments. Each Related Company shall be liable for payment of cash due under the Plan with respect to any Participant to the extent that such benefits are attributable to the services rendered for that Related Company by such Participant. Any disputes relating to liability of a Related Company for cash payments shall be resolved by the Committee. 1998 EMPLOYEE INCENTIVE PLAN Page 8 Amended & Restated to Reflect 2 for 1 Stock Split on 7/20/99 and 7/21/2000 Amendment to Plan Approved May 18, 2000 Amendment to Plan Approved May 15, 2003 Amendment to Plan Approved May 19, 2005
4.16 Non-exclusivity of the Plan. Neither the adoption of the Plan by the Board of Directors of the Company nor the submission of the Plan to the stockholders of the Company for approval shall be construed as creating any limitations on the power of such Board of Directors or a committee of such Board to adopt such other incentive arrangements as it or they may deem desirable, including without limitation, the granting of restricted stock, stock options or cash bonuses otherwise than under the Plan, and such arrangements may be generally applicable or applicable only in specific cases. Section 5 Committee 5.1 Administration. The authority to control and manage the operation and administration of the Plan shall be vested in a committee (the "Committee") in accordance with this Section 5. 5.2 Selection of Committee. The Committee shall be selected by the Board and shall consist of two or more members of the Board. 5.3 Powers of Committee. The authority to manage and control the operation and administration of the Plan shall be vested in the Committee, subject to the following: (a) Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee will have the authority and discretion to select from amongst Eligible Individuals those persons who shall receive Awards, to determine who is an Eligible Individual, to determine the time or time of receipt, to determine the types of Awards and the number of Shares covered by the Awards, to establish the terms, conditions, Performance Goals, restrictions, and other provisions of such Awards and Award Agreements, and (subject to the restrictions imposed by Section 6) to cancel, amend or suspend Awards. In making such Award determinations, the Committee may take into account the nature of services rendered by the Eligible Individual, the Eligible Individual's present and potential contribution to the Company's or a Related Company's success and such other factors as the Committee deems relevant. (b) Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee will have the authority and discretion to determine the extent to which Awards under the Plan will be structured to conform to the requirements of the Performance-Based Exception and to take such action, establish such procedures, and impose such restrictions at the time Awards are granted as the Committee determines to be necessary or appropriate to conform to such requirements. (c) The Committee will have the authority and discretion to establish terms and conditions of Awards as the Committee determines to be necessary or 1998 EMPLOYEE INCENTIVE PLAN Page 9 Amended & Restated to Reflect 2 for 1 Stock Split on 7/20/99 and 7/21/2000 Amendment to Plan Approved May 18, 2000 Amendment to Plan Approved May 15, 2003 Amendment to Plan Approved May 19, 2005
appropriate to conform to applicable requirements or practices of jurisdictions outside the United States. (d) The Committee will have the authority and discretion to interpret the Plan, to establish, amend and rescind any rules and regulations relating to the Plan, to determine the terms and provisions of any Award Agreements, and to make all other determinations that may be necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan. (e) Any interpretation of the Plan by the Committee and any decision made by the Committee under the Plan is final and binding. (f) In controlling and managing the operation and administration of the Plan, the Committee shall act by a majority of its then members, by meeting or by writing filed without a meeting. The Committee shall maintain adequate records concerning the Plan and concerning its proceedings and acts in such form and detail as the Committee may decide. 5.4 Delegation by Committee. Except to the extent prohibited by applicable law or the applicable rules of a Stock exchange, the Committee may allocate all or any portion of its powers and responsibilities to any one or more of its members and may delegate all or part of its responsibilities and powers to any person or persons selected by it. Any such allocation or delegation may be revoked by the Committee at any time. 5.5 Information to be Furnished to Committee. The Company and Related Companies shall furnish the Committee with such data and information as may be requested by the Committee in order to discharge its duties. The records of the Company and Related Companies as to an Eligible Individual's or a Participant's employment, consulting services, termination of employment or services, leave of absence, reemployment and compensation shall be conclusive on all persons unless determined to be incorrect by the Committee. Participants and other persons entitled to benefits under the Plan must furnish the Committee such evidence, data or information as the Committee considers necessary or desirable to carry out the terms of the Plan. Section 6 Amendment and Termination 6.1 Board's Right to Amend or Terminate. Subject to the limitations set forth in this Section 6, the Board may, at any time, amend or terminate the Plan. 6.2 Amendments Requiring Stockholder Approval. Other than as provided in subsection 4.2 (c) (relating to certain adjustments to shares), the approval of the Company's stockholders shall be required for any amendment which: (i) materially increases the maximum number of Shares that may be delivered to Participants under the Plan set forth in subsection 4.2(a); (ii) increases the maximum limitations contained in 1998 EMPLOYEE INCENTIVE PLAN Page 10 Amended & Restated to Reflect 2 for 1 Stock Split on 7/20/99 and 7/21/2000 Amendment to Plan Approved May 18, 2000 Amendment to Plan Approved May 15, 2003 Amendment to Plan Approved May 19, 2005
Section 4.2(b); (iii) decreases the exercise price of any Option or SAR below the minimum provided in subsection 2.2; (iv) modifies or eliminates the provisions stated in the final two sentences of subsection 2.2; or (v) increases the maximum term of any Option or SAR set forth in Section 2.3. Whenever the approval of the Company's stockholders is required pursuant to this subsection 6.2, such approval shall be sufficient if obtained by a majority vote of those stockholders present or represented and actually voting on the matter at a meeting of stockholders duly called, at which meeting a majority of the outstanding shares actually vote on such matter. Section 7 Defined Terms For the purposes of the Plan, the terms listed below shall be defined as follows: Award. The term "Award" shall mean, individually and collectively, any award or benefit granted to any Participant under the Plan, including, without limitation, the grant of Options, SARs, Stock Awards and Other Incentive Awards. Award Agreement. The term "Award Agreement" is defined in subsection 4.10. Board. The term "Board" shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company. Code. The term "Code" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. A reference to any provision of the Code shall include reference to any successor provision of the Code or of any law that is enacted to replace the Code. Eligible Individual. The term "Eligible Individual" shall mean any employee of the Company or a Related Company. For purposes of the Plan, the status of the Chairman of the Board of Directors as an employee shall be determined by the Committee. Fair Market Value. For purposes of determining the "Fair Market Value" of a Share, the following rules shall apply: (i) If the Shares are at the time listed or admitted to trading on any stock exchange, then the Fair Market Value shall be the mean between the lowest and the highest reported sales prices of the Shares on the date in question on the principal exchange on which the Shares are then listed or admitted to trading. If no reported sale of Shares take place on the date in question on the principal exchange, then the reported closing asked price of the Shares on such date on the principal exchange shall be determinative of Fair Market Value. (ii) If the Shares are not at the time listed or admitted to trading on a stock exchange, the Fair Market Value shall be the mean between the lowest reported bid price and the highest reported asked price of the Shares on the date in question in the over-the-counter market, as such prices are reported in a publication of 1998 EMPLOYEE INCENTIVE PLAN Page 11 Amended & Restated to Reflect 2 for 1 Stock Split on 7/20/99 and 7/21/2000 Amendment to Plan Approved May 18, 2000 Amendment to Plan Approved May 15, 2003 Amendment to Plan Approved May 19, 2005
general circulation selected by the Committee and regularly reporting the market price of the Shares in such market. (iii) If the Shares are not listed or admitted to trading on any stock exchange or traded in the over-the-counter market, the Fair Market Value shall be as determined by the Committee, acting in good faith. Named Executive Employee. The term "Named Executive Employee" means a Participant who, as of the date of vesting and/or payout of an Award, as applicable, is one of the group of covered employees, as defined in the regulations promulgated under Code section 162(m), or any successor statute. Participant. The term "Participant" means an Eligible Individual who has been granted an Award under the Plan. For purposes of the administration of Awards, the term Participant shall also include a former employee or any person (including an estate) who is a beneficiary of a former employee and any person (including any estate) to whom an Award has been assigned or transferred as permitted by the Committee. Performance-Based Exception. The term "Performance-Based Exception" means the performance-based exception from the tax deductibility limitations of Code section 162(m). Performance Goals. The term "Performance Goals" means one or more objective targets measured by the Performance Measure, the attainment of which may determine the degree of payout and/or vesting with respect to Awards. Performance Period. The term "Performance Period" means the time period during which Performance Goals must be achieved with respect to an Award, as determined by the Committee, but which period shall not be shorter than one of the Company's fiscal years. Performance Measure. The term "Performance Measure" refers to the performance measures discussed in Section 9 of the Plan. Related Companies. The term "Related Company" means (i) any corporation, partnership, joint venture or other entity during any period in which such corporation, partnership, joint venture or other entity owns, directly or indirectly, at least fifty percent (50%) of the voting power of all classes of voting shares of the Company (or any corporation, partnership, joint venture or other entity which is a successor to the Company); (ii) any corporation, partnership, joint venture or other entity during any period in which the Company (or any corporation, partnership, joint venture or other entity which is a successor to the Company or any entity that is a Related Company by 1998 EMPLOYEE INCENTIVE PLAN Page 12 Amended & Restated to Reflect 2 for 1 Stock Split on 7/20/99 and 7/21/2000 Amendment to Plan Approved May 18, 2000 Amendment to Plan Approved May 15, 2003 Amendment to Plan Approved May 19, 2005
reason of clause (i) next above) owns, directly or indirectly, at least a fifty percent (50%) voting or profits interest; or (iii) any business venture in which the Company has a significant interest, as determined in the discretion of the Committee. Shares. The term "Shares" shall mean shares of the Common Stock of the Company, $.01 par value, as presently constituted, subject to adjustment as provided in paragraph 4.2(c) above. Section 8 Other Incentive Awards 8.1 Grant of Other Incentive Awards. Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan, Other Incentive Awards may be granted Eligible Individuals, in such amount, upon such terms, and at any time and from time to time as shall be determined by the Committee. 8.2 Other Incentive Award Agreement. Each Other Incentive Award shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify the amount of the Other Incentive Award or the means by which it will be calculated, the terms and conditions applicable to such Award, the applicable Performance Period and Performance Goals, if any, and such other provisions as the Committee shall determine, in all cases subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan. 8.3 Nontransferability. Except as otherwise provided in the applicable Award Agreement, Other Incentive Awards may not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned or otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution. 8.4 Form and Timing of Payment of Other Incentive Awards. Payment of Other Incentive Awards shall be made in cash and at such times as established by the Committee subject to the terms of the Plan. Section 9 Performance-Based Exception 9.1 Performance Measures. Unless and until the Board proposes for stockholder vote and the stockholders of the Company approve a change thereto, the Performance Measures used to determine the attainment of Performance Goals with respect to Other Incentive Awards and Stock Awards to Named Executive Employees which are designed to qualify for the Performance-Based Exception shall be any one or more of the following: (I) as reported in the Company's Annual Report to Stockholders which is included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K, (A) the Company's consolidated net earnings or (B) the Company's consolidated earnings per share on a diluted basis; and (II) the Company's consolidated return on average assets in each of the 1998 EMPLOYEE INCENTIVE PLAN Page 13 Amended & Restated to Reflect 2 for 1 Stock Split on 7/20/99 and 7/21/2000 Amendment to Plan Approved May 18, 2000 Amendment to Plan Approved May 15, 2003 Amendment to Plan Approved May 19, 2005
fiscal years in the Performance Period, expressed as a percentage, and then averaged over the entire Performance Period; in each of the fiscal years in the Performance Period, average assets will be computed by averaging total assets at the beginning and at the end of the fiscal year; to compute return on average assets in any such fiscal year, net earning for such fiscal year shall be divided by average assets. The Committee may appropriately adjust any evaluation of performance under a Performance Goal to exclude any of the following events that occurs during a Performance Period: (i) asset write-downs, (ii) litigation or claim judgment or settlements, (iii) the effect of changes in tax law, accounting principles or other such laws or provisions affecting reported results, (iv) accruals for reorganization and restructuring programs, and (v) extraordinary non-recurring items as described in Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 30 and/or in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations appearing in said Annual Report for the applicable year. 9.2 Discretion to Adjust Awards/Performance Goals. The Committee may retain the discretion to adjust the determination of the degree of attainment of the pre-established Performance Goals for Awards; provided, however, that Awards which are designed to qualify for the Performance-Based Exception, and which are held by Named Executive Officers, may not be subjected to an adjustment which would yield an increased payout, although the Committee may retain the discretion to make an adjustment which would yield a decreased payout. In the event that applicable tax and/or securities laws change to permit the Committee discretion to alter the governing Performance Measure for Awards designed to quality for the Performance-Based Exception and held by Named Executive Officers without obtaining stockholder approval of such change, the Committee shall have sole discretion to make such change without obtaining stockholder approval. In addition, in the event that the Committee determines that it is advisable to grant Awards which will not qualify for the Performance-Based Exception, the Committee may make such grants without satisfying the requirements of Code Section 162(m). Section 10 Successors All obligations of the Company under the Plan with respect to Awards shall be binding on any successor to the Company, whether the existence of such successor is the result of a direct or indirect purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise, of all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company. 1998 EMPLOYEE INCENTIVE PLAN Page 14 Amended & Restated to Reflect 2 for 1 Stock Split on 7/20/99 and 7/21/2000 Amendment to Plan Approved May 18, 2000 Amendment to Plan Approved May 15, 2003 Amendment to Plan Approved May 19, 2005

Exhibit 10.49a Corrected Version INDEMNITY AGREEMENT ------------------- This Agreement is made as of the _______ day of March, 2005 between TIFFANY & CO., a Delaware corporation (the "Corporation") and the undersigned (the "Indemnitee"), with reference to the following facts: A. The Indemnitee is currently serving as a director and/or has in the past served as, is currently serving as or in the future may serve as an officer, director, partner, employee, agent, trustee or fiduciary ( a "Company Agent") of the Corporation and/or of one or more corporations now or hereafter owned, whether wholly or partially, directly or indirectly, by the Corporation (hereinafter referred to collectively as "Subsidiaries"). In each such case with respect to service to a Subsidiary, the Indemnitee is so serving at the request of the Corporation. B. The By-Laws of the Corporation require indemnification of directors and officers of the Corporation and persons who, at the request of the Corporation, serve as directors and officers of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise to the fullest extent permitted by the laws of the State of Delaware. C. The indemnification provisions of Section 145 of the Delaware General Corporation Law and of the By-Laws of the Corporation specifically provide that they are not exclusive and thereby contemplate that agreements may be entered into between the Corporation and directors and officers of the Corporation or others who serve as directors and/or officers of any Subsidiary with respect to the indemnification of such persons. D. In addition to the indemnification to which the Indemnitee is entitled pursuant to the By-Laws of the Corporation, and as additional consideration for the Indemnitee's service, the Corporation furnishes at its expense directors' and officers' liability insurance ("D&O Insurance") protecting the Indemnitee in connection with such service. E. Recent developments with respect to the cost, terms and availability of D&O Insurance and with respect to the application, amendment and enforcement of statutory and by-law indemnification provisions generally have raised questions concerning the adequacy and reliability of the protection afforded thereby. F. In recent years, litigation seeking to impose liability on directors and officers of corporations, particularly publicly held corporations, has become commonplace. Such litigation is extremely expensive to defend, with defense costs frequently amounting to hundreds of thousands, and sometimes millions, of dollars. In many cases, costs of defense far exceed the means of individual defendants, even if they are ultimately vindicated on the issue of individual liability or wrongdoing. In addition, in view of the costs and uncertainties of litigation, it is often prudent to settle such claims. While settlements are frequently for only a small fraction of the amount
claimed, they may nonetheless exceed the financial resources of individual defendants. Finally, the specter of possible liability for millions of dollars based on novel or unforeseen interpretations of law can be a significant deterrent to persons accepting positions of responsibility with a public corporation. G. The Corporation desires that the Indemnitee remain free in his or her service to the Corporation, or to any Subsidiary or to any other corporation, partnership, joint venture, association, employee benefit plan, trust or other enterprise or organization to which the Indemnitee renders services as a Company Agent at the request of the Corporation (hereinafter an "Other Enterprise") to exercise his or her best judgment in the performance of his or her duties without undue concern for litigation claims for damages arising out of or related to the performance of such duties and expenses related thereto. NOW THEREFORE, in order to induce the Indemnitee to continue to serve at the request of the Corporation as a Company Agent of the Corporation, any Subsidiary or Other Enterprise, and in consideration for his or her continued service, the Corporation hereby agrees to indemnify the Indemnitee as follows: 1. Indemnification of the Indemnitee. ---------------------------------- 1.1 General Indemnity Obligation. The Corporation hereby agrees to hold harmless and indemnify the Indemnitee, subject to Sections 1.3 and 2 hereof, for any amount which the Indemnitee is or becomes legally obligated to pay because of any claim or claims made against him or her, because of any act or omission or neglect or breach of duty, including, without limitation, any actual or alleged error or misstatement or misleading statement, which the Indemnitee commits or suffers or permits to occur while acting in any capacity as a Company Agent of the Corporation, any Subsidiary or any Other Enterprise, in any such case whether the basis of such Proceeding, as such term is hereinafter defined, is alleged action or inaction in an official capacity as such Company Agent or in any other capacity while serving as a Company Agent and also in any such case whether or not the Indemnitee is acting or serving in such Capacity at the date hereof, at the time liability is incurred or at the time the claim is asserted. The payments which the corporation shall be obligated to make hereunder shall include, inter alia, all damages, liabilities, losses, costs, charges, expenses (including fees and disbursements of attorneys, accountants and other experts), judgments, penalties, and fines, excise taxes (including excise taxes arising under the Employment Retirement Income Security Act ("ERISA")), costs of attachment or similar bonds, amounts paid or to be paid in settlement that are reasonably incurred by the Indemnitee in connection with the investigation, defense, settlement or satisfaction of any threatened, pending or completed action, suit, claim, investigation, arbitration or proceeding (whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative and whether before a court or arbitrator or before or involving a governmental, administrative or private entity), including without limitation an action by or in the right of the Corporation, and appeals therefrom (a "Proceeding"). 1.2 Indemnification for Serving as Witness. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Corporation shall indemnify the Indemnitee against all costs, charges and 2
expenses (including fees and disbursements of attorneys, accountants and other experts) actually and reasonably incurred by the Indemnitee in connection with the preparation to serve or service as a witness in any Proceeding to which the Indemnitee is not a party if such actual or proposed service as a witness arose by reason of the Indemnitee having served as a Company Agent of the Corporation, any Subsidiary or any Other Enterprise. 1.3 Affirmative Actions By the Indemnitee. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, except as provided in Section 6 with respect to Proceedings seeking to enforce rights to indemnification, the Corporation shall indemnify the Indemnitee in connection with a Proceeding (or a part thereof) initiated by the Indemnitee only if such Proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized or is later ratified by the Board of Directors of the Corporation. 1.4 Payment of Indemnification. The Corporation will from time to time pay to the Indemnitee amounts to which he is entitled under the terms of this Agreement notwithstanding the fact that the Indemnitee is indemnified pursuant to any D&O Insurance purchased and maintained by the Corporation, any Subsidiary or any Other Enterprise for the benefit of the Indemnitee or is otherwise entitled to indemnification from any other source, provided the Indemnitee complies with Sections 4 and 5 hereof. 2. Limitations of the Indemnity ---------------------------- (a) No indemnity shall be paid by the Corporation pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement if, prior to the date of payment thereof, a final determination that such indemnification is not lawful shall have been made pursuant to Section 6 hereof or full payment thereof has theretofore been made to the Indemnitee pursuant to D&O Insurance or by the Corporation otherwise than pursuant to this Agreement. (b) In addition, no indemnity shall be paid by the Corporation pursuant to Section 1.1 or 6 hereof: (i) in respect of a claim based upon or attributable to the Indemnitee gaining in fact any personal profit or advantage to which he was not legally entitled; (ii) for an accounting of profits made from the purchase or sale by the Indemnitee of securities of the Corporation within the meaning of Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; (iii) on account of the Indemnitee's conduct if and only if it has been finally determined pursuant to Section 6 hereof that (A) the Indemnitee committed acts of active and deliberate dishonesty with actual dishonest purpose and intent and (B) such acts are material or were material to the cause of action against the Indemnitee with respect to which indemnification is sought hereunder; or (iv) for a violation of Section 174 of the Law. 3
3. Advancement and Repayment of Expenses. Costs, charges and expenses (including fees and disbursements of attorneys, accountants and other experts) incurred by the Indemnitee in defending or investigating a Proceeding as set forth in Section 1.1 hereof or preparing to serve or service as a witness in any Proceeding under Section 1.2 hereof or in connection with any action initiated pursuant to Section 6 hereof shall be paid by the Corporation when due in advance of the final disposition of such matter, provided the Indemnitee shall undertake in writing to repay any such advances in the event that a final determination pursuant to Section 6 hereof is made that the Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification under this Agreement. 4. Subrogation. In the event of any payment under this Agreement to or on behalf of the Indemnitee, the Corporation shall be subrogated to the extent of such payment to all of the rights of recovery of the Indemnitee against any person other than the Corporation or the Indemnitee in respect of the claim giving rise to such payment and the Indemnitee shall execute all papers reasonably required and shall do every thing reasonably necessary to secure such rights, including the execution of such documents reasonably necessary to enable the Corporation effectively to bring suit to enforce such rights. 5. Notification and Defense of Claim. The Indemnitee shall give to the Corporation notice in writing as soon as practicable of any claim made against him or her for which indemnity will or could be sought under this Agreement. Notice to the Corporation shall be directed to Tiffany & Co., 600 Madison Avenue, New York, New York 10022, attention: General Counsel (or such other address as the Corporation shall designate in writing to the Indemnitee). Failure of the Indemnitee to give such notice shall not relieve the Corporation of its obligations hereunder, except to the extent the Corporation is actually damaged as a result thereof. With respect to a Proceeding of which the Corporation is so notified: (a) the Corporation will be entitled to participate therein at its own expense; and (b) except as otherwise provided below in this Section 5, the Corporation will be entitled to assume the defense thereof, with legal counsel reasonably acceptable to the Indemnitee. After notice from the Corporation to the Indemnitee of its election so to assume such defense, the Corporation shall not be liable to the Indemnitee under this Agreement for any legal or other expenses subsequently incurred by the Indemnitee in connection with such Proceeding, other than reasonable costs of investigation or as otherwise provided below in this Section 5 or in Section 7.4. The Indemnitee shall have the right to employ his own counsel in such Proceeding but the fees and expenses of such counsel incurred after notice from the Corporation of its assumption of the defense thereof shall be at the expense of the Indemnitee unless (i) the employment of counsel by the Indemnitee has been authorized by the Corporation, (ii) counsel to the Indemnitee shall have reasonably concluded that there may be a conflict of interest or position on any significant issue between the Corporation and the Indemnitee in the conduct of the defense of such action, or (iii) the Corporation shall not in fact have employed counsel to assume the defense of such action, in each 4
of which cases the fees and expenses of counsel for the Indemnitee shall be at the expense of the Corporation, except as otherwise expressly provided by this Agreement. The Corporation shall not be entitled to assume the defense of any Proceeding brought by or on behalf of the Corporation or as to which counsel for the Indemnitee shall have reasonably made the conclusion provided for in (ii) above. 6. Determination of Right to Indemnification. If a claim for indemnification or advancement of expenses pursuant to this Agreement is not paid in full by the Corporation within 60 days after a written claim has been received by the Corporation, except in the case of a claim for an advancement of expenses, in which case the applicable period shall be 20 days, the Indemnitee may at any time thereafter bring suit against the Corporation to recover the unpaid amount of the claim. In (i) any suit brought by the Indemnitee to enforce a right to indemnification hereunder (but not in a suit brought by the Indemnitee to enforce a right to an advancement of expenses) it shall be a defense that, and (ii) any suit by the Corporation to recover an advancement of expenses pursuant to the terms of an undertaking the Corporation shall be entitled to recover such expenses upon a final adjudication that, such indemnification or advancement of expenses is not lawful or is not permitted by the provisions of Section 2 of this Agreement.. Neither the failure of the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel or its stockholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such suit that indemnification of the Indemnitee is proper in the circumstances, nor an actual determination by the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel or its stockholders) that indemnification is not lawful or is not permitted hereunder, shall create a presumption, be considered a final determination for purposes of Section 2(a) above or otherwise be considered as an indication that the Indemnitee has not met the applicable standard of conduct or, in the case of such a suit brought by the Indemnitee, be a defense to such suit. In any suit brought by the Indemnitee to enforce a right to indemnification or to an advancement of expenses hereunder, or by the Corporation to recover an advancement of expenses pursuant to the terms of an undertaking, the burden of proving that the Indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified, or to such advancement of expenses, under this Section or otherwise, shall be on the Corporation. The Corporation and Indemnitee agree that any action to determine the rights and obligations of the Indemnitee and the Corporation under this Agreement or an undertaking with respect to the advancement of expenses hereunder shall be brought only in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware, which shall be the sole jurisdiction and venue therefor; and each of the parties hereby waives any objection thereto. A decision of such court shall not constitute a final determination for purposes of this Agreement until such decision has become final and is no longer subject to appeal. 7. Miscellaneous Provisions. ------------------------- 7.1 Successors and Assigns. This Agreement shall be binding upon all successors and assigns of the Corporation (including any transferee of all or substantially all of its assets and any successor by merger or operation of law) and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, personal representatives, executors, administrators or assigns of the Indemnitee. 5
7.2 Savings Clause. Each of the provisions of this Agreement is a separate and distinct agreement and independent of the others. If this Agreement or any portion hereof shall be invalidated on any ground by any court of competent jurisdiction, this Agreement shall be deemed to be modified to the least extent possible to make it valid and enforceable and the Corporation shall nevertheless indemnify the Indemnitee to the fullest extent permitted by any applicable portion of this Agreement that shall not have been invalidated and to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law. 7.3 Rights Not Exclusive; Continuation of Right of Indemnification. Nothing herein shall be deemed to diminish or otherwise restrict the Indemnitee's rights to indemnification under any provision of the Certificate of Incorporation or By-Laws of the Corporation, any agreement, vote of stockholders or of Disinterested Directors, applicable law or otherwise. This Agreement shall continue until and terminate upon the later of (i) the tenth anniversary after the Indemnitee has ceased to occupy any of the positions or have any of the relationships described in Section 1.1 of this Agreement or (ii) the final termination or resolution of all proceedings with respect to the Indemnitee commenced during such 10 year period. 7.4 Obligations of Indemnitee to Cooperate. The Indemnitee shall cooperate with the Corporation with respect to any Proceeding that is the subject of a claim for indemnification hereunder as the Corporation may reasonably require and with any person or entity making a determination of the Indemnitee's entitlement to indemnification pursuant to Section 6(a) or 6(e) hereof. The Indemnitee shall provide to the Corporation or the person or entity responsible for making the Section 6(a) or 6(e) determination upon reasonable advance request any documentation or information reasonably available to the Indemnitee and necessary to (i) the Corporation with respect to any Proceeding or claim by the Indemnitee for indemnification or (ii) to the person or entity responsible for making the Section 6(a) or 6(e) determination with respect to such determination, as the case may be. Any costs or expenses (including fees and disbursements of attorneys, accountants and other experts) incurred by the Indemnitee in so cooperating with the Corporation or with the person or entity making such determination or in cooperating with the Corporation under Section 4 hereof shall be borne by the Corporation (irrespective of the determination as to the Indemnitee's entitlement to indemnification under this Agreement) and the Corporation hereby agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Indemnitee therefrom. 7.5 Contributions. In order to provide for just and equitable contribution in circumstances in which the indemnification provided for herein is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be unavailable to the Indemnitee in whole or in part, the parties agree that, in such event, the Corporation shall contribute to payment of the Indemnitee's losses in an amount that is just and equitable in the circumstances, taking into account, among other things, contributions by other directors and officers of the Corporation pursuant to Indemnity Agreements or otherwise. The Corporation and the Indemnitee agree that, except for losses incurred by an Indemnitee attributable to conduct on the part of the Indemnitee described in Section 2(b), it would not be just and equitable for the Indemnitee to contribute to the payment of losses arising out of any Proceeding in an amount greater than: (i) in a case where the Indemnitee is a Director of the Corporation, but not an officer of the Corporation, an amount equal to five (5) times the amount of 6
fees paid to the Indemnitee for serving as a director during the 12 months preceding the commencement of such Proceeding; or (ii) in a case where the Indemnitee is a Director and an officer of the Corporation, the amount set forth in clause (i) plus 25% of the aggregate cash compensation paid to the Indemnitee for service in such office(s) during said 12 months; or (iii) in a case where the Indemnitee is an officer of the Corporation, 25% of the aggregate cash compensation paid to the Indemnitee for service in such office(s) during said 12 months. The Corporation shall contribute to the payment of losses covered hereby to the extent not payable by the Indemnitee pursuant to the contribution provisions set forth in the preceding sentence. 7.6 Subsequent Amendment. No amendment, termination or repeal of Article VI of the Corporation's By-Laws, Article EIGHTH of the Corporation's Certificate of Incorporation, or any successor Articles thereto, or of any relevant provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law or any other applicable laws shall affect or diminish in any way the rights of the Indemnitee to indemnification or the obligations of the Corporation arising under this Agreement whether the alleged actions or conduct of the Indemnitee giving rise to the necessity of such indemnification arose before or after any such amendment, termination or repeal. 7.7 Governing Law. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with Delaware Law. 7.8 Headings. The headings of the Sections of this Agreement are inserted for convenience only and shall not be deemed to constitute a part of this Agreement or to affect the construction thereof. 7.9 Identical Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts all of which taken together shall constitute one instrument. [The balance of this page has been left intentionally blank] 7
7.10 Modification and Waiver. No supplement, modification or amendment of this Agreement shall be binding unless executed in writing by both of the parties hereto. No waiver of any of the provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed or shall constitute a waiver of any other provision hereof (whether or not similar) nor shall such waiver constitute a continuing waiver. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed and signed as of the day and year first above written. TIFFANY & CO. By: _____________________________ Name: Patrick B. Dorsey Title: Senior Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel INDEMNITEE _____________________________ Name: [Name of Executive] 8

Exhibit 10.140a PERFORMANCE- BASED RESTRICTED STOCK GRANT Terms TIFFANY & CO. a Delaware Corporation (the "Company") TERMS OF PERFORMANCE-BASED RESTRICTED STOCK GRANT (Non-Transferable) under the 1998 EMPLOYEE INCENTIVE PLAN and 2005 EMPLOYEE INCENTIVE PLAN (either plan, the "Plan") Terms Adopted January 20, 2005, as amended March 7, 2005 and May 19, 2005 1. Introduction and Terms of Grant. Participant has been granted (the "Grant") Stock Units which shall be settled by the issuance and delivery of Shares of the Company's Common Stock. The Grant has been made under the Plan by the Stock Option Subcommittee of the Company's Board of Directors (the "Committee"). The name of the "Participant", the "Grant Date", the number of "Stock Units" granted, the "Performance Period", the "Earnings Threshold", the "Earnings Target", the "Earnings Maximum" and the "ROA Target" are stated in the attached "Notice of Grant". The other terms and conditions of the Grant are stated in this document and in the Plan. Certain initially capitalized words and phrases used in this document are defined in section 10 below and elsewhere in this document or in the Plan. Reference to Stock Units in this document is reference to all or part of the Stock Units which are subject to the Grant, and not to other Stock Units that have been granted or that may be granted in the future. This Grant will be void unless the Participant executes and delivers to the Company those certain Non-Competition and Confidentiality Covenants in the form approved by the Committee, such delivery to be made within 180 days of the Grant Date. 2. Grant and Adjustment. Subject to the terms and conditions stated in this document, Participant has been granted Stock Units by the Company. As of the Grant Date, each Stock Unit has a Settlement Value of one Share, but the number of Shares which shall be issued and delivered pursuant to the Grant on the settlement of each Stock Unit (the "Settlement Value") shall be subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4.2(c) of the Plan, to adjust for, among other corporate developments, stock splits and stock dividends. References to Settlement Values in this document shall be deemed reference to Settlement Values as so adjusted. As anticipated in Section 4.7 of the Plan, Shares that have not been issued and delivered to a Participant shall be represented by Stock Units. 3. Performance Vesting. Unless otherwise provided in sections 4 or 5 below, the Performance Portion (as defined below) of the Stock Units will vest three business days following the public announcement of the Company's audited, consolidated financial results for the last fiscal year in the Performance Period (the "Maturity Date"). A Stock Unit that has vested is herein referred to as a "Vested Unit." Promptly following the Maturity Date, the Settlement Value of each Vested Unit, shall be issued and delivered to or for the account of Participant in Shares. As provided for in Section 7 below, the Company may make such delivery to a Service Provider. In all circumstances, a Stock Unit which fails to vest on or before the Maturity Date shall be void and shall not confer upon the owner of such Stock Unit any rights, including any right to any Share. In the event that any provision of this document would otherwise result in the issuance of a fractional Share, the Company will not be obligated to issue such fractional Share. The "Performance Portion" shall be a percentage of the Stock Units calculated as hereinafter provided (provided that the Performance Portion shall never exceed 100% of the Stock Units):
(a) The Performance Portion shall be 0% of the Stock Units if the Earnings Threshold is not attained over the Performance Period. (b) Subject to subsection (d) below, if the Earnings Threshold has been attained over the Performance Period, the Performance Portion shall be the Earnings Component increased by 15% if the ROA Target is attained and reduced by 15% if the ROA Target is not attained. (c) The "Earnings Component" shall be a percentage of the Stock Units, pro-rated on the basis of actual Cumulative Earnings from between 30% to 87.5% of the Stock Units so that Earnings Component will be: (i) 30% if the Earnings Threshold is achieved but not exceeded; (ii)50% if the Earnings Target is achieved but not exceeded; and (iii) 87.5% if the Earnings Maximum is achieved or exceeded. (d) In the event that the stockholders of the Company fail to approve an amendment to Section 9.1 of the Plan allowing the use of return on average assets as a Performance Measure prior to the end of the Performance Period, the Earnings Component will be neither increased nor decreased whether or not the ROA Target is attained or not attained. "Earnings" means the Company's consolidated earnings per share on a diluted basis, as reported in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K, aggregated over the Performance Period and as adjusted by the Committee as provided for below and in the Plan. The "Earnings Threshold", "Earnings Target" and "Earnings Maximum" are expressed in the Notice of Grant as functions of Earnings, as so defined. "ROA" means the Company's consolidated return on average assets in each of the fiscal years in the Performance Period, expressed as a percentage, and then averaged over the entire Performance Period. In each of the fiscal years average assets will be computed by averaging total assets at the beginning and at the end of the fiscal year; net earnings for such fiscal years shall be divided by average assets. Both total assets and net earnings shall be as reported in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K. The "ROA Target" is expressed in the Notice of Grant as a function of ROA, as so defined. Each of Earnings and ROA is a "Performance Goal". The Committee shall appropriately adjust any evaluation of attainment of a Performance Goal to exclude any of the following events that occurs during a Performance Period: (i) asset write-downs, (ii) litigation or claim judgments or settlements, (iii) the effect of changes in tax law, accounting principles or other such laws or provisions affecting reported results, (iv) accruals for reorganization and restructuring programs, and (v) extraordinary non-recurring items as described in Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 30 and/or in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations appearing in said Annual Report for the applicable year. 4. Effect of Termination of Employment on Vesting. Except as provided in this Section 4, no Stock Units shall vest if the Participant's Date of Termination occurs before the conclusion of the Performance Period: (a) if the Participant's Date of Termination occurs by reason of death or Disability within the last fiscal year of the Performance Period, Stock Units shall vest as provided in Section 3 above as Tiffany & Co. 1998 Employee Incentive Plan Tiffany & Co. 2005 Employee Incentive Plan Performance-Based Stock Grant: Terms of Stock Grant Award - Rev. II Page 2
though the Participant's Date of Termination had not occurred before the conclusion of the Performance Period; (b) if the Participant's Date of Termination occurs by reason of death or Disability within the second fiscal year of the Performance Period, 60% of Stock Units shall vest on the date of such death or Disability; (c) if the Participant's Date of Termination occurs by reason of death or Disability within the first fiscal year of the Performance Period, 30% of Stock Units shall vest on the date of such death or Disability; (d) if the Participant's Date of Termination occurs by reason of Cause, no Stock Units shall vest; (e) if the Participant's Date of Termination occurs by reason of Participant's voluntary resignation, no Stock Units shall vest; and (f) if the Participant's Date of Termination occurs at the initiative of the Participant's employer (but not for Cause) the Committee reserves the right to vest up to the following percentages of the Stock Units, but may condition such vesting upon Participant's release of the Company and its affiliates from all claims, Participant's agreement to reasonable non-competition covenants or both: (i) 100% of the Stock Units if the Date of Termination occurs in the last fiscal year of the Performance Period; (ii) 70% of the Stock Units if the Date of Termination occurs in the second fiscal year of the Performance Period; and (iii)40% of the Stock Units if the Date of Termination occurs in the first fiscal year of the Performance Period. In the event of vesting pursuant to subsections (b) through (f) above, the Settlement Value of each Vested Unit shall, promptly after vesting, be issued and delivered to or for the account of Participant in Shares. As provided for in Section 7 below, the Company may make such delivery to a Service Provider. 5. Effect of Change in Control on Vesting. All Stock Units shall vest upon the date of a Change of Control unless the Participant's Date of Termination occurs before the date of the Change of Control. The Committee reserves the right to unilaterally amend the definition of a "Change of Control" so as to specify additional circumstances which shall be deemed to constitute a Change of Control. In the event of vesting pursuant to this Section 5, the Settlement Value of each Vested Unit shall, promptly after vesting, be issued and delivered to or for the account of Participant in Shares. As provided for in Section 7 below, the Company may make such delivery to a Service Provider. 6. No Dividends or Interest. No dividends or interest shall accrue or be payable upon any Stock Unit. Until a Share is issued and delivered it shall not be registered in the name of the Participant. 7. Withholding for Taxes. All distributions of Shares shall be subject to withholding of all applicable taxes as computed by the Tiffany and Company finance department, and the Participant shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Company to provide the Company (or any Related Company) with funds necessary for such withholding before the Shares are delivered. Without limitation to the Company's right to establish other arrangements, the Company may: (i) designate a single broker or other financial Tiffany & Co. 1998 Employee Incentive Plan Tiffany & Co. 2005 Employee Incentive Plan Performance-Based Stock Grant: Terms of Stock Grant Award - Rev. II Page 3
services provider ("Services Provider") to establish trading accounts for Participants (each a "Participant's Trading Account"); (ii) deliver Shares to Participant's Trading Account; (iii) provide Services Provider with information concerning the applicable tax withholding rates for Participant; (iv) cause Services Provider to sell, on behalf of Participant, sufficient Shares to cover the Company's tax withholding obligations with respect to any delivery of Shares to Participant (a "Covering Sale"); and (v) cause Services Provider to remit funds resulting from such Covering Sale to Company or any Related Company that is the employer of Participant. As a condition to distribution the Company may require the Participant to provide the Services Provider with such signed applications, authorizations, powers and other documents necessary to accomplish the foregoing. Participant may, by written notice to the Company addressed to the Company's Secretary, and given no less than ten (10) business days before the Maturity Date or other applicable vesting date, elect to avoid such a Covering Sale by delivering with such notice a bank-certified check payable to the Company (or other type of check or draft payable to the Company and acceptable to the Secretary) in the estimated amount of any such withholding required, such estimate to be provided by the Tiffany and Company finance department. The Committee may approve other methods of withholding, as provided for in the Plan, before the Shares are delivered. 8. Transferability. The Stock Units are not transferable otherwise than by will or the laws of descent and distribution, and shall not be otherwise transferred, assigned, pledged, hypothecated or otherwise disposed of in any way, whether by operation of law or otherwise, nor shall it be subject to execution, attachment or similar process. Upon any attempt to transfer the Stock Units otherwise than as permitted herein or to assign, pledge, hypothecate or otherwise dispose of the Stock Units otherwise than as permitted herein, or upon the levy of any execution, attachment or similar process upon the Grant, the Grant shall immediately terminate and become null and void. 9. Definitions. For the purposes of the Grant, the words and phrases listed below shall be defined as follows: a. Affiliate and Person. "Affiliate" means, with reference to any Person, any second Person that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, any such first Person, directly or indirectly. "Person" means any individual, firm, corporation, partnership, limited partnership, limited liability partnership, business trust, limited liability company, unincorporated association or other entity, and shall include any successor (by merger or otherwise) of such entity. b. Cause. "Cause" means a termination of Participant's employment, involuntary on Participant's part, which is the result of: (i) Participant's conviction or plea of no contest to a felony involving financial impropriety or a felony which would tend to subject the Company or any of its Affiliates to public criticism or materially interfere with Participant's continued service to the Company or its Affiliate; (ii) Participant's willful and unauthorized disclosure of material "Confidential Information" (as that term is defined in the Non-Competition and Confidentiality Covenants) which disclosure actually results in substantive harm to the Company's or its Affiliate's business or puts such business at an actual competitive disadvantage; (iii)Participant's willful failure or refusal to perform substantially all such proper and achievable directives issued by Participant's superior (other than: (A) any such failure resulting from Participant's incapacity due to physical or mental illness, or (B) any such refusal made by Participant in good faith because Participant believes such directives to be illegal, unethical or immoral) after a written demand for substantial performance is delivered to Participant on behalf of Company, which demand specifically identifies the Tiffany & Co. 1998 Employee Incentive Plan Tiffany & Co. 2005 Employee Incentive Plan Performance-Based Stock Grant: Terms of Stock Grant Award - Rev. II Page 4
manner in which Participant has not substantially performed Participant's duties, and which performance is not substantially corrected by Participant within [ten (10)] days of receipt of such demand; (iv) Participant's commission of any willful act which is intended by Participant to result in his personal enrichment at the expense of the Company or any of its Affiliates, or which could reasonably be expected by him to materially injure the reputation, business or business relationships of the Company or any of its Affiliates; (v) A theft, fraud or embezzlement perpetrated by Participant upon Company or any of its Affiliates. For purposes of this definition, no act or failure to act on Participant's part shall be deemed "willful" unless done, or omitted to be done, by Participant in bad faith toward, or without reasonable belief that such action or omission was in the best interests of, Company or its Affiliate. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Participant shall not be deemed to have been terminated for Cause for the purposes of this Plan unless and until there shall have been delivered to Participant a copy of a resolution duly adopted by the affirmative vote of not less than three-fourths (3/4th) of the entire membership of the Board (exclusive of the Participant if Participant is a member of such Board) at a meeting called and held for such purpose (after reasonable notice to Participant and an opportunity for Participant, together with counsel for Participant, to be heard before such Board), finding that, in the good faith opinion of such Board, Cause exists as set forth above. c. Change of Control. A "Change of Control" shall be deemed to have occurred if : (i) any person (as used herein, the word "person" shall mean an individual or an entity) or group of persons acting in concert has acquired thirty-five percent (35%) in voting power or amount of the equity securities of the Company (including the acquisition of any right, Grant warrant or other right to obtain such voting power or amount, whether or not presently exercisable); (ii) individuals who constituted the Board of Directors of the Company on May 1, 1998 (the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of such Board of Directors, provided that any individual becoming a director subsequent to May 1, 1988 whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders, was approved by a vote of at least three-quarters of the directors comprising the Incumbent Board (either by a specific vote or by approval of the proxy statement of the Company in which such individual is named as a nominee for director) shall be, for the purposes of this section 9(c), considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board; or (iii)any other circumstance with respect to a change in control of the Company occurs which the Committee deems to be a Change in Control of the Company. A Change of Control which constitutes a Terminating Transaction will be deemed to have occurred as of fourteen days prior to the date scheduled for the Terminating Transaction. d. Code. The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. e. Date of Termination. The Participant's "Date of Termination" shall be the first day occurring on or after the Grant Date on which Participant's employment with the Company and all Related Companies terminates for any reason; provided that a termination of employment shall not be Tiffany & Co. 1998 Employee Incentive Plan Tiffany & Co. 2005 Employee Incentive Plan Performance-Based Stock Grant: Terms of Stock Grant Award - Rev. II Page 5
deemed to occur by reason of a transfer of the Participant between the Company and a Related Company or between two Related Companies; and further provided that the Participant's employment shall not be considered terminated while the Participant is on a leave of absence from the Company or a Related Company approved by the Participant's employer or required by applicable law. If, as a result of a sale or other transaction, the Participant's employer ceases to be a Related Company (and the Participant's employer is or becomes an entity that is separate from the Company), the occurrence of such transaction shall be treated as the Participant's Date of Termination at the initiative of the Participant's employer. f. Disability. Except as otherwise provided by the Committee, the Participant shall be considered to have a "Disability" if he or she is unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of a medically determinable physical or mental impairment, which impairment, in the opinion of a physician selected by the Secretary of the Company, is expected to have a duration of not less than 120 days. g. Plan Definitions. Except where the context clearly implies or indicates the contrary, a word, term, or phrase used in the Plan shall have the same meaning in this document. h. Market Value. The average of the high and low prices for the Shares as reported on The New York Stock Exchange for (i) the applicable vesting date if the vesting is a trading day, or (ii) if the vesting date is not a trading day, the trading day next following the vesting date. i. Terminating Transaction. As used herein, the phrase "Terminating Transaction" shall mean any one of the following: (i) the dissolution or liquidation of the Company; (ii) a reorganization, merger or consolidation of the Company; or (iii) a reorganization, merger or consolidation of the Company with one or more corporations as a result of which the Company goes out of existence or becomes a subsidiary of another corporation, or upon the acquisition of substantially all of the property or more than eighty percent (80%) of the then outstanding stock of the Company by another corporation. 10. Heirs and Successors. The terms of the Grant shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the Company and its successors and assigns, and upon any person acquiring, whether by merger, consolidation, purchase of assets or otherwise, all or substantially all of the Company's assets and business. Participant may designate a beneficiary of his/her rights under the Grant by filing written notice with the Secretary of the Company. In the event of the Participant's death prior to the full maturity of the Grant, the Shares will be delivered to such Beneficiary to the extent that it was matured on the Participant's Termination Date. If the Participant fails to designate a Beneficiary, or if the designated Beneficiary dies before the Participant, any Shares issuable hereunder will be delivered to the Participant's estate. 11. Administration. The authority to manage and control the operation and administration of the Grant shall be vested in the Committee, and the Committee shall have all powers with respect to the Grant as it has with respect to the Plan. Any interpretation of the Grant by the Committee and any decision made by it with respect to the Grant is final and binding. Tiffany & Co. 1998 Employee Incentive Plan Tiffany & Co. 2005 Employee Incentive Plan Performance-Based Stock Grant: Terms of Stock Grant Award - Rev. II Page 6
12. Plan Governs. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, the terms of the Grant shall be subject to the terms of the Plan, a copy of which may be obtained by the Participant from the office of the Secretary of the Company. Tiffany & Co. 1998 Employee Incentive Plan Tiffany & Co. 2005 Employee Incentive Plan Performance-Based Stock Grant: Terms of Stock Grant Award - Rev. II Page 7

Exhibit 10.141a For use in connection with Restricted Stock Unit Grants NON-COMPETITION AND CONFIDENTIALITY COVENANTS THIS INSTRUMENT is made and given this ___ day of _________ 2005 by ________________________________________________________("Participant") to and for the benefit of Tiffany and Company, a New York corporation and its Affiliates (as defined below) with reference to the following facts and circumstances: A. Participant wishes to receive Equity Awards which might be granted to Participant in the future or which have been granted to Participant on the condition that Participant executes and delivers this instrument; B. Participant may have received Equity Awards which, when granted, were not subject to the above condition; C. Participant may be or may become a Participant in and under the Excess Plan; D. Participant may be or may become a Participant in and under the Supplementary Retirement Plan; E. Participant is willing to make the promises set forth in this instrument, and to execute and deliver this instrument, in order to be eligible to receive Equity Awards in the future and to have the benefit of Equity Awards which have been granted to Participant on the condition that Participant executes and delivers this instrument; F. Participant understands that if Participant is or becomes a Participant in the Excess Plan or the Supplementary Retirement Plan the benefits Participant might receive under both plans will be forfeited for breach of covenants contained in this instrument; G. Participant understands that Equity Awards may be forfeited if Participant breaches the covenants contained in this instrument; H. Participant understands that the Proceeds of Equity Awards may become due and payable by Participant to Tiffany and Company if Participant breaches the covenants contained in this instrument; I. Participant agrees that the receipt of one or more Equity Awards is full and fair and consideration for the covenants made in this instrument.
NOW THEREFORE, Participant hereby agrees as follows: 1. Defined Terms. Unless otherwise defined in this instrument, words and phrases that have a defined meaning in the Excess Plan shall have the same meaning in this instrument. The initially capitalized words and phrases set forth below shall have the meanings ascribed to them below: "Affiliate" shall mean, with reference to any Person, any second Person that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, any such first Person, directly or indirectly. "Board" means the board of directors of Tiffany and Company, a New York corporation. "Cause" means a termination of Participant's employment, involuntary on Participant's part, which is the result of: (i) Participant's conviction or plea of no contest to a felony involving financial impropriety or a felony which would tend to subject the Company or any of its Affiliates to public criticism or materially interfere with Participant's continued service to the Company or its Affiliate; (ii) Participant's willful and unauthorized disclosure of material Confidential Information which disclosure actually results in substantive harm to the Company's or its Affiliate's business or puts such business at an actual competitive disadvantage; (iii)Participant's willful failure or refusal to perform substantially all such proper and achievable directives issued by Participant's superior (other than: (A) any such failure resulting from Participant's incapacity due to physical or mental illness, or (B) any such refusal made by Participant in good faith because Participant believes such directives to be illegal, unethical or immoral) after a written demand for substantial performance is delivered to Participant on behalf of Company, which demand specifically identifies the manner in which Participant has not substantially performed Participant's duties, and which performance is not substantially corrected by Participant within ten (10) days of receipt of such demand; (iv) Participant's commission of any willful act which is intended by Participant to result in his personal enrichment at the expense of the Company or any of its Affiliates, or which could reasonably be expected by him to materially injure the reputation, business or business relationships of the Company or any of its Affiliates; 2
(v) A theft, fraud or embezzlement perpetrated by Participant upon Company or any of its Affiliates. "Change in Control" means a change in control of Parent of a nature that would be required to be reported in response to Item 6(e) of Schedule 14A of Regulation 14A promulgated under the Exchange Act, whether or not Parent is then subject to such reporting requirement; provided, however, that, anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, a Change in Control shall be deemed to have occurred if: (i) any Person, or any syndicate or group deemed to be a person under Section 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act, excluding Parent or any of its Affiliates, a trustee or any fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of Parent or any of its Affiliates, an underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities or a corporation owned, directly or indirectly by stockholders of Parent in substantially the same proportion as their ownership of Parent, is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of Parent representing Thirty-five percent (35%) or more of the combined voting power of Parent's then outstanding securities entitled to vote in the election of directors of Parent; (ii) ten (10) days following the "Shares Acquisition Date" if any Person has in fact become and then remains an "Acquiring Person" under the Rights Plan; (iii)if the Parent Board should resolve to redeem the "Rights" under the Rights Plan in response to a proposal by any Person to acquire, directly or indirectly, securities of Parent representing Fifteen percent (15%) or more of the combined voting power of Parent's then outstanding securities entitled to vote in the election of directors of Parent; (iv) if the Incumbent Directors cease to constitute a majority of the Parent Board; provided, however, that no person shall be deemed an Incumbent Director if he or she was appointed or elected to the Parent Board after having been designated to serve on the Parent Board by a Person who has entered into an agreement with Parent to effect a transaction described in clauses (i), (iii), (v), (vi), (vii), (viii) or (ix) of this definition; (v) there occurs a reorganization, merger, consolidation or other corporate transaction involving Parent, in each case with respect to which the stockholders of Parent immediately prior to such 3
transaction do not, immediately after such transaction, own more than Fifty percent (50%) of the combined voting power of the Parent or other corporation resulting from such transaction, as the case may be; (vi) all or substantially all of the assets of Parent are sold, liquidated or distributed, except to an Affiliate of Parent; (vii)all or substantially all of the assets of Tiffany and Company are sold, liquidated or distributed, except to an Affiliate of Parent; (viii) any Person, or any syndicate or group deemed to be a person under Section 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act, excluding Parent or any of its Affiliates, a trustee or any fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of Parent or any of its Affiliates, an underwriter temporally holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities or a corporation owned, directly or indirectly by stockholders of Parent in substantially the same proportion as their ownership of Parent, is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of Tiffany and Company representing Fifty percent (50%) or more of the combined voting power of Tiffany and Company's then outstanding securities entitled to vote in the election of directors of Tiffany and Company; or (ix) there is a "change of control" or a "change in the effective control" of Parent within the meaning of Section 280G of the Code and the Regulations. "Change in Control Date" shall mean the date on which a Change of Control occurs. "Confidential Information" means all information relating in any manner to Tiffany or its business, including but not limited to, contemplated new products and services, marketing and advertising campaigns, sales projections, creative campaigns and themes, financial information, budgets and projections, system designs, employees, management procedures and systems, employee training materials, equipment, production plans and techniques, product and materials specifications, product designs and design techniques, client information (including purchase history and client identifying information) and vendor information (including the identity of vendors and information concerning the capacity of or products or pricing provided by specific vendors); notwithstanding the foregoing, "Confidential Information" shall not include information that becomes generally publicly available other than as a result of a disclosure by Participant or that becomes available to Participant on a non-confidential basis from a Person that to the Participant's knowledge, after due inquiry, is not bound by a duty of confidentiality. 4
"Covered Employee" means any person who, at any date relevant to this Agreement, is an employee of Tiffany or who was an employee of Tiffany during the one-year period previous to the date relevant to this Agreement. "Duration of Non-Competition Covenant" means the period beginning with Participant's Termination Date and ending upon the first to occur of the following: (i) the second year anniversary of Participant's Termination Date, (ii) Participant's Change of Control Date or (iii) Participant's 60th birthday provided that, in no circumstance shall the Duration of this Covenant be less than six months. "Equity Awards" means any grant of options to purchase, restricted shares of, stock units that may be settled in, or stock appreciation rights that may be measured by appreciation in the value of, the Common Stock of Tiffany & Co., a Delaware corporation, including any grants made under the terms of the 1998 Employee Incentive Plan or any plan adopted by Tiffany & Co. subsequent to the date of this instrument including grants made both before and after the date of this instrument. "Excess Plan" means the 2004 Tiffany and Company Un-funded Retirement Income Plan to Recognize Compensation In Excess of Internal Revenue Code Limits, as such plan may be amended from time to time. "Jewelry" means jewelry (including but not limited to precious metal or silver jewelry or jewelry containing gemstones) and watches. "Parent" means Tiffany & Co., a Delaware corporation. "Person" means any individual, firm, corporation, partnership, limited partnership, limited liability partnership, business trust, limited liability company, unincorporated association or other entity, and shall include any successor (by merger or otherwise) of such entity. "Proceeds of Equity Award" means, in U.S. dollars, (i) with respect to an Equity Award of restricted stock or stock units, the value the shares on the date the Equity Award vests, and, (ii) with respect to an Equity Award that is an option to purchase or a stock appreciation right, the spread between the strike price and the market value for the underlying shares on the exercise date, in each of cases (i) and (ii) measured by the simple average of the high and low selling prices on the principal market on which the shares are traded as of vesting or exercise date, as the case may be, if such vesting or exercise date is a trading date; if such vesting or exercise date is not a trading date, then as of trading date next following the vesting or exercise date. "Normal Retirement Age" means the later of (i) Participant's 65th birthday or (ii) the 5th anniversary from his date of hire. "Retail Jewelry Trade" means the operation of one or more retail outlets (including stores-within-stores, leased departments or concessions) selling Jewelry in any city in the 5
world in which a TIFFANY & CO. store is located at the time in question; for the purpose of this definition, a retail outlet will not be deemed engaged in the Retail Jewelry Trade if less than 5% of the items displayed for sale in such outlet are Jewelry, so that, by way of example, an apparel store that offers Jewelry as an incidental item would not be deemed engaged in the Retail Jewelry Trade. "Rights Plan" means the Amended and Restated Rights Agreement Dated as of September 22, 1998 by and between Tiffany & Co., a Delaware corporation, and ChaseMellon Shareholder Services L.L.C., as Rights Agent, as such Agreement may be further amended from time to time. "Supplementary Retirement Plan" means the 1994 Tiffany and Company Supplementary Retirement Income Plan, as such plan may be further amended from time to time. "Termination Date" means the date Participant ceases to be an employee of Tiffany or its Affiliate. "Tiffany" means Tiffany and Company, a New York corporation, and if the context so requires, Tiffany and Company and/or any Affiliate of Tiffany and Company, such term to be interpreted broadly so as to give rights equivalent to Tiffany and Company to any Affiliate of Tiffany and Company. "Wholesale Jewelry Trade" means the sale of Jewelry or gemstones to the Retail Jewelry Trade, the development or design of Jewelry for sale to the Retail Jewelry Trade or the production of Jewelry for sale to the Retail Jewelry Trade regardless of where in the world such activities are conducted. 2. Non-Competition. Participant agrees that for the Duration of the Non-Competition Covenant Participant will not directly or indirectly (whether as director, officer, consultant, principal, owner, member, partner, advisor, financier, employee, agent or otherwise): (i) engage in, assist, have any interest in or contribute Participant's knowledge and abilities to, any business or entity in the Retail Jewelry Trade or in the Wholesale Jewelry Trade or seeking to enter or about to become engaged in the Retail Jewelry Trade or the Wholesale Jewelry Trade (provided that this subsection shall not prohibit an investment by Participant not exceeding five percent of the outstanding securities of a publicly traded company); (ii) employ, attempt to employ, or assist anyone in employing a Covered Employee (including by influencing any Covered Employee to terminate his/her employment with Tiffany or to accept employment with any Person); or (iii) attempt in any manner to solicit jewelry purchases by any client of Tiffany or persuade any client of Tiffany to cease doing business or reduce the amount of business that such client has customarily done with Tiffany. 6
The provisions of Section 2(i) above shall not apply if Participant's employment with Tiffany or Tiffany's Affiliate is terminated by Tiffany or such Affiliate for reasons other than Cause or if, having reached Participant's Normal Retirement Age or Participant's Change of Control Date, Participant voluntarily resigns from such employment. The provisions of this Section 2 may be waived by the Board, in whole or in part, if deemed by the Board to be in the best interests of Tiffany and Company, provided, however, that if the Participant is, on or within six months prior to Participant's Termination Date, an officer of Tiffany & Co., a Delaware corporation, then the provisions of this Section 2 may only be waived by the Compensation Committee (or its Stock Option Subcommittee) of the Board of Directors of said Tiffany & Co. 3. Confidentiality. Participant acknowledges that Participant has had access to Confidential Information. Participant agrees not use to the detriment of Tiffany or disclose any Confidential Information. If the Participant is requested in any case by a court or governmental body to make any disclosure of Confidential Information, the Participant shall (i) promptly notify Tiffany in writing, (ii) consult with and assist Tiffany at Tiffany's expense in obtaining an injunction or other appropriate remedy to prevent such disclosure, and (iii) use Participant's reasonable efforts to obtain at the Company's expense a protective order or other reliable assurance that confidential treatment will be accorded to any Confidential Information that must be disclosed. Subject to the foregoing sentence, Participant may furnish that portion (and only that portion) of the Confidential Information that, in the written opinion of Participant's counsel (the form and substance of which opinion shall be reasonably acceptable to Tiffany), the Participant is legally compelled or otherwise required to disclose or else stand liable for contempt or suffer other material penalty. The obligations in this section shall continue beyond the Duration of the Non-Competition Covenant. 4. Loss of Benefits, Forfeiture of Equity Awards and Return of Proceeds of Equity Awards in the Event of Breach. Should Participant breach Participant's obligations under Section 2 above, Participant shall: (i) forfeit and lose all right to any current or future Benefit under the Excess Plan and the Supplementary Retirement Plan; (ii) forfeit and lose all rights under any Equity Award, whether or not such Equity Award shall have vested, and such Equity Award shall thereupon become null and void; and (iii) immediately pay to Tiffany and Company the Proceeds of Equity Award for (a) each grant of stock option or stock appreciation right that was exercised and (b) each grant of restricted stock or stock units that has vested, in both cases (a) and (b), within the following period: beginning 180 days prior to Participant's Termination Date and including the entire period of the Duration of Non-Competition Covenant. 7
5. Enforcement. (i) Participant agrees that the restrictions set forth in this instrument are reasonable and necessary to protect the goodwill of Tiffany. If any of the provisions set forth herein is deemed invalid, illegal or unenforceable based upon duration, geographic scope or otherwise, Participant agrees that such provision shall be modified to make it enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law. (ii) In the event of breach or threatened breach by Participant of the provisions set forth in this instrument, Participant acknowledges that Tiffany will be irreparably harmed and that monetary damages (including loss of the Benefit) shall be an insufficient remedy to Tiffany. Therefore, Participant consents to the enforcement of this instrument by means of temporary or permanent injunction and other appropriate equitable relief in any competent court, in addition to any other remedies Tiffany may have under this Agreement or otherwise. 6. Procedure to Obtain Determination. Should Participant wish to obtain a determination that any proposed employment, disclosure, arrangement or association (each a "Proposed Transaction") is not prohibited hereunder, Participant shall direct a written request to the Board. Such request shall fully describe the Proposed Transaction. Within 30 days after receipt of such request, the Board may (i) issue such a determination in writing, (ii) issue its refusal of such request in writing, or (iii) issue a written request for more written information concerning the Proposed Transaction. In the event that alternative (iii) is elected (which election may be made on behalf of the Board by the Legal Department of Tiffany and Company without action by the Board), any action on Participant's request will be deferred for ten (10) days following receipt by said Legal Department of the written information requested. Failure of the Board to act within any of the time periods specified in this Section 4 shall be deemed a determination that the Proposed Transaction is not prohibited hereunder. A determination made or deemed made under this Section 6 shall be limited in effect to the Proposed Transaction described in the submitted materials and shall not be binding or constitute a waiver with respect to any other Proposed Transaction, whether proposed by such Participant or any other Person. In the event that Participant wishes to seek a determination that employment with a management consulting firm, an accounting firm, a law firm or some other provider of consulting services to a wide variety clients will not be prohibited hereunder should such firm, at some unspecified time, provide services to a Person in the Retail Jewelry Trade or the Wholesale Jewelry Trade, Participant may seek a determination hereunder; in submitting such a Proposed Transaction, the Participant should specify the extent that Participant will be involved in or can be excluded from involvement in the provision of such services. In a making any determination under this Section 6, the Board shall not be deemed to be acting as a fiduciary with respect to the Excess Plan, the Participant or any beneficiary of the Participant and shall be under no obligation to issue a determination that any Proposed Transaction is not prohibited hereunder. 7. Arbitration and Equitable Relief. Participant and Tiffany agree that any and all disputes arising out or relating to the interpretation or application of this instrument, 8
including any dispute concerning whether any conduct is in violation of Section 2 or 3 above, shall be subject to arbitration in New York, New York, under the then existing Commercial Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association. Arbitration proceedings shall be conducted by three arbitrators. Without limit to their general authority, the arbitrators shall have the right to order reasonable discovery in accordance with the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. The final decision of the arbitrators shall be binding and enforceable without further legal proceedings in court or otherwise, provided that either party to such arbitration may enter judgment upon the award in any court having jurisdiction. The final decision arising from the arbitration shall be accompanied by a written opinion and decision which shall describe the rational underlying the award and shall include findings of fact and conclusions of law. The cost of such arbitration shall be borne equally by the parties and each party to the arbitration shall bear its own attorneys fees. Notwithstanding any provision in this Section 7, the requirement to arbitrate disputes shall not apply to any action to enforce this instrument by means of temporary or permanent injunction or other appropriate equitable relief. 8. Miscellaneous Provisions. (a) Tiffany may assign its rights to enforce this instrument to any of its Affiliates. Participant understands and agrees that the promises in this instrument are for the benefit of Tiffany (which term includes the Tiffany and Company and its Affiliates) and for the benefit of the successors and assigns of Tiffany and its Affiliates. (b) Any determination made by the Board under Section 6 above shall bind Tiffany and Company and its Affiliates. (c) If any action by Participant prohibited hereunder causes Participant to lose a right to a Benefit under the Excess Plan such loss of Benefit shall also be effective with respect to Participant's beneficiaries under the Excess Plan. (d) The laws of the State of New York, without giving effect to its conflicts of law principles, govern all matters arising out of or relating to this instrument and all of the prohibitions and remedies it contemplates, including, without limitation, its validity, interpretation, construction, performance and enforcement. (e) Each Person giving or making any notice, request, demand or other communication (each, a "Notice") pursuant to this Instrument shall (i) give the Notice in writing; and (ii) use one of the following methods of delivery, each of which for purposes of this Agreement is a writing: (A) Personal delivery. (B) Registered or Certified Mail, in each case, return receipt requested and postage prepaid. 9
(C) Nationally recognized overnight courier, with all fees prepaid. (f) Each Person giving a Notice shall address the Notice to the recipient (the "Addressee") at the address given on the signature page of this Instrument or to a changed address designated in a Notice. (g) A Notice is effective only if the person giving the Notice has complied with subsections (e) and (f) and if the Addressee has received the Notice. A Notice is deemed to have been received upon receipt as indicated by the date on the signed receipt, provided, however, that if the Addressee rejects or otherwise refuses to accept the Notice, or if the Notice cannot be delivered because of a change in address for which no Notice was given, then upon such rejection, refusal or inability to deliver such Notice will be deemed to have been received. Despite the other clauses of this subsection (g), if any Notice is received after 5:00 p.m. on a business day where the Addressee is located, or on a day that is not a business day where the Addressee is located, then the Notice is deemed received at 9:00 a.m. on the next business day where the Addressee is located. (h) This instrument shall not be amended except by a subsequent written instrument that has been executed by Participant and on behalf of Tiffany by a duly authorized officer of Tiffany. Participant's obligations under this instrument may not be waived, except pursuant to a writing executed on behalf of Tiffany or as otherwise provided in Section 6 above. (i) This instrument constitutes the final expression of Participant's post-employment confidentiality and non-competition obligations. Delivery of this instrument is necessary to receive a Benefit under the Excess Plan. It is the complete and exclusive expression of those obligations and all prior and contemporaneous negotiations and agreement between the parties on those matters are expressly merged into and superceded by this Agreement; notwithstanding the foregoing, Participant's right to receive a Benefit and the amount and terms of payment of such Benefit shall be exclusively determined by the Excess Plan. [the balance of this page has been left intentionally blank] 10
(j) Any reference in this instrument to the singular includes the plural where appropriate, and any reference in this instrument to the masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter genders where appropriate. The descriptive headings of the sections of this instrument are for convenience only and do not constitute part of this instrument. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this instrument has been executed on the date first written above. Participant - -------------------------- Name: Notice Address: - --------------- - -------------------------- - -------------------------- - -------------------------- Accepted and agreed (as to Section 7) ------------------------------------- Tiffany and Company By:______________________ Name: Title: Notice Address: --------------- The Board of Directors Tiffany and Company Care of: Legal Department 600 Madison Avenue New York, NY 10022 11

Exhibit 10.143a STANDARD OPTION Terms Rev. V TIFFANY & CO. a Delaware Corporation (the "Company") TERMS OF STOCK OPTION AWARD (Standard Non-Qualified Option ) under the 1998 EMPLOYEE INCENTIVE PLAN and the 2005 EMPLOYEE INCENTIVE PLAN (either plan, the "Plan") Terms Adopted May 21, 1998, Revised January 21, 1999, November 15, 2001, March 7, 2005 and May 19, 2005 1. Introduction and Terms of Option. Participant has been granted a Non-Qualified Stock Option Award (the "Option") to purchase shares of the Company's Common Stock under the Plan by the Stock Option Subcommittee of the Company's Board of Directors (the "Committee"). The name of the "Participant", the "Grant Date", the number of "Covered Shares" and the "Exercise Price" per Share are stated in the attached "Notice of Grant". The other terms and conditions of the Option are stated in this document and in the Plan. Certain initially capitalized words and phrases used in this document are defined in paragraph 10 below and elsewhere in this document. 2. Award and Exercise Price; Option Not An Incentive Stock Option. Subject to the terms and conditions stated in this document, the Option gives Participant the right to purchase the Covered Shares from the Company at the Exercise Price. The Option is not intended to constitute an "incentive stock option" as that term is used in the Code. 3. Earliest Dates for Exercise - Cumulative Installments. Unless otherwise provided in paragraphs 4, 5 or 6 below, the Option shall become exercisable ("mature") in cumulative installments according to the following schedule: Once an installment of the Option matures, as provided in the above schedule, it shall continue to be exercisable with all prior installments on a cumulative basis until the Option expires. 4. Effect of Termination of Employment. An installment of the Option shall not mature if the Participant's Date of Termination occurs before the anniversary of the Grant Date on which such installment was scheduled to mature, unless the Participant's Date of Termination occurs by reason of death or Disability, in which case all installments of the Option which have not previously matured shall mature on said Date of Termination. Installments of the Option which mature on or prior to Participant's Date of Termination will remain exercisable, subject to expiration as provided in paragraph 6 below.
5. Effect of Change in Control. All installments of the Option shall mature upon the date of a Change of Control unless the Participant's Date of Termination occurs before the date of the Change of Control. The Committee reserves the right to unilaterally amend the definition of "Change of Control" so as to specify additional circumstances which shall be deemed to constitute a Change of Control. 6. Expiration. The Option, including matured installments thereof, shall not be exercisable in part or in whole on or after the Expiration Date. The "Expiration Date" shall be the earliest to occur of: a. the ten-year anniversary of the Grant Date; b. if the Participant's Date of Termination occurs by reason of death, Disability or Retirement, the two-year anniversary of such Date of Termination; c. if the Participant's Date of Termination occurs for reasons other than death, Disability, Retirement or Termination for Cause, the three month anniversary of such Date of Termination; d. if the Participant's Date of Termination occurs by reason of Termination for Cause, the Date of Termination. 7. Methods of Option Exercise. The Option may be exercised in whole or in part as to any Shares that have matured by filing a written notice of exercise with the Secretary of the Company at its corporate headquarters prior to the Expiration Date. Such notice shall specify the number of Shares which the Participant elects to purchase and shall be accompanied by either of the following: a. a bank-certified check payable to the Company (or other type of check or draft payable to the Company and acceptable to the Secretary) in the amount of the Exercise Price for the Shares being exercised plus any tax withholding resulting from such exercise as computed by Tiffany and Company's payroll department; or b. a copy of directions to, or a written acknowledgment from, an Approved Broker that the Approved Broker has been directed to sell, for the account of the owner of the Option, Shares (or a sufficient portion of the Shares) acquired upon exercise of the Option, together with an undertaking by the Approved Broker to remit to the Company a sufficient portion of the sale proceeds to pay the Exercise Price for the Shares exercised plus any tax withholding resulting from such exercise as computed by Tiffany and Company's payroll department. In the case of exercise via method (a), the exercise shall be deemed complete on the Company's receipt of such notice and said check or draft. In the case of exercise via method (b), the exercise shall be deemed complete on the trade date of the sale. The Committee may approve other methods of exercise, as provided for in the Plan, before the Option is exercised. 8. Withholding. All distributions on the exercise of the Option are subject to withholding of all applicable taxes. The method for withholding shall be as provided in paragraph 7 above, unless the Committee approves other methods of withholding, as provided for in the Plan, before the Option is exercised. Tiffany & Co. 1998 Employee Incentive Plan 05/19/05 Tiffany & Co. 2005 Employee Incentive Plan Standard Terms of Stock Option Award: Rev. V Page 2
9. Transferability. The Option is not transferable otherwise than by will or the laws of descent and distribution or pursuant to a "domestic relations order", as defined in the Code or Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act or the rules thereunder, and shall not be otherwise transferred, assigned, pledged, hypothecated or otherwise disposed of in any way, whether by operation of law or otherwise, nor shall it be subject to execution, attachment or similar process. Upon any attempt to transfer the Option otherwise than as permitted herein or to assign, pledge, hypothecate or otherwise dispose of the Option otherwise than as permitted herein, or upon the levy of any execution, attachment or similar process upon the Option, the Option shall immediately terminate and become null and void. 10. Definitions. For the purposes of the Option, the words and phrases listed below shall be defined as follows: a. Approved Broker. Means one or more securities brokerage firms designated by the Secretary of the Company from time to time. b. Change of Control. A "Change of Control" shall be deemed to have occurred if : (i) any person (as used herein, the word "person" shall mean an individual or an entity) or group of persons acting in concert has acquired thirty-five percent (35%) in voting power or amount of the equity securities of the Company (including the acquisition of any right, option warrant or other right to obtain such voting power or amount, whether or not presently exercisable); (ii) individuals who constituted the Board of Directors of the Company on May 1, 1998 (the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of such Board of Directors, provided that any individual becoming a director subsequent to May 1, 1988 whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders, was approved by a vote of at least three-quarters of the directors comprising the Incumbent Board (either by a specific vote or by approval of the proxy statement of the Company in which such individual is named as a nominee for director) shall be, for the purposes of this paragraph 10(b), considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board; or (iii)any other circumstance with respect to a change in control of the Company occurs which the Committee deems to be a Change in Control of the Company. A Change of Control which constitutes a Terminating Transaction will be deemed to have occurred as of fourteen days prior to the date scheduled for the Terminating Transaction if provisions shall not have been made in writing in connection with such Terminating Transaction for the assumption of the Option or the substitution for the Option of a new option covering the stock of a successor employer corporation, or a parent or subsidiary thereof or of the Company, with appropriate adjustments as to the number and kind of shares and prices." c. Code. The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. d. Date of Termination. The Participant's "Date of Termination" shall be the first day occurring on or after the Grant Date on which Participant's employment with the Tiffany & Co. 1998 Employee Incentive Plan 05/19/05 Tiffany & Co. 2005 Employee Incentive Plan Standard Terms of Stock Option Award: Rev. V Page 3
Company and all Related Companies terminates for any reason; provided that a termination of employment shall not be deemed to occur by reason of a transfer of the Participant between the Company and a Related Company or between two Related Companies; and further provided that the Participant's employment shall not be considered terminated while the Participant is on a leave of absence from the Company or a Related Company approved by the Participant's employer or required by applicable law. If, as a result of a sale or other transaction, the Participant's employer ceases to be a Related Company (and the Participant's employer is or becomes an entity that is separate from the Company), the occurrence of such transaction shall be treated as the Participant's Date of Termination caused by the Participant being discharged by the employer. e. Disability. Except as otherwise provided by the Committee, the Participant shall be considered to have a "Disability" if he or she is unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of a medically determinable physical or mental impairment, which impairment, in the opinion of a physician selected by the Secretary of the Company, is expected to have a duration of not less than 120 days. f. Plan Definitions. Except where the context clearly implies or indicates the contrary, a word, term, or phrase used in the Plan shall have the same meaning in this document. g. Retirement. "Retirement" of the Participant shall mean the occurrence of the Participant's Date of Termination after age 65 (other than a Termination for Cause) or the occurrence of the Participant's Date of Termination after age 55 pursuant to the retirement practices of the Participant's employer. h. Terminating Transaction. As used herein, the phrase "Terminating Transaction" shall mean any one of the following: (i) the dissolution or liquidation of the Company; (ii) a reorganization, merger or consolidation of the Company; or (iii)a reorganization, merger or consolidation of the Company with one or more corporations as a result of which the Company goes out of existence or becomes a subsidiary of another corporation, or upon the acquisition of substantially all of the property or more than eighty percent (80%) of the then outstanding stock of the Company by another corporation. i. Termination for Cause. "Termination for Cause" means termination of employment pursuant to the conduct-based provisions of the employer's policy on involuntary termination of employment by reason of a Participant's action or willful omission, including without limitation, the commission of a crime, fraud, willful misconduct or the unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential information which has resulted or is likely to result in damage to the Company or any of its subsidiaries. 11. Heirs and Successors. The terms of the Option shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the Company and its successors and assigns, and upon any person acquiring, whether by merger, consolidation, purchase of assets or otherwise, all or substantially all of the Company's assets and business. Participant may designate a beneficiary of his/her rights under the Option by filing written notice with the Secretary of the Company. In the event of the Participant's death prior to the full Tiffany & Co. 1998 Employee Incentive Plan 05/19/05 Tiffany & Co. 2005 Employee Incentive Plan Standard Terms of Stock Option Award: Rev. V Page 4
exercise of the Option, the Option may be exercised by such Beneficiary to the extent that it was exercisable on the Participant's Termination Date and up until its Expiration Date. If the Participant fails to designate a Beneficiary, or if the designated Beneficiary dies before the Participant or before full exercise of the Option, the Option may be exercised by Participant's estate to the extent that it was exercisable on the Participant's Termination Date and up until its Expiration Date. 12. Administration. The authority to manage and control the operation and administration of the Option shall be vested in the Committee, and the Committee shall have all powers with respect to the Option as it has with respect to the Plan. Any interpretation of the Option by the Committee and any decision made by it with respect to the Option is final and binding. 13. Plan Governs. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, the terms of the Option shall be subject to the terms of the Plan, a copy of which may be obtained by the Participant from the office of the Secretary of the Company. Tiffany & Co. 1998 Employee Incentive Plan 05/19/05 Tiffany & Co. 2005 Employee Incentive Plan Standard Terms of Stock Option Award: Rev. V Page 5

Exhibit 10.144a TRANSFERABLE OPTION Terms Rev. V TIFFANY & CO. a Delaware Corporation (the "Company") TERMS OF STOCK OPTION AWARD (Transferable Non-Qualified Option ) under the 1998 EMPLOYEE INCENTIVE PLAN and 2005 EMPLOYEE INCENTIVE PLAN (either plan, the "Plan") Terms Adopted May 21, 1998, Revised January 21, 1999, November 15, 2001, March 7, 2005 and May 19, 2005 1. Introduction and Terms of Option. Participant has been granted a Non-Qualified Stock Option Award (the "Option") to purchase shares of the Company's Common Stock under the Plan by the Stock Option Subcommittee of the Company's Board of Directors (the "Committee"). The name of the "Participant", the "Grant Date", the number of "Covered Shares" and the "Exercise Price" per Share are stated in the attached "Notice of Grant". The other terms and conditions of the Option are stated in this document and in the Plan. Certain initially capitalized words and phrases used in this document are defined in paragraph 10 below and elsewhere in this document. 2. Award and Exercise Price; Option Not An Incentive Stock Option. Subject to the terms and conditions stated in this document, the Option gives Participant the right to purchase the Covered Shares from the Company at the Exercise Price. The Option is not intended to constitute an "incentive stock option" as that term is used in the Code. 3. Earliest Dates for Exercise - Cumulative Installments. Unless otherwise provided in paragraphs 4, 5 or 6 below, the Option shall become exercisable ("mature") in cumulative installments according to the following schedule: Once an installment of the Option matures, as provided in the above schedule, it shall continue to be exercisable with all prior installments on a cumulative basis until the Option expires. 4. Effect of Termination of Employment. An installment of the Option shall not mature if the Participant's Date of Termination occurs before the anniversary of the Grant Date on which such installment was scheduled to mature, unless the Participant's Date of Termination occurs by reason of death or Disability, in which case all installments of the Option which have not previously matured shall mature on said Date of Termination. Installments of the Option which mature on or prior to Participant's Date of Termination will remain exercisable, subject to expiration as provided in paragraph 6 below.
5. Effect of Change in Control. All installments of the Option shall mature upon the date of a Change of Control unless the Participant's Date of Termination occurs before the date of the Change of Control. The Committee reserves the right to unilaterally amend the definition of a "Change of Control" so as to specify additional circumstances which shall be deemed to constitute a Change of Control. 6. Expiration. The Option, including matured installments thereof, shall not be exercisable in part or in whole on or after the Expiration Date. The "Expiration Date" shall be the earliest to occur of: a. the ten-year anniversary of the Grant Date; b. if the Participant's Date of Termination occurs by reason of death, Disability or Retirement, the two-year anniversary of such Date of Termination; c. if the Participant's Date of Termination occurs for reasons other than death, Disability, Retirement or Termination for Cause, the three month anniversary of such Date of Termination; d. if the Participant's Date of Termination occurs by reason of Termination for Cause, the Date of Termination. 7. Methods of Option Exercise. The Option may be exercised in whole or in part as to any Shares that have matured by filing a written notice of exercise with the Secretary of the Company at its corporate headquarters prior to the Expiration Date. Such notice shall specify the number of Shares which the Participant elects to purchase and shall be accompanied by either of the following: a. a bank-certified check payable to the Company (or other type of check or draft payable to the Company and acceptable to the Secretary) in the amount of the Exercise Price for the Shares being exercised plus any tax withholding resulting from such exercise as computed by Tiffany and Company's payroll department; or b. a copy of directions to, or a written acknowledgment from, an Approved Broker that the Approved Broker has been directed to sell, for the account of the owner of the Option, Shares (or a sufficient portion of the Shares) acquired upon exercise of the Option, together with an undertaking by the Approved Broker to remit to the Company a sufficient portion of the sale proceeds to pay the Exercise Price for the Shares exercised plus any tax withholding resulting from such exercise as computed by Tiffany and Company's payroll department. In the case of exercise via method (a), the exercise shall be deemed complete on the Company's receipt of such notice and said check or draft. In the case of exercise via method (b), the exercise shall be deemed complete on the trade date of the sale. The Committee may approve other methods of exercise, as provided for in the Plan, before the Option is exercised. 8. Withholding. All distributions on the exercise of the Option are subject to withholding of all applicable taxes. The method for withholding shall be as provided in paragraph 7 above, unless the Committee approves other methods of withholding, as provided for in the Plan, before the Option is exercised. 9. Transferability. The Option is not transferable otherwise than by will or the laws of descent and distribution or pursuant to a "domestic relations order", as defined in the Code or Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act or the rules thereunder, and shall not be otherwise transferred, assigned, pledged, hypothecated or otherwise disposed of in any way, whether by operation of law or otherwise, nor shall it be subject to execution, attachment or similar process. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Option may Tiffany & Co. 1998 Employee Incentive Plan 05/19/05 Tiffany & Co. 2005 Employee Incentive Plan Transferable Option: Terms of Stock Option Award - Rev. V Page 2
be transferred by the Participant to (i) the spouse, children or grandchildren of the Participant (each an "Immediate Family Member"), (ii) a trust or trusts for the exclusive benefit of any or all Immediate Family Members, or (iii) a partnership in which any or all Immediate Family Members are the only partners, provided that (x) there may be no consideration paid or otherwise given for any such transfer, and (y) subsequent transfer of the Option is prohibited otherwise than by will, the laws of descent and distribution or pursuant to a domestic relations order. Following transfer, the Option shall continue to be subject to the same terms and conditions as were applicable immediately prior to transfer. The provisions of paragraph 4 above shall continue to be applied with respect to the original Participant following transfer and the Option shall be exercisable by the transferee only to the extent, and for the periods specified, herein. Upon any attempt to transfer the Option otherwise than as permitted herein or to assign, pledge, hypothecate or otherwise dispose of the Option otherwise than as permitted herein, or upon the levy of any execution, attachment or similar process upon the Option, the Option shall immediately terminate and become null and void. 10. Definitions. For the purposes of the Option, the words and phrases listed below shall be defined as follows: a. Approved Broker. Means one or more securities brokerage firms designated by the Secretary of the Company from time to time. b. Change of Control. A "Change of Control" shall be deemed to have occurred if : (i) any person (as used herein, the word "person" shall mean an individual or an entity) or group of persons acting in concert has acquired thirty-five percent (35%) in voting power or amount of the equity securities of the Company (including the acquisition of any right, option warrant or other right to obtain such voting power or amount, whether or not presently exercisable); (ii) individuals who constituted the Board of Directors of the Company on May 1, 1998 (the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of such Board of Directors, provided that any individual becoming a director subsequent to May 1, 1988 whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders, was approved by a vote of at least three-quarters of the directors comprising the Incumbent Board (either by a specific vote or by approval of the proxy statement of the Company in which such individual is named as a nominee for director) shall be, for the purposes of this paragraph 10(b), considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board; or (iii)any other circumstance with respect to a change in control of the Company occurs which the Committee deems to be a Change in Control of the Company. A Change of Control which constitutes a Terminating Transaction will be deemed to have occurred as of fourteen days prior to the date scheduled for the Terminating Transaction if provisions shall not have been made in writing in connection with such Terminating Transaction for the assumption of the Option or the substitution for the Option of a new option covering the stock of a successor employer corporation, or a parent or subsidiary thereof or of the Company, with appropriate adjustments as to the number and kind of shares and prices. c. Code. The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. d. Date of Termination. The Participant's "Date of Termination" shall be the first day occurring on or after the Grant Date on which Participant's employment with the Company and all Related Companies terminates for any reason; provided that a termination of employment shall not be Tiffany & Co. 1998 Employee Incentive Plan 05/19/05 Tiffany & Co. 2005 Employee Incentive Plan Transferable Option: Terms of Stock Option Award - Rev. V Page 3
deemed to occur by reason of a transfer of the Participant between the Company and a Related Company or between two Related Companies; and further provided that the Participant's employment shall not be considered terminated while the Participant is on a leave of absence from the Company or a Related Company approved by the Participant's employer or required by applicable law. If, as a result of a sale or other transaction, the Participant's employer ceases to be a Related Company (and the Participant's employer is or becomes an entity that is separate from the Company), the occurrence of such transaction shall be treated as the Participant's Date of Termination caused by the Participant being discharged by the employer. e. Disability. Except as otherwise provided by the Committee, the Participant shall be considered to have a "Disability" if he or she is unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of a medically determinable physical or mental impairment, which impairment, in the opinion of a physician selected by the Secretary of the Company, is expected to have a duration of not less than 120 days. f. Plan Definitions. Except where the context clearly implies or indicates the contrary, a word, term, or phrase used in the Plan shall have the same meaning in this document. g. Retirement. "Retirement" of the Participant shall mean the occurrence of the Participant's Date of Termination after age 65 or the occurrence of the Participant's Date of Termination after age 55 pursuant to the retirement practices of the Participant's employer. h. Terminating Transaction. As used herein, the phrase "Terminating Transaction" shall mean any one of the following: (i) the dissolution or liquidation of the Company; (ii) a reorganization, merger or consolidation of the Company; or (iii)a reorganization, merger or consolidation of the Company with one or more corporations as a result of which the Company goes out of existence or becomes a subsidiary of another corporation, or upon the acquisition of substantially all of the property or more than eighty percent (80%) of the then outstanding stock of the Company by another corporation. i. Termination for Cause. "Termination for Cause" means termination of employment pursuant to the conduct-based provisions of the employer's policy on involuntary termination of employment by reason of a Participant's action or willful omission, including without limitation, the commission of a crime, fraud, willful misconduct or the unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential information which has resulted or is likely to result in damage to the Company or any of its subsidiaries. 11. Heirs and Successors. The terms of the Option shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the Company and its successors and assigns, and upon any person acquiring, whether by merger, consolidation, purchase of assets or otherwise, all or substantially all of the Company's assets and business. Participant may designate a beneficiary of his/her rights under the Option by filing written notice with the Secretary of the Company. In the event of the Participant's death prior to the full exercise of the Option, the Option may be exercised by such Beneficiary to the extent that it was exercisable on the Participant's Termination Date and up until its Expiration Date. If the Participant fails to designate a Beneficiary, or if the designated Beneficiary dies before the Participant or before full exercise of the Option, the Option may be exercised by Participant's estate to the extent that it was exercisable on the Participant's Termination Date and up until its Expiration Date. Tiffany & Co. 1998 Employee Incentive Plan 05/19/05 Tiffany & Co. 2005 Employee Incentive Plan Transferable Option: Terms of Stock Option Award - Rev. V Page 4
12. Administration. The authority to manage and control the operation and administration of the Option shall be vested in the Committee, and the Committee shall have all powers with respect to the Option as it has with respect to the Plan. Any interpretation of the Option by the Committee and any decision made by it with respect to the Option is final and binding. 13. Plan Governs. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, the terms of the Option shall be subject to the terms of the Plan, a copy of which may be obtained by the Participant from the office of the Secretary of the Company. Tiffany & Co. 1998 Employee Incentive Plan 05/19/05 Tiffany & Co. 2005 Employee Incentive Plan Transferable Option: Terms of Stock Option Award - Rev. V Page 5

Exhibit 10.145 TIFFANY & CO. 2005 EMPLOYEE INCENTIVE PLAN Section 1 General 1.1 Purpose. The 2005 Tiffany & Co. Employee Incentive Plan (the "Plan") has been established by Tiffany & Co., a Delaware corporation, (the "Company") to (i) attract and retain employees; (ii) motivate Participants to achieve the Company's operating and strategic goals by means of appropriate incentives; (iii) provide incentive compensation opportunities that are competitive with those of other companies competing with the Company and its Related Companies for employees; and (iv) further link Participants' interests with those of the Company's other stockholders through compensation that is based on the Company's Common Stock, thereby promoting the long-term financial interests of the Company and its Related Companies, including the growth in value of the Company's stockholders' equity and the enhancement of long-term returns to the Company's stockholders. 1.2 Participation. Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, the Committee shall, from time to time, determine and designate from among Eligible Individuals those persons who will be granted one or more Awards under the Plan. Eligible Individuals who are granted Awards become "Participants" in the Plan. In the discretion of the Committee, a Participant may be granted any Award permitted under the provisions of the Plan, and more than one Award may be granted to a Participant. Awards need not be identical but shall be subject to the terms and conditions specified in the Plan. Subject to the last two sentences of subsection 2.2 of the Plan, Awards may be granted as alternatives to or in replacement for awards outstanding under the Plan, or any other plan or arrangement of the Company or a Related Company (including a plan or arrangement of a business or entity, all or a portion of which is acquired by the Company or a Related Company). 1.3 Operation, Administration, and Definitions. The operation and administration of the Plan, including the Awards made under the Plan, shall be subject to the provisions of Section 4 (relating to operation and administration). Initially capitalized terms used in the Plan shall be defined as set forth in the Plan (including in the definitional provisions of Section 7 of the Plan). 1.4 Amendment to Prior Plan. If this Plan becomes effective on approval by the Company's stockholders, as provided for in Section 4.1 below, the Company's 1998 Employee Incentive Plan (the "1998 Plan") shall be deemed amended so that no further Awards shall be made under the 1998 Plan on or after the Effective Date of this Plan, although the 1998 Plan shall remain in effect with respect to Awards made under the 1998 Plan prior to the Effective Date of this Plan. 2005 EMPLOYEE INCENTIVE PLAN May 19, 2005 Page 1
Section 2 Options and SARs 2.1 Definitions. (a) The grant of an "Option" entitles the Participant to purchase Shares at an Exercise Price established by the Committee. Options granted under this Section 2 may be either Incentive Stock Options or Non-Qualified Stock Options, as determined in the discretion of the Committee. An "Incentive Stock Option" is an Option that is intended to satisfy the requirements applicable to an "incentive stock option" described in section 422(b) of the Code. A "Non-Qualified Option" is an Option that is not intended to be an "incentive stock option" as that term is described in section 422(b) of the Code. (b) The grant of a stock appreciation right (an "SAR") entitles the Participant to receive, in cash or Shares, value equal to all or a portion of the excess of: (a) Fair Market Value of a specified number of Shares at the time of exercise, over (b) an Exercise Price established by the Committee. 2.2 Exercise Price. The per-Share "Exercise Price" of each Option and SAR granted under this Section 2 shall be established by the Committee or shall be determined by a formula established by the Committee at the time the Option or SAR is granted; except that the Exercise Price shall not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of a Share as of the Pricing Date. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the "Pricing Date" shall be the date on which the Option or SAR is granted unless the Option or SAR is granted on a date on which the principal exchange on which the Shares are then listed or admitted to trading is closed for trading, in which case the "Pricing Date" shall be the most recent date on which such exchange was open for trading prior to such grant date; except that the Committee may provide that: (i) the Pricing Date is the date on which the recipient is hired or promoted (or similar event), if the grant of the Option or SAR occurs not more than 90 days after the date of such hiring, promotion or other event; and (ii) if an Option or SAR is granted in tandem with, or in substitution for, an outstanding Award, the Pricing Date is the date of grant of such outstanding Award. Except as provided in subsection 4.2(c), the Exercise Price of any Option or SAR may not be decreased after the grant of the Award. Neither an Option nor an SAR may be surrendered as consideration in exchange for a new Award with a lower Exercise Price. 2.3 Exercise. Options and SARs shall be exercisable in accordance with such terms and conditions and during such periods as may be established by the Committee provided that no Option or SAR shall be exercisable after, and each Option and SAR shall become void no later than, the tenth (10th) anniversary date of the date of grant of such Option or SAR. 2.4 Payment of Option Exercise Price. The payment of the Exercise Price of an Option granted under this Section 2 shall be subject to the following: 2005 EMPLOYEE INCENTIVE PLAN May 19, 2005 Page 2
(a) The Exercise Price may be paid by ordinary check or such other form of tender as the Committee may specify. (b) If permitted by the Committee, the Exercise Price for Shares purchased upon the exercise of an Option may be paid in part or in full by tendering Shares (by either actual delivery of Shares or by attestation, with such Shares valued at Fair Market Value as of the date of exercise). (c) The Committee may permit a Participant to elect to pay the Exercise Price upon the exercise of an Option by irrevocably authorizing a third party to sell Shares acquired upon exercise of the Option (or a sufficient portion of such Shares) and remit to the Company a sufficient portion of the sale proceeds to pay the entire Exercise Price and any tax withholding resulting from such exercise. Section 3 Other Stock Awards 3.1 Definition. A "Stock Award" is a grant of Shares or of a right to receive Shares (or their cash equivalent or a combination of both). 3.2 Restrictions on Stock Awards. Each Stock Award shall be subject to such conditions, restrictions and contingencies as the Committee shall determine. These may include continuous service and/or the achievement of Performance Goals. Section 4 Operation and Administration 4.1 Effective Date and Duration. Subject to approval of the stockholders of the Company at the Company's 2005 annual meeting, the Plan shall be effective as of May 1, 2005 (the "Effective Date") and shall remain in effect as long as any Awards under the Plan are outstanding; provided, however, that, no Award may be granted or otherwise made under the Plan after April 30, 2015. 4.2 Shares Subject to Plan. (a) (i) Subject to the following provisions of this subsection 4.2, the maximum number of Shares that may be delivered to Participants and their beneficiaries under the Plan shall be Eleven Million (11,000,000) Shares, provided that such maximum shall be reduced by one and 58 hundredths (1.58) of a Share for each Share that is delivered pursuant to a Stock Award. (ii) Any Shares granted under the Plan that are forfeited or fail to vest because of the failure to meet an Award contingency or condition shall ' 2005 EMPLOYEE INCENTIVE PLAN May 19, 2005 Page 3
again be available for delivery pursuant to new Awards granted under the Plan. To the extent any Shares covered by an Award are not delivered to a Participant or a Participant's beneficiary because the Award is forfeited, fails to vest or is canceled, or the Shares are not delivered because the Award is settled in cash, such Shares shall not be deemed to have been delivered for purposes of determining the maximum number of Shares available for delivery under the Plan. (iii) If the Exercise Price and/or tax withholding obligation for any Option or any SAR to be settled in Shares granted under the Plan is satisfied by tendering Shares to the Company (by either actual delivery or attestation), the number of Shares issued on such exercise without offset for the number of Shares so tendered shall be deemed delivered for purposes of determining the maximum number of Shares available for delivery under the Plan; if the Exercise Price and/or any tax withholding obligation for any Option or SAR granted under the Plan is satisfied by the Company withholding Shares, the full number of Shares for which such Option or SAR was exercised, without reduction for the number of Shares withheld, shall be deemed delivered for purposes of determining the maximum number of Shares available for delivery under the Plan. (iv) Shares delivered under the Plan in settlement, assumption or substitution of outstanding awards (or obligations to grant future awards) under the plans or arrangements of another entity shall not reduce the maximum number of Shares available for delivery under the Plan, to the extent that such settlement, assumption or substitution occurs as a result of the Company or a Related Company acquiring another entity (or an interest in another entity). (b) Subject to adjustment under paragraph 4.2(c), the following additional maximum limitation is imposed under the Plan: the aggregate maximum number of Shares that may be issued under Options intended to be Incentive Stock Options shall be One Million (1,000,000) shares. (c) If the outstanding Shares are increased or decreased, or are changed into or exchanged for cash, property or a different number or kind of shares or securities, or if cash, property, Shares or other securities are distributed in respect of such outstanding Shares, in either case as a result of one or more mergers, reorganizations, reclassifications, recapitalizations, stock splits, reverse stock splits, stock dividends, dividends (other than regular, quarterly dividends), or other distributions, spin-offs or the like, or if substantially all of the property and assets of the Company are sold, then, unless the terms of the transaction shall provide otherwise, appropriate adjustments shall be made in the number and/or type of Shares or securities for which Awards may thereafter be granted under the Plan and for which Awards then outstanding under the Plan may thereafter be 2005 EMPLOYEE INCENTIVE PLAN May 19, 2005 Page 4
exercised. Any such adjustments in outstanding Awards shall be made without changing the aggregate Exercise Price applicable to the unexercised portions of outstanding Options or SARs. The Committee shall make such adjustments to preserve the benefits or potential benefits of the Plan and the Awards; such adjustments may include, but shall not be limited to, adjustment of: (i) the number and kind of shares which may be delivered under the Plan; (ii) the number and kind of shares subject to outstanding Awards; (iii) the Exercise Price of outstanding Options and SARs; (iv) the limits specified in subsections 4.2(a)(i) and 4.2(b) above; and (v) any other adjustments that the Committee determines to be equitable. No right to purchase or receive fractional shares shall result from any adjustment in Options, SARs or Stock Awards pursuant to this paragraph 4.2(c). In case of any such adjustment, Shares subject to the Option, SAR or Stock Award shall be rounded up to the nearest whole Share. 4.3 Limit on Distribution. Distribution of Shares or other amounts under the Plan shall be subject to the following: (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, the Company shall have no obligation to deliver any Shares under the Plan or make any other distribution of benefits under the Plan unless such delivery or distribution would comply with all applicable laws (including, without limitation, the requirements of the Securities Act of 1933) and the applicable requirements of any securities exchange or similar entity, and the Committee may impose such restrictions on any Shares acquired pursuant to the Plan as the Committee may deem advisable, including, without limitation, restrictions under applicable federal securities laws, under the requirements of any Stock exchange or market upon which such Shares are then listed and/or traded, and under any blue sky or state securities laws applicable to such Shares. In the event that the Committee determines in its discretion that the registration, listing or qualification of the Shares issuable under the Plan on any securities exchange or under any applicable law or governmental regulation is necessary as a condition to the issuance of such Shares under an Option or Stock Award, such Option or Stock Award shall not be exercisable or exercised in whole or in part unless such registration, listing and qualification, and any necessary consents or approvals have been unconditionally obtained. (b) Distribution of Shares under the Plan may be effected on a non-certificated basis, to the extent not prohibited by applicable law or the applicable rule of any stock exchange. 4.4 Tax Withholding. Before distribution of Shares under the Plan, the Company may require the recipient to remit to the Company an amount sufficient to satisfy any federal, state or local tax withholding requirements or, in the discretion of the 2005 EMPLOYEE INCENTIVE PLAN May 19, 2005 Page 5
Committee, the Company may withhold from the Shares to be delivered and/or otherwise issued Shares sufficient to satisfy all or a portion of such tax withholding requirements. Whenever under the Plan payments are to be made in cash, such payments may be net of an amount sufficient to satisfy any federal, state or local tax withholding requirements. Neither the Company nor any Related Company shall be liable to a Participant or any other person as to any tax consequence expected, but not realized, by any Participant or other person due to the receipt or exercise of any Award hereunder. 4.5 Reserved Rights. Subject to the limitations of subsection 4.2 on the number of Shares that may be delivered under the Plan, the Plan does not limit the right of the Company to use available Shares, including authorized but un-issued shares and treasury shares, as the form of payment for compensation, grants or rights earned or due under any other compensation plans or arrangements of the Company or a Related Company, including the plans and arrangements of the Company or a Related Company acquiring another entity (or an interest in another entity). 4.6 Dividends and Dividend Equivalents. An Award may provide the Participant with the right to receive dividends or dividend equivalent payments with respect to Shares which may be either paid currently or credited to an account for the Participant, and which may be settled in cash or Shares as determined by the Committee. Any such settlements, and any such crediting of dividends or dividend equivalents or reinvestment in Shares may be subject to such conditions, restrictions and contingencies as the Committee shall establish, including reinvestment of such credited amounts in Share equivalents. 4.7 Settlements; Deferred Delivery. Awards may be settled through cash payments, the delivery of Shares, the granting of replacement Awards, or combinations thereof, all subject to such conditions, restrictions and contingencies as the Committee shall determine. The Committee may establish provisions for the deferred delivery of Shares upon the exercise of an Option or SAR or receipt of a Stock Award with the deferral evidenced by use of "Stock Units" equal in number to the number of Shares whose delivery is so deferred. A "Stock Unit" is a bookkeeping entry representing an amount equivalent to the Fair Market Value of one Share. Stock Units represent an unfunded and unsecured obligation of the Company except as otherwise provided by the Committee. Settlement of Stock Units upon expiration of the deferral period shall be made in Shares or otherwise as determined by the Committee. The amount of Shares, or other settlement medium, to be so distributed may be increased by an interest factor or by dividend equivalents. Until a Stock Unit is settled, the number of Shares represented by a Stock Unit shall be subject to adjustment pursuant to paragraph 4.2(c). Unless otherwise specified by the Committee, any deferred delivery of Shares pursuant to an Award shall be settled by the delivery of Shares no later than the 60th day following the date the person to whom such deferred delivery must be made ceases to be an employee of the Company or a Related Company. 4.8 Transferability. Unless otherwise provided by the Committee, any Option and SAR granted under the Plan, and, until vested, any Stock Award or other Shares-based 2005 EMPLOYEE INCENTIVE PLAN May 19, 2005 Page 6
Award granted under the Plan, shall by its terms be nontransferable by the Participant otherwise than by will, the laws of descent and distribution or pursuant to a "domestic relations order", as defined in the Code or Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act or the rules thereunder, and shall be exercisable by, or become vested in, during the Participant's lifetime, only by the Participant. 4.9 Form and Time of Elections. Unless otherwise specified herein, each election required or permitted to be made by any Participant or other person entitled to benefits under the Plan, and any permitted modification, or revocation thereof, shall be in writing filed with the secretary of the Company at such times, in such form, and subject to such restrictions and limitations, not inconsistent with the terms of the Plan, as the Committee shall require. 4.10 Award Agreements with Company; Vesting and Acceleration of Vesting of Awards. At the time of an Award to a participant under the Plan, the Committee may require a Participant to enter into an agreement with the Company (an "Award Agreement") in a form specified by the Committee, agreeing to the terms and conditions of the Plan and to such additional terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the Plan, as the Committee may, in its sole discretion, prescribe, including, but not limited to, conditions to the vesting or exercisability of an Award, such as continued service to the Company or a Related Company for a specified period of time. The Committee may waive such conditions to and/or accelerate exercisability or vesting of an Option, SAR or Stock Award, either automatically upon the occurrence of specified events (including in connection with a change of control of the Company) or otherwise in its discretion. 4.11 Limitation of Implied Rights. (a) Neither a Participant nor any other person shall, by reason of the Plan or any Award Agreement, acquire any right in or title to any assets, funds or property of the Company or any Related Company whatsoever, including, without limitation, any specific funds, assets, or other property which the Company or any Related Company, in its sole discretion, may set aside in anticipation of a liability under the Plan. A Participant shall have only a contractual right to the Shares or amounts, if any, payable under the Plan, unsecured by the assets of the Company or of any Related Company. Nothing contained in the Plan or any Award Agreement shall constitute a guarantee that the assets of such companies shall be sufficient to pay any benefits to any person. (b) Neither the Plan nor any Award Agreement shall constitute a contract of employment, and selection as a Participant will not give any employee the right to be retained in the employ of the Company or any Related Company, nor any right or claim to any benefit under the Plan, unless such right or claim has specifically accrued under the terms of the Plan or an Award. Except as otherwise provided in the Plan, no Award under the Plan shall confer upon the holder thereof any right as a stockholder of the 2005 EMPLOYEE INCENTIVE PLAN May 19, 2005 Page 7
Company prior to the date on which the individual fulfills all conditions for receipt of such rights. 4.12 Evidence. Evidence required of anyone under the Plan may be by certificate, affidavit, document or other information which an officer of the Company acting on it considers pertinent and reliable, and signed, made or presented by the proper party or parties. 4.13 Action by Company or Related Company. Any action required or permitted to be taken by the Company or any Related Company shall be by resolution of its board of directors, or by action of one or more members of such board (including a committee of such board) who are duly authorized to act for such board, or (except to the extent prohibited by applicable law or applicable rules of any Stock exchange) by a duly authorized officer of the Company or such Related Company. 4.14 Gender and Number. Where the context admits, words in any gender shall include any other gender, words in the singular shall include the plural and the plural shall include the singular. 4.15 Liability for Cash Payments. Each Related Company shall be liable for payment of cash due under the Plan with respect to any Participant to the extent that such benefits are attributable to the services rendered for that Related Company by such Participant. Any disputes relating to liability of a Related Company for cash payments shall be resolved by the Committee. 4.16 Non-exclusivity of the Plan. Neither the adoption of the Plan by the Board of Directors of the Company nor the submission of the Plan to the stockholders of the Company for approval shall be construed as creating any limitations on the power of such Board of Directors or a committee of such Board to adopt such other incentive arrangements as it or they may deem desirable, including without limitation, the granting of restricted stock, stock options or cash bonuses otherwise than under the Plan, and such arrangements may be generally applicable or applicable only in specific cases. Section 5 Committee 5.1 Administration. The authority to control and manage the operation and administration of the Plan shall be vested in a committee (the "Committee") in accordance with this Section 5. 5.2 Selection of Committee. The Committee shall be selected by the Board and shall consist of two or more members of the Board, each of whom shall qualify as "outside directors" for purposes of Section 162(m) of the Code and as "independent" for purposes of The New York Stock Exchange Listing standards. 2005 EMPLOYEE INCENTIVE PLAN May 19, 2005 Page 8
5.3 Powers of Committee. The authority to manage and control the operation and administration of the Plan shall be vested in the Committee, subject to the following: (a) Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee will have the authority and discretion to select from amongst Eligible Individuals those persons who shall receive Awards, to determine who is an Eligible Individual, to determine the time or time of receipt, to determine the types of Awards and the number of Shares covered by the Awards, to establish the terms, conditions, Performance Goals, restrictions, and other provisions of such Awards and Award Agreements, and (subject to the restrictions imposed by Section 6) to cancel, amend or suspend Awards. In making such Award determinations, the Committee may take into account the nature of services rendered by the Eligible Individual, the Eligible Individual's present and potential contribution to the Company's or a Related Company's success and such other factors as the Committee deems relevant. (b) Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee will have the authority and discretion to determine the extent to which Awards under the Plan will be structured to conform to the requirements of the Performance-Based Exception and to take such action, establish such procedures, and impose such restrictions at the time Awards are granted as the Committee determines to be necessary or appropriate to conform to such requirements. (c) The Committee will have the authority and discretion to establish terms and conditions of Awards as the Committee determines to be necessary or appropriate to conform to applicable requirements or practices of jurisdictions outside the United States. (d) The Committee will have the authority and discretion to interpret the Plan, to establish, amend and rescind any rules and regulations relating to the Plan, to determine the terms and provisions of any Award Agreements, and to make all other determinations that may be necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan. (e) Any interpretation of the Plan by the Committee and any decision made by the Committee under the Plan are final and binding. (f) In controlling and managing the operation and administration of the Plan, the Committee shall act by a majority of its then members, by meeting or by writing filed without a meeting. The Committee shall maintain adequate records concerning the Plan and concerning its proceedings and acts in such form and detail as the Committee may decide. 2005 EMPLOYEE INCENTIVE PLAN May 19, 2005 Page 9
5.4 Delegation by Committee. Except to the extent prohibited by applicable law or the applicable rules of a Stock exchange, the Committee may allocate all or any portion of its powers and responsibilities to any one or more of its members and may delegate all or part of its responsibilities and powers to any person or persons selected by it. Any such allocation or delegation may be revoked by the Committee at any time. 5.5 Information to be Furnished to Committee. The Company and Related Companies shall furnish the Committee with such data and information as may be requested by the Committee in order to discharge its duties. The records of the Company and Related Companies as to an Eligible Individual's or a Participant's employment, consulting services, termination of employment or services, leave of absence, reemployment and compensation shall be conclusive on all persons unless determined to be incorrect by the Committee. Participants and other persons entitled to benefits under the Plan must furnish the Committee such evidence, data or information as the Committee considers necessary or desirable to carry out the terms of the Plan. Section 6 Amendment and Termination 6.1 Board's Right to Amend or Terminate. Subject to the limitations set forth in this Section 6, the Board may, at any time, amend or terminate the Plan. 6.2 Amendments Requiring Stockholder Approval. Other than as provided in subsection 4.2 (c) (relating to certain adjustments to shares), the approval of the Company's stockholders shall be required for any amendment which: (i) increases the maximum number of Shares that may be delivered to Participants under the Plan set forth in subsection 4.2(a); (ii) increases the maximum limitation contained in Section 4.2(b); (iii) decreases the exercise price of any Option or SAR below the minimum provided in subsection 2.2; (iv) modifies or eliminates the provisions stated in the final two sentences of subsection 2.2; (v) increases the maximum term of any Option or SAR set forth in Section 2.3; (vi) provides any Performance Measure other than those listed in Section 9.1; or (vii) modifies or eliminates the provisions stated in subsection 1.4. Whenever the approval of the Company's stockholders is required pursuant to this subsection 6.2, such approval shall be sufficient if obtained by a majority vote of those stockholders present or represented and actually voting on the matter at a meeting of stockholders duly called, at which meeting a majority of the outstanding shares actually vote on such matter. Section 7 Defined Terms For the purposes of the Plan, the terms listed below shall be defined as follows: Award. The term "Award" shall mean, individually and collectively, any award or benefit granted to any Participant under the Plan, including, without limitation, the grant of Options, SARs, Stock Awards and Other Incentive Awards. 2005 EMPLOYEE INCENTIVE PLAN May 19, 2005 Page 10
Award Agreement. The term "Award Agreement" is defined in subsection 4.10. Board. The term "Board" shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company. Code. The term "Code" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. A reference to any provision of the Code shall include reference to any successor provision of the Code or of any law that is enacted to replace the Code. Eligible Individual. The term "Eligible Individual" shall mean any employee of the Company or a Related Company. For purposes of the Plan, the status of the Chairman of the Board of Directors as an employee shall be determined by the Committee. Fair Market Value. For purposes of determining the "Fair Market Value" of a Share, the following rules shall apply: (i) If the Shares are at the time listed or admitted to trading on any stock exchange, then the Fair Market Value shall be the mean between the lowest and the highest reported sales prices of the Shares on the date in question on the principal exchange on which the Shares are then listed or admitted to trading. If no reported sale of Shares takes place on the date in question on the principal exchange, then the reported closing asked price of the Shares on such date on the principal exchange shall be determinative of Fair Market Value. (ii) If the Shares are not at the time listed or admitted to trading on a stock exchange, the Fair Market Value shall be the mean between the lowest reported bid price and the highest reported asked price of the Shares on the date in question in the over-the-counter market, as such prices are reported in a publication of general circulation selected by the Committee and regularly reporting the market price of the Shares in such market. (iii) If the Shares are not listed or admitted to trading on any stock exchange or traded in the over-the-counter market, the Fair Market Value shall be as determined by the Committee, acting in good faith. Named Executive Employee. The term "Named Executive Employee" means a Participant who, as of the date of vesting and/or payout of an Award, as applicable, is one of the group of covered employees, as defined in the regulations promulgated under Code section 162(m), or any successor statute. Participant. The term "Participant" means an Eligible Individual who has been granted an Award under the Plan. For purposes of the administration of Awards, the term Participant shall also include a former employee or any person (including an estate) who is a beneficiary of a former employee and any person (including any estate) to whom an Award has been assigned or transferred as permitted by the Committee. 2005 EMPLOYEE INCENTIVE PLAN May 19, 2005 Page 11
Other Incentive Award. The term "Other Incentive Award" means a cash award as described in Section 8 below. Performance-Based Exception. The term "Performance-Based Exception" means the performance-based exception from the tax deductibility limitations of Code section 162(m). Performance Goals. The term "Performance Goals" means one or more objective targets measured by the Performance Measure, the attainment of which may determine the degree of payout and/or vesting with respect to Awards. Performance Period. The term "Performance Period" means the time period during which Performance Goals must be achieved with respect to an Award, as determined by the Committee, but which period shall not be shorter than one of the Company's fiscal years. Performance Measure. The term "Performance Measure" refers to the performance measures discussed in Section 9 of the Plan. Related Companies. The term "Related Company" means (i) any corporation, partnership, joint venture or other entity during any period in which such corporation, partnership, joint venture or other entity owns, directly or indirectly, at least fifty percent (50%) of the voting power of all classes of voting shares of the Company (or any corporation, partnership, joint venture or other entity which is a successor to the Company); (ii) any corporation, partnership, joint venture or other entity during any period in which the Company (or any corporation, partnership, joint venture or other entity which is a successor to the Company or any entity that is a Related Company by reason of clause (i) next above) owns, directly or indirectly, at least a fifty percent (50%) voting or profits interest; or (iii) any business venture in which the Company has a significant interest, as determined in the discretion of the Committee. Shares. The term "Shares" shall mean shares of the Common Stock of the Company, $.01 par value, as presently constituted, subject to adjustment as provided in paragraph 4.2(c) above. Section 8 Other Incentive Awards 8.1 Grant of Other Incentive Awards. Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan, Other Incentive Awards may be granted to Eligible Individuals, in such amount, 2005 EMPLOYEE INCENTIVE PLAN May 19, 2005 Page 12
upon such terms, and at any time and from time to time as shall be determined by the Committee. 8.2 Other Incentive Award Agreement. Each Other Incentive Award shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify the amount of the Other Incentive Award or the means by which it will be calculated, the terms and conditions applicable to such Award, the applicable Performance Period and Performance Goals, if any, and such other provisions as the Committee shall determine, in all cases subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan. 8.3 Nontransferability. Except as otherwise provided in the applicable Award Agreement, Other Incentive Awards may not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned or otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution. 8.4 Form and Timing of Payment of Other Incentive Awards. Payment of Other Incentive Awards shall be made in cash and at such times as established by the Committee subject to the terms of the Plan. Section 9 Performance-Based Measures 9.1 Performance Measures. The Performance Measures used to determine the attainment of Performance Goals with respect to Other Incentive Awards and Stock Awards to Named Executive Employees which are designed to qualify for the Performance-Based Exception shall be (A) a change in the Fair Market Value of a Share or (B) any one or more of the following, as reported in the Company's Annual Report to Stockholders which is included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K or which may be mathematically derived from financial results reported in such Annual Report, including Annual Reports made for prior years: (a) the Company's consolidated net earnings; (b) the Company's consolidated earnings per share on a diluted basis; (c) the Company's consolidated net sales; (d) net sales for any channel of distribution (as defined in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations); (e) the Company's consolidated return on average assets; (f) the Company's consolidated selling, general and administrative expenses; (g) the Company's consolidated earnings from operations; 2005 EMPLOYEE INCENTIVE PLAN May 19, 2005 Page 13
(h) the Company's consolidated earnings before income taxes; and (i) the Company's consolidated net cash provided by operating activities. The Committee may appropriately adjust any evaluation of performance under a Performance Goal to exclude any of the following events that occurs during a Performance Period: (i) asset write-downs, (ii) litigation or claim judgment or settlements, (iii) the effect of changes in tax law, accounting principles or other such laws or provisions affecting reported results, (iv) accruals for reorganization and restructuring programs, and (v) extraordinary non-recurring items as described in Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 30 and/or in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations appearing in said Annual Report for the applicable year. 9.2 Discretion to Adjust Awards/Performance Goals. The Committee retains the discretion to adjust the determination of the degree of attainment of the pre-established Performance Goals for Awards; provided, however, that Awards which are designed to qualify for the Performance-Based Exception, and which are held by Named Executive Officers, may not be subjected to an adjustment which would yield an increased payout, although the Committee may retain the discretion to make an adjustment which would yield a decreased payout. In the event that applicable tax and/or securities laws change to permit the Committee discretion to alter the governing Performance Measure for Awards designed to qualify for the Performance-Based Exception and held by Named Executive Officers without obtaining stockholder approval of such change, the Committee shall have sole discretion to make such change without obtaining stockholder approval. In addition, in the event that the Committee determines that it is advisable to grant Awards which will not qualify for the Performance-Based Exception, the Committee may make such grants without satisfying the requirements of Code Section 162(m). Section 10 Successors All obligations of the Company under the Plan with respect to Awards shall be binding on any successor to the Company, whether the existence of such successor is the result of a direct or indirect purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise, of all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company. 2005 EMPLOYEE INCENTIVE PLAN May 19, 2005 Page 14

Exhibit 10.146 RESTRICTED STOCK GRANT Terms Rev. II TIFFANY & CO. a Delaware Corporation (the "Company") TERMS OF RESTRICTED STOCK GRANT (Non-Transferable) under the 1998 EMPLOYEE INCENTIVE PLAN and 2005 EMPLOYEE INCENTIVE PLAN (either plan, the "Plan") Terms Adopted January 20, 2005, as amended March 7, 2005 and May 19, 2005 1. Introduction and Terms of Grant. Participant has been granted (the "Grant") Stock Units which shall be settled by the issuance and delivery of Shares of the Company's Common Stock. The Grant has been made under the Plan by the Stock Option Subcommittee of the Company's Board of Directors (the "Committee"). The name of the "Participant", the "Grant Date" and the number of "Stock Units" granted are stated in the attached "Notice of Grant". The other terms and conditions of the Grant are stated in this document and in the Plan. Certain initially capitalized words and phrases used in this document are defined in paragraph 10 below and elsewhere in this document or in the Plan. If the Participant has the title of Vice President or Group Vice President this Grant will be void unless the Participant executes and delivers to the Company those certain Non-Competition and Confidentiality Covenants in the form approved by the Committee, such delivery to be made within 180 days of the Grant Date. 2. Grant and Adjustment. Subject to the terms and conditions stated in this document, Participant has been granted Stock Units by the Company. As of the Grant Date, each Stock Unit has a Settlement Value of one Share, but the number of Shares which shall be issued and delivered pursuant to the Grant on the settlement of each Stock Unit (the "Settlement Value") shall be subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4.2(c) of the Plan, to adjust for, among other corporate developments, stock splits and stock dividends. References to Settlement Values in this document shall be deemed reference to Settlement Values as so adjusted. As anticipated in Section 4.7 of the Plan, Shares that have not been issued and delivered to a Participant shall be represented by Stock Units. 3. Maturity Dates - Vesting in Installments. Unless otherwise provided in paragraphs 4 or 5 below, Stock Units granted on a single Grant Date will "mature" and vest in installments according to the following schedule of "Maturity Dates": Following the Maturity Date of a Stock Unit, the Settlement Value of the Stock Unit in Shares shall be issued and delivered to or for the account of Participant. As provided for in Section 7 below, the Company may make such delivery to a Service Provider. A Stock Unit which fails to mature and vest on or before Participant's Date of Termination shall be void and shall not confer upon the owner of
such Stock Unit any rights, including any right to any Share. In the event that the above schedule of installments would otherwise result in a Settlement Value that includes a fractional Share, such fractional Share shall not be deemed to have matured and vested, but shall mature and vest on a subsequent Maturity Date if, when added to other fractional Share interests that would otherwise mature and vest, a full Share will be deemed to have matured and vested. Under no circumstances will the Company be obligated to issue a fractional Share, and if the application of the prior sentence fails to result in the eventual issuance of a Share, the Company will not be required to settle any remaining fractional interest in cash. 4. Effect of Termination of Employment on Vesting. A Stock Unit shall not mature and shall not be settled for Shares if the Participant's Date of Termination occurs before the anniversary of the Grant Date on which the installment containing such Stock Unit was scheduled to mature, unless the Participant's Date of Termination occurs by reason of death or Disability, in which case all installments of the Grant which have not previously matured shall mature and vest on said Date of Termination. 5. Effect of Change in Control. All installments of the Grant shall mature upon the date of a Change of Control unless the Participant's Date of Termination occurs before the date of the Change of Control. The Committee reserves the right to unilaterally amend the definition of a "Change of Control" so as to specify additional circumstances which shall be deemed to constitute a Change of Control. 6. No Dividends or Interest. No dividends or interest shall accrue or be payable upon any Stock Unit. Until a Share is issued and delivered it shall not be registered in the name of the Participant. 7. Withholding for Taxes. All distributions of Shares shall be subject to withholding of all applicable taxes as computed by the Tiffany and Company finance department, and the Participant shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Company to provide the Company (or any Related Company) with funds necessary for such withholding before the Shares are delivered. Without limitation to the Company's right to establish other arrangements, the Company may: (i) designate a single broker or other financial services provider ("Services Provider") to establish trading accounts for Participants (each a "Participant's Trading Account"); (ii) deliver Shares to Participant's Trading Account; (iii) provide Services Provider with information concerning the applicable tax withholding rates for Participant; (iv) cause Services Provider to sell, on behalf of Participant, sufficient Shares to cover the Company's tax withholding obligations with respect to any delivery of Shares to Participant (a "Covering Sale"); and (v) cause Services Provider to remit funds resulting from such Covering Sale to Company or any Related Company that is the employer of Participant. Participant may, by written notice to the Company addressed to the Company's Secretary, and given no less than ten (10) business days before an applicable Maturity Date, elect to avoid such a Covering Sale, by delivering with such notice a bank-certified check payable to the Company (or other type of check or draft payable to the Company and acceptable to the Secretary) in the estimated amount of any such withholding required, such estimate to be provided by the Tiffany and Company finance department. The Committee may approve other methods of withholding, as provided for in the Plan, before the Shares are delivered. 8. Transferability. The Stock Units are not transferable otherwise than by will or the laws of descent and distribution, and shall not be otherwise transferred, assigned, pledged, hypothecated or otherwise disposed of in any way, whether by operation of law or otherwise, nor shall it be subject to execution, attachment or similar process. Upon any attempt to transfer the Stock Units otherwise than as permitted herein or to assign, pledge, hypothecate or otherwise dispose of the Stock Units otherwise than as permitted herein, or upon the levy of any execution, attachment or similar process upon the Grant, the Grant shall immediately terminate and become null and void. Tiffany & Co. 1998 Employee Incentive Plan Tiffany & Co. 2005 Employee Incentive Plan Restricted Stock Grant: Terms of Stock Grant Award - Rev. II Page 2
9. Definitions. For the purposes of the Grant, the words and phrases listed below shall be defined as follows: a. Change of Control. A "Change of Control" shall be deemed to have occurred if : (i) any person (as used herein, the word "person" shall mean an individual or an entity) or group of persons acting in concert has acquired thirty-five percent (35%) in voting power or amount of the equity securities of the Company (including the acquisition of any right, Grant warrant or other right to obtain such voting power or amount, whether or not presently exercisable); (ii) individuals who constituted the Board of Directors of the Company on May 1, 1998 (the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of such Board of Directors, provided that any individual becoming a director subsequent to May 1, 1988 whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders, was approved by a vote of at least three-quarters of the directors comprising the Incumbent Board (either by a specific vote or by approval of the proxy statement of the Company in which such individual is named as a nominee for director) shall be, for the purposes of this paragraph 9(a), considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board; or (iii)any other circumstance with respect to a change in control of the Company occurs which the Committee deems to be a Change in Control of the Company. A Change of Control which constitutes a Terminating Transaction will be deemed to have occurred as of fourteen days prior to the date scheduled for the Terminating Transaction. b. Code. The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. c. Date of Termination. The Participant's "Date of Termination" shall be the first day occurring on or after the Grant Date on which Participant's employment with the Company and all Related Companies terminates for any reason; provided that a termination of employment shall not be deemed to occur by reason of a transfer of the Participant between the Company and a Related Company or between two Related Companies; and further provided that the Participant's employment shall not be considered terminated while the Participant is on a leave of absence from the Company or a Related Company approved by the Participant's employer or required by applicable law. If, as a result of a sale or other transaction, the Participant's employer ceases to be a Related Company (and the Participant's employer is or becomes an entity that is separate from the Company), the occurrence of such transaction shall be treated as the Participant's Date of Termination. d. Disability. Except as otherwise provided by the Committee, the Participant shall be considered to have a "Disability" if he or she is unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of a medically determinable physical or mental impairment, which impairment, in the opinion of a physician selected by the Secretary of the Company, is expected to have a duration of not less than 120 days. e. Plan Definitions. Except where the context clearly implies or indicates the contrary, a word, term, or phrase used in the Plan shall have the same meaning in this document. Tiffany & Co. 1998 Employee Incentive Plan Tiffany & Co. 2005 Employee Incentive Plan Restricted Stock Grant: Terms of Stock Grant Award - Rev. II Page 3
f. Market Value. The average of the high and low prices for the Shares as reported on The New York Stock Exchange for (i) the applicable Maturity Date if the Maturity Date is a trading day, or (ii) if the Maturity Date is not a trading day, the trading day next following the Maturity Date. g. Terminating Transaction. As used herein, the phrase "Terminating Transaction" shall mean any one of the following: (i) the dissolution or liquidation of the Company; (ii) a reorganization, merger or consolidation of the Company; or (iii)a reorganization, merger or consolidation of the Company with one or more corporations as a result of which the Company goes out of existence or becomes a subsidiary of another corporation, or upon the acquisition of substantially all of the property or more than eighty percent (80%) of the then outstanding stock of the Company by another corporation. 10. Heirs and Successors. The terms of the Grant shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the Company and its successors and assigns, and upon any person acquiring, whether by merger, consolidation, purchase of assets or otherwise, all or substantially all of the Company's assets and business. Participant may designate a beneficiary of his/her rights under the Grant by filing written notice with the Secretary of the Company. In the event of the Participant's death prior to the full maturity of the Grant, the Shares will be delivered to such Beneficiary to the extent that it was matured on the Participant's Termination Date. If the Participant fails to designate a Beneficiary, or if the designated Beneficiary dies before the Participant, any Shares issuable hereunder will be delivered to the Participant's estate. 11. Administration. The authority to manage and control the operation and administration of the Grant shall be vested in the Committee, and the Committee shall have all powers with respect to the Grant as it has with respect to the Plan. Any interpretation of the Grant by the Committee and any decision made by it with respect to the Grant is final and binding. 12. Plan Governs. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, the terms of the Grant shall be subject to the terms of the Plan, a copy of which may be obtained by the Participant from the office of the Secretary of the Company. Tiffany & Co. 1998 Employee Incentive Plan Tiffany & Co. 2005 Employee Incentive Plan Restricted Stock Grant: Terms of Stock Grant Award - Rev. II Page 4


