FILE:TIF/TIF-8K-20100527151330.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
_______________________
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
 
_______________________
 
Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d) of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
 
Date of Report: May 27, 2010
 
TIFFANY & CO.
 
(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:  (212) 755-8000
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02.                      Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On May 27, 2010, Registrant issued a press release announcing its unaudited earnings and results of operations for the first quarter ended April 30, 2010.  A copy of the May 27, 2010 press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
 
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.  In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this report shall not be deemed filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly stated by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01.                      Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
    (c)  Exhibits
 
99.1                      Press Release dated May 27, 2010.
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
Date:  May 27, 2010
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
Exhibit No.                                 Description
 
99.1                                            Press Release dated May 27, 2010.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
TIFFANY & CO.
NEWS RELEASE
 
 
   
 
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
New York, N.Y., May 27, 2010  Worldwide sales at Tiffany & Co. (NYSE: TIF) increased 22% in the first quarter ended April 30, 2010 due to growth in most regions and product categories.  As a result of the strong, and higher-than-expected, sales growth and operating margin, net earnings more than doubled to $0.50 per diluted share.
In the three months (first quarter) ended April 30, 2010:
Michael J. Kowalski, chairman and chief executive officer, said, Our business performed exceptionally well in the first quarter, continuing the broad-based improvement we began to experience in the second half of 2009. Sales growth was again achieved in most countries and product categories, as consumers around the world continued to turn to those brands they can trust, authentic luxury brands with a legacy of excellence in design and craftsmanship.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
Effective with this release, the Company is expanding its reporting of sales by geographical segments, in order to align with changes in its organizational and management reporting structure. Specifically, the Company is now reporting results in Japan separately from the rest of the Asia-Pacific region, and wholesale sales to independent distributors for resale in certain emerging markets (such as Russia and the Middle East) that were previously included in Europe and Asia-Pacific are now included in the Other segment. Prior-year results have been restated for this change. The Company has posted restated sales results by quarter for 2009 and 2008 on its website (, and click on investors followed by reportable segments ).
www.tiffany.com
Net sales by segment were as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
           versus 209 locations a year ago (88 in the Americas, 56 in Japan, 41 in Asia-Pacific and 24 in Europe).
 
 
Other financial highlights were:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
Mr. Kowalski continued, We are taking advantage of opportunities related to store expansion, new product introductions and expanded marketing communications in order to grow Tiffanys worldwide presence and market share, and we have considerable financial strength as evidenced by our two most recent dividend increases of 18% and 25%. We are very encouraged with first quarter results, but believe it is prudent to maintain at least a modicum of caution in our outlook due to global economic uncertainties. In our second quarter to-date, consolidated worldwide sales are growing in line with our objective. Based on first quarter results exceeding our expectations, we are increasing our net earnings outlook to $2.55 - $2.60 per diluted share, from $2.45-$2.50. This new outlook excludes nonrecurring items, such as expenses re lated to the pending relocation of our New York headquarters staff, as well as the first quarters net tax benefit, which in total will reduce earnings in 2010 by approximately $0.09 per diluted share; our previous earnings forecast did not factor in any such items.
 
 
2010 Outlook:
Managements outlook for fiscal 2010 is based on the following assumptions which may or may not prove valid:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
Todays Conference Call:
The Company will host a conference call today at 8:30 a.m. (Eastern Time) to review these actual results and its outlook. Investors may listen at (Events and Presentations).
http://investor.tiffany.com
Next Scheduled Announcement:
The Company expects to report its second quarter 2010 financial results on August 27, 2010 with a conference call at 8:30 a.m. (Eastern Time).  To receive notifications of news releases, please register at (E-Mail Alerts).
http://investor.tiffany.com
Tiffany & Co. operates jewelry stores and manufactures products through its subsidiary corporations. Its principal subsidiary is Tiffany and Company. The Company operates TIFFANY & CO. retail stores and boutiques in the Americas, Asia-Pacific and Europe and engages in direct selling through Internet, catalog and business gift operations. For additional information, please visit or call our shareholder information line at 800-TIF-0110.
www.tiffany.com
This document contains certain forward-looking statements concerning the Companys objectives and expectations with respect to sales, store openings, operating margin, net earnings and inventories. Actual results might differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Information concerning risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially is set forth in the Companys 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
5
 
 
 
TIFFANY & CO. AND SUBSIDIARIES
(Unaudited)
NON-GAAP MEASURES
Net Sales
The Companys reported sales reflect either a translation-related benefit from strengthening foreign currencies or a detriment from a strengthening U.S. dollar.
The Company reports information in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). Internally, management monitors its sales performance on a non-GAAP basis that eliminates the positive or negative effects that result from translating international sales into U.S. dollars (constant-exchange-rate basis). Management believes this constant-exchange-rate basis provides a more representative assessment of sales performance and provides better comparability between reporting periods.
The Companys management does not, nor does it suggest that investors should, consider such non-GAAP financial measures in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. The Company presents such non-GAAP financial measures in reporting its financial results to provide investors with an additional tool to evaluate the Companys operating results. The following table reconciles sales percentage increases (decreases) from the GAAP to the non-GAAP basis versus the previous year:
Net Earnings from Continuing Operations
The accompanying press release presents net earnings from continuing operations and highlights current-year nonrecurring items in the text. Management believes excluding such items presents the Companys
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
first quarter results on a more comparable basis to the corresponding period in the prior year, thereby providing investors with an additional perspective to analyze the results of operations of the Company at April 30, 2010. The following table reconciles GAAP net earnings from continuing operations and net earnings from continuing operations per diluted share (EPS) to the non-GAAP net earnings from continuing operations and net earnings from continuing operations per diluted share, as adjusted:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
8
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9
 


