FILE:TIF/TIF-8K-20100827112833.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:  (212) 755-8000
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 2.02.                      Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On August 27, 2010, Registrant issued a press release announcing its unaudited earnings and results of operations for the second quarter ended July 31, 2010.  A copy of the August 27, 2010 press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.  In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this report shall not be deemed filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly stated by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01.                      Financial Statements and Exhibits.
    (c)           Exhibits
        99.1                      Press Release dated August 27, 2010.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
  
   TIFFANY & CO.
   
   
 
   BY:      /s/ James N. Fernandez     
   
   
   
    _______________________________
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
   James N. Fernandez
   
   
   Executive Vice President, Chief Financial
   
   
   Officer
   
   
 
 
 
Date:  August 27, 2010
 
 
 
Exhibit No.                                Description
99.1                                 Press Release dated August 27, 2010.
   
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
                                                                                                         0;                             
Fifth Avenue & 57
th
Street
Contacts:
                                                                                                           James N. Fernandez
New York, N.Y. 10022
   
   0;  
           (212) 230-5315
   
   
 Mark L. Aaron
   
    
 (212) 230-5301
   
    
 
New York, N.Y., August 27, 2010  Tiffany & Co. (NYSE: TIF) today reported that its worldwide net sales rose 9% in the second quarter ended July 31, 2010, with solid growth in most regions. A higher operating margin also contributed to a 19% increase in net earnings in the second quarter; net earnings from continuing operations adjusted to exclude nonrecurring items rose 45% (see attached Non-GAAP Measures schedule).  The Company increased its full year earnings growth outlook.
Michael J. Kowalski, chairman and chief executive officer, said, Tiffanys financial performance in the quarter continued to demonstrate the benefits derived from a growing global presence, with roughly half of our sales now occurring outside the U.S.  In the quarter, we were pleased that sales increased in most countries and product categories.
In the three months (second quarter) ended July 31, 2010:
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
In the six months (first half) ended July 31, 2010:
Net sales highlights by segment:
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
Other financial highlights:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
Mr. Kowalski continued, We look toward the second half of the year with a sense of guarded optimism, continuing to grow our worldwide store base and launching a range of exciting new products, including an extraordinary collection of jewelry with yellow diamonds and an enticing new collection of handbags and leather accessories, among many others.
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
He added, So far in this third quarter, consolidated worldwide sales are growing at a low-double-digit percentage rate over last year, with varying results by region. And, as our sales grow, we are efficiently utilizing our infrastructure to further increase the operating margin. Therefore, based on our better-than-expected second quarter results and expected continued strength in gross margin, we are increasing our annual net earnings outlook to $2.60 - $2.65 per diluted share (from $2.55 - $2.60 previously), although earnings growth in this third quarter (versus last years $0.33 per diluted share excluding nonrecurring items) will be somewhat restrained by disproportionately higher marketing spending. Tiffany remains strategically and financially well positioned.
 
 
2010 Outlook:
Managements outlook for fiscal 2010 is based on the following assumptions which may or may not prove valid:
 
 
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
Todays Conference Call:
The Company will host a conference call today at 8:30 a.m. (Eastern Time) to review these actual results and its outlook. Investors may listen at (Events and Presentations).
http://investor.tiffany.com
Next Scheduled Announcement:
The Company expects to report its third quarter 2010 financial results on November 24, 2010 with a conference call at 8:30 a.m. (Eastern Time).  To receive notifications of news releases, please register at (E-Mail Alerts).
http://investor.tiffany.com
Tiffany & Co. operates jewelry stores and manufactures products through its subsidiary corporations. Its principal subsidiary is Tiffany and Company. The Company operates TIFFANY & CO. retail stores and boutiques in the Americas, Japan, Asia-Pacific and Europe and engages in direct selling through Internet, catalog and business gift operations. For additional information, please visit or call our shareholder information line at 800-TIF-0110.
www.tiffany.com
This document contains certain forward-looking statements concerning the Companys objectives and expectations with respect to sales, store openings, operating margin, net earnings, inventories and capital expenditures. Actual results might differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Information concerning risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially is set forth in the Companys 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
NON-GAAP MEASURES
Net Sales
The Companys reported sales reflect either a translation-related benefit from strengthening foreign currencies or a detriment from a strengthening U.S. dollar.
The Company reports information in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). Internally, management monitors its sales performance on a non-GAAP basis that eliminates the positive or negative effects that result from translating international sales into U.S. dollars (constant-exchange-rate basis). Management believes this constant-exchange-rate basis provides a more representative assessment of sales performance and provides better comparability between reporting periods.
The Companys management does not, nor does it suggest that investors should, consider such non-GAAP financial measures in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. The Company presents such non-GAAP financial measures in reporting its financial results to provide investors with an additional tool to evaluate the Companys operating results. The following table reconciles sales percentage increases (decreases) from the GAAP to the non-GAAP basis versus the previous year:
 
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
Net Earnings from Continuing Operations
The accompanying press release presents net earnings from continuing operations and highlights current-year and prior year nonrecurring items in the text. Management believes excluding such items presents the Companys second quarter results on a more comparable basis to the corresponding period in the prior year, thereby providing investors with an additional perspective to analyze the results of operations of the Company at July 31, 2010. The following table reconciles GAAP net earnings from continuing operations and net earnings from continuing operations per diluted share (EPS) to the non-GAAP net earnings from continuing operations and net earnings from continuing operations per diluted share, as adjusted:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11


