FILE:TIF/TIF-8K-20101124141223.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:  (212) 755-8000
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant
under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 2.02.                      Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On November 24, 2010, Registrant issued a press release announcing its unaudited earnings and results of operations for the third quarter ended October 31, 2010.  A copy of the November 24, 2010 press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.  In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this report shall not be deemed filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly stated by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01.                      Financial Statements and Exhibits.
    (c)      Exhibits
          99.1                      Press Release dated November 24, 2010.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
   
   
   
  
  
   
   
Date:  November 24, 2010
 
 
 
Exhibit No.                                Description
99.1                                 Press Release dated November 24, 2010.
   

Exhibit 99.1
                                                                                                                                 
Fifth Avenue & 57
th
Street
   
   
   
 
Contacts:
 James N. Fernandez
                                                                                                                     
New York, N.Y. 10022
   
   
   
   
  
    (212) 230-5315
   
   
   
   
   
   
                  Mark L. Aaron
   
   
   
   
   
                  (212) 230-5301
   
   
   
   
   
New York, N.Y., November 24, 2010  Tiffany & Co. (NYSE: TIF) reported a 14% increase in its worldwide net sales for the third quarter ended October 31, 2010, with growth occurring in all geographic regions. The sales increase and a higher operating margin contributed to a higher-than-expected 27% increase in net earnings; net earnings from continuing operations adjusted to exclude nonrecurring items increased 43% (see attached Non-GAAP Measures schedule). In response, management increased its outlook for full year earnings growth.
Michael J. Kowalski, chairman and chief executive officer, said, As third quarter results demonstrate once again, Tiffanys expanding, globally diversified store presence provides a significant platform to generate sustainable sales and earnings growth.
In the three months (third quarter) ended October 31, 2010:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
In the nine months (year-to-date) ended October 31, 2010:
Net sales highlights by segment:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 
 
 
 
Mr. Kowalski said, We are quite pleased with the performance of new stores and recent product introductions including the yellow diamond and leather goods collections.
Other financial highlights:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 
 
 
 
Mr. Kowalski added, We are now a few weeks into the all-important two-month holiday season and sales growth is exceeding our expectations, although the majority of the holiday season is certainly still ahead of us.  Based largely on having achieved higher-than-expected third quarter earnings, as well as favorable gross margin trends, we are increasing our annual net earnings outlook (excluding nonrecurring items) to $2.72 - $2.77 per diluted share, from $2.60 - $2.65 previously.
 
 
2010 Outlook:
Managements outlook for the year ending January 31, 2011 is based on the following assumptions which may or may not prove valid:
Todays Conference Call:
The Company will host a conference call today at 8:30 a.m. (Eastern Time) to review these actual results and its outlook. Investors may listen at (Events and Presentations).
http://investor.tiffany.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5 
 
 
 
Next Scheduled Announcement:
The Company expects to report its sales for the November - December holiday period on January 11, 2011. Management will not comment on such sales results until that time. To receive notifications of news releases, please register at (E-Mail Alerts).
http://investor.tiffany.com
Tiffany & Co. operates jewelry stores and manufactures products through its subsidiary corporations. Its principal subsidiary is Tiffany and Company. The Company operates TIFFANY & CO. retail stores and boutiques in the Americas, Japan, Asia-Pacific and Europe and engages in direct selling through Internet, catalog and business gift operations. For additional information, please visit or call our shareholder information line at 800-TIF-0110.
www.tiffany.com
This document contains certain forward-looking statements concerning the Companys objectives and expectations with respect to sales, store openings, operating margin, net earnings, inventories and capital expenditures. Actual results might differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Information concerning risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially is set forth in the Companys 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
 
 
TIFFANY & CO. AND SUBSIDIARIES
(Unaudited)
NON-GAAP MEASURES
Net Sales
The Companys reported sales reflect either a translation-related benefit from strengthening foreign currencies or a detriment from a strengthening U.S. dollar.
The Company reports information in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). Internally, management monitors its sales performance on a non-GAAP basis that eliminates the positive or negative effects that result from translating international sales into U.S. dollars (constant-exchange-rate basis). Management believes this constant-exchange-rate basis provides a more representative assessment of sales performance and provides better comparability between reporting periods.
The Companys management does not, nor does it suggest that investors should, consider such non-GAAP financial measures in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. The Company presents such non-GAAP financial measures in reporting its financial results to provide investors with an additional tool to evaluate the Companys operating results. The following table reconciles sales percentage increases (decreases) from the GAAP to the non-GAAP basis versus the previous year:
 
 
 
7 
 
 
 
Net Earnings from Continuing Operations
The accompanying press release presents net earnings from continuing operations and highlights current-year and prior year nonrecurring items in the text. Management believes excluding such items presents the Companys third quarter and year-to-date results on a more comparable basis to the corresponding period in the prior year, thereby providing investors with an additional perspective to analyze the results of operations of the Company at October 31, 2010. The following table reconciles GAAP net earnings from continuing operations and net earnings from continuing operations per diluted share (EPS) to the non-GAAP net earnings from continuing operations and net earnings from continuing operations per diluted share, as adjusted:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
       TIFFANY & CO. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 (Unaudited, in thousands, except per share amounts)
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS
 
 
 
TIFFANY & CO. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 (Unaudited, in thousands)
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
 


