FILE:TIF/TIF-8K-20111129150228.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
_______________________
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
_______________________
Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d) of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report: November 29, 2011
TIFFANY & CO.
(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:  (212) 755-8000
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 2.02.                      Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On November 29, 2011, Registrant issued a press release announcing its unaudited earnings and results of operations for the third quarter ended October 31, 2011.  A copy of the November 29, 2011 press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.  In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this report shall not be deemed filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly stated by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01.                      Financial Statements and Exhibits.
    (c)           Exhibits
        99.1        Press Release dated November 29, 2011.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
Date:  November 29, 2011
 
 
 
Exhibit No.                    Description
99.1                                Press Release dated November 29, 2011.

Exhibit 99.1
TIFFANY & CO.
NEWS RELEASE
                                                                                                                                         
Fifth Avenue & 57
th
Street
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
Contact:
New York, N.Y. 10022                                                                                                                      Mark L. Aaron
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
212-230-5301
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
TIFFANY REPORTS STRONG THIRD QUARTER RESULTS
New York, N.Y., November 29, 2011  Tiffany & Co. (NYSE: TIF) today announced that its net sales in the third quarter ended October 31, 2011 increased 21% over the prior year due to geographically broad-based growth. Net earnings rose 63% reflecting a higher operating margin that benefited from sales leverage on fixed costs. Management raised its earnings forecast for fiscal 2011 to reflect the better-than-expected results.
Third quarter (three months ended October 31, 2011) summary:
Year-to-date (nine months ended October 31, 2011) summary:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
Michael J. Kowalski, chairman and chief executive officer, said, Increased sales in all regions contributed to the continuation of strong worldwide sales growth in the third quarter. We were also pleased to achieve an improved operating margin by leveraging the sales growth against fixed costs."
Net sales highlights by segment:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
Other financial highlights:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
 
Mr. Kowalski added, Tiffany is extremely well-positioned to serve growing numbers of discerning customers around the world with extraordinary product offerings and superior shopping experiences. We are, of course, mindful of continued short-term economic challenges and uncertainties in some markets. Worldwide sales-to-date at this relatively early stage of our November-December holiday season are tracking in-line with our current expectations despite recent sales weaknesses in Europe and in the eastern part of the U.S.  We are slightly increasing our full year earnings forecast to $3.70 - $3.80 per diluted share (not including $0.20 per diluted share of nonrecurring expenses) to reflect a portion of the better-than-expected third quarter results.
Outlook for 2011:
Managements outlook for the full year ending January 31, 2012 is based on the following assumptions which may or may not prove valid:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
 
Todays Conference Call:
The Company will host a conference call today at 8:30 a.m. (Eastern Time) to review these actual results and its outlook. Please click on (Events and Presentations).
http://investor.tiffany.com
 
Next Scheduled Announcement:
The Company expects to report its sales results for the November-December holiday period on Tuesday January 10, 2012. To be notified of future announcements, please register at (E-Mail Alerts).
http://investor.tiffany.com
 
Tiffany & Co. operates jewelry stores and manufactures products through its subsidiary corporations. Its principal subsidiary is Tiffany and Company. The Company operates TIFFANY & CO. retail stores and boutiques in the Americas, Asia-Pacific, Japan and Europe and engages in direct selling through Internet, catalog and business gift operations. For additional information, please visit or call our shareholder information line at 800-TIF-0110.
www.tiffany.com
This document contains certain forward-looking statements concerning the Companys objectives and expectations with respect to sales, store openings, operating margin, interest and other expenses, the effective income tax rate, net earnings, inventories and capital expenditures. Actual results might differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Information concerning risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially is set forth in the Companys 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
5
 
 
 
NON-GAAP MEASURES
Net Sales
The Companys reported sales reflect either a translation-related benefit from strengthening foreign currencies or a detriment from a strengthening U.S. dollar.
The Company reports information in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). Internally, management monitors its sales performance on a non-GAAP basis that eliminates the positive or negative effects that result from translating international sales into U.S. dollars (constant-exchange-rate basis). Management believes this constant-exchange-rate basis provides a more representative assessment of sales performance and provides better comparability between reporting periods.
The Companys management does not, nor does it suggest that investors should, consider such non-GAAP financial measures in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. The Company presents such non-GAAP financial measures in reporting its financial results to provide investors with an additional tool to evaluate the Companys operating results. The following table reconciles sales percentage increases (decreases) from the GAAP to the non-GAAP basis versus the previous year:
6
 
 
 
 
Net Earnings
The accompanying press release presents net earnings and highlights current year and prior year nonrecurring items in the text. Management believes excluding such items presents the Companys third quarter and year-to-date results on a more comparable basis to the corresponding period in the prior year, thereby providing investors with an additional perspective to analyze the results of operations of the Company at October 31, 2011. The following table reconciles GAAP net earnings and net earnings per diluted share (EPS) to the non-GAAP net earnings and net earnings per diluted share, as adjusted:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
 
 


