FILE:TIF/TIF-8K-20110405160033.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
_______________________
Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d) of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report: March 30, 2011
TIFFANY & CO.
(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:  (212) 755-8000
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions
(see General Instruction A.2. below):
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01                      Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
 
On March 30, 2011, Laurelton Diamonds, Inc., a direct, wholly-owned subsidiary of Registrant (), as lender, entered into a U.S. $50 million amortizing term loan facility agreement (the ) with Koidu Holdings S.A., a  British Virgin Islands company (), as borrower, and BSG Resources Limited, a Guernsey company (), as a limited guarantor.  Koidu operates a kimberlite diamond mine in the Kono district of Sierra Leone (the ) from which Laurelton now acquires diamonds.  Koidu is required under the terms of the Loan to apply the proceeds of the Loan to capital expenditures necessary to expand the Mine, among other purposes.  The Loan is required to be repaid in full by March 30, 2017 through semi-annual payments of principal scheduled to begin on March 30, 2013.  Interest will accrue on the outstanding principal amount of the Loan at a rate per annum that will be, from time to time, the greater of (i) LIBOR plus 3.5% and (ii) 4%.  This rate will be calculated once every six months, will remain fixed for a six-month interest period and will be payable on the last day of each such interest period.  In connection with the Loan, Laurelton was granted the right to purchase at fair market value diamonds recovered from the Mine and meeting Laureltons quality standards.  Subject to certain contingencies, principal amounts available under the Loan may be drawn in multiple installments; as of April 2, 2011, no installment had been drawn.  The assets of Koidu, including all equipment and rights in respect of the Mine, are subject to the security interest of a lender that is not affiliated with Registrant.  The Loan will be partially secured by diamonds that have been recovered from the Mine and not yet sold.  The obligations of BSG as guarantor are limited in time, amount and scope as provided in the Loan.
Laurelton
Loan
Koidu
BSG
Mine
Item 9.01.                      Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Date:  April 5, 2011
 
 
 
 
Exhibit No.          Description

Exhibit No. 10.163
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Facility agreement
 
 
Dated                                                                                     2011
 
 
Between
 
 
 
 
 
It is agreed:
 
Section 1
 
 - Interpretation
 
 
 
 
In this Agreement:
 
means the Companies Act 2006.
Act
 
means, in relation to any person, a Subsidiary of that person or a Holding Company of that person or any other Subsidiary of that Holding Company.
Affiliate
 
means (a) in relation to the Guarantor, Ernst & Young and (b) in relation to the Borrower, KPMG.
Auditors
 
means an authorisation, consent, permission, approval, resolution, licence, exemption, filing, notarisation or registration.
Authorisation
 
means the period from the date of this Agreement to and including the earlier of (a) the First Repayment Date and (b) the day on which the Available Facility is zero.
Availability Period
 
means the Lender's Commitment minus:
Available Commitment
 
 
 
means the aggregate for the time being of the Lender's Available Commitment.
Available Facility
Page 1
 
 
 
 
means the feasibility study (incorporating the financial model for the Koidu Project) for the Koidu Kimberlite Mine entitled "Expansion Project Feasibility Study for Koidu Project, Sierra Leone", prepared by SRK Consulting Engineers and Scientists dated October 2010 and delivered to the Original Lender prior to the date of this Agreement.
Bankable Feasibility Study
 
means a day (other than a Saturday or Sunday) on which banks are open for general business in London, New York City, Antwerp and Tortola.
Business Day
 
means a copy of an original document which is certified by a director or an authorised signatory of the relevant Obligor as being a copy of that document.
Certified Copy
 
means:
Commitment
 
 
 
to the extent not increased in accordance with Clause 2.1.2 () or cancelled, reduced or transferred by it under this Agreement.
Facility Increase
 
means all information relating to any Obligor, the Group, GDT, the Finance Documents, the Facility, the Offtake Agreement, the SCB Facility, the ECIC Facility or the Koidu Project in respect of which the Lender becomes aware in its capacity as, or for the purpose of becoming, the Lender or which is received by the Lender in relation to, or for the purpose of becoming the Lender under, the Finance Documents or the Facility from any member of the Group, GDT or any of its advisers in whatever form, and includes information given orally and any document, electronic file or any other way of representing or recording information which contains or is derived or copied from such information but excludes information that:
Confidential Information
 
 
 
 
means a confidentiality undertaking substantially in a form recommended by the LMA or in any other form agreed by the Borrower.
Confidentiality Undertaking
 
means a report prepared by the Borrower relating to the progress of the construction works for the Koidu Kimberlite Mine and other related matters, delivered to the Lender in accordance with Clause  (
Construction Report
16.4(e)
Information: Miscellaneous).
 
Page 2
 
 
 
 
and means one person being by another person, which means that first person (whether directly or indirectly and whether by the ownership of share capital, the possession of voting power, contract or otherwise) has the power to appoint and/or remove the majority of the board of directors of the other person.
Control
Controlled
Controlled
 
means the letter agreement dated on or about the date of this Agreement between Standard Chartered Bank and the Lender.
Cooperation Agreement
 
means an Event of Default or any event or circumstance specified in Clause  () which would (with the expiry of a grace period or the giving of notice or the making of any determination provided for in Clause () or any combination of any of the foregoing) be an Event of Default.
Default
19.1
Events of Default
19.1
Events of Default
 
means any delegate, agent, attorney, co-trustee, custodian or nominee appointed by the Lender, and includes any sub-delegate.
Delegate
 
means rough uncut (other than any processes or treatments applied to such diamonds undertaken for grading or similar purposes) diamonds.
Diamonds
 
means either or both of:
Disruption Event
 
 
 
(i)           from performing its payment obligations under the Finance Documents; or
 
 
and which (in either such case) is not caused by, and is beyond the control of, the Party whose operations are disrupted.
 
means a facility agreement of up to US$135,000,000 to be entered into after the date of this Agreement between, among others, the Borrower (in its capacity as borrower) and Standard Chartered Bank for the development and operation of the Koidu Kimberlite Mine, which shall be covered by a policy issued by the Export Credit Insurance Corporation of South Africa Limited.
ECIC Facility
 
means humans, animals, plants and all other living organisms including the ecological systems of which they form part and the following media:
Environment
 
 
Page 3
 
 
 
 
 
means any claim, proceeding, formal notice or investigation by any person having relevant jurisdiction in respect of any Environmental Law.
Environmental Claim
 
means any applicable law or regulation which relates to:
Environmental Law
 
(a)           the pollution or protection of the Environment;
 
(b)           the conditions of the workplace; or
 
 
means any permit and other Authorisation and the filing of any notification, report or assessment required under any Environmental Law for the operation of the business of the Borrower conducted on or from the properties owned or used by the Borrower.
Environmental Permit
 
mean the framework principles entitled the Equator Principles adopted by the World Bank/International Finance Corporation and various other financial institutions in determining, assessing and managing environmental and social risk in project financing as updated by such institutions from time to time.
Equator Principles
 
means any event or circumstance specified as such in Clause  ().
Event of Default
19
Events of Default
 
means the term loan facility described in Clause  ().
Facility
2
The Facility
 
means the office or offices notified by the Lender to the Borrower in writing on or before the date it becomes the Lender (or, following that date, by not less than 5 Business Days' written notice) as the office or offices through which it will perform its obligations under this Agreement.
Facility Office
 
means the sixth anniversary of the date of this Agreement.
Final Maturity Date
 
means this Agreement, the Transaction Security Documents, the Intercreditor Agreement (if any) and any other document designated as such by the Lender and the Borrower.
Finance Document
 
means (without double counting) any indebtedness for or in respect of:
Financial Indebtedness
 
 
 
 
Page 4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
means the annual accounting period for each Obligor ending on 31 December each year.
Financial Year
 
means the date falling on the second anniversary of the date of this Agreement.
First Repayment Date
 
means Global Diamond Trading Ltd, a company incorporated in the British Virgin Islands with registered number 1405505.
GDT
 
means the loan agreement for an amount of up to US$25,000,000 dated 9 November 2010 between GDT as lender and the Borrower as borrower.
GDTL
Facility
 
means the exclusive sale and marketing agreement dated 7 March 2008 between GDT and the Borrower.
GDT Marketing Agreement
 
 
Page 5
 
 
 
 
 
means the Obligors and BSGR Diamonds Ltd and means any one of them.
Group
Group Company
 
means any of the following events:
Guaranteed Political Risk
 
 
 
.
 
means the Borrower, appointed to act on behalf of the Guarantor in relation to the Finance Documents pursuant to Clause ().
Guarantor's Agent
2.2
Guarantor's Agent
 
means, in relation to a company or corporation, any other company or corporation in respect of which the first company is a Subsidiary.
Holding Company
 
means international accounting standards within the meaning of the IAS Regulation 1606/2002 to the extent applicable to the relevant financial statements.
IFRS
 
means the intercreditor agreement (if any) to be entered into upon entry into of the ECIC Facility between, among others, the Lender, Standard Chartered Bank and the Borrower as amended, supplemented, amended and restated or replaced from time to time.
Intercreditor Agreement
 
means, in relation to a Loan, each period determined in accordance with Clause  () and, in relation to an Unpaid Sum, each period determined in accordance with Clause  ().
Interest Period
9
Interest Periods
8.3
Default interest
 
means such agreements, documents and instruments as the Lender may reasonably require in order to (i) create a fixed charge over the "Final Recovery Diamonds" as defined in the Cooperation Agreement while they are located in the State of Israel and (ii) ensure that Penford is bound to recognize and give effect to Laureltons prior rights to the "Final Recovery Diamonds" as defined in the Cooperation Agreement.
Israeli Security Documents
 
means the process of certifying the origin of rough diamonds from sources free of conflict fuelled by diamond production in accordance with United Nations General Assembly Resolution 55/56.
Kimberley Process Certification Scheme
 
means the mine, all producing, handling, storage, milling and other processing buildings and infrastructure and the surface and sub-surface area and all other land relating to the mine required to exploit the Mineral Rights, complete and conduct the Mining Operations and otherwise develop the mine, in each case as more particularly described in the Bankable Feasibility Study.
Koidu Kimberlite Mine
 
means the (a) design, development, expansion, engineering, construction, equipment, testing, commissioning, management, operation, maintenance and repair of the Koidu Kimberlite Mine and (b) implementation of the Mining Operations, substantially in accordance with the Bankable Feasibility Study.
Koidu Project
 
means any legal opinion delivered to the Lender under Clause 4 () and Clause 17.11 ().
Legal Opinion
Conditions of utilisation
Condition Subsequent
 
 
Page 6
 
 
 
 
 
means:
Legal Reservations
 
 
 
 
 
 
means:
Lender
 
(a)           the Original Lender; and
 
 
which in each case has not ceased to be a Party in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
 
means, in relation to any Loan:
LIBOR
 
(a)           the applicable Screen Rate; or
 
 
 
as of the Specified Time on the Quotation Day for dollars and for a period comparable to the Interest Period of that Loan; provided that if the Lender is unable to determine LIBOR in accordance with the foregoing, LIBOR shall mean the Lender's cost of borrowing for a period of six (6) months prevailing as at the first day of each Interest Period (for so long as the Lender is unable to determine LIBOR in accordance with the foregoing).
 
 
Page 7
 
 
 
 
 
means the Limitation Act 1980 and the Foreign Limitation Periods Act 1984.
Limitation Acts
 
means the Loan Market Association.
LMA
 
means a loan made or to be made under the Facility or the principal amount outstanding for the time being of that loan.
Loan
 
means a material adverse effect on:
Material Adverse Effect
 
(a)           the business, operations or financial condition of the Group taken as a whole;
 
 
 
 
 
For the purpose of this definition, paragraph (c) shall only apply to the use of the term in Clauses (), (), 15.7 (), (), 19.6 (), () and ().
Material Adverse Effect
15.3
Non-conflict with other obligations
15.5
Authorisations, validity and admissibility in evidence
Insolvency
17.1
Authorisations
Insolvency proceedings
19.12
Rescission of Finance Documents
19.17
Material adverse change
 
has the meaning given in the Sierra Leone Mines and Minerals Act of 2009 which is a right to explore for or to mine mineral by holding a valid reconnaissance licence, exploration licence, artisanal mining licence, small scale mining licence, or large-scale mining licence as the context requires.
Mineral Right
 
means the Mining Lease number ML6/95 dated 22 July 1995 registered as 10/95 at page 62 in volume 6 of the Record Book of Mining Leases between the Republic of Sierra Leone and Branch Energy Limited and contained in the Koidu Kimberlite Project Mining Lease Agreement (Ratification) Decree relating to the mining and commercial exploitation of the Koidu Kimberlites which said Decree was adopted as an Act of the Sierra Leone Parliament by the National Provisional Ruling Council Decrees (Repeal and Modification) Act No.3 of 1996 which said Mining Lease Agreement was transferred to Koidu Holdings S.A. by virtue of a Transfer of Mining Lease dated 20 October 2003 registered as 19/2003 at page 61 in volume 7 of the Record Books of Mining Leases between Branch Energy Limited and Koidu Holdings S.A, as amended by the Mining Lease Agreement dated 6 September 2010.
Mining Lease
 
means the mining lease agreement dated 6 September 2010 between the Government of Sierra Leone and the Borrower, relating to the Koidu Kimberlite Mine, which was ratified by the Sierra Leone Parliament on 18 November 2010.
Mining Lease Agreement
 
 
 
Page 8
 
 
 
 
 
means any and all operations relating to the Koidu Kimberlite Mine, including mining, extraction, recovery, producing, handling, milling and other processing, storage, transportation and sale of Diamonds and any other by-product minerals, including as further defined in the Mining Lease Agreement.
Mining Operations
 
means a period starting on one day in a calendar month and ending on the numerically corresponding day in the next calendar month, except that:
Month
 
 
 
 
The above rules (a) to (c) will only apply to the last Month of any period.
 
is defined in Clause ( ).
New Lender
21.1
Assignments and transfers by the
Lender
 
means the Borrower or, prior to the date upon which the Guarantor ceases to have any obligations under Clause 12 () of this Agreement, the Guarantor.
Obligor
Guarantee and indemnity
 
means the offtake agreement dated on or about the date of this Agreement between the Borrower, the Original Lender as purchaser and the Borrower's marketing affiliate, GDT, whereby GDT agrees to sell and the Original Lender commits to buy a portion of the Diamonds produced by the Borrower from the Koidu Kimberlite Mine.
Offtake Agreement
 
means:
Original Financial Statements
 
 
 
means each of the Borrower and GDT to the extent it is an overseas company within the meaning of section 1044 of the Act.
Overseas Obligor
 
means a party to this Agreement.
Party
 
means the making or procuring of the appropriate registrations, filings, endorsements, notarisations, stampings and/or notifications of the Transaction Security Documents or the Transaction Security created thereunder in order to perfect the Transaction Security, including such requirements as are described in any Legal Opinions delivered to the Lender and registration of particulars of any Transaction Security Document to which the Borrower or GDT are party at the British Virgin Islands Registry of Corporate Affairs in order to ensure the preservation of the priority of the secured interests created by that Transaction Security Document.
Perfection Requirements
 
 
 
Page 9
 
 
 
 
 
means any financial indebtedness falling into one of the categories within paragraphs (a) to (o) of Clause
Permitted Financial Indebtedness
18.1
(Financial Indebtedness).
 
means:
Political Risk
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
means a violent act undertaken with the primary intent of achieving a political objective, such as declared or undeclared war, hostile action by national or international armed forces, civil war, revolution, terrorism or sabotage but excluding acts undertaken primarily to achieve labour or student objectives.
Political Violence
 
means the date falling six months after the date of this Agreement.
PRI Deadline
 
means any transaction described in Clause 18.4.3
Quasi-Security
(Negative pledge).
 
means, in relation to any period for which an interest rate is to be determined, 2 Business Days before the first day of that period unless market practice differs in the London interbank market for US Dollars in which case the Quotation Day for US Dollars will be determined by the Lender in accordance with market practice in the London interbank market (and if quotations would normally be given by leading banks in the London interbank market on more than one day, the Quotation Day will be the last of those days).
Quotation Day
 
means a receiver or receiver and manager or administrative receiver of the whole or any part of the Secured Property.
Receiver
 
means the London interbank market.
Relevant Interbank Market
 
 
Page 10
 
 
 
 
 
means, in relation to a Group Company or GDT, the jurisdiction of incorporation of the Group Company or GDT and, when used in the context of Transaction Security, the jurisdiction whose laws govern the perfection of the relevant Transaction Security Document.
Relevant Jurisdiction
 
has the meaning given to it in Clause  ().
Repayment Date
6.1
Repayment of Loans
 
has the meaning given to it in Clause  ().
Repayment Instalment
6.1
Repayment of Loans
 
means each of the representations and warranties set out in Clauses  () to (.
Repeating Representations
15.1
Status
15.5
Authorisations, validity and admissibility in evidence)
 
means any delegate, agent, manager, administrator, nominee, attorney, trustee or custodian.
Representative
 
means the facility agreement for up to US$85,000,000 dated 28 January 2011 and made between BSGR Diamonds Ltd as original borrower, BSG Resources Limited as original guarantor and Standard Chartered Bank as mandated lead arranger, original lender, agent, security agent and original hedging bank.
SCB Facility
 
means the British Bankers Association Interest Settlement Rate for US Dollars for the relevant period displayed on the appropriate page of the Reuters screen.  If the agreed page is replaced or service ceases to be available, the Lender may specify another page or service displaying the appropriate rate after consultation with the Borrower and the Lender.
Screen Rate
 
means the Lender and any Receiver or Delegate.
Secured Party
 
means all assets of the Borrower and GDT which from time to time are, or are expressed to be, the subject of the Transaction Security.
Secured Property
 
means a mortgage, charge, pledge, lien or other security interest securing any obligation of any person or any other agreement or arrangement in any jurisdiction having a similar effect.
Security
 
means the Sierra Leone law governed security agreement dated on or about the date of this Agreement between the Borrower, GDT and the Original Lender.
Sierra Leone Security Agreement
 
means the period starting on the date of this Agreement and ending on the date on which all of the liabilities of the Obligors and GDT under each Finance Document are irrevocably discharged in full and the Lender has no commitment or liability, whether present or future, actual or contingent, in relation to the Facility.
Security Period
 
means a time determined in accordance with Schedule 3 ().
Specified Time
Timetables
 
means, in relation to a person, any other person:
Subsidiary
 
 
 
 
Page 11
 
 
 
 
 
 
means any tax, levy, impost, duty or other charge or withholding of a similar nature (including any penalty or interest payable in connection with any failure to pay or any delay in paying any of the same).
Tax
 
means the exploration programme and development works related to the Tongo field licence area referred to in the exploration licence No. EXPL 4/04 granted to the Borrower on 19 May 2004.
Tongo Project
 
means the aggregate of the Commitments, being US$50,000,000 at the date of this Agreement.
Total Commitments
 
means the entry into of this Agreement and the other Finance Documents, the Offtake Agreement and all ancillary documentation.
Transaction
 
means the Security created or expressed to be created in favour of the Original Lender pursuant to the Transaction Security Documents.
Transaction Security
 
means the Sierra Leone Security Agreement, the Israeli Security Documents and any other document designated as such by the Lender and the Borrower, in each case creating, evidencing or granting Security in favour of the Lender in respect of the obligations of the Obligors under the Finance Documents, each in form and substance satisfactory to the Lender (acting reasonably).
Transaction Security Documents
 
means a certificate substantially in the form set out in Schedule 4 () or any other form agreed between the Lender and the Borrower.
Transfer Certificate
Form of Transfer Certificate
 
means, in relation to a transfer, the later of:
Transfer Date
 
 
 
means any derivative transaction entered into in connection with protection against or benefit from fluctuation in any rate or price.
Treasury Transaction
 
means any sum due and payable but unpaid by an Obligor under the Finance Documents.
Unpaid Sum
 
means United States of America.
US
 
and means the lawful currency for the time being of the US.
US Dollars
US$
 
means a utilisation of the Facility.
Utilisation
 
means the date of a Utilisation, being the date on which the relevant Loan is to be made.
Utilisation Date
 
 
Page 12
 
 
 
 
 
means a notice substantially in the form set out in ().
Utilisation Request
Schedule 2
Requests
 
means value added tax as provided for in the Value Added Tax Act 1994 and any other tax of a similar nature.
VAT
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 13
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Agreement shall take effect as a deed even if it is signed under hand on behalf of one or more Parties.
 
Page 14 
 
 
 
Section 2
 
 - The Facility
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 and in each case the Guarantor shall be bound as though the Guarantor itself had given the notices and instructions or executed or made the agreements or effected the amendments, supplements or variations, or received
   
 the relevant notice, demand or other communication.
   
 
 
Page 15
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Borrower shall apply all amounts borrowed by it under the Facility towards
 
 
 
 
 
The Lender is not bound to monitor or verify the application of any amount borrowed pursuant to this Agreement.
 
 
 
 
The Lender will only be obliged to comply with Clause () in relation to any Utilisation if on or before the Utilisation Date for that Utilisation, it has received all of the documents and other evidence listed in () in form and substance satisfactory to the Lender (acting reasonably).  The Lender shall notify the Borrower promptly upon being so satisfied.
5.4
Lenders participation
Schedule 1
Conditions precedent
 
 
The Lender will only be obliged to comply with Clause () if on the date of the Utilisation Request and on the proposed Utilisation Date:
5.4
Lenders participation
 
 
 
 
Page 16
 
 
 
 
Section 3
 
 - Utilisation
 
 
 
 
The Borrower may utilise the Facility by delivery to the Lender of a duly completed Utilisation Request not later than the Specified Time.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the purposes of this Clause 5.3.2:
 
 
 
 
If the conditions set out in this Agreement have been met, the Lender shall make its participation in each Loan available to the Borrower by the Utilisation Date through its Facility Office.
 
 
Page 17
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Commitments which, at that time, are unutilised shall be immediately cancelled at the end of the Availability Period.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 18
 
 
 
 
 
Section 4
 
 - Repayment, prepayment and cancellation
 
 
 
 
The Borrower shall repay the Loans by paying to the Lender on each date set out in Column 1 below (each a ) the percentage of the aggregate amount of the Loans outstanding at the close of business in New York City on the final day of the Availability Period (each a ) which is set out in Column 2 below opposite that date.
Repayment Date
Repayment Instalment
 
 
The Borrower may not re-borrow any part of the Facility which is repaid.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 19
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
means a successful application being made for the admission of any part of the share capital of any member of the Group to any stock exchange provided that, following such admission, the Borrower is not
 Qualifying IPO
   
 Controlled by a single person (not being a member of the Group).
   
 
 
 
 
 
Page 20
 
 
 
 
 
 the Lender may, by not less than 10 Business Days' notice to the Borrower, cancel the Total Commitment and declare all outstanding Loans, together with accrued interest, and all other amounts accrued under the Finance
   
 Documents immediately due and payable, whereupon the Total Commitments will be cancelled and all such outstanding amounts will become immediately due and payable.
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Borrower may, if it gives the Lender not less than 3 Business Days' (or such shorter period as the Lender may agree) prior notice, cancel the whole or any part (being a minimum amount of US$500,000) of the Available Facility.
 
 
 
 
Page 21
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If all or part of a Loan under the Facility is repaid or prepaid, an amount of the Commitments (equal to the amount of the Loan which is repaid or prepaid) in respect of the Facility will be deemed to be cancelled on the date of repayment or prepayment.
 
Page 22
 
 
 
 
Section 5
 
 - Costs of utilisation
 
 
 
 
The rate of interest on each Loan for each Interest Period is the percentage rate per annum which is the higher of:
 
 
 
 
The Borrower shall pay accrued interest on each Loan on the last day of each Interest Period.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Lender shall promptly notify the Borrower of the determination of a rate of interest under this Agreement.
 
Page 23
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If an Interest Period would otherwise end on a day which is not a Business Day, that Interest Period will instead end on the next Business Day in that calendar month (if there is one) or the preceding Business Day (if there is not).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 24
 
 
 
 
Section 6
 
 - Additional payment obligations
 
 
 
 
In this Agreement:
 
means a deduction or withholding for or on account of Tax from a payment under a Finance Document.
Tax Deduction
 
means either an increase in a payment made by an Obligor to the Lender under Clause 10.2 (Tax gross-up) or a payment under Clause 10.3 .
Tax Payment
(Tax indemnity)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 25
 
 
 
 
 
 if that Tax is imposed on or calculated by reference to the net income received or receivable (but not any sum deemed to be received or receivable) by the Lender; or
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Borrower shall, within 3 Business Days of demand, indemnify the Lender, any Receiver and their respective officers and employees against fifty per cent. (50%) of any cost, loss or liability which the Lender or its Receiver or any of their respective officers and employees incurs in relation to any stamp duty, registration tax or other similar Tax which is payable in respect of any of the Finance Documents.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
that Obligor shall, as an independent obligation, within 3 Business Days of demand, indemnify the Lender against any cost, loss or liability arising out of or as a result of the conversion including any discrepancy between (i) the rate of exchange used to convert that Sum from the First Currency into the Second Currency and (ii) the rate or rates of exchange available to that person at the time of its receipt of that Sum.
 
 
 
Page 26
 
 
 
 
 
The Borrower shall (or shall procure that an Obligor will), within 3 Business Days of demand, indemnify the Lender against any cost, loss or liability incurred by the Lender as a result of:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Borrower hereby indemnifies and shall within 3 Business Days of demand, pay the Lender against any loss or expense sustained or incurred by the Lender as a result of:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 27
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
shall be for the account of the Lender.
 
 
The Borrower shall, within 3 Business Days of demand, pay to each Secured Party the amount of all costs and expenses (including legal fees) incurred by it in connection with the enforcement of, or the preservation of any rights under, any Finance Document and the Transaction Security.
 
Page 28
 
 
 
Section 7
 
 - Guarantee
 
 
 
 
Subject to Clause 14.2 (), the Guarantor irrevocably and unconditionally:
Scope and duration of the Guarantee and indemnity
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 29
 
 
 
 
provided that the Lender may only make a claim under this guarantee after having first made a claim against any provider of Guaranteed Political Risk insurance in connection with the Facility.  Any claim under this guarantee shall only apply to the extent of any amounts payable by the Borrower under the Finance Documents in excess of any sums actually recovered under such insurance.
 
 
 
Subject to Clause 14.2 ():
Scope and duration of the Guarantee and indemnity
 
 
 
 
Subject to Clause 14.2 (), if any payment by the Borrower or any discharge, release, accounting or arrangement given by the Lender (whether in respect of the Borrower's obligations or any security for those obligations or otherwise) is avoided or reduced as a result of insolvency or any similar event, then the Guarantors' liability will continue as if the payment, discharge, avoidance or reduction had not occurred.
Scope and duration of the Guarantee and indemnity
 
 
The obligations of the Guarantor and the Lender's rights under this guarantee will not be affected by any act or omission which would reduce, release or prejudice any of the Guarantor's obligations under this guarantee (whether or not known to the Guarantor or the Lender) including:
 
 
 
 
 
Page 30
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Without prejudice to the generality of Clause () and subject to Clause 14.2 (), the Guarantor expressly confirms that it intends that this guarantee shall extend from time to time to any (however fundamental) variation, increase, extension or addition of or to any of the Finance Documents and/or any facility or amount made available under any of the Finance Documents for the purposes of or in connection with any of the following:
14.5
Waiver of defences
Scope and duration of the Guarantee and indemnity
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subject to Clause 14.2 (), the Guarantor waives any right it may have of first requiring the Lender (or any trustee or agent on its behalf) to:
Scope and duration of the Guarantee and indemnity
 
 
 
 
before claiming from the Guarantor under this guarantee.
 
Page 31
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Until all amounts which may be or become payable by the Borrower under or in connection with the Finance Documents have been irrevocably paid in full, the Lender (or any trustee or agent on its behalf) may without affecting the Guarantors' liability under this guarantee:
 
 
 
 
 
Unless:
 
 
 
the Guarantor will not, after a claim has been made under this guarantee and by virtue of any payment or performance by it under this guarantee:
 
 
 
 
 
The Guarantor must hold in trust for and immediately pay or transfer to the Lender or as the Lender may direct for application in accordance with Clause () any payment or distribution or benefit of security received by the Guarantor contrary to this Clause 14 to the extent necessary to enable all amounts which may be or become payable to the Lender by the Borrower under or in connection with the Finance Documents to be repaid in full.
23
Payment Mechanics
 
Page 32
 
 
This guarantee is in addition to and is not in any way prejudiced by, and shall not merge with, any other guarantee or security now or subsequently held by the Lender.
 
 
The Guarantor waives any existing or future right which it may have under the laws of Guernsey:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 33
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 34
 
 
 
Section 8
 
 - Representations, warranties, undertakings and Events of Default
 
 
 
The Lender has entered into this Agreement in reliance on the representations of each Obligor set out in this Clause  and each Obligor warrants to the Lender on the date of this Agreement as set out in this Clause  other than the representations and warranties set out in Clauses 15.6 () to Clause 15.12 () (inclusive) and Clauses () to () (inclusive) which are made by the Borrower only.
15
(Representations and Warranties)
15
(Representations and Warranties)
Governing law and enforcement
No misleading information
15.14
No proceedings pending or threatened
15.22
Sale of Diamonds
 
 
 
 
 
Subject to any applicable Legal Reservations and Perfection Requirements:
 
 
 
 
The entry into and performance by it and GDT of, and the transactions contemplated by, the Finance Documents to which it or, as the case may be, GDT is a party and the granting of the Transaction Security:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 35
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subject to any applicable Legal Reservations, all Authorisations (including all Environmental Permits) required for the Borrower and, in relation to paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) below, the Guarantor and GDT:
 
 
 
 
 
have been obtained or effected and are in full force and effect, other than:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 36
 
 
 
 
 
will be recognised and enforced in each Relevant Jurisdiction, provided that, for the purposes of enforcement in the British Virgin Islands, the relevant procedures are followed under British Virgin Islands law.
 
 
It has not (and GDT has not) taken any action nor (to the best of its knowledge and belief) have any steps been taken or legal proceedings been started or threatened against it and which in each case are still outstanding for its winding-up, dissolution or re-organisation, for the enforcement of any Security over its assets or for the appointment of a liquidator, supervisor, receiver, administrator, administrative receiver, compulsory manager, trustee or other similar officer of it or in respect of any of its assets.
 
 
Under the law of each Relevant Jurisdiction it is not necessary that any of the Finance Documents be filed, recorded or enrolled with any court or other authority in that jurisdiction, or that any stamp, registration or similar tax be paid on or in relation to any of the Finance Documents or any of the transactions contemplated by the Finance Documents, except any filing, recording or enrolling or any tax or fee payable in relation to the Transaction Security Documents referred to in the Legal Opinions and/or which will be made or paid promptly after the date of the relevant Transaction Security Document including registration of particulars of any Transaction Security Document to which the Borrower and GDT are party at the British Virgin Islands Registry of Corporate Affairs in order to ensure the preservation of the priority of the secured interests created by  that Transaction Security Document and entry by the Borrower and GDT of particulars of that Transaction Security Document on its respective register of charges a copy of which is kept at the office of the relevant companys registered agent.
 
 
 
 
 
The Borrowers labour practices are in compliance in all material respects with the standards applicable to the World Bank (as contemplated by the Equator Principles).
 
 
 
 
 
Page 37
 
 
 
 
 
To the best of its knowledge and belief (having made due and careful enquiry):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Save as previously disclosed to the Lender in writing, no litigation, arbitration or administrative proceedings of or before any court, arbitral body or agency which:
 
(a)           are reasonably likely to be adversely determined; and
 
 
Page 38
 
 
 
 
 
have (to the best of its knowledge and belief) been started or threatened in writing against it.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and in each case which could reasonably be expected (in relation to paragraph (b), if that claim were determined against the Borrower) to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
 
 
Subject to any applicable Legal Reservations and Perfection Requirements and the terms of the Intercreditor Agreement, the Transaction Security has or will have first ranking priority and it is not subject to any prior ranking or ranking Security.
pari passu
 
 
The Borrower has a good, valid and marketable title to, or valid leases or licences of, the assets necessary to carry on its business as presently conducted except, other than in the case of assets which are subject to the Transaction Security, where failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
 
The Borrower is the sole legal and beneficial owner of the respective assets over which it purports to grant Security.
 
 
Each Overseas Obligor (if any):
 
Page 39
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 40
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Repeating Representations are deemed to be repeated by each Obligor by reference to the facts and circumstances then existing on the date of each Utilisation Request and the first day of each Interest Period.
 
 
 
The undertakings in this Clause  remain in force from the date of this Agreement until the expiry of the Security Period.
16
 
 
The Borrower shall supply to the Lender:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 41
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Borrower shall promptly upon becoming aware of the same, inform the Lender in writing of:
 
 
 
where the claim is reasonably likely to be adversely determined and, if determined against it, has or could reasonably be expected, to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
 
The Borrower shall supply to the Lender:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 42
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The undertakings in this Clause  remain in force from the date of this Agreement until the expiry of the Security Period.
17
(Positive undertakings)
 
 
Each Obligor shall (and shall ensure that GDT will)promptly obtain, effect, comply with and do all that is necessary to maintain in full force and effect any Authorisation (including all Environmental Permits) required under any applicable law or regulation of:
 
 
 
 
 
Each Obligor shall (and shall ensure that GDT will)comply in all respects with all laws to which it may be subject, if failure so to comply would materially impair its ability to perform its obligations under the Finance Documents to which it is a party.
 
 
 
The Borrower shall pay and discharge all Taxes and any other governmental charges payable by or assessed upon it within the time allowed by applicable law or regulation without incurring penalties or any other sanctions having a similar effect save to the extent that:
 
 
 
 
Page 43
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Borrower shall permit the Lender and any person (being an accountant, auditor, solicitor, valuer or other professional adviser of the Lender authorised by the Lender) to have access to the officers, property, premises and accounting books and records of the Borrower:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each Obligor shall ensure that its payment obligations under the Finance Documents rank at all times at least pari passu with the claims of all its other unsecured and unsubordinated creditors, except for obligations mandatorily preferred by law applying to companies generally.
 
 
Each Obligor shall, at the written request of the Lender, promptly do or procure the doing of all such things and execute or procure the execution of all such documents as are, in the opinion of the Lender (acting reasonably), necessary to ensure that the Lender obtains all the material rights and benefits intended to be conferred on them under the Finance Documents.
 
 
Page 44
 
 
 
 
 
The Borrower shall (and shall ensure that the Koidu Project will):
 
 
 
except, in each case, where failure to do the same could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that it manages and implements the Mining Operations substantially in accordance with the Mineral Rights and in a manner that would generally be expected of a professional, prudent operator of a mine of the size, location and characteristics, comparable to the Koidu Kimberlite Mine and the Mining Operations.
 
 
Page 45
 
 
 
 
 
The Borrower agrees to abide by its obligations as expressed in section 6.6 of the Offtake Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The undertakings in this Clause remain in force from the date of this Agreement until the expiry of the Security Period.
18
(Negative undertakings)
 
 
The Borrower shall not incur or permit to remain outstanding any Financial Indebtedness other than Financial Indebtedness:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 46
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the purposes of determining whether the monetary limit in this paragraph (o) has been exceeded any guarantee, indemnity or counter-indemnity obligation in respect of other forms of Financial Indebtedness falling within this paragraph (o) shall not be double-counted.
 
 
 
 
 
Page 47
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        (f)   in the case of the Guarantor only, any other transaction.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 48
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in circumstances where the arrangement or transaction is entered into primarily as a method of raising Financial Indebtedness or of financing the acquisition of an asset.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 49
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Borrower shall not enter into any amalgamation, demerger, merger or corporate reconstruction or any joint venture or partnership agreement, without the prior written consent of the Lender (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld).
 
Page 50
 
 
 
 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that no substantial change is made to the general nature of its business from that carried on at the date of this Agreement.
 
 
The Borrower may only pay to the Guarantor or any Affiliate of the Guarantor annual management fees if:
 
 
 
 
 
The Borrower shall not make any loans or grant any credit to or for the benefit of any person, other than:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each of the events or circumstances set out in this Clause is an Event of Default (save for Clause 19.19 ()).
19.1
(Events of Default)
Acceleration
 
 
The Borrower does not pay on the due date any amount payable pursuant to a FinanceDocument at the place at and in the currency in which it is expressed to be payable unless:
 
 
 
 
Page 51
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
An Obligor or GDT does not comply with any provision of the Finance Documents (other than those referred to in Clause  ()) unless:
19.1
Non-payment
 
 
 
 
Any representation, warranty or statement made or given or deemed to be made or given by any Obligor or GDT in the Finance Documents is or proves to have been incorrect or misleading in any material respect when made or deemed to be made unless the underlying circumstances (if capable of remedy) are remedied within 15 Business Days of the earlier to occur of the date the Lender giving notice to the relevant Obligor or GDT (as appropriate) becoming aware of the failure to comply provided that an additional 5 Business Days remedy period shall be permitted if the relevant Obligor or GDT (as appropriate) has taken all reasonable steps available to it during the initial 15 Business Day period to remedy the underlying circumstances and the additional 5 Business Days would not prejudice the Lender's ability to enforce their material rights under the Finance Documents.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 52
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
or any analogous procedure or step is taken in any jurisdiction.
 
Page 53
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and which is, in any event, discharged, stayed or dismissed within 30 days of commencement.
 
In respect of the Guarantor only, "commencement" of a winding-up petition as used in this Clause shall mean the date of submission to the court of a winding-up petition.
19.6.3
 
 
An Obligor fails to comply with or pay any sum due from it under any final judgement or any final order made or given by a court of competent jurisdiction and such failure would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
 
The Borrower suspends, ceases or threatens to suspend or cease to carry on all or a substantial part of its business save where the prior consent of the Lender has been obtained by the Borrower for such cessation of business.
 
 
It is or becomes unlawful for any Obligor or GDT to perform any of its material obligations under the Finance Documents.
 
 
Any Obligor or GDT repudiates a Finance Document or a decision in writing of the board of directors of the relevant Obligor or GDT evidences an intention to repudiate a Finance Document.
 
 
Subject to the applicable Legal Reservations, any Finance Document is not (or is claimed by any Obligor or GDT not to be) in full force and effect.
 
 
Any Obligor or GDT rescinds or purports to rescind any Finance Document in whole or in part where to do so has, or would reasonably be expected to have, a Material Adverse Effect, provided that any purported rescission is evidenced by a decision of the relevant Obligor or GDT's board of directors or an action or a course of conduct by a director (acting with the authority of the board of directors in such respect) of the relevant Obligor or GDT.
 
 
Page 54
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All or a substantial part of the Koidu Kimberlite Mine is damaged or destroyed and such damage or destruction has, or would have, a Material Adverse Effect (after taking into account the ability of the Group to reinstate the Koidu Kimberlite Mine whether through utilisation of the proceeds of insurance or otherwise).
 
 
Any event or series of events occurs which has or would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
 
 
 
 
Page 55
 
 
 
 
 
Subject to the terms of the Intercreditor Agreement, on and at any time after the occurrence of an Event of Default which is continuing the Lender may by notice to the Borrower:
 
 
 
 
 
provided that the Lender shall not take any of the actions referred to in paragraphs (a) to (d) (inclusive) (above) if (i) the Event of Default which has occurred and is continuing is solely one set out in Clauses 19.2 (), 19.3 (), 19.4 (), 19.7 () or 19.17 () provided such delay in taking any such action would not have any of the effects referred to in sub-paragraphs (i) to (vi) of Clause 29.2 and (ii) the Agent (as defined in the SCB Facility) has not served a notice in accordance with clause 27.20 () of the SCB Facility or, following the entry into of the ECIC Facility, the Agent (as defined in the ECIC Facility) has not served a notice in accordance with equivalent acceleration provisions under the ECIC Facility.
Other obligations
Misrepresentation. etc.
Cross acceleration
Judgments
Material adverse change
Acceleration
 
 
 
At the time the ECIC Facility is entered into, the Lender agrees to negotiate in good faith to enter into the Intercreditor Agreement substantially reflecting the terms and conditions set out in the Cooperation Agreement and any variations and additions thereto as may be agreed in writing between the parties to the ECIC Facility, the Borrower and the Lender.
 
 
Page 56
 
 
 
 
Section 9
 
 - Changes to Parties
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 57
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 has been taken in relation to that Affiliate; and
  
 
 
          in each case at the time of that assignment or transfer; and
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 58
 
 
 
 
 
Section 10
 
 - Administration
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If the Lender receives or recovers a payment against amounts due in respect of any Finance Document that is insufficient to discharge all the amounts then due and payable by an Obligor under that Finance Document, the Lender shall apply that payment towards such obligations of that Obligor or under the Finance Documents as the Lender may determine in its sole discretion.
 
 
All payments to be made by an Obligor under the Finance Documents shall be calculated and be made without (and free and clear of any deduction for) set-off or counterclaim.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 59
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subject to the terms of the Intercreditor Agreement, the Lender may set off any matured obligation due from an Obligor under the Finance Documents (to the extent beneficially owned by the Lender) against any matured obligation owed by the Lender to that Obligor, regardless of the place of payment, booking branch or currency of either obligation.  If the obligations are in different currencies, the Lender may convert either obligation at a market rate of exchange in its usual course of business for the purpose of the set-off.
 
 
 
 
Any communication to be made under or in connection with the Finance Documents shall be made in writing and, unless otherwise stated, may be made by fax or letter.
 
 
 
 
 
or any substitute address or fax number and/or email address or department or officer as the Party may notify to the other Parties by not less than 5 Business Days' notice.
  
 
 
Page 60
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Attention:                                Sandra Merloni-Horemans/The Company Secretary
 
Facsimile:                                +41 22 788 00 24
 
With a copy sent to:
 
 
Attention:                              David M Clark
 
Facsimile:                                +44 1481 812 020
 
 
 
Attention:                             Sandra Merloni-Horemans/The Company Secretary
 
Facsimile:                            +41 22 788 00 24
 
With a copy sent to:
 
 
Attention:                          David M Clark
 
Facsimile:                         +44 1481 812 020
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 61
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and, if a particular department or officer is specified as part of its address details provided under Clause  (), if addressed to that department or officer.
25.2
Addresses
 
 
 
 
Promptly upon receipt of notification of an address or fax number or change of address or fax number pursuant to Clause  () or changing its own address or fax number, the Lender shall notify the other Parties.
25.2
Addresses
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In any litigation or arbitration proceedings arising out of or in connection with a Finance Document, the entries made in the accounts maintained by the Lender are prima facie evidence of the matters to which they relate.
 
 
Page 62
 
 
 
 
 
Any certification or determination by the Lender of a rate or amount under any Finance Document is, in the absence of manifest error, conclusive evidence of the matters to which it relates.
 
 
Any interest, commission or fee accruing under a Finance Document will accrue from day to day and is calculated on the basis of the actual number of days elapsed and a year of 360 days or, in any case where the practice in the London interbank market differs, in accordance with that market practice.
 
 
 
If, at any time, any provision of the Finance Documents is or becomes illegal, invalid or unenforceable in any respect under any law of any jurisdiction, neither the legality, validity or enforceability of the remaining provisions nor the legality, validity or enforceability of such provision under the law of any other jurisdiction will in any way be affected or impaired.
 
 
 
No failure to exercise, nor any delay in exercising, on the part of the Lender or Secured Party, any right or remedy under the Finance Documents shall operate as a waiver, nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right or remedy prevent any further or other exercise or the exercise of any other right or remedy.  The rights and remedies provided in the Finance Documents are cumulative and not exclusive of any rights or remedies provided by law.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
unless such consent, approval, waiver or agreement:
 
Page 63
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Lender agrees to keep all Confidential Information confidential and not to disclose it to anyone, save to the extent permitted by Clause  (), and to ensure that all Confidential Information is protected with security measures and a degree of care that would apply to its own confidential information.
30.2
Disclosure of Confidential Information
 
 
The Lender may disclose:
 
 
 
 
Page 64
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in each case, such Confidential Information as the Lender shall consider appropriate if:
 
 
 
 
The Lender acknowledges that some or all of the Confidential Information is or may be price-sensitive information and that the use of such information may be regulated or prohibited by applicable legislation including securities law relating to insider dealing and market abuse and the Lender undertakes not to use any Confidential Information for any unlawful purpose.
 
 
The Lender agrees (to the extent permitted by law and regulation) to inform the Borrower:
 
 
 
 
The obligations in this Clause  () are continuing and, in particular, shall survive and remain binding on the Lender for a period of twelve Months from the date on which all amounts payable by the Obligors under or in connection with this Agreement have been paid in full and all Commitments have been cancelled or otherwise cease to be available.
30
Confidentiality
 
Page 65
 
 
 
 
 
Each party hereto shall obtain the prior written consent of each other party hereto to the form and content of any public announcement to be made to any stock exchange or any other person in connection with the parties' entry into of this Agreement, the other Finance Documents and the Offtake Agreement; provided that nothing contained in this Clause 30.6 shall restrain any party hereto from complying with applicable law or the rules and policies of any applicable securities regulatory authorities or stock exchange.
 
 
 
Each Finance Document may be executed in any number of counterparts, and this has the same effect as if the signatures on the counterparts were on a single copy of the Finance Document.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 66
 
 
 
 
Section 11
 
 - Governing law and enforcement
 
 
 
English law governs this Agreement, its interpretation and any non-contractual obligations arising from or connected with it.
 
 
 
Any dispute, controversy or claim arising out of or relating to (1) this Agreement, (2) the breach, termination or invalidity thereof or (3) any non-contractual obligations arising out of or in connection with this Agreement shall be settled by arbitration in accordance with the Rules of Arbitration of the International Chamber of Commerce as at present in force.  There shall be three arbitrators and the parties agree that one arbitrator shall be nominated by the Borrower with respect to the Borrower and/or the Guarantor and one by the Lender for confirmation by the ICC Court in accordance with the ICC Rules.  The third arbitrator, who shall act as the chairman of the tribunal, shall be nominated by agreement of the two party-appointed arbitrators within fourteen days of the confirmation of the appointment of the second arbitrator, or in default of such agreement, appointed by the ICC Court.  The seat and place of arbitration shall be London, England and the English language shall be used throughout the arbitral proceedings.  The parties hereby waive any rights under the Arbitration Act 1996 or otherwise to appeal any arbitration award to, or to seek determination of a preliminary point of law by, the courts of England.  This Clause 33 shall not apply to any Transaction Security Document or constrain the Lender from exercising any right or remedy under any Transaction Security Document if the Lender determines, in good faith, that an Event of Default has occurred and it is entitled to exercise such right or remedy, whether or not the Borrower or the Guarantor alleges there is any dispute, controversy or claim arising out of or relating thereto.
 
 
Executed as a deed and delivered on the date appearing at the beginning of this Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 67
 
 
 
Schedule 1
 
 - Conditions precedent
 
The documents and other evidence referred to in Clause  () are as follows:
4.1
Initial conditions precedent
 
 
Certified Copies of each of the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each of the following documents, duly executed by the Parties thereto:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.1           Evidence of requisite payment provided from the Borrower to the Lenders' Sierra Leone counsel for fifty per cent. (50%) of the:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Schedule 2
 
  Utilisation Request
 
Part 1 - Utilisation Request
 
From:       Koidu Holdings S.A.
 
To:           the Lender
 
Dated: **
 
Dear Sirs
 
 
**                    
Koidu Holdings S.A.  US$50,000,000 facility agreement
dated
(the Agreement)
 
 
 
 
 
 
Yours faithfully
 
 
authorised signatory for
Koidu Holdings S.A.
 
 
To be included in any Utilisation Request issued prior to implementation of the ECIC Facility.
1
 
 
 
 
 
Schedule 3
 
 - Timetables
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Schedule 4  Form of Transfer Certificate
 
To:           Koidu Holdings S.A. as the Borrower
 
From:                      **                     (the ) and **                     (the )
Existing Lender
New Lender
 
Dated: **
 
 
**                    
Koidu Holdings S.A.  US$50,000,000 facility agreement
dated
(the Agreement)
 
 
 
 
 
 
[]
Facility Office address, fax number and attention details for notices and account
 
details for payments,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Execution Pages
 
The Borrower
 
 
The Guarantor
 
 
The Original Lender
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


