FILE:TIF/TIF-8K-20120127155226.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
_______________________
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
_______________________
Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d) of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report: January 27, 2012
TIFFANY & CO.
(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:  (212) 755-8000
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02
   
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
 
On January 19, 2012, Registrant entered into a Comprehensive Retirement and Non-Competition Agreement with James E. Quinn, President, with an effective Date of Retirement of February 1, 2012.  The Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.166.
Item 8.01            Other Events.
 
Registrant makes various grants and awards of cash, stock and stock units, and provides various benefits, to its executive officers and other management employees pursuant to its 2005 Employee Incentive Plan and pursuant to various retirement plans, formal agreements and informal agreements.  As part of its annual review of compensation, the Compensation Committee of Registrant's Board of Directors made various changes and approved new terms.  Forms of awards, terms and agreements subject to such changes made are attached as exhibits hereto and are incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01             Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
Date:  January 27, 2012
 
 
 
Exhibit No.                            Description

EXHIBIT 10.106
 
TIFFANY AND COMPANY
AMENDED AND RESTATED
EXECUTIVE DEFERRAL PLAN
WHEREAS, effective October 1, 1989, Tiffany and Company, a New York corporation,  established an unfunded executive deferral plan for the benefit of a select group of management or highly compensated employees;
WHEREAS, effective October 1, 1998,  Tiffany and Company amended such plan to permit additional executives and the directors of its parent corporation, Tiffany & Co., a Delaware corporation, to participate and to provide certain additional alternatives with respect to compensation deferred in accordance with such plan;
WHEREAS, effective January 1, 2003, Tiffany and Company and its parent corporation further amended such plan to (i) eliminate Education Accounts, (ii) provide for the establishment of an unlimited number of Fixed Period Benefit subaccounts for pre-Retirement distributions, (iii) permit elections for deferral of Bonus Compensation to be made during the Plan Year that immediately proceeds the Plan Year in which such Bonus Compensation would otherwise be paid but limit deferral of Bonus Compensation to 90% of Bonus Compensation, (iv) allow the Administrator to make hardship distributions in circumstances that may or may not result from a Disability, (v) allow Participants to make daily changes in the Investment Funds used to value their respective Deferred Benefit Accounts, (vi) vary the Investment Funds available for such purposes and (vii) extend the Enrollment Period to the months of November and December each year.
WHEREAS, effective November 1, 2005, Tiffany and Company and its parent corporation further amended such plan to (i) permit executives of Iridesse, Inc. to participate, (ii) bring the plan into compliance with Section 409A of the Code as follows: (a)  by requiring a recently Eligible Employee who wishes to participate in the year he becomes eligible to make a written election to become a Participant within thirty (30) days of his becoming eligible; (b) by requiring that Participants who wish to defer Bonus Compensation elect to do so no later than six months before the end of the fiscal year to which such Bonus Compensation relates; (c) by requiring that elections to change the time and form of a distribution (i) be made at least twelve months in advance, and (ii) not defer distribution for a period of less than five years from the date such distribution would otherwise have been made; (d) requiring that Specified Employees not receive certain distributions resulting from a Termination of Service earlier than six months after the date of the Termination of Service; (e) providing that, in the event of plan termination, the Employer shall pay a benefit to the Participant or his Beneficiary as otherwise required under the plan; and (f) decreasing the minimum Retirement Account balance eligible for distribution on an installment basis; and (iii) make other miscellaneous modifications.
 
 
 
1
 
WHEREAS, effective January 1, 2006, Tiffany and Company and its parent corporation further amended such plan to change the Enrollment Period to the months of January through June each year, and to update such plan to reflect current operational practices.
WHEREAS, effective December 31, 2008, Tiffany and Company further amended such plan to change the definition of Termination of Service to ensure compliance with Section 409A of the Code.
WHEREAS, effective August 1, 2009, Tiffany and Company and its parent corporation further amended such plan to permit redirection of past contributions amongst Retirement Accounts.
WHEREAS, effective as of February 1, 2010, Tiffany and Company and its parent corporation further amended such plan to provide benefits for eligible participants whose DCRB contributions under the Tiffany & Co. Employee Profit Sharing and Retirement Savings Plan are limited by the Internal Revenue Code.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
WHEREAS, the purpose of the plan is to provide selected executives and directors an opportunity to defer a portion of their compensation in a manner best suited to each participant's individual needs.
NOW, THEREFORE, to carry the above intentions into effect, Tiffany and Company does enter into this Amended and Restated Plan effective as of February 1, 2010.
This Plan shall be known as the
 
TIFFANY AND COMPANY
 
EXECUTIVE DEFERRAL PLAN
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
means the individual appointed to administer the Plan pursuant to Article VII.
"Administrator"
 means, with reference to any Person, any second Person that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, any such first Person, directly or indirectly.
Affiliate
means the person, persons, trust or other entity, designated by written revocable designation filed with the Administrator by the Participant to receive payments in the event of the Participant's death.  If a designated Beneficiary does not survive the Participant or if no Beneficiary is designated as provided above, the Beneficiary shall be the legal representative of the Participant's estate.  If a designated Beneficiary survives the Participant but dies before payment in full of benefits under this Plan has been made, the legal representative of such Beneficiary's estate shall become the Beneficiary.  References to a Participant in this Plan in connection with payments hereunder shall also refer to such Participant's Beneficiary unless the context clearly requires otherwise.
"Beneficiary"
means a future date (or dates) selected by a Participant during the applicable Enrollment Period within guidelines established by the Administrator, as adjusted as permitted in this Plan, on which the Participant shall be entitled to a benefit pursuant to this Plan equal to all or a designated portion of the balance of his Fixed Period Benefit Account.
"Benefit Distribution Date"
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
means the Board of Directors of Tiffany and Company, a New York corporation.
Board
means cash compensation paid to a Participant, excluding Base Compensation, under the Employer's bonus program or programs (including, but not limited to cash Incentive Awards under Section 8 of Parents 1998 Employee Incentive Plan or Section 8 of Parents 2005 Incentive Plan), as such may exist and be modified from time to time, and payable to a Participant following the conclusion of the Employer's fiscal year in respect of service performed at any time during such fiscal year.
"Bonus Compensation"
 
 
means a termination of Participants employment, involuntary on Participants part, which is the result of:
Cause
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5
 
For purposes of this definition, no act or failure to act on Participants part shall be deemed willful unless done, or omitted to be done, by Participant in bad faith toward, or without reasonable belief that such action or omission was in the best interests of, or its Affiliate.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, Participant shall not be deemed to have been terminated for Cause for the purposes of this Plan unless and until there shall have been delivered to Participant a copy of a resolution duly adopted by the affirmative vote of not less than three-fourths (3/4th) of the entire membership of the Board (exclusive of the Participant if Participant is a member of such Board) at a meeting called and held for such purpose (after reasonable notice to Participant and an opportunity for Participant, together with counsel for Participant, to be heard before such Board), finding that, in the good faith opinion of such Board, Cause exists as set forth above.
Employer
means Base Compensation, Bonus Compensation and Directors Compensation in the aggregate.
"Compensation"
shall have the meaning given such term under the Tiffany & Co. Employee Profit Sharing and Retirement Savings Plan.
DCRB Contribution
means the portion of the Tiffany & Co. Employee Profit Sharing and Retirement Savings Plan providing for DCRB Contributions as defined under such plan.
DCRB Plan
means a written or electronic agreement between a Participant and the Employer, whereby a Participant agrees to defer a portion of his Compensation and the Employer agrees to provide benefits pursuant to the provisions of this Plan.
"Deferral Agreement"
mean Retirement Accounts and Scheduled In-Service Withdrawal Accounts.
"Deferred Benefit Accounts"
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6
 
shall mean the last business day of every month, for each Participant, his date of death, Retirement, or other termination of services with Employer and, with respect to Independent Directors only, termination of service as a Director.
"Determination Date"
means a Directors annual retainer and any incremental annual retainer paid or payable by Parent to Director for service as a Director, including any per-meeting-attended compensation, but excluding Parents contributions to benefit and retirement plans, remuneration attributable to Parent-sponsored stock option plans and all other forms of remuneration or reimbursement.
Directors Compensation
means a condition such that a Participant is (i) unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months, or (ii) by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months, receiving income replacement benefits for a period of not less than three months under an accident or health plan covering employees of Participants Employer.
"Disability"
means a Deferred Benefit Account established pursuant to Section 4.1.
"Education Account"
means October 1, 1989.
"Effective Date"
means an individual who is a relative of a Participant and who is younger than the age of 14 when a subaccount is initially established, pursuant to Section 4.3B.
"Eligible Student"
 
 
 
 
 
 
7
 
means Directors, all officers of the Employer, director-level employees of Employer, and such other management and other highly compensated employees of the Employer as identified and approved by the Committee.
"Eligible Employees"
means Tiffany, Parent, and Irridesse, or any other business entity which adopts this Plan with consent of the Board of Directors of Parent.
"Employer"
means, with respect to any Plan Year, the months of January through June in the year preceding such Plan Year.  The Enrollment Period may be extended through July in the year preceding such Plan Year, upon an Eligible Employees request and at the Administrators discretion.  With respect to a person who becomes an Eligible Employee during the course of a Plan Year, in respect of such Plan Year the Enrollment Period means the thirty day period following the date he becomes an Eligible Employee.
"Enrollment Period"
means the Plan contribution described in Sections 3.3 and 3.4.
Excess DCRB Contribution
means a Deferred Benefit Account established pursuant to Section  4.3C.
"Fixed Period Benefit Account"
means a Director who is not an employee of Employer at the time Participation in this Plan commences.
Independent Director
means any one of the investment funds described in Schedule 4.5 which shall serve as means to measure value increases or decreases with respect to a Participant's Deferred Benefit Accounts.
"Investment Fund" or "Fund"
 
 
 
 
 
 
8
 
means an instrument in substantially the form of Exhibit A attached duly completed and  executed by a Participant who is eligible to receive an Excess DCRB Contribution.
Non-Competition and Confidentiality Covenants
means any Eligible Employee who has met the conditions for participation as set forth in Article II.
"Participant"
means that date on which the Participant has attained age 55, provided that if the Participant is an Independent Director the Permitted Retirement Age for such Participant shall be his age on the date  his participation in the Plan commenced.
"Permitted Retirement Age"
 means any individual, firm, corporation, partnership, limited partnership, limited liability partnership, business trust, limited liability company, unincorporated association or other entity, and shall include any successor (by merger or otherwise) of such entity.
Person
means the Tiffany and Company Executive Deferral Plan as described in this instrument, as amended from time to time.
"Plan"
means the period from the November 1, 1989 through December 31, 1989 and thereafter, the twelve (12) consecutive month period beginning on each January 1 and ending on each December 31.
"Plan Year"
means Deferred Benefit Account balances as of December 31, 2004, including any Investment Fund performance subsequent to December 31, 2004 (i) credited to such Accounts and (ii) attributable to balances as of December 31, 2004.
Pre-2005 Balances
 
 
 
 
 
9
 
means any Termination of Service by a Participant after attaining his Permitted Retirement Age, provided that if the Participant is an Independent Director, Retirement shall mean any Termination of Service after attaining his Permitted Retirement Age.
"Retirement"
means an Education Account or a Fixed Period Benefit Account, provided that, on and after January 1, 2003, all Education Accounts shall be converted to Fixed Period Benefit Accounts.
Scheduled In-Service Withdrawal Account
means an Eligible Employee who has been appointed by the Board as an officer of Tiffany and Company with the title of Vice President, Group Vice President, Senior Vice President, Executive Vice President, President, Chairman of the Board, chief operating officer, or who otherwise has been specifically designated a Select Management Employee by the Board.  For the purpose of this definition, once a person has been appointed a Select Management Employee, he or she will be deemed, for the purposes of this Plan, to remain a Select Management Employee, regardless of any subsequent change in title or responsibility.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the term Select Management Employee does not include any person (a
Select Management Employee
)
whose principal place of work is outside the United States and (b) who is paid his Compensation from a foreign bank or bank branch or who is eligible to receive retirement, severance or similar benefits under foreign law or as a result of foreign custom.
means $130,000, adjusted as provided in Section 416(i)(1)(A) of the Code.
Specified Amount
means (a) a Participant who is (i) an officer of the Employer by which such Participant is employed and (ii) who has an annual compensation greater than the Specified Amount, (b) a Participant who is a five-percent owner of the Employer by which such Participant is employed, or (c) a Participant who is a one-percent owner of the Employer by which such Participant is employed and having an annual compensation from the Employer of more than $150,000.   Status as a Specified Employee shall be determined as of the December 31 most recently preceding Participants Termination of Service date.
Specified Employee
 
 
 
 
 
 
10
 
means:
"Termination of Service"
(a) with respect to Participant who is not an Independent Director, a termination of services provided by the Participant to the Employer, whether voluntarily or involuntarily, as determined by the Committee in accordance with Section 409A of the Code and Section 1.409A-1(h) of the Treasury Regulations.  In determining whether a Participant who is not an Independent Director has experienced a Termination of Service, the following provisions shall apply:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11
 
(b) With respect to a Participant who is an Independent Director, a Termination of Service shall occur when such Participant ceases to be a Director, provided that Director and Employer do not anticipate resumption of services as a Director or Employee.
 
(c) With respect to a Participant who serves simultaneously as a Director and an employee of Employer, a Termination of Service shall occur as described in paragraph (a) above for all contributions prior to such Termination of Service.  Should such Participant continue as a Director following a Termination of Service pursuant to section (a) above, and continue executive deferral contributions under the Plan as an Independent Director, a Termination of Service shall occur pursuant to section (b) above for the purposes of such executive deferral contributions.
means Tiffany and Company, a New York corporation, and any successor organization.
Tiffany
means a Deferred Benefit Account established pursuant to Section 4.1.
"Retirement Account"
means that portion of a Participant's Deferred Benefit Accounts to which the Participant has a nonforfeitable right as defined in Section 5.1.
"Vested"
means the Treasury Regulations promulgated pursuant to the Code, as amended from time to time.
"Treasury Regulations"
 
 
 
 
12
 
ARTICLE II
MEMBERSHIP IN THE PLAN
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
14
 
 
ARTICLE III
PLAN CONTRIBUTIONS
 
 
 
 
 
15
 
 
 
 
 
 
16
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17
 
ARTICLE IV
 
 
 
 
 
18
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
19
 
 
 
 
 
 
20
 
 
 
 
 
21
 
 
 
 
 
 
22
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
23
 
ARTICLE V
VESTING
5.1           A.   A Participant shall have a fully Vested interest with respect to Executive Deferral Contributions and Investment Fund performance credited to such contributions in his Deferred Benefit Accounts, in all instances and at all times.
Vesting Schedule  Executive Deferral Contributions.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
24
 
ARTICLE VI
BENEFITS/DISTRIBUTIONS
6.1           
Termination of Service.
 
 
 
 
 
25
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
26
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
27
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 20%
(Year of Retirement/5
th
anniversary of Retirement/65
th
birthday)
 
    
2                                                                                                  25%
   
   
   
3                                                                                                  33%
   
   
   
4                                                                                                  50%
   
   
   
5                                                                                                  100%
   
   
   
1                              10%
(Year of Retirement/5
th
anniversary of Retirement/65
th
birthday)
2                                                                                                                                              11%
3                                                                                                                                              13%
4                                                                                                                                              14%
5                                                                                                                                              17%
6                                                                                                                                              20%
7                                                                                                                                              25%
8                                                                                                                                              33%
9                                                                                                                                              50%
10                                                                                                                                          100%
Fifteen Annual Installments
1 7%
(Year of Retirement /5
th
anniversary of Retirement/65
th
birthday)
          
2                                                                                                                                          7%
3                                                                                                                                          8%
4                                                                                                                                          8%
5                                                                                                                                          9%
6                                                                                                                                        10%
7                                                                                                                                        11%
8                                                                                                                                        12%
9                                                                                                                                        12%
10                                                                                                                                      17%
11                                                                                                                                      20%
12                                                                                                                                      25%
13                                                                                                                                      33%
14                                                                                                                                      50%
15                                                                                                                                    100%
 
28
 
Twenty Annual Installments
1                             5%
(Year of Retirement/5
th
anniversary of Retirement/65
th
birthday)
2                                                                                                                                             5%
3                                                                                                                                             6%
4                                                                                                                                             6%
5                                                                                                                                             6%
6                                                                                                                                             7%
7                                                                                                                                             7%
8                                                                                                                                             8%
9                                                                                                                                             8%
10                                                                                                                                           9%
11                                                                                                                                         10%
12                                                                                                                                         11%
13                                                                                                                                         13%
14                                                                                                                                         14%
15                                                                                                                                         17%
16                                                                                                                                         20%
17                                                                                                                                         25%
18                                                                                                                                         33%
19                                                                                                                                         50%
20                                                                                                                                       100%
In the event a Participant receiving such installments dies before all installments are paid, his Beneficiary shall receive the balance remaining in such subaccount in a lump sum.
 
 
 
 
 
 
29
 
 
 Determination Age                                   Student's Subaccount
18                                                     25%
19                                                     33%
20                                                     50%
21                                                   100%
 6.4           
Fixed Period Benefit Account.
 
 
 
 
30
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
31
 
6.5           
Unforeseeable Emergency Distribution.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
32
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
33
 
ARTICLE VII
ADMINISTRATION
 
 
 
 
 
34
 
 
 
 
 
 
35
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
37
 
ARTICLE VIII
AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION
 
 
 
 
 
 
38
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
39
 
ARTICLE IX
MISCELLANEOUS
 
 
 
 
 
40
 
 
 
 
 
 
41
 
Tiffany and Company
(Tiffany)
By: _________________
Name: Patrick B. Dorsey
Title: Senior Vice President - Secretary
Attest: _________________________
Name: Robyn M. Wapner
Title: Assistant Secretary
Tiffany & Co.
(Parent)
By: _________________
Name: Patrick B. Dorsey
Title: Senior Vice President - Secretary
Attest: _________________________
Name: Robyn M. Wapner
Title: Assistant Secretary
 
42
 
Exhibit A
is made and given this ___ day of _________ 2___ by __________________() to and for the benefit of Tiffany and Company, a New York corporation and its Affiliates (as defined below) with reference to the following facts and circumstances:
THIS INSTRUMENT  
Participant
A.           All or a portion of the balances in Participants Deferred Benefit Accounts under that certain Tiffany and Company Amended and Restated Executive Deferral Plan, as Adopted by the Board of Directors May 20, 2010 (the Deferral ) are attributable to Excess DCRB Contributions made under the Deferral Plan and Investment Fund performance credited to such contributions (the Excess DCRB Benefit), and Participant has resigned or is about to resign his or her employment with Tiffany or its Affiliate;
Plan
B.           Participants age at the effective date of such resignation was or will be less than 55 years;
C.           But for Participants obligation to provide this instrument, Participant is otherwise Vested in a right to an Excess DCRB Benefit under the Deferral Plan;
D.           Participant is willing to make the promises set forth in this instrument in order to obtain an Excess DCRB Benefit under the Deferral Plan;  and
E.           Participant agrees that the right to receive an Excess DCRB Benefit under the terms of the Deferral Plan is full and fair consideration for the promises made in this instrument,
NOW THEREFORE, Participant hereby agrees as follows:
1.           .  Unless otherwise defined in this instrument, words and phrases that have a defined meaning in the Deferral Plan shall have the same meaning in this instrument.   The initially capitalized words and phrases set forth below shall have the meanings ascribed to them below:
Defined Terms
Affiliate means, with reference to any Person, any second Person that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, any such first Person, directly or indirectly.
Board means the board of directors of Tiffany and Company, a New York corporation.
Change in Controlmeans a change in control of  Parent of a nature that would be required to be reported in response to Item 6(e) of Schedule 14A of Regulation 14A promulgated under the Exchange Act, whether or not Parent is then subject to such reporting requirement; provided, however, that, anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, a Change in Control shall be deemed to have occurred if:
 
43
 
 
 
 
 
44
 
Change in Control Dateshall mean the date on which a Change of Control occurs.
Code means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and any successor provisions thereto.
Confidential Information means all information relating in any manner to Tiffany or its business, including but not limited to, contemplated new products and services, marketing and advertising campaigns, sales projections, creative campaigns and themes, financial information, budgets and projections, system designs, employees, management procedures and systems, employee training materials, equipment, production plans and techniques, product and materials specifications, product designs and design techniques,  client information (including purchase history and client identifying information) and vendor information (including the identity of vendors and information concerning the capacity of or products or pricing provided by specific vendors); notwithstanding the foregoing, Confidential Information shall not include information that becomes generally publicly available other than as a result of a disclosure by Participant or that becomes available to Participant on a non-confidential basis from a Person that to the Participants knowledge, after due inquiry, is not bound by a duty of confidentiality.
Covered Employee means an employee of Tiffany.
Duration of Non-Competition Covenant means the period beginning with Participants Termination Date and ending upon the first to occur of the following: (i) the second year anniversary of  Participants Termination Date, (ii) a Change in Control Date or (iii) Participants 65 birthday provided that, in no circumstance shall the Duration of this Covenant be less than six months.
th
 
 
 
 
 
45
 
Exchange Act means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Incumbent Directors means those individuals who were members of the Parent Board, as of January 1, 2004 and those individuals whose later appointment to the Parent Board, or whose later nomination for election to such Board by the stockholders of Parent, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of those members of such Board who either were members of such Board as of such date, or whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved.
Jewelry means jewelry (including but not limited to precious metal or silver jewelry or jewelry containing gemstones) and watches.
Parent means Tiffany & Co., a Delaware corporation.
Parent Board means the board of directors of Parent.
Person means any individual, firm, corporation, partnership, limited partnership, limited liability partnership, business trust, limited liability company, unincorporated association or other entity, and shall include any successor (by merger or otherwise) of such entity.
Retail Jewelry Trade means the operation of one or more retail outlets (including stores-within-stores, leased departments or concessions) selling Jewelry in any city in the world in which a TIFFANY & CO. store is located at the time in question; for the purpose of this definition, a retail outlet will not be deemed engaged in the Retail Jewelry Trade if less than 5% of the items displayed for sale in such outlet are Jewelry, so that, by way of example, an apparel store that offers Jewelry as an incidental item would not be deemed engaged in the Retail Jewelry Trade.
Regulations mean regulations under Section 280G of the Code, including proposed and temporary regulations, and any successor provisions thereto.
Rights Plan means the Amended and Restated Rights Agreement Dated as of September 22, 1998 by and between Tiffany & Co., a Delaware corporation, and ChaseMellon Shareholder Services L.L.C., as Rights Agent, as such Agreement may be further amended from time to time.
Termination Date means the date Participant ceases to be an employee of Tiffany.
Tiffany means Tiffany and Company, a New York corporation, and if the context so requires, Tiffany and Company and/or any Affiliate of Tiffany and Company, such term to be interpreted broadly so as to give rights equivalent to Tiffany and Company to any Affiliate of Tiffany and Company.
 
 
 
 
 
46
 
Wholesale Jewelry Trade means the sale of Jewelry or gemstones to the Retail Jewelry Trade, the development or design of Jewelry for sale to the Retail Jewelry Trade or the production of Jewelry for sale to the Retail Jewelry Trade regardless of where in the world such activities are conducted.
2.           .  Participant agrees that for the Duration of the Non-Competition Covenant Participant will not directly or indirectly (whether as director, officer, consultant, principal, owner, member, partner, advisor, financier, employee, agent or otherwise):
Non-Competition
(i)           engage in, assist, have any interest in or contribute Participants knowledge and abilities to, any business or entity in the Retail Jewelry Trade or in the Wholesale Jewelry Trade or seeking to enter or about to become engaged in the Retail Jewelry Trade or the Wholesale Jewelry Trade (provided that this subsection shall not prohibit an investment by Participant not exceeding five percent of the outstanding securities of a publicly traded company);
(ii) employ, attempt to employ, or assist anyone in employing a Covered Employee or any person who was a Covered Employee at any time during the Duration of the Non-Competition Covenant or within three (3) months prior thereto (including by influencing any Covered Employee to terminate his/her employment with Tiffany or to accept employment with any Person); or
(iii) attempt in any manner to solicit Jewelry purchases by any client of Tiffany or persuade any client of Tiffany to cease doing business or reduce the amount of business that such client has customarily done with Tiffany.
3.           .    Participant acknowledges that Participant has had access to Confidential Information.  Participant agrees not to disclose Confidential Information or to use Confidential Information to the detriment of Tiffany.  If the Participant is requested in any case by a court or governmental body to make any disclosure of Confidential Information, the Participant shall (i) promptly notify Tiffany in writing, (ii) consult with and assist Tiffany at Tiffanys expense in obtaining an injunction or other appropriate remedy to prevent such disclosure, and (iii) use Participants reasonable efforts to obtain at the Companys expense a protective order or other reliable assurance that confidential treatment will be accorded to any Confidential Information that must be disclosed.  Subject to the foregoing sentence, Participant may furnish that portion (and only that portion) of the Confidential Information that, in the written opinion of Participants counsel (the form and substance of which opinion shall be reasonably acceptable to Tiffany), the Participant is legally compelled or otherwise required to disclose or else stand liable for contempt or suffer other material penalty.  The obligations in this section shall continue beyond the Duration of the Non-Competition Covenant.
Confidentiality
 
 
 
 
47
 
4.           .  Should Participant breach Participants obligations under Section 2 above, he shall forfeit and lose all right to any current or future Excess DCRB Benefit under the Deferral Plan.
Loss of Excess DCRB Benefit  in the Event of Breach
5.           .
Enforcement
(i)           Participant agrees that the restrictions set forth in this instrument are reasonable and necessary to protect the goodwill of Tiffany.  If any provision set forth herein is deemed invalid, illegal or unenforceable based upon duration, geographic scope or otherwise, Participant agrees that such provision shall be modified to make it enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.
(ii)           In the event of breach or threatened breach by Participant of the provisions set forth in this instrument, Participant acknowledges that Tiffany will be irreparably harmed and that monetary damages (including loss of benefits) shall be an insufficient remedy to Tiffany. Therefore, Participant consents to the enforcement of this instrument  by means of temporary or permanent injunction and other appropriate equitable relief in any competent court, in addition to any other remedies Tiffany may have under this Agreement or otherwise.
6.           Should Participant wish to obtain a determination that any proposed employment, disclosure, arrangement or association (each a Proposed Transaction) is not prohibited hereunder, Participant shall direct a written request to the Board.  Such request shall fully describe the Proposed Transaction.  Within 30 days after receipt of such request, the Board may (i) issue such a determination in writing, (ii) issue its refusal of such request in writing, or (iii) issue a written request for more written information concerning the Proposed Transaction.  In the event that alternative (iii) is elected (which election may be made on behalf of the Board by the Legal Department of Tiffany and Company without action by the Board), any action on Participants request will be deferred for ten (10) days following receipt by said Legal Department of the written information requested.  Failure of the Board to act within any of the time periods specified in this Section 4 shall be deemed a determination that the Proposed Transaction is not prohibited hereunder.   A determination made or deemed made under this Section 6 shall be limited in effect to the Proposed Transaction described in the submitted materials and shall not be binding or constitute a waiver with respect to any other Proposed Transaction, whether proposed  by such Participant or any other Person.  In the event that Participant wishes to seek a determination that employment with a management consulting firm, an accounting firm, a law firm or some other provider of consulting services to a wide variety of clients will not be prohibited hereunder should such firm, at some unspecified time, provide services to a Person in the Retail Jewelry Trade or the Wholesale Jewelry Trade, Participant may seek a determination hereunder; in submitting such a Proposed Transaction, the Participant should specify the extent that Participant will be involved in or can be excluded from involvement in the provision of such services.  In a making any determination under this Section 6, the Board shall not be deemed to be acting as a fiduciary with respect to the Deferral Plan, the Participant or any Beneficiary of the Participant and shall be under no obligation to issue a determination that any Proposed Transaction is not prohibited hereunder.
Procedure to Obtain Determination.  
 
 
 
 
48
 
7.           . Participant and Tiffany agree that any and all disputes arising out or relating to the interpretation or application of this instrument, including any dispute concerning whether any conduct is in violation of Section 2 or 3 above, shall be subject to arbitration in New York, New York, under the then existing Commercial Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association.  Arbitration proceedings shall be conducted by three arbitrators.  Without limit to their general authority, the arbitrators shall have the right to order reasonable discovery in accordance with the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.  The final decision of the arbitrators shall be binding and enforceable without further legal proceedings in court or otherwise, provided that either party to such arbitration may enter judgment upon the award in any court having jurisdiction.  The final decision arising from the arbitration shall be accompanied by a written opinion and decision which shall describe the rational underlying the award and shall include findings of fact and conclusions of law.  The cost of such arbitration shall be borne equally by the parties and each party to the arbitration shall bear its own legal fees. Notwithstanding any provision in this Section 7, the requirement to arbitrate disputes shall not apply to any action to enforce this instrument  by means of temporary or permanent injunction or other appropriate equitable relief.
Arbitration and Equitable Relief
8.           .
Miscellaneous Provisions
(a)           Tiffany may assign its rights to enforce this instrument to any of its Affiliates.  Participant understands and agrees that the promises in this instrument are for the benefit of Tiffany (which term includes Tiffany and Company and its Affiliates) and for the benefit of the successors and assigns of Tiffany and its Affiliates.
(b)           Any determination made by the Board under Section 6 above shall bind Tiffany and Company and its Affiliates.
(c)           If any action by Participant prohibited hereunder causes Participant to lose a right to an Excess DCRB Benefit under the Deferral Plan, such loss of Excess DCRB Benefit shall also be effective with respect to Participants Beneficiaries under the Deferral Plan.
(d)           The laws of the State of New York, without giving effect to its conflicts of law principles, govern all matters arising out of or relating to this instrument and all of the prohibitions and remedies it contemplates, including, without limitation, its validity, interpretation, construction, performance and enforcement.
(e)            Each Person giving or making any notice, request, demand or other communication (each, a Notice) pursuant to this Instrument shall
(i)           give the Notice in writing; and
 
 
 
49
 
(A)           Personal delivery;
(f)           Each Person giving a Notice shall address the Notice to the recipient (the Addressee) at the address given on the signature page of this Instrument or to a changed address designated in a Notice.
(g)           A Notice is effective only if the person giving the Notice has complied with subsections (e) and (f) and if the Addressee has received the Notice. A Notice is deemed to have been received upon receipt as indicated by the date on the signed receipt, provided, however, that if the Addressee rejects or otherwise refuses to accept the Notice, or if the Notice cannot be delivered because of a change in address for which no Notice was given, then upon such rejection, refusal or inability to deliver such Notice will be deemed to have been received. Despite the other clauses of this subsection (g), if any Notice is received after 5:00 p.m. on a business day where the Addressee is located, or on a day that is not a business day where the Addressee is located, then the Notice is deemed received at 9:00 a.m. on the next business day where the Addressee is located.
(h)           This instrument shall not be amended except by a subsequent written instrument that has been executed by Participant and on behalf of Tiffany by a duly authorized officer of Tiffany.  Participants obligations under this instrument may not be waived, except pursuant to a writing executed on behalf of Tiffany or as otherwise provided in Section 6 above.
(i)           This instrument constitutes the final expression of Participants  post-employment confidentiality and non-competition obligations  necessary to receive an Excess DCRB Benefit under the Deferral Plan.  It is the complete and exclusive expression of those obligations and all prior and contemporaneous negotiations and agreements between the parties on those matters are expressly merged into and superceded by this Agreement; notwithstanding the foregoing, Participants right to receive an Excess DCRB Benefit and the amount and terms of payment of such Excess DCRB Benefit shall be exclusively determined by the Deferral Plan.
 
 
 
 
 
50
 
 
(j)           Any reference in this instrument to the singular includes the plural where appropriate, and any reference in this instrument to the masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter genders where appropriate.  The descriptive headings of the sections of this instrument are for convenience only and do not constitute part of this instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this instrument has been executed on the date first written above.
Participant
__________________________
Name:
Notice Address:
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
Accepted and agreed (as to Section 7)
Tiffany and Company
By:______________________
Name:
Title:
Notice Address:
The Board of Directors
Tiffany and Company
Care of:
Legal Department
600 Madison Avenue
New York, NY 10022
 
51
 
Schedule 4.5 to Tiffany and Company Executive Deferral Plan
 
 
52
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 10.138
2004 TIFFANY AND COMPANY
UN-FUNDED RETIREMENT INCOME PLAN TO RECOGNIZE COMPENSATION
IN EXCESS OF INTERNAL REVENUE CODE LIMITS
 
Amended and Restated as of October 31, 2011
 
WHEREAS, Tiffany and Company, a New York Corporation, intends by this instrument to establish an unfunded plan to provide supplemental retirement benefits to executive officers and other members of a select group of management employees as a means of recruiting and retaining qualified employees; and
WHEREAS, this Plan is intended to constitute both an unfunded excess benefit plan under Section 3(36) of Title I of ERISA and a nonqualified, unfunded deferred compensation plan for a select group of management or highly compensated employees under Title I of ERISA.
WHEREAS, all benefits payable under this Plan shall be paid from the general assets of Tiffany and Company.  This Plan is not intended to meet the qualification requirements of Section 401 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended;
WHEREAS, the full earnings of highly compensated employees are not recognized as compensation under the Tiffany and Company Pension Plan due to limitations imposed under the Internal Revenue Code; and
WHEREAS, Tiffany and Company, for purposes of calculating supplemental retirement benefits under this plan, wishes to recognize earnings that would be recognized under the Tiffany and Company Pension Plan but for such limitations and pay supplemental retirement benefits under this plan that are not subject to any limitation as to amount under the Code; and
WHEREAS, Tiffany and Company revised this plan effective February 1, 2007 to modify age and service requirements for early retirement, which revisions are reflected in this document; and
WHEREAS, Tiffany and Company further revised this plan effective November 25, 2008 to provide for benefits under a voluntary enhanced retirement incentive program referred to as Pension-Plus, and to modify this plans terms relating to commencement of retirement benefits under this plan, due to restrictions imposed under the Internal Revenue Code, which revisions are reflected in this document; and
WHEREAS, Tiffany and Company further revised this plan effective January 12, 2009 to extend the Election Period for participation in Pension-Plus from January 12, 2009 to January 19, 2009; and
WHEREAS, Tiffany and Company further revised this plan effective October 31, 2011 to clarify opportunities for the commencement of benefits for Participants who ceased performing Creditable Service subsequent to December 31, 2003 and prior to February 1, 2007,
 
 
 
1
 
NOW, THEREFORE, to carry the above intentions into effect, and intending to be legally bound hereby, Tiffany and Company does enter into this Plan effective the first day of January, 2004.
 
This Plan shall be known as the
 
2004 TIFFANY AND COMPANY
UN-FUNDED RETIREMENT INCOME PLAN TO RECOGNIZE
COMPENSATION IN EXCESS OF INTERNAL REVENUE CODE LIMITS
 
ARTICLE I
DEFINITIONS
FOR THE PURPOSES OF THIS PLAN, THE FOLLOWING CAPITALIZED TERMS AND PHRASES SHALL HAVE THE MEANINGS ASCRIBED TO THEM BELOW:
means, with respect to each Participant, the amount on a given date of the benefits provided under Section 3.2 of this Plan using Average Final Compensation, Covered Compensation and Creditable Service determined as of such date.  The Accrued Benefit for any Participant may be expressed in a form which is the Actuarial Equivalent of the Accrued Benefit.
Accrued Benefit
means, (i) for purposes of the definition of "Cause", with reference to any Person, any second Person that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, any such first Person, directly or indirectly; and (ii) for purposes of the definition of "Employer", any entity that is required to be aggregated together with the Company and treated as the employer, in accordance with Section 1.409A-1(h)(3) of the Regulations
Affiliate
.
means, for any period, the rate of interest on one-year U.S. Treasury securities (constant maturities), determined as of the month preceding the first month of such period.
"Applicable Interest Rate"
means, with respect to each Participant or his beneficiary, the benefit to which Participant is entitled under Article III of this Plan.
"Benefit"
means the Board of Directors of Tiffany and Company, a New York corporation.
Board
 
 
 
 
2
 
means a termination of Participants employment, involuntary on Participants part, which is the result of:
Cause
 
For purposes of this definition, no act or failure to act on Participants part shall be deemed willful unless done, or omitted to be done, by Participant in bad faith toward, or without reasonable belief that such action or omission was in the best interests of, Company or its Affiliate.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, Participant shall not be deemed to have been terminated for Cause for the purposes of this Plan unless and until there shall have been delivered to Participant a copy of a resolution duly adopted by the affirmative vote of not less than three-fourths (3/4th) of the entire membership of the Board (exclusive of the Participant if Participant is a member of such Board) at a meeting called and held for such purpose (after reasonable notice to Participant and an opportunity for Participant, together with counsel for Participant, to be heard before such Board), finding that, in the good faith opinion of such Board, Cause exists as set forth above.
 
 
 
3
 
means the Pension Plan Committee of the Company, which shall have authority over this Plan.
"Committee"
shall have the same meaning as in the Pension Plan, provided, however, that, for purposes of this Plan, the annual compensation taken into account for any Participant for any year shall not be subject to the annual compensation limit established by the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993 (Code Section 401(a)(17), as in effect from time to time).
"Compensation"
means a medically determinable physical or mental impairment that can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months, is receiving income replacement benefits for a period of not less than 3 months under an accident and health plan maintained by the Company.
"Disability"
shall mean, with respect to any Participant, the date such Participant first qualifies to receive a retirement allowance under the provisions of Section 3.4 below.
Early Retirement Date
means, for purposes of the definition of "Separation from Service", the Company and its Affiliates.
"Employer"
means the annual rate of Compensation from the Company in effect for the Participant at the time in question, provided that commissions, bonuses, premiums and incentives shall be determined by reference to such items paid in the last full Plan Year completed at the time in question.
Ending Compensation
means an instrument in substantially the form of Exhibit A attached duly completed and  executed by the Participant in question.
Non-Competition and Confidentiality Covenants
 means retirement at age 65, the normal retirement age under the Pension Plan.
Normal Retirement
means the later of (i) Participants 65th birthday or (ii) the 5th anniversary from his date of hire.
Normal Retirement Age
 
 
 
4
 
means, with respect to each Participant at any point in time, the annual retirement allowance to which Participant would be entitled at Normal Retirement payable from the Pension Plan as an annuity for Participant's life, whether or not such retirement allowance is actually paid, and regardless of any optional form of benefit payment elected under the Pension Plan by said Participant based upon such Participants Average Final Compensation, Covered Compensation and Creditable Service, in each case as determined solely in accordance with the provisions of the Pension Plan and without reference to this Plan.
"Normal Retirement Pension Benefit"
means the Tiffany and Company Pension Plan as such Pension Plan may be amended from time to time.
"Pension Plan"
meansany individual, firm, corporation, partnership, limited partnership, limited liability partnership, business trust, limited liability company, unincorporated association or other entity, and shall include any successor (by merger or otherwise) of such entity.
Person
 
 
means the 2004 Tiffany and Company Un-funded Retirement Income Plan to Recognize Compensation in Excess of IRC Limits as described in this instrument, as amended from time to time.
"this Plan"
means the Treasury Regulations promulgated pursuant to the Code, as amended from time to time.
"Regulations"
means the date as of which benefits under the Plan are scheduled to commence, as determined in accordance with Sections 3.2(a), 3.2(b), 3.7, or 3.9, determined without regard to the provisions of Section 3.10.
"Scheduled Benefit Commencement Date"
means those employees of the Company listed in Schedule I hereto who are, as of the Effective Date, actively employed by Tiffany and Company, or who thereafter return to active employment from a Company-approved approved leave of absence or disability leave and such persons who are thereafter appointed by the Board as an officer of Tiffany and Company with the title of Vice President, Group Vice President, Senior Vice President, Executive Vice President, President, Chairman of the Board, chief operating officer, chief executive officer, and any other management employee of the Company who is specifically designated a Select Management Employee by the Board; for the purpose of this definition, once a person has been appointed a Select Management Employee, he or she will be deemed, for the purposes of this Plan, to remain a Select Management Employee, regardless of subsequent change in title or responsibility.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the term Select Management Employees does not include persons (a
Select Management Employee
)
whose principal place of work is outside the United States and (b) who are paid their Compensation from a foreign bank or bank branch or who are eligible to receive retirement, severance or similar benefits under foreign law or as a result of foreign custom.
 
 
 
5
 
means, with respect to Participant, a termination of services provided by the Participant to the Employer, whether voluntarily or involuntarily, as determined by the Committee in accordance with Section 409A of the Code and Section 1.409A-1(h) of the Regulations.  In determining whether a Participant has experienced a Separation from Service, the following provisions shall apply:
"Separation from Service"
 
 
 
6
 
means that the Participant has a right to his Accrued Benefit as provided for in Section 3.12 below forfeitable only as provided in Section 3.12 below.
Vested"
ARTICLE II
PARTICIPATION IN THIS PLAN
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
 
8
 
 
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
 
 
 
10
 
(c)           The spouse's allowance shall commence as of the first day of the calendar month following the month in which the Participant or former Participant died or would have attained age 55, whichever is the later.
(d)           The spouse's allowance for the spouse of a person described in Section 3.7(a)(i (ii) above shall be the greater of (i) an allowance for the life of the spouse, payable monthly, which is equal to 20 percent of
),
 the Participant's or former Participant's Ending Compensation at the earlier of the time of his death or his Separation from Service, less any spouses allowance payable under the Pension Plan, or (ii) an allowance equal to the allowance the spouse would have received if the Participant or former Participant were deemed to have incurred a Separation from Service on the date of his death (whether or not an earlier Separation from Service occurred) and elected to receive, based on his Average Final Compensation and years of Creditable Service at his actual date of Separation from Service with the Company, the retirement allowance payable to him under Section 3.3 that would commence at the later of normal retirement age or the date of death, reduced for election of the 100% survivorship option at such deemed termination date, and continuing after his death in the same monthly amount during the life of his spouse.
 
 
 
11
 
 
 
 
 
12
 
 
 
 
 
 
13
 
ARTICLE IV
UNFUNDED PLAN
 
 
ARTICLE V
AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION
ARTICLE VI
ADMINISTRATION AND CLAIMS PROCEDURES
 
 
 
 
14
 
 
 
 
 
15
 
 
ARTICLE VII
MISCELLANEOUS
 
 
 
 
 
16
 
 
 
 
 
17
 
    Pension-Plus 2008 -- Voluntary Enhanced Retirement Incentive Program
   
This Appendix I sets forth the provisions of the Plan that constitute the Voluntary Enhanced Retirement Incentive Program (Pension-Plus 2008) authorized by the Board of Directors in 2008.
1.           Definitions.  In addition to the definitions set forth in Article I of the Plan, the following definitions shall apply solely for purposes of this Appendix I:
Election Period means the period of time beginning on November 26, 2008 and ending on January 19, 2009.
Eligible Participants means Participants who are employed by the Company as of January 31, 2009, are accruing benefits under the Plan as of the first day of the Election Period, and who, as of January 31, 2009, have met either of the following sets of criteria:
(i) attained at least fifty (50) years of age and ten (10) years of Creditable Service under the Plan; or
(ii) attained at least sixty (60) years of age and five (5) years of Creditable Service under the Plan.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, officers of Tiffany & Co., and officers of Tiffany and Company who, as of the first day of the Election Period, are participants in the 1994 Tiffany and Company Supplemental Retirement Income Plan, are excluded from the definition of Eligible Participants for purposes of this Appendix I and Pension-Plus 2008.
Enhanced Retirement Benefits means the benefits described in paragraph 3 of this Appendix I.
Enhanced Retirement Date means February 1, 2009 for any Eligible Participant who makes an election to participate in Pension-Plus 2008 in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Appendix I; provided, however, that for any such Eligible Participant who timely elects to participate in Pension-Plus 2008 and whose services the Company regards as essential over the short term, the Company reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to delay such Enhanced Retirement Date to a subsequent date, which shall in no event be later than August 1, 2009.
Pension-Plus 2008 means the program of Enhanced Retirement Benefits described in paragraph 3 of this Appendix I.
2.           Election to Participate in Pension-Plus 2008.  An Eligible Participant may elect to participate in Pension-Plus 2008 by electing to incur a Separation of Service on January 31, 2009 and filing the appropriate election form with the Company (including any release required by the Company) during the Election Period.  Any such election may be revoked within seven (7) days after it has been received by the Company but may not be revoked thereafter.
 
 
 
18
 
3.           Enhanced Retirement Benefits.  An Eligible Participant who elects to participate in Pension-Plus 2008 in accordance with paragraph 2 of this Appendix I shall be entitled to receive the following Enhanced Retirement Benefits, to be construed in accordance with corresponding Pension-Plus 2008 enhancements available under the Tiffany and Company Pension Plan:
 
 
 
 
19
 
                                     TIFFANY AND COMPANY
ATTEST:
____________________________                                                    By:____________________________________
Patrick B. Dorsey, Secretary                                                                    Michael J. Kowalski, Chairman
ATTEST:
 
 
____________________________                                                   By:____________________________________
 
20
 
NameOffice(s)
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
21
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
22
 
 
23
 
Exhibit A
is made and given this ___ day of _________ 2___ by __________________() to and for the benefit of Tiffany and Company, a New York corporation and its Affiliates (as defined below) with reference to the following facts and circumstances:
THIS INSTRUMENT  
Participant
A.           Participant is a Participant or Former Participant in and under that certain 2004 Tiffany and Company Un-funded Retirement Income Plan to Recognize Compensation in Excess of Internal Revenue Code Limits (the ) and has resigned or is about to resign his or her employment with Tiffany or its Affiliate;
Excess Plan
B.           Participants age at the effective date of such resignation was or will be less than 55 years;
C.           But for Participants obligation to provide this instrument, Participant is otherwise Vested in a right to a Benefit under the Excess Plan;
D.           Participant is willing to make the promises set forth in this instrument in order to obtain a Benefit under the Excess Plan;  and
E.           Participant agrees that the right to receive a Benefit under the terms of the Excess Plan is full and fair consideration for the promises made in this instrument,
NOW THEREFORE, Participant hereby agrees as follows:
1.           .  Unless otherwise defined in this instrument, words and phrases that have a defined meaning in the Excess Plan shall have the same meaning in this instrument.   The initially capitalized words and phrases set forth below shall have the meanings ascribed to them below:
Defined Terms
Affiliate means, with reference to any Person, any second Person that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, any such first Person, directly or indirectly.
Board means the board of directors of Tiffany and Company, a New York corporation.
Change in Controlmeans a change in control of  Parent of a nature that would be required to be reported in response to Item 6(e) of Schedule 14A of Regulation 14A promulgated under the Exchange Act, whether or not Parent is then subject to such reporting requirement; provided, however, that, anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, a Change in Control shall be deemed to have occurred if:
 
 
 
24
 
 
 
 
 
25
 
Change in Control Dateshall mean the date on which a Change of Control occurs.
Code means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and any successor provisions thereto.
Confidential Information means all information relating in any manner to Tiffany or its business, including but not limited to, contemplated new products and services, marketing and advertising campaigns, sales projections, creative campaigns and themes, financial information, budgets and projections, system designs, employees, management procedures and systems, employee training materials, equipment, production plans and techniques, product and materials specifications, product designs and design techniques,  client information (including purchase history and client identifying information) and vendor information (including the identity of vendors and information concerning the capacity of or products or pricing provided by specific vendors); notwithstanding the foregoing, Confidential Information shall not include information that becomes generally publicly available other than as a result of a disclosure by Participant or that becomes available to Participant on a non-confidential basis from a Person that to the Participants knowledge, after due inquiry, is not bound by a duty of confidentiality.
Covered Employee means an employee of Tiffany.
Duration of Non-Competition Covenant means the period beginning with Participants Termination Date and ending upon the first to occur of the following: (i) the second year anniversary of  Participants Termination Date, (ii) a Change in Control Date or (iii) Participants 65 birthday provided that, in no circumstance shall the Duration of this Covenant be less than six months.
th
 
 
 
26
 
Exchange Act means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Incumbent Directors means those individuals who were members of the Parent Board, as of January 1, 2004 and those individuals whose later appointment to the Parent Board, or whose later nomination for election to such Board by the stockholders of Parent, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of those members of such Board who either were members of such Board as of such date, or whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved.
Jewelry means jewelry (including but not limited to precious metal or silver jewelry or jewelry containing gemstones) and watches.
Parent means Tiffany & Co., a Delaware corporation.
Parent Board means the board of directors of Parent.
Person means any individual, firm, corporation, partnership, limited partnership, limited liability partnership, business trust, limited liability company, unincorporated association or other entity, and shall include any successor (by merger or otherwise) of such entity.
Retail Jewelry Trade means the operation of one or more retail outlets (including stores-within-stores, leased departments or concessions) selling Jewelry in any city in the world in which a TIFFANY & CO. store is located at the time in question; for the purpose of this definition, a retail outlet will not be deemed engaged in the Retail Jewelry Trade if less than 5% of the items displayed for sale in such outlet are Jewelry, so that, by way of example, an apparel store that offers Jewelry as an incidental item would not be deemed engaged in the Retail Jewelry Trade.
Regulations mean regulations under Section 280G of the Code, including proposed and temporary regulations, and any successor provisions thereto.
Rights Plan means the Amended and Restated Rights Agreement Dated as of September 22, 1998 by and between Tiffany & Co., a Delaware corporation, and ChaseMellon Shareholder Services L.L.C., as Rights Agent, as such Agreement may be further amended from time to time.
Termination Date means the date Participant ceases to be an employee of Tiffany.
Tiffany means Tiffany and Company, a New York corporation, and if the context so requires, Tiffany and Company and/or any Affiliate of Tiffany and Company, such term to be interpreted broadly so as to give rights equivalent to Tiffany and Company to any Affiliate of Tiffany and Company.
 
 
 
27
 
Wholesale Jewelry Trade means the sale of Jewelry or gemstones to the Retail Jewelry Trade, the development or design of Jewelry for sale to the Retail Jewelry Trade or the production of Jewelry for sale to the Retail Jewelry Trade regardless of where in the world such activities are conducted.
2.           .  Participant agrees that for the Duration of the Non-Competition Covenant Participant will not directly or indirectly (whether as director, officer, consultant, principal, owner, member, partner, advisor, financier, employee, agent or otherwise):
Non-Competition
(i)           engage in, assist, have any interest in or contribute Participants knowledge and abilities to, any business or entity in the Retail Jewelry Trade or in the Wholesale Jewelry Trade or seeking to enter or about to become engaged in the Retail Jewelry Trade or the Wholesale Jewelry Trade (provided that this subsection shall not prohibit an investment by Participant not exceeding five percent of the outstanding securities of a publicly traded company);
(ii) employ, attempt to employ, or assist anyone in employing a Covered Employee or any person who was a Covered Employee at any time during the Duration of the Non-Competition Covenant or within three (3) months prior thereto (including by influencing any Covered Employee to terminate his/her employment with Tiffany or to accept employment with any Person); or
(iii) attempt in any manner to solicit Jewelry purchases by any client of Tiffany or persuade any client of Tiffany to cease doing business or reduce the amount of business that such client has customarily done with Tiffany.
3.           .    Participant acknowledges that Participant has had access to Confidential Information.  Participant agrees not to disclose Confidential Information or to use Confidential Information to the detriment of Tiffany.  If the Participant is requested in any case by a court or governmental body to make any disclosure of Confidential Information, the Participant shall (i) promptly notify Tiffany in writing, (ii) consult with and assist Tiffany at Tiffanys expense in obtaining an injunction or other appropriate remedy to prevent such disclosure, and (iii) use Participants reasonable efforts to obtain at the Companys expense a protective order or other reliable assurance that confidential treatment will be accorded to any Confidential Information that must be disclosed.  Subject to the foregoing sentence, Participant may furnish that portion (and only that portion) of the Confidential Information that, in the written opinion of Participants counsel (the form and substance of which opinion shall be reasonably acceptable to Tiffany), the Participant is legally compelled or otherwise required to disclose or else stand liable for contempt or suffer other material penalty.  The obligations in this section shall continue beyond the Duration of the Non-Competition Covenant.
Confidentiality
 
 
 
28
 
4.           .  Should Participant breach Participants obligations under Section 2 above, he shall forfeit and lose all right to any current or future Benefit under the Excess Plan.
Loss of Benefit  in the Event of Breach
5.           .
Enforcement
(i)           Participant agrees that the restrictions set forth in this instrument are reasonable and necessary to protect the goodwill of Tiffany.  If any provision set forth herein is deemed invalid, illegal or unenforceable based upon duration, geographic scope or otherwise, Participant agrees that such provision shall be modified to make it enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.
(ii)           In the event of breach or threatened breach by Participant of the provisions set forth in this instrument, Participant acknowledges that Tiffany will be irreparably harmed and that monetary damages (including loss of benefits) shall be an insufficient remedy to Tiffany. Therefore, Participant consents to the enforcement of this instrument  by means of temporary or permanent injunction and other appropriate equitable relief in any competent court, in addition to any other remedies Tiffany may have under this Agreement or otherwise.
6.           Should Participant wish to obtain a determination that any proposed employment, disclosure, arrangement or association (each a Proposed Transaction) is not prohibited hereunder, Participant shall direct a written request to the Board.  Such request shall fully describe the Proposed Transaction.  Within 30 days after receipt of such request, the Board may (i) issue such a determination in writing, (ii) issue its refusal of such request in writing, or (iii) issue a written request for more written information concerning the Proposed Transaction.  In the event that alternative (iii) is elected (which election may be made on behalf of the Board by the Legal Department of Tiffany and Company without action by the Board), any action on Participants request will be deferred for ten (10) days following receipt by said Legal Department of the written information requested.  Failure of the Board to act within any of the time periods specified in this Section 4 shall be deemed a determination that the Proposed Transaction is not prohibited hereunder.   A determination made or deemed made under this Section 6 shall be limited in effect to the Proposed Transaction described in the submitted materials and shall not be binding or constitute a waiver with respect to any other Proposed Transaction, whether proposed  by such Participant or any other Person.  In the event that Participant wishes to seek a determination that employment with a management consulting firm, an accounting firm, a law firm or some other provider of consulting services to a wide variety of clients will not be prohibited hereunder should such firm, at some unspecified time, provide services to a Person in the Retail Jewelry Trade or the Wholesale Jewelry Trade, Participant may seek a determination hereunder; in submitting such a Proposed Transaction, the Participant should specify the extent that Participant will be involved in or can be excluded from involvement in the provision of such services.  In a making any determination under this Section 6, the Board shall not be deemed to be acting as a fiduciary with respect to the Excess Plan, the Participant or any beneficiary of the Participant and shall be under no obligation to issue a determination that any Proposed Transaction is not prohibited hereunder.
Procedure to Obtain Determination
.  
 
 
 
29
 
7.           .  Participant and Tiffany agree that any and all disputes arising out or relating to the interpretation or application of this instrument, including any dispute concerning whether any conduct is in violation of Section 2 or 3 above, shall be subject to arbitration in New York, New York, under the then existing Commercial Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association.  Arbitration proceedings shall be conducted by three arbitrators.  Without limit to their general authority, the arbitrators shall have the right to order reasonable discovery in accordance with the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.  The final decision of the arbitrators shall be binding and enforceable without further legal proceedings in court or otherwise, provided that either party to such arbitration may enter judgment upon the award in any court having jurisdiction.  The final decision arising from the arbitration shall be accompanied by a written opinion and decision which shall describe the rational underlying the award and shall include findings of fact and conclusions of law.  The cost of such arbitration shall be borne equally by the parties and each party to the arbitration shall bear its own legal fees. Notwithstanding any provision in this Section 7, the requirement to arbitrate disputes shall not apply to any action to enforce this instrument  by means of temporary or permanent injunction or other appropriate equitable relief.
Arbitration and Equitable Relief
8.           .
Miscellaneous Provisions
(a)           Tiffany may assign its rights to enforce this instrument to any of its Affiliates.  Participant understands and agrees that the promises in this instrument are for the benefit of Tiffany (which term includes Tiffany and Company and its Affiliates) and for the benefit of the successors and assigns of Tiffany and its Affiliates.
(b)           Any determination made by the Board under Section 6 above shall bind Tiffany and Company and its Affiliates.
(c)           If any action by Participant prohibited hereunder causes Participant to lose a right to a Benefit under the Excess Plan, such loss of Benefit shall also be effective with respect to Participants beneficiaries under the Excess Plan.
(d)           The laws of the State of New York, without giving effect to its conflicts of law principles, govern all matters arising out of or relating to this instrument and all of the prohibitions and remedies it contemplates, including, without limitation, its validity, interpretation, construction, performance and enforcement.
(e)            Each Person giving or making any notice, request, demand or other communication (each, a Notice) pursuant to this Instrument shall
(i)           give the Notice in writing; and
 
 
 
30
 
(A)           Personal delivery;
(f)           Each Person giving a Notice shall address the Notice to the recipient (the Addressee) at the address given on the signature page of this Instrument or to a changed address designated in a Notice.
(g)           A Notice is effective only if the person giving the Notice has complied with subsections (e) and (f) and if the Addressee has received the Notice. A Notice is deemed to have been received upon receipt as indicated by the date on the signed receipt, provided, however, that if the Addressee rejects or otherwise refuses to accept the Notice, or if the Notice cannot be delivered because of a change in address for which no Notice was given, then upon such rejection, refusal or inability to deliver such Notice will be deemed to have been received. Despite the other clauses of this subsection (g), if any Notice is received after 5:00 p.m. on a business day where the Addressee is located, or on a day that is not a business day where the Addressee is located, then the Notice is deemed received at 9:00 a.m. on the next business day where the Addressee is located.
(h)           This instrument shall not be amended except by a subsequent written instrument that has been executed by Participant and on behalf of Tiffany by a duly authorized officer of Tiffany.  Participants obligations under this instrument may not be waived, except pursuant to a writing executed on behalf of Tiffany or as otherwise provided in Section 6 above.
(i)           This instrument constitutes the final expression of Participants  post-employment confidentiality and non-competition obligations  necessary to receive a Benefit under the Excess Plan.  It is the complete and exclusive expression of those obligations and all prior and contemporaneous negotiations and agreements between the parties on those matters are expressly merged into and superceded by this Agreement; notwithstanding the foregoing, Participants right to receive a Benefit and the amount and terms of payment of such Benefit shall be exclusively determined by the Excess Plan.
 
31
 
headings of the sections of this instrument are for convenience only and do not constitute part of this instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this instrument has been executed on the date first written above.
Participant
__________________________
Name:
:
Notice Address
__________________________
__________________________
__________________________
Accepted and agreed (as to Section 7)
Tiffany and Company
By:______________________
Name:
Title:
:
Notice Address
The Board of Directors
Tiffany and Company
Care of:
Legal Department
200 Fifth Avenue
New York, NY 10010
 
32
 

Page 10
EXHIBIT 10.140b
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
2009
PERFORMANCE-
BASED RESTRICTED
STOCK GRANT
Terms
Rev. I
TIFFANY & CO.
a Delaware Corporation
(the )
Parent
TERMS OF 2009 PERFORMANCE-BASED RESTRICTED STOCK GRANT
(Non-Transferable)
under the
  2005 EMPLOYEE INCENTIVE PLAN
(the )
Plan
Terms Adopted January 28, 2009 and Amended and Restated December 29, 2011
1.  .  Participant has been granted (the ) Stock Units which shall be settled by the issuance and delivery of Shares of the Parents Common Stock.  The Grant has been made under the Plan by the Stock Option Subcommittee of the Parent Board (the ).  The name of the , the , the number of  granted, the  and the , are stated in the attached .  The other terms and conditions of the Grant are stated in this document and in the Plan.  Reference to Stock Units in this document is reference to all or part of the Stock Units which are subject to the Grant, and not to other Stock Units that have been granted or that may be granted in the future.
Introduction and Terms of Grant
Grant
Committee
Participant
Grant Date
Stock Units
Performance Period
Earnings Threshold
Notice of Grant
2.  .  Subject to the terms and conditions stated in this document, Participant has been granted Stock Units by the Parent.  As of the Grant Date, each Stock Unit has a Settlement Value of one Share, but the number of Shares which shall be issued and delivered pursuant to the Grant on the settlement of each Stock Unit (the ) shall be subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4.2(c) of the Plan, to adjust for, among other corporate developments, stock splits and stock dividends. References to Settlement Values in this document shall be deemed reference to Settlement Values as so adjusted.  As anticipated in Section 4.7 of the Plan, Shares that have not been issued and delivered to a Participant shall be represented by Stock Units.
Grant and Adjustment
Settlement Value
3.  .  Unless otherwise provided in sections 4 or 5 below, the Performance Portion of the Stock Units will vest three business days following the public announcement of the Parents audited, consolidated financial results for the last fiscal year in the Performance Period (the ).  A Stock Unit that has vested is herein referred to as a .  Within thirty (30) days following the Maturity Date, but in no event later than December 31 of the calendar year in which the last day of the Performance Period occurs, the Settlement Value of each Vested Unit shall be issued and delivered to or for the account of Participant in Shares.  As provided for in Section 7 below, the Parent may make such delivery to a Service Provider.   .  In the event that any provision of this document would otherwise result in the issuance of a fractional Share, the Parent will not be obligated to issue such fractional Share.
Performance Vesting
Maturity Date
Vested Unit
In all circumstances,
a Stock Unit which fails to vest on or before the Maturity Date shall be void and shall not confer upon the owner of such Stock Unit any rights, including any right to any Share
The  shall be of the Stock Units determined as hereinafter provided:
Performance Portion
0% or 100%
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a)           The Performance Portion shall be of the Stock Units if the Earnings Threshold is not attained for any fiscal year during the Performance Period.
0%
(b)             The Performance Portion shall be of the Stock Units if the Earnings Threshold is attained for any fiscal year during the Performance Period.
100%
 means the Parents consolidated earnings from operations, as adjusted by the Committee as provided for below and in the Plan.
Earnings
The  is expressed in the Notice of Grant in Earnings, as so defined.  The Earnings Threshold stated in the Notice of Grant applies to each of Parents fiscal years ending January 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012.
Earnings Threshold
The Earnings Threshold is a .   The Committee shall appropriately adjust any evaluation of attainment of a Performance Goal to exclude any of the following events that occurs during a Performance Period:  (i) asset write-downs, (ii) litigation or claim judgments or settlements, (iii) the effect of changes in tax law, accounting principles or other such laws or provisions affecting reported results, (iv) accruals for reorganization and restructuring programs, and (v) extraordinary non-recurring items as described in Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 30 and/or in managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations appearing in said Annual Report for the applicable year.
Performance Goal
4.  .  Except as provided in this Section 4, no Stock Units shall vest if the Participants Date of Termination occurs before the conclusion of the Performance Period:
Effect of Termination of Employment on Vesting
 
Page 2 
 
 
 
In the event of vesting pursuant to subsections (b) through (f) above, the Settlement Value of each Vested Unit shall, within 30 days after vesting, be issued and delivered to or for the account of Participant in Shares.  As provided for in Section 7 below, the Parent may make such delivery to a Service Provider.  For the avoidance of doubt, no Stock Units shall vest if the Participants Date of Termination occurs before the start of the Performance Period.
5.
.  Effect of Change in Control on Vesting
 
Page 3
 
 
 
6.  .  
No Dividends or Interest
No dividends or interest shall accrue or be payable upon any Stock Unit.   Until a Share is issued and delivered it shall not be registered in the name of the Participant.
7.   All distributions of Shares shall be subject to withholding of all applicable taxes as computed by the Tiffany and Parent finance department, and the Participant shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Parent to provide the Parent (or any Related Company) with funds necessary for such withholding before the Shares are delivered. Without limitation to the Parents right to establish other arrangements, the Parent may: (i) designate a single broker or other financial services provider () to establish trading accounts for Participants (each a ); (ii) deliver Shares to Participants Trading Account; (iii) provide Services Provider with information concerning the applicable tax withholding rates for Participant; (iv) cause Services Provider to sell, on behalf of Participant, sufficient Shares to  cover  the Parents tax withholding obligations with respect to any delivery of Shares to Participant (a ); and (v) cause Services Provider to remit funds resulting from such Covering Sale to Parent or any Related Company that is the employer of Participant.  As a condition to distribution the Parent may require the Participant to provide the Services Provider with such signed applications, authorizations, powers and other documents necessary to accomplish the foregoing.  Participant may, by written notice to the Parent addressed to the Parents Secretary, and given no less than ten (10) business days before the Maturity Date or other applicable vesting date, elect to avoid such a Covering Sale by delivering with such notice a bank-certified check payable to the Parent (or other type of check or draft payable to the Parent and acceptable to the Secretary) in the estimated amount of any such withholding required, such estimate to be provided by the Tiffany and Company finance department. The Committee may approve other methods of withholding, as provided for in the Plan, before the Shares are delivered.
Withholding for Taxes.  
Services Provider
Participants Trading Account
Covering Sale
8.  . The Stock Units are not transferable otherwise than by will or the laws of descent and distribution, and shall not be otherwise transferred, assigned, pledged, hypothecated or otherwise disposed of in any way, whether by operation of law or otherwise, nor shall it be subject to execution, attachment or similar process. Upon any attempt to transfer the Stock Units otherwise than as permitted herein or to assign, pledge, hypothecate or otherwise dispose of the Stock Units otherwise than as permitted herein, or upon the levy of any execution, attachment or similar process upon the Grant, the Grant shall immediately terminate and become null and void.
Transferability
9..  For the purposes of the Grant, certain words and phases are defined in the Definitional Appendix attached.  Except where the context clearly implies or indicates the contrary, a word, term or phrase used in the Plan shall have the same meaning in this document.
Definitions
10.  .  The terms of the Grant shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the Parent and its successors and assigns, and upon any person acquiring, whether by merger, consolidation, purchase of assets or otherwise, all or substantially all of the Parents assets and business.  Participant may designate a beneficiary of his/her rights under the Grant by filing written notice with the Secretary of the Parent.  In the event of the Participants death prior to the full maturity of the Grant, the Shares will be delivered to such Beneficiary to the extent that it was matured on the Participants Termination Date.  If the Participant fails to designate a Beneficiary, or if the designated Beneficiary dies before the Participant, any Shares issuable hereunder will be delivered to the Participants estate.
Heirs and Successors
 
Page 4
 
 
 
11.  .  The authority to manage and control the operation and administration of the Grant shall be vested in the Committee, and the Committee shall have all powers with respect to the Grant as it has with respect to the Plan.  Any interpretation of the Grant by the Committee and any decision made by it with respect to the Grant is final and binding.
Administration
12.  .  Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, the terms of the Grant shall be subject to the terms of the Plan, a copy of which may be obtained by the Participant from the office of the Secretary of the Parent.
Plan Governs
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 5
 
 
 
 shall mean any Person that controls, is controlled by or is under common control with, any other Person, directly or indirectly.
Affiliate
 shall mean a termination of Participants employment which is the result of:
Cause
 
 
Page 6
 
 
 
For purposes of the previous sentence, no act or failure to act on Participants part shall be deemed willful unless done, or omitted to be done, by Participant in bad faith toward, or without reasonable belief that Participants action or omission was in the best interests of, Parent, Employer or an Affiliate of Parent or Employer.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, Participant shall not be deemed to have been terminated for Cause with respect to items (i) through (vii) unless and until there shall have been delivered to Participant a copy of a resolution duly adopted by the affirmative vote of not less than three-fourths (3/4) of the entire membership of the Employer Board at a meeting called and held for such purpose (after reasonable notice to Participant and an opportunity for Participant, together with Participants counsel, to be heard before such Board), finding that, in the good faith opinion of such Board, Cause exists as set forth in any of  items (i) through (vii) above.
th
 A Change in Control shall be deemed to have occurred if:
Change in Control.
            shall mean the date on which a Change of Control occurs except that a Change of Control which constitutes a Terminating Transaction will be deemed to have occurred as of fourteen days prior to the date scheduled for the Terminating Transaction if provisions shall not have been made in writing in connection with such Terminating Transaction for the assumption of the Option or the substitution for the Option of a new option covering the stock of a successor employer corporation, or a parent or subsidiary thereof or of the Parent, with appropriate adjustments as to the number and kind of shares and prices.
Change in Control Date
 
 
Page 7
 
 
 
 shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and any successor provisions thereto.
Code
 shall mean Parents (i) Code of Business and Ethical Conduct for Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and All Other Officers of the Parent and (ii) Business Conduct Policy  Worldwide, as amended from time to time prior to the Change of Control Date and as in effect as of the Change of Control Date.
Code of Conduct
 shall mean the common stock of Parent.
Common Stock
  shall mean, with respect to any Participant, the first day occurring on or after the Grant Date on which Participants employment with Employer terminates for any reason; provided that a termination of employment shall not be deemed to occur by reason of a transfer of the employment of Participant between Employers; and further provided that the Participants employment shall not be considered terminated while the Participant is on a leave of absence from the Employer approved by Employer or required by applicable law.  If, as a result of a sale or other transaction, Employer ceases to be an Affiliate of Parent, the occurrence of such transaction shall be treated as the Participants Date of Termination caused by the Participant being discharged by Employer.
Date of Termination
 
 
 shall mean Participants incapacity due to physical or mental illness which causes Participant to be absent from the full-time performance of Participants duties with Employer for six (6) consecutive months provided, however, that Participant shall not be determined to be subject to a Disability for purposes of this Award unless Participant fails to return to full-time performance of Participants duties with Employer within thirty (30) days after written Notice of Termination due to Disability is given to Participant.
Disability
 shall mean the Affiliate of Parent that employs Participant from time to time, and any successor to its business and/or assets by operation of law or otherwise.
Employer
 shall mean the board of directors (or other highest governing authority other than the shareholders) of Employer.
Employer Board
 shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any successor provisions thereto.
Exchange Act
 means Participants resignation from employment with Employer as a result of any of the following:
Good Reason
 
 
Page 8
 
 
 
 shall mean those individuals who were members of the Parent Board as of January 15, 2009 and those individuals whose later appointment to such Board, or whose later nomination for election to such Board by the stockholders of Parent, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of those members of such Board who either were members of such Board as of January 15, 2009, or whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved.
Incumbent Directors
 means (i) Participants termination of employment by Employer without Cause or (ii) Participants resignation of employment with the Employer within one (1) year of the Change of Control Date for Good Reason.
Involuntary Termination
 shall mean a written notice indicating the specific termination provision in this Agreement relied upon and setting forth in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances claimed to provide a basis for termination of Participants employment under the provision so indicated.
Notice of Termination
 shall mean Tiffany & Co., a Delaware corporation, and any successor to its business and/or assets by operation of law or otherwise.
Parent
 shall mean the Board of Directors of Parent.
Parent Board
 shall mean any individual, firm, corporation, partnership, limited partnership, limited liability partnership, business trust, limited liability company, unincorporated association or other entity, and shall include any successor (by merger or otherwise) of such entity.
Person
 
 
Page 9
 
 
 
  shall mean the occurrence of the Participants Date of Termination after age 65 or the occurrence of the Participants Date of Termination after age 55 pursuant to the retirement practices of Employer.
Retirement
means any material change in the terms or conditions of Participants employment (including in salary or target bonus) following a Change of Control Date that is less favorable to Participant than those in effect previous to the Change of Control Date other than (i) a change that has been made on an across-the-board basis for substantially all of Employers employees or (ii) a change in equity-based compensation (including the reduction or elimination thereof) resulting from the Change in Control.
Substantial Change
provided that none of the foregoing transactions (i) through (iii) will be deemed to be a Terminating Transaction, if as of a date at least fourteen (14) days prior to the date scheduled for such transaction provisions have been made in writing in connection with such transaction for the assumption of the Option or the substitution for the Option of a new option covering the publicly-traded stock of a successor Person, with appropriate adjustments as to the number and kind of shares and prices.

EXHIBIT 10.140c
PERFORMANCE-
BASED
RESTRICTED
STOCK GRANT
Terms
2010 Version
TIFFANY & CO.
a Delaware Corporation
(the )
Company
TERMS OF PERFORMANCE-BASED RESTRICTED STOCK GRANT
(Non-Transferable)
under the
  2005 EMPLOYEE INCENTIVE PLAN
(the )
Plan
Terms Adopted January 20, 2010 and Amended and Restated December 29, 2011
1.  .  Participant has been granted (the ) Stock Units which shall be settled by the issuance and delivery of Shares of the Companys Common Stock.  The Grant has been made under the Plan by the Stock Option Subcommittee of the Companys Board of Directors (the ).  The name of the , the , the number of  granted, the , the , the , the  and the  are stated in the attached .  The other terms and conditions of the Grant are stated in this document and in the Plan.  Certain initially capitalized words and phrases used in this document are defined in the Definitions Appendix attached and elsewhere in this document or in the Plan.  Reference to Stock Units in this document is reference to all or part of the Stock Units which are subject to the Grant, and not to other Stock Units that have been granted or that may be granted in the future.
Introduction and Terms of Grant
Grant
Committee
Participant
Grant Date
Stock Units
Performance Period
Earnings Threshold
Earnings Target
Earnings Maximum
ROA Target
Notice of Grant
2.  .  Subject to the terms and conditions stated in this document, Participant has been granted Stock Units by the Company.  As of the Grant Date, each Stock Unit has a Settlement Value of one Share, but the number of Shares which shall be issued and delivered pursuant to the Grant on the settlement of each Stock Unit (the ) shall be subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4.2(c) of the Plan, to adjust for, among other corporate developments, stock splits and stock dividends. References to Settlement Values in this document shall be deemed reference to Settlement Values as so adjusted.  As anticipated in Section 4.7 of the Plan, Shares that have not been issued and delivered to a Participant shall be represented by Stock Units.
Grant and Adjustment
Settlement Value
3.  .  Unless otherwise provided in sections 4 or 5 below, the Performance Portion (as defined below) of the Stock Units will vest three business days following the public announcement of the Companys audited, consolidated financial results for the last fiscal year in the Performance Period (the ).  A Stock Unit that has vested is herein referred to as a .  Within thirty (30) days following the Maturity Date, but in no event later than December 31 of the calendar year in which the last day of the Performance Period occurs, the Settlement Value of each Vested Unit shall be issued and delivered to or for the account of Participant in Shares. As provided for in Section 7 below, the Company may make such delivery to a Service Provider.   .  In the event that any provision of this document would otherwise result in the issuance of a fractional Share, the Company will not be obligated to issue such fractional Share.
Performance Vesting
Maturity Date
Vested Unit
In all circumstances,
a Stock Unit which fails to vest on or before the Maturity Date shall be void and shall not confer upon the owner of such Stock Unit any rights, including any right to any Share
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  shall be a percentage of the Stock Units calculated as hereinafter provided (provided that the Performance Portion shall never exceed 100% of the Stock Units):
Performance Portion
(a)           The Performance Portion shall be of the Stock Units if the Earnings Threshold is not attained over the Performance Period.
0%
(b)           Subject to reduction pursuant to subsection (c) below, if the Earnings Threshold has been attained over the Performance Period, the Performance Portion shall be of the Stock Units.
100%
(c)           
If the Earnings Threshold has been attained over the Performance Period the Committee shall, in its sole discretion, have the right to reduce the Performance Portion to 0% of the Stock Units or any percentage of the Stock Units less than 100%.  The Committee may exercise such discretion on any date that occurs following the close of the Performance Period and prior to the Maturity Date.  The Committee has provided guidance to Participant with respect to factors, including the Earnings Target, the Earnings Maximum and the ROA Target, that the Committee intends to apply in effecting such a reduction, but the Committee shall not be limited in its discretion to those factors.
 means the Companys consolidated earnings per share on a diluted basis, as reported in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K, aggregated over the Performance Period and as adjusted by the Committee as provided for below and in the Plan.
Earnings
The ,  and  are expressed in the Notice of Grant as functions of Earnings, as so defined.
Earnings Threshold
Earnings Target
Earnings Maximum
 means the Companys consolidated return on average assets in each of the fiscal years in the Performance Period, expressed as a percentage, and then averaged over the entire Performance Period.  In each of the fiscal years average assets will be computed by averaging total assets at the beginning and at the end of the fiscal year; net earnings for such fiscal years shall be divided by average assets.  Both total assets and net earnings shall be as reported in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K.
ROA
The  is expressed in the Notice of Grant as a function of ROA, as so defined.
ROA Target
Each of Earnings and ROA is a .   In determining whether the Earnings Threshold has been met the Committee shall appropriately adjust any evaluation of attainment of a Performance Goal to exclude any of the following events that occurs during a Performance Period:  (i) asset write-downs, (ii) litigation or claim judgments or settlements, (iii) the effect of changes in tax law, accounting principles or other such laws or provisions affecting reported results, (iv) accruals for reorganization and restructuring programs, and (v) extraordinary non-recurring items as described in Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 30 and/or in managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations appearing in said Annual Report for the applicable year.
Performance Goal
4.  .  Except as provided in this Section 4, no Stock Units shall vest if the Participants Date of Termination occurs before the conclusion of the Performance Period:
Effect of Termination of Employment on Vesting
 
 
 
 
Page 2
 
 
 
In the event of vesting pursuant to this Section 4, the Settlement Value of each Vested Unit shall, within thirty (30) days after vesting, be issued and delivered to or for the account of Participant in Shares. As provided for in Section 7 below, the Company may make such delivery to a Service Provider.
5.
.  Effect of Change in Control on Vesting
 
 
Page 3
 
 
 
(e)           In the event of vesting pursuant to this Section 5, the Settlement Value of each Vested Unit shall, within thirty days after vesting, be issued and delivered to or for the account of Participant in Shares.  As provided for in Section 7 below, the Parent may make such delivery to a Service Provider.
6.  .  
No Dividends or Interest
No dividends or interest shall accrue or be payable upon any Stock Unit.   Until a Share is issued and delivered it shall not be registered in the name of the Participant.
7.   All distributions of Shares shall be subject to withholding of all applicable taxes as computed by the Tiffany and Company finance department, and the Participant shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Company to provide the Company (or any Related Company) with funds necessary for such withholding before the Shares are delivered. Without limitation to the Companys right to establish other arrangements, the Company may: (i) designate a single broker or other financial services provider () to establish trading accounts for Participants (each a ); (ii) deliver Shares to Participants Trading Account; (iii) provide Services Provider with information concerning the applicable tax withholding rates for Participant; (iv) cause Services Provider to sell, on behalf of Participant, sufficient Shares to  cover  the Companys tax withholding obligations with respect to any delivery of Shares to Participant (a ); and (v) cause Services Provider to remit funds resulting from such Covering Sale to Company or any Related Company that is the employer of Participant.  As a condition to distribution the Company may require the Participant to provide the Services Provider with such signed applications, authorizations, powers and other documents necessary to accomplish the foregoing.  Participant may, by written notice to the Company addressed to the Companys Secretary, and given no less than ten (10) business days before the Maturity Date or other applicable vesting date, elect to avoid such a Covering Sale by delivering with such notice a bank-certified check payable to the Company (or other type of check or draft payable to the Company and acceptable to the Secretary) in the estimated amount of any such withholding required, such estimate to be provided by the Tiffany and Company finance department. The Committee may approve other methods of withholding, as provided for in the Plan, before the Shares are delivered.
Withholding for Taxes.  
Services Provider
Participants Trading Account
Covering Sale
 
 
 
 
Page 4
 
 
 
8.  . The Stock Units are not transferable otherwise than by will or the laws of descent and distribution, and shall not be otherwise transferred, assigned, pledged, hypothecated or otherwise disposed of in any way, whether by operation of law or otherwise, nor shall it be subject to execution, attachment or similar process. Upon any attempt to transfer the Stock Units otherwise than as permitted herein or to assign, pledge, hypothecate or otherwise dispose of the Stock Units otherwise than as permitted herein, or upon the levy of any execution, attachment or similar process upon the Grant, the Grant shall immediately terminate and become null and void.
Transferability
 
9..  For the purposes of the Grant, certain words and phases are defined in the Definitional Appendix attached.  Except where the context clearly implies or indicates the contrary, a word, term or phrase used in the Plan shall have the same meaning in this document.
Definitions
10.  .  The terms of the Grant shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the Company and its successors and assigns, and upon any person acquiring, whether by merger, consolidation, purchase of assets or otherwise, all or substantially all of the Companys assets and business.  Participant may designate a beneficiary of his/her rights under the Grant by filing written notice with the Secretary of the Company.  In the event of the Participants death prior to the full maturity of the Grant, the Shares will be delivered to such Beneficiary to the extent that it was matured on the Participants Termination Date.  If the Participant fails to designate a Beneficiary, or if the designated Beneficiary dies before the Participant, any  Shares issuable hereunder will be delivered to the Participants estate.
Heirs and Successors
11.  .  The authority to manage and control the operation and administration of the Grant shall be vested in the Committee, and the Committee shall have all powers with respect to the Grant as it has with respect to the Plan.  Any interpretation of the Grant by the Committee and any decision made by it with respect to the Grant is final and binding.
Administration
12.  .  Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, the terms of the Grant shall be subject to the terms of the Plan, a copy of which may be obtained by the Participant from the office of the Secretary of the Company.
Plan Governs
 
 
 
Page 5
 
 
 
 shall mean any Person that controls, is controlled by or is under common control with, any other Person, directly or indirectly.
Affiliate
 shall mean a termination of Participants employment which is the result of:
Cause
 
 
 
Page 6
 
 
 
For purposes of the previous sentence, no act or failure to act on Participants part shall be deemed willful unless done, or omitted to be done, by Participant in bad faith toward, or without reasonable belief that Participants action or omission was in the best interests of, Parent, Employer or an Affiliate of Parent or Employer.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, Participant shall not be deemed to have been terminated for Cause with respect to items (i) through (vii) unless and until there shall have been delivered to Participant a copy of a resolution duly adopted by the affirmative vote of not less than three-fourths (3/4) of the entire membership of the Employer Board at a meeting called and held for such purpose (after reasonable notice to Participant and an opportunity for Participant, together with Participants counsel, to be heard before such Board), finding that, in the good faith opinion of such Board, Cause exists as set forth in any of  items (i) through (vii) above.
th
 A Change in Control shall be deemed to have occurred if:
Change in Control.
            shall mean the date on which a Change of Control occurs except that a Change of Control which constitutes a Terminating Transaction will be deemed to have occurred as of fourteen days prior to the date scheduled for the Terminating Transaction if provisions shall not have been made in writing in connection with such Terminating Transaction for the assumption of the Option or the substitution for the Option of a new option covering the stock of a successor employer corporation, or a parent or subsidiary thereof or of the Parent, with appropriate adjustments as to the number and kind of shares and prices.
Change in Control Date
 
Page 7
 
 
 
 
 shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and any successor provisions thereto.
Code
 shall mean Parents (i) Code of Business and Ethical Conduct for Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and All Other Officers of the Parent and (ii) Business Conduct Policy  Worldwide, as amended from time to time prior to the Change of Control Date and as in effect as of the Change of Control Date.
Code of Conduct
 shall mean the common stock of Parent.
Common Stock
  shall mean, with respect to any Participant, the first day occurring on or after the Grant Date on which Participants employment with Employer terminates for any reason; provided that a termination of employment shall not be deemed to occur by reason of a transfer of the employment of Participant between Employers; and further provided that the Participants employment shall not be considered terminated while the Participant is on a leave of absence from the Employer approved by Employer or required by applicable law.  If, as a result of a sale or other transaction, Employer ceases to be an Affiliate of Parent, the occurrence of such transaction shall be treated as the Participants Date of Termination caused by the Participant being discharged by Employer.
Date of Termination
     
 
   
 shall mean Participants incapacity due to physical or mental illness which causes Participant to be absent from the full-time performance of Participants duties with Employer for six (6) consecutive months provided, however, that Participant shall not be determined to be subject to a Disability for purposes of this Award unless Participant fails to return to full-time performance of Participants duties with Employer within thirty (30) days after written Notice of Termination due to Disability is given to Participant.
Disability
 shall mean the Affiliate of Parent that employs Participant from time to time, and any successor to its business and/or assets by operation of law or otherwise.
Employer
 shall mean the board of directors (or other highest governing authority other than the shareholders) of Employer.
Employer Board
 shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any successor provisions thereto.
Exchange Act
 means Participants resignation from employment with Employer as a result of any of the following:
Good Reason
 
 
 
Page 8
 
 
 
 shall mean those individuals who were members of the Parent Board as of January 15, 2009 and those individuals whose later appointment to such Board, or whose later nomination for election to such Board by the stockholders of Parent, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of those members of such Board who either were members of such Board as of January 15, 2009, or whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved.
Incumbent Directors
 means (i) Participants termination of employment by Employer without Cause or (ii) Participants resignation of employment with the Employer within one (1) year of the Change of Control Date for Good Reason.
Involuntary Termination
 shall mean a written notice indicating the specific termination provision in this Agreement relied upon and setting forth in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances claimed to provide a basis for termination of Participants employment under the provision so indicated.
Notice of Termination
 shall mean Tiffany & Co., a Delaware corporation, and any successor to its business and/or assets by operation of law or otherwise.
Parent
 shall mean the Board of Directors of Parent.
Parent Board
 shall mean any individual, firm, corporation, partnership, limited partnership, limited liability partnership, business trust, limited liability company, unincorporated association or other entity, and shall include any successor (by merger or otherwise) of such entity.
Person
 
 
Page 9
 
 
 
  shall mean the occurrence of the Participants Date of Termination after age 65 or the occurrence of the Participants Date of Termination after age 55 pursuant to the retirement practices of Employer.
Retirement
means any material change in the terms or conditions of Participants employment (including in salary or target bonus) following a Change of Control Date that is less favorable to Participant than those in effect previous to the Change of Control Date other than (i) a change that has been made on an across-the-board basis for substantially all of Employers employees or (ii) a change in equity-based compensation (including the reduction or elimination thereof) resulting from the Change in Control.
Substantial Change
provided that none of the foregoing transactions (i) through (iii) will be deemed to be a Terminating Transaction, if as of a date at least fourteen (14) days prior to the date scheduled for such transaction provisions have been made in writing in connection with such transaction for the assumption of the Option or the substitution for the Option of a new option covering the publicly-traded stock of a successor Person, with appropriate adjustments as to the number and kind of shares and prices.
 
Page 10

EXHIBIT 10.166
This Agreement is entered into as of the day of January 2012, between and among , an individual with his principal residence at 59 Beachmont Terrace, North Caldwell, NJ 07006 (), , a New York corporation with executive offices at 200 Fifth Avenue, New York, NY 10022 () and , a Delaware corporation with executive offices at 200 Fifth Avenue, New York, NY 10022 ().
19th
James E. Quinn
Employee
Tiffany and Company
Employer
Tiffany & Co.
Parent
Whereas, Employee has been employed by Employer for in excess of 25 years and is eligible to elect early retirement under Employers retirement plans;
Whereas, Employee wishes to elect early retirement;
Whereas, Employee has served Employer and the Tiffany Affiliated Group for many years as a senior officer and has comprehensive knowledge of their business strategies and other Confidential Information;
Whereas, Employer and Parent wish Employee to agree to an extended duration of Employees non-competition covenant beyond that which Employee would otherwise be subject to;
Whereas, Employer is willing to make the Non-Compete Payment in exchange for such extended duration and other consideration as provided for herein; and
Whereas, the parties wish to adjust and clarify Employees rights and Parents obligations under various grants of equity and incentive compensation that are now outstanding;
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises contained herein, and other good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:
1.           .  The following words and phrases shall have the meanings hereinafter ascribed to them when used in this Agreement:
Defined Terms
 means that grant of non-qualified stock options made on January 28, 2009 to Employee by Parent.
09 Option Grant
 means that grant of non-qualified stock options made on January 20, 2010 to Employee by Parent.
10 Option Grant
 means that grant of performance-based stock units made on January 28, 2009 to Employee by Parent, as amended on December 29, 2011.
09 PSU Grant
 
 
 
 
 
1
 
 means that grant of performance-based stock units made on January 20, 2010 to Employee by Parent, as amended on December 29, 2011.
10 PSU Grant
 
 means the Parents 2005 Employee Incentive Plan, as amended May 18, 2006.
2005 Incentive Plan
 shall mean, with reference to any Person, any second Person that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, any such first Person, directly or indirectly.
Affiliate
 means the board of directors of Parent.
Board
 means a termination of Employees employment, involuntary on Employees part, which is the result of:
Cause
Notwithstanding the foregoing, for purposes of any Equity Award, Cause shall have the meaning proscribed in such Equity Award.
 means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the regulations and guidance promulgated thereunder.
Code
 means all information relating in any manner to the Tiffany Affiliated Group or its business, including but not limited to, contemplated new products and services, marketing and advertising campaigns, sales projections, creative campaigns and themes, financial information, budgets and projections, system designs, employees, management procedures and systems, employee training materials, equipment, production plans and techniques, product and materials specifications, product designs and design techniques,  client information (including purchase history and client identifying information) and vendor information (including the identity of vendors and information concerning the capacity of or products or pricing provided by specific vendors); notwithstanding the foregoing, Confidential Information shall not include information that becomes generally publicly available other than as a result of a disclosure by Employee in violation of Section 3 of this Agreement or that becomes available to Employee on a non-confidential basis from a Person that to Employees knowledge, after due inquiry, is not bound by a duty of confidentiality.
Confidential Information
 
 
 
2
 
 means any person who, at the time in question, is an employee of any member of the Tiffany Affiliated Group or who was an employee of any member of the Tiffany Affiliated Group during the one-year period previous to the time in question.
Covered Employee
 means , the date on which Employee will retire.  For purposes of the Equity Awards, as defined below, the Date of Retirement shall be the Date of Termination as used in the Equity Awards, unless Employee is terminated earlier for Cause or by reason of death.
Date of Retirement
February 1, 2012
 means Employers Amended and Restated Executive Deferral Plan, as adopted by the Board May 20, 2010.
Deferral Plan
 means the period beginning with the Date of Retirement and ending .
Duration of Non-Competition Covenant
one-year
January 31, 2013
 means the earlier of the Date of Retirement or the date that Employee ceases to be employed by Employer other than as a result of his retirement.
Employee Termination Date
 means any grant of options to purchase, or stock units that may be settled in, the Shares, including any grants made under the terms of the 2005 Incentive Plan.
Equity Award
 means theUn-funded Retirement Income Plan to Recognize Compensation In Excess of Internal Revenue Code Limits, Amended and Restated as of October 31, 2011.
Excess Plan
 
2004 Tiffany and Company
 means the Indemnity Agreement made in March of 2005 between Employee and Parent.
Indemnity Agreement
 means jewelry (including but not limited to precious metal or silver jewelry or jewelry containing gemstones) and watches.
Jewelry
 means the payments provided for under Section 15 below.
Non-Compete Payment
 means Employers Pension Plan, a tax-qualified plan.
Pension Plan
 
 
 
 
3
 
 means any individual, firm, corporation, partnership, limited partnership, limited liability partnership, business trust, limited liability company, unincorporated association or other entity, and shall include any successor (by merger or otherwise) of such entity.
Person
 means the Non-Competition and Confidentiality Covenants given by Employee to and for the benefit of Employer and its Affiliates in 2005.
Pre-existing Non-Competition Covenants
 means, in U.S. dollars, (i) with respect to an Equity Award of stock units, the value of the Shares on the date the Equity Award vests, and, (ii) with respect to an Equity Award that is an option to purchase, the spread between the strike price and the market value of the underlying Shares on the exercise date, in each of cases (i) and (ii) measured by the simple average of the high and low selling prices on the principal market on which the Shares are traded as of vesting or exercise date, as applicable, if such vesting or exercise date is a trading date; if such vesting or exercise date is not a trading date, then as of the next trading date following the vesting or exercise date, as applicable.
Proceeds of Equity Award
 means the operation of one or more retail outlets (including stores-within-stores, leased departments or concessions) selling Jewelry in any city in the world in which a TIFFANY & CO. store is located at the time in question; for the purpose of this definition, a retail outlet will not be deemed engaged in the Retail Jewelry Trade if less than 5% of the items displayed for sale in such outlet are Jewelry, so that, by way of example, an apparel store that offers Jewelry as an incidental item would not be deemed engaged in the Retail Jewelry Trade.
Retail Jewelry Trade
 means that Retention Agreement entered into between and among Employee, Employer and Parent dated January 20, 2009.
Retention Agreement
 means the Pension Plan, the Excess Plan, the Supplemental Plan, the Retirement Savings Plan and the Deferral Plan.
Retirement Plans
 means Parents Employee Profit Sharing and Retirement Savings Plan.
Retirement Savings Plan
 means shares of the common stock of the Parent, $0.01 par value per share.
Shares
 means the 1994 Tiffany and Company Supplemental Retirement Income Plan, Amended and Restated as of January 31, 2009.
Supplemental Plan
 means Parent and those Affiliates of Parent, including Employer, that are controlled directly or indirectly by Parent.
Tiffany Affiliated Group
 
 
 
 
4
 
 means, with reference to a stock option grant, that portion of the options vesting (becoming exercisable) on a specific anniversary date of the grant date.
Tranche
 means the sale of Jewelry or gemstones to the Retail Jewelry Trade, the development or design of Jewelry for sale to the Retail Jewelry Trade or the production of Jewelry for sale to the Retail Jewelry Trade regardless of where in the world such activities are conducted.
Wholesale Jewelry Trade
2.           .  In consideration of the Non-Compete Payment and such other consideration provided for hereunder, Employee agrees that for the Duration of the Non-Competition Covenant Employee will not directly or indirectly (whether as director, officer, consultant, principal, owner, member, partner, advisor, financier, employee, agent or otherwise):
Non-Competition
The provisions set forth in this Section 2 may be waived in whole or in part by the Compensation Committee of the Board, provided that the timing and the amount of the Non-Compete Payment shall not be modified.  Subject to waiver as provided in Section 15 below, the provisions of this Section 2 shall apply whether or not Employees employment with Employer is terminated for any reason prior to the Date of Retirement.
3.           .  Employee acknowledges that Employee has had access to Confidential Information.  Employee agrees not use Confidential Information to the detriment of any member of the Tiffany Affiliated Group or to disclose Confidential Information.  If Employee is requested in any case by a court or governmental body to make any disclosure of Confidential Information, Employee shall (i) promptly notify Employer in writing, (ii) consult with and assist Employer at Employers expense in obtaining an injunction or other appropriate remedy to prevent such disclosure, and (iii) use Employees reasonable efforts to obtain at the Employers expense a protective order or other reliable assurance that confidential treatment will be accorded to any Confidential Information that must be disclosed.  Subject to the foregoing sentence, Employee may furnish that portion (and only that portion) of the Confidential Information that, in the written opinion of Employees counsel (the form and substance of which opinion shall be reasonably acceptable to Employer), Employee is legally compelled or otherwise required to disclose or else stand liable for contempt or suffer other material penalty.  The obligations in this section shall continue beyond the Duration of Non-Competition Covenant.
Confidentiality
 
 
 
 
5
 
4.           .  Should Employee breach Employees obligations under Section 2 above during the period from the Date of Retirement through August 1, 2012, Employee shall:
Loss of Benefits, Forfeiture of Equity Awards and Return of Proceeds of Equity Awards in the Event of Breach
In addition, should Employee breach Employees obligations under Section 2 above at any time during the Duration of Non-Competition Covenant, Employee shall:
5.           .
Enforcement
 
 
 
 
6
 
6.           Should Employee wish to obtain a determination that any proposed employment, disclosure, arrangement or association (each a ) is not prohibited hereunder, Employee shall direct a written request to the Board.  Such request shall fully describe the Proposed Transaction.  Within 30 days after receipt of such request, the Board may (i) issue such a determination in writing, (ii) issue its refusal of such request in writing, or (iii) issue a written request for more written information concerning the Proposed Transaction.  In the event that alternative (iii) is elected (which election may be made on behalf of the Board by the Legal Department of Employer without action by the Board), any action on Employees request will be deferred for ten (10) days following receipt by said Legal Department of the written information requested.  Failure of the Board to act within any of the time periods specified in this Section 6 shall be deemed a determination that the Proposed Transaction is not prohibited hereunder.   A determination made or deemed made under this Section 6 shall be limited in effect to the Proposed Transaction described in the submitted materials and shall not be binding or constitute a waiver with respect to any other Proposed Transaction, whether proposed  by such Employee or any other Person.  In the event that Employee wishes to seek a determination that employment with a management consulting firm, an accounting firm, a law firm or some other provider of consulting services to a wide variety clients will not be prohibited hereunder should such firm, at some unspecified time, provide services to a Person in the Retail Jewelry Trade or the Wholesale Jewelry Trade, Employee may seek a determination hereunder; in submitting such a Proposed Transaction, Employee should specify the extent that Employee will be involved in or can be excluded from involvement in the provision of such services.  In a making any determination under this Section 6, the Board shall not be deemed to be acting as a fiduciary with respect to any Retirement Plan, Employee or any beneficiary of Employee and shall be under no obligation to issue a determination that any Proposed Transaction is not prohibited hereunder.
Procedure to Obtain Determination
.  
Proposed Transaction
7.           .  Employee, Employer and Parent agree that any and all disputes arising out or relating to the interpretation or application of this Agreement, including any dispute concerning whether any conduct is in violation of Section 2 or 3 above, shall be subject to arbitration in New York, New York, under the then existing Commercial Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association.  Arbitration proceedings shall be conducted by three arbitrators.  Without limit to their general authority, the arbitrators shall have the right to order reasonable discovery in accordance with the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.  The final decision of the arbitrators shall be binding and enforceable without further legal proceedings in court or otherwise, provided that any party to such arbitration may enter judgment upon the award in any court having jurisdiction.  The final decision arising from the arbitration shall be accompanied by a written opinion and decision which shall describe the rational underlying the award and shall include findings of fact and conclusions of law.  The cost of such arbitration shall be borne equally by the parties and each party to the arbitration shall bear its own attorneys fees.  Notwithstanding any provision in this Section 7, the requirement to arbitrate disputes shall not apply to any action to enforce this Agreement by means of temporary or permanent injunction or other appropriate equitable relief.
Arbitration and Equitable Relief
 
 
 
 
7
 
8.           .  In consideration of the undertakings and agreements of Employee made in this Agreement, Parent hereby agrees that the following adjustments will be made to outstanding Equity Awards as of the Date of Retirement if Employees employment with Employer is not terminated earlier for Cause or by reason of death:
Adjustments to Equity Awards
 
 
 
 
8
 
As used above the term  means, with respect to a stock option, that it becomes exercisable, and with respect to a stock unit award, that it is no longer subject to cancellation.
vested
9.           .  For the avoidance of doubt, Parent and Employee mutually acknowledge the following:
Acknowledgements as to Equity Awards
10.           .  Employee, Employer and Parent acknowledge that they are parties to a Cash Incentive Award Agreement made effective as of February 1, 2011 and that such Cash Incentive Award Agreement remains in effect and will remain in effect notwithstanding this Agreement.  As of the Date of Retirement, the Performance Period under such Award Agreement will have been completed.  Under such Award Agreement, Employees target incentive award for the fiscal year ending January 31, 2012 is $518,000 and his maximum incentive award is $1,036,000.  The actual incentive award payable to Employee will be determined under the terms of such Cash Incentive Award Agreement and the 2005 Incentive Plan by the Compensation Committee of the Board.  Said Compensation Committee has resolved that Employees retirement will not be a factor in that determination.  In accordance with the terms of such Cash Incentive Award, actual payout of such incentive award will be made in 2012 at the time for payout of incentive awards for the executive officers of Parent.
Acknowledgements as to 2011 Incentive Payment
 
 
 
 
9
 
11.           .  Nothing contained in this Agreement is intended to alter Employees rights under, or the obligations of Employer or Parent, as the case may be, under any of the Retirement Plans.  Employer acknowledges that Employee will continue to receive pension credit under the Retirement Plans, as applicable, through and including the Date of Retirement in accordance with the terms of the Retirement Plans.  The parties acknowledge that Employee will, on the Date of Retirement, have early-retired under the terms of the Pension Plan, the Excess Plan and the Supplemental Plan.
Acknowledgements as to Retirement Plans
12.           .  As of the date of this Agreement, Employee will be deemed to have surrendered and Employer and Parent will be deemed to have accepted the surrender of the Retention Agreement, it being understood and agreed that Employees rights to compensation, if any, should a Change in Control as defined in the Retention Agreement occur between the date of this Agreement and the Date of Retirement, will be determined solely as provided in this Agreement, the Retirement Plans, and under the Equity Awards.
Surrender of Retention Agreement
13.           .  As of the date of this Agreement, Employer will be deemed to have surrendered and Employee will be deemed to have accepted the surrender of the Pre-existing Non-Competition Covenants, it being understood and agreed that Employees obligations under this Agreement, which exceed those under the Pre-existing Non-Competition Covenants, shall replace those under the Pre-existing Non-Competition Covenants.  Notwithstanding anything otherwise stated herein, it is acknowledged that, for purposes of the Excess Plan and the Supplemental Plan, this Agreement shall take the place of the Pre-Existing Non-Competition Covenants for all purposes under the Excess Plan and the Supplemental Plan and will be deemed to have been delivered by Employee as required under those Plans.
Surrender of Pre-existing Non-Competition Covenants
14.           .  Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, any benefits and payments provided under this Agreement, under any of the Retirement Plans, under any of the Equity Awards, or under the Cash Incentive Award Agreement referred to in Section 10 above that are payable or provided to Employee in connection with a termination of employment that constitute non-qualified deferred compensation within the meaning of Code Section 409A shall not commence in connection with Employees termination of employment unless and until Employee has also incurred a separation from service (as such term is defined in Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(h)) ().  For the avoidance of doubt, it is intended that payments under Section 15 and the other payments referred in this Section 14 comply with, or be exempt from, Code Section 409A and, accordingly, to the maximum extent permitted this Agreement shall be interpreted in accordance with such intent.  If Employee is deemed on the date of termination to be a specified employee within the meaning of that term under Code Section 409A(a)(2)(B), then with regard to any payment that is considered non-qualified deferred compensation under Code Section 409A payable on account of a Separation from Service, such payment or benefit shall be made or provided at the date which is the earlier to occur of: (i) the date that is six months and one day after Employees Separation from Service or (ii) the date of Employees death that occurs after Employees Separation from Service(the ).  Upon the expiration of the Delay Period, all payments and benefits delayed pursuant to this Section 14 (whether they would have otherwise been payable in a single sum or in installments in the absence of such delay) shall be paid or reimbursed to Employee in a lump sum on the first business day following the end of the Delay Period, and any remaining payments and benefits due under this Agreement shall be paid or provided in accordance with the normal payment dates specified for such payment or benefit.  For purposes of Code Section 409A, Employees right to receive any installment payments pursuant to this Agreement shall be treated as a right to receive a series of separate and distinct payments.  In no event may Employee, directly or indirectly, designate the calendar year of any payment that is considered nonqualified deferred compensation.  This Section 14 shall be administered, construed and interpreted in a manner consistent with the requirements of Code Section 409A.  The reference to any payment in this Section 14 shall not imply any characterization of such payment for purposes of Code Section 409A.
Code Section 409A
Separation from Service
Delay Period
 
 
 
 
10
 
15.           .  In consideration of Employees obligations under Section 2 above, Employer shall pay to Employee the sum of in two equal installments as follows:  (i) within ten (10) days following August 1, 2012; and (ii) within ten (10) days following February 1, 2013.   All payments under this Section 15 shall be subject to Employees continued performance of his obligations under Section 2.  All payments under this Section 15 shall be subject to all applicable withholding and other taxes.  In the event that Employees employment with Employer is terminated by Employer for Cause prior to the Date of Retirement, Employer and Parent may elect to waive Employees performance under Section 2 above, and, provided such waiver is given within ten (10) days of the Employee Termination Date, Employer shall have no payment obligation under this Section 15.
Non-Compete Payment
$1,887,000
16.           .  Employer and Parent agree that Employees employment by Employer will continue until the Date of Retirement unless terminated earlier by Employer for Cause as defined in this Agreement.
Continuation of Employment
17.           .
Release
 
 
 
 
11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12
 
 
 
 
 
13
 
 
18.           .  Following the date of this Agreement and prior to and after the Date of Retirement, Employee will cooperate with Employers legal department in effecting necessary changes in management of those members of the Tiffany Affiliated Group which are incorporated in jurisdictions other than the U.S. (). To that end, Employee will resign all positions with Foreign Affiliates, as requested by the legal department, and, prior to such resignations becoming effective, cooperate with the legal department in the appointment of new officers and directors by signing necessary directors and shareholders resolutions.  For the avoidance of doubt, Employee will not be asked to resign any position with Employer, Parent or any other member of the Tiffany Affiliated Group other than a Foreign Affiliate prior to the Date of Retirement, except upon an earlier termination of his employment by the Employer for Cause.  For the convenience of Employer, Employee agrees that he will continue to serve as a non-employee officer and/or as a non-employee director of one or more Foreign Affiliates for a reasonable period of time, not to exceed six months following the date of this Agreement in any case, in order that Employer may effect the necessary changes to replace Employee.
Resignations
Foreign Affiliates
 
 
 
 
14
 
19.           .
Miscellaneous Provisions
(i)           give the Notice in writing; and
(A)           Personal delivery.
 
 
 
15
 
 
16
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement has been executed by the parties hereto as of the date first written above.
____________________________________
James E. Quinn
(Employee)
Tiffany and Company                                                                           Tiffany & Co.
(Employer)                                                                                          (Parent)
By: ________________________                                                  By: __________________________
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17


