FILE:TIF/TIF-8K-20120320161549.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:  (212) 755-8000
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 2.02.                      Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On March 20, 2012, Registrant issued a press release announcing its unaudited earnings and results of operations for the fourth quarter ended January 31, 2012.  A copy of the March 20, 2012 press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.  In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this report shall not be deemed filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly stated by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01.                     Financial Statements and Exhibits.
    (c)         Exhibits
 
 
 99.1                      Press Release dated March 20, 2012.
   
   
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
       
 
 
Date:  March 20, 2012
 
 
 
Exhibit No. Description
   
99.1 Press Release dated March 20, 2012.
   
   

Exhibit 99.1
                                                               
                                             
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
  
 
 
 
New York, N.Y., March 20, 2012  Tiffany & Co. (NYSE: TIF) today reported double-digit sales and earnings growth for the year ended January 31, 2012 (fiscal 2011). Net sales rose 18% to $3.6 billion and net earnings rose 19% to $439 million, or $3.40 per diluted share. Net earnings increased 24% excluding nonrecurring items and earnings per diluted share rose 23% to $3.60 (see Non-GAAP Measures schedule). Management also provided its financial forecast for fiscal 2012.
Michael J. Kowalski, chairman and chief executive officer, said, Tiffany exceeded the goals that we had set at the start of 2011 for both sales and earnings growth, although we concluded the year with softer-than-expected results. Nonetheless, we remain focused on successfully executing our long-term strategies and pursuing Tiffanys substantial global growth potential in 2012 and beyond.
Summary of results for the year ended January 31, 2012:
 
1
 
Summary of results for the three months (fourth quarter) ended January 31, 2012:
Net sales highlights were as follows:
 
2
 
Other financial highlights:
 
3
 
Mr. Kowalski added, Over the coming year as we commemorate the 175 anniversary of Tiffanys founding in 1837, we are confident that Tiffany & Co. is better positioned than ever in terms of its increased physical presence and brand awareness around the world, and we are confident in Tiffanys long-term, substantial growth potential. Our expansion plans for 2012 include opening a net of 24 stores in important markets, delivering extraordinary product offerings with several new jewelry collections, increasing our marketing spending and providing superior shopping experiences.
th
While it is obviously still quite early in this new fiscal year, we are pleased that worldwide sales growth is tracking in line with our internal expectations. We are now introducing our financial guidance for 2012 which calls for sales growth of approximately 10% and net earnings per share in a range of $3.95 - $4.05. We believe our expansion strategies and spending plans are appropriately prudent and will ultimately contribute to strong relative performance within the luxury jewelry industry.
Outlook for 2012:
Managements outlook for the full year ending January 31, 2013 is based on the following assumptions (which may or may not prove valid):
 
4
 
Todays Conference Call:
The Company will hold a conference call today at 8:30 a.m. (Eastern Time) to review these actual results and its outlook. Please click on (Events and Presentations).
http://investor.tiffany.com
 
Next Scheduled Announcement:
The Company expects to report its first quarter results on Thursday May 24, 2012. To be notified of future announcements, please register at (E-Mail Alerts).
http://investor.tiffany.com
 
Tiffany & Co. operates jewelry stores and manufactures products through its subsidiary corporations. Its principal subsidiary is Tiffany and Company. The Company operates TIFFANY & CO. retail stores in the Americas, Asia-Pacific, Japan and Europe and engages in direct selling through Internet, catalog and business gift operations. For additional information, please visit or call our shareholder information line at 800-TIF-0110.
www.tiffany.com
This document contains certain forward-looking statements concerning the Companys objectives and expectations with respect to sales, store openings, operating margin, interest and other expenses, the effective income tax rate, net earnings, inventories and capital expenditures. Actual results might differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Information concerning risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially is set forth in the Companys 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
5
 
 
NON-GAAP MEASURES
Net Sales
The Companys reported sales reflect either a translation-related benefit from strengthening foreign currencies or a detriment from a strengthening U.S. dollar.
The Company reports information in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). Internally, management monitors its sales performance on a non-GAAP basis that eliminates the positive or negative effects that result from translating sales made outside the U.S. into U.S. dollars (constant-exchange-rate basis). Management believes this constant-exchange-rate basis provides a more representative assessment of sales performance and provides better comparability between reporting periods.
The Companys management does not, nor does it suggest that investors should, consider such non-GAAP financial measures in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. The Company presents such non-GAAP financial measures in reporting its financial results to provide investors with an additional tool to evaluate the Companys operating results. The following table reconciles sales percentage increases (decreases) from the GAAP to the non-GAAP basis versus the previous year:
 
6
 
Net Earnings
The accompanying press release presents net earnings from continuing operations and highlights current-year and prior year nonrecurring items in the text. Management believes excluding such items presents the Companys fourth quarter and year-to-date results on a more comparable basis to the corresponding period in the prior year, thereby providing investors with an additional perspective to analyze the results of operations of the Company at January 31, 2012. The following table reconciles GAAP net earnings from continuing operations and net earnings from continuing operations per diluted share (EPS) to the non-GAAP net earnings from continuing operations and net earnings from continuing operations per diluted share, as adjusted:
 
 
 
7
   
   
 
 
 
TIFFANY & CO. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS
(Unaudited, in thousands, except per share amounts)
 
 
 
8 
 
 
TIFFANY & CO. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 (Unaudited, in thousands)
 
 
 
 9
 


