FILE:TIF/TIF-8K-20120524111125.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:  (212) 755-8000
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 2.02.                      Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On May 24, 2012, Registrant issued a press release announcing its unaudited earnings and results of operations for the first quarter ended April 30, 2012.  A copy of the May 24, 2012 press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.  In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this report shall not be deemed filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly stated by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01.                      Financial Statements and Exhibits.
           (c)              Exhibits
   
         99.1                      Press Release dated May 24, 2012.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
  
 
 
 
 
 
Date:  May 24, 2012
 
 
 
 
Exhibit No.                    Description
99.1                                Press Release dated May 24, 2012.

Exhibit 99.1
Fifth Avenue & 57 Street                                                                                                                               
th
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
Contact:
New York, N.Y. 10022                                                                                                                     Mark L. Aaron
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
212-230-5301
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
  
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
mark.aaron@tiffany.com
 
New York, N.Y., May 24, 2012  Tiffany & Co. (NYSE: TIF) today reported its financial results for the three-month period ended April 30, 2012 (first quarter). Net sales increased 8% and net earnings rose 1% to $0.64 per diluted share. If nonrecurring items recorded in the first quarter of 2011 had been excluded, net earnings would have declined 5% (see Non-GAAP Measures schedule).
Summary of results for the first quarter:
Michael J. Kowalski, chairman and chief executive officer, said, In terms of our sales for the first quarter, regions outside the Americas performed generally as expected. However, the Americas region underperformed, continuing a soft trend that began in the last quarter of 2011 and compounded by the difficult comparison to substantial sales growth in last years first quarter. These sales results led to net earnings modestly trailing our expectations.
 
 
Net sales highlights were as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
Other financial highlights:
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
Mr. Kowalski added, We are updating our forecast for the full year to reflect these first quarter results and to reflect lower near-term expectations. Although we are very early into the second quarter, worldwide sales are currently increasing by a low-single-digit percentage, reflecting difficult year-over-year comparisons and decelerating rates of economic growth in many countries. In 2011, we achieved extremely strong sales growth in the second and third quarters, especially in the Americas and Asia-Pacific regions.
Updated Outlook for 2012:
Managements outlook for the full year ending January 31, 2013 is based on the following assumptions (which may or may not prove valid and all of which are approximate):
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
Todays Conference Call:
The Company will hold a conference call today at 8:30 a.m. (Eastern Time) to review these actual results and its outlook. Please click on (Events and Presentations).
http://investor.tiffany.com
 
Next Scheduled Announcement:
The Company expects to report its second quarter results on Monday August 27, 2012. To be notified of future announcements, please register at (E-Mail Alerts).
http://investor.tiffany.com
 
Tiffany & Co. operates jewelry stores and manufactures products through its subsidiary corporations. Its principal subsidiary is Tiffany and Company. The Company operates TIFFANY & CO. retail stores in the Americas, Asia-Pacific, Japan and Europe and engages in direct selling through Internet, catalog and business gift operations. For additional information, please visit or call our shareholder information line at 800-TIF-0110.
www.tiffany.com
This document contains certain forward-looking statements concerning the Companys objectives and expectations with respect to sales, products, store openings, operating margin, interest and other expenses, the effective income tax rate, net earnings, inventories, growth opportunities and capital expenditures. Actual results might differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Information concerning risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially is set forth in the Companys 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
 
NON-GAAP MEASURES
Net Sales
The Companys reported sales reflect either a translation-related benefit from strengthening foreign currencies or a detriment from a strengthening U.S. dollar.
The Company reports information in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). Internally, management monitors its sales performance on a non-GAAP basis that eliminates the positive or negative effects that result from translating sales made outside the U.S. into U.S. dollars (constant-exchange-rate basis). Management believes this constant-exchange-rate basis provides a more representative assessment of sales performance and provides better comparability between reporting periods.
The Companys management does not, nor does it suggest that investors should, consider such non-GAAP financial measures in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. The Company presents such non-GAAP financial measures in reporting its financial results to provide investors with an additional tool to evaluate the Companys operating results. The following table reconciles sales percentage increases (decreases) from the GAAP to the non-GAAP basis versus the previous year:
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
Net Earnings
The accompanying press release presents net earnings and highlights prior year nonrecurring items in the text. Management believes excluding such items presents the Companys first quarter results on a more comparable basis to the corresponding period in the prior year, thereby providing investors with an additional perspective to analyze the results of operations of the Company at April 30, 2012. The following table reconciles GAAP net earnings and net earnings per diluted share (EPS) to the non-GAAP net earnings and net earnings per diluted share, as adjusted:
 
 
 
           On a pre-tax basis includes charges of $213,000 within cost of sales and $8,008,000 within selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended April 30, 2011 associated with Tiffanys consolidation of its New York headquarters staff within one location.
a
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
        TIFFANY & CO. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS
      (Unaudited, in thousands, except per share amounts)
 
7
 
 
 
 TIFFANY & CO. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
   (Unaudited, in thousands)
 
8


