FILE:MAS/MAS-8K-20020624164559.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: 
CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
FORM 8-K
Item 7.    Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits
99     Press release dated June 19, 2002 announcing recent acquisitions
Item 9.    Regulation FD Disclosure.
On June 19, 2002, Masco Corporation announced that the improvement in sales and incoming orders that the Company experienced in the first quarter of 2002 continued into the second quarter with recent results exceeding expectations. The Company said that if present economic and sales trends continue, the Company believes that its earnings per common share will be $.40 to $.42 for the second quarter and $1.50 to $1.55 for the full year 2002 compared with previous guidance of $.38 to $.40 and $1.45 to $1.50 per common share, respectively, for the second quarter and full year 2002.
In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142 ("Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets"), the Company currently plans to record a non-cash impairment charge of approximately $100 million aftertax in the second quarter of 2002 as a cumulative effect of an accounting change. In addition, based on current estimated liquidation values, the Company expects to have a gain in excess of $50 million pretax relating to its investment in Furnishings International Inc., which was previously written down in the third quarter of 2001. The amount of the charge and the amount of the gain have not yet been finally determined. The earnings guidance in the preceding paragraph does not give effect to the charge or the gain.
The Company also issued a press release on June 19, 2002, describing recent acquisitions. A copy of this release is filed as Exhibit 99.
           
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
June 24, 2002
99     Press release dated June 19, 2002 announcing recent acquisitions

     
Exhibit 99
 
Taylor, MI (June 19, 2002)  Masco Corporation (NYSE: MAS) today announced the acquisition of five leading home improvement products companies with combined annualized 2002 sales of approximately $200 million. The acquisitions are expected to be modestly accretive to Masco's earnings in 2002. The cash and stock consideration for the five companies, which aggregates approximately $220 million, will not materially affect the Company's debt to capital ratio.
      Companies acquired are:
Newport Brass, a leading manufacturer of premium price-point plumbing products, plumbing specialties and bath accessories, headquartered in Santa Ana, California;
Bristan, Ltd., a leading provider of kitchen and bath faucets, showers and bath accessories, headquartered in the United Kingdom;
Cambrian Windows, Ltd., a manufacturer of vinyl window frames, headquartered in the United Kingdom;
Duraflex, Ltd., an extruder of vinyl window frame components, headquartered in the United Kingdom; and
Premier Manufacturing, Ltd., a manufacturer of vinyl window frames, door frames and conservatories (sun rooms), headquartered in the United Kingdom.
     
Masco's Chairman and CEO Richard A. Manoogian commented, "The acquisition of these exceptional companies expands our plumbing and window product offerings and reflects our commitment to creating shareholder value through profitable growth both internally and through acquisition. The companies are all leaders in their industries, and we are delighted they have joined the Masco family of home improvement and building products companies."
     
Masco Corporation is a world leader in the manufacture of home improvement and building products, providing brand-name value-added products and services for the home and family.
     
Masco Corporation's press releases and other information are available through the Company's toll free number, 1-800-MAS-NEWS or you may visit Masco's website at
www.masco.com
.
Statements in this press release may include certain forward-looking statements regarding Masco's future sales and earnings growth potential. Actual results may vary because of various factors including external factors over which Masco has no control. Additional information about Masco's products, markets and conditions, which could affect future performance, is contained in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and is available on Masco's website at
www.masco.com
.


