FILE:MAS/MAS-8K-20020919160700.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, DC 20549 ------------- FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Date of report (Date of earliest event reported) September 19, 2002 ------------- Masco Corporation (Exact name of Registrant as Specified in Charter) Delaware 1-5794 38-1794485 -------- ------ ---------- (State or Other Jurisdiction (Commission File Number) (IRS Employer of Incorporation) Identification No.) 21001 Van Born Road, Taylor, Michigan 48180 ------------------------------------- ----- (Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code) (313) 274-7400 Registrant's telephone number, including area code
Item 5. Other Events On September 19, 2002 the Company issued a press release clarifying information contained in the Company's September 18, 2002 Form 8-K Current Report regarding an adverse Washington State appellate court decision. A copy of the press release is included as Exhibit 99. In addition, the Company is providing the following information regarding this case in response to investor inquiries: This judgment covers purchasers of several Behr coating products in nineteen counties with high humidity in the State of Washington. Behr was not able, due to the adverse trial court decision, to defend itself either with respect to liability or damages. This resulted from the trial court's sanction for Behr's failure to produce documents in discovery. The attorneys representing Behr at that time, who had been retained by Behr prior to its acquisition by Masco, have long since been replaced and Behr is vigorously defending itself against any liability and all damages in all other jurisdictions. All of the liability claims relate solely to alleged property damage and not to any health issues. Item 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits. (c) Exhibits 99 Press Release dated September 19, 2002 clarifying impact of Washington State appellate court decision.
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. MASCO CORPORATION By: /s/ John R. Leekley ------------------------------- Name: John R. Leekley Title: Senior Vice President - General Counsel September 19, 2002
EXHIBIT INDEX 99 Press Release dated September 19, 2002 clarifying impact of Washington State appellate court decision.

Exhibit 99 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Samuel Cypert 313-792-6646 MASCO CLARIFIES IMPACT OF WASHINGTON APPELLATE DECISION Taylor, Michigan (September 19, 2002) -- Masco Corporation (NYSE:MAS) yesterday filed a report with the Securities and Exchange Commission describing an adverse appellate court decision in the State of Washington involving its Behr paint subsidiary. The report indicated that the Company intends to seek a discretionary appeal to the Washington State Supreme Court and that, unless the trial court decision can be reversed, the loss to it may be material. In response to investor inquiries, although the ultimate liability cannot be reasonably estimated at this time, the Company believes that, even if the decision of the appellate court is not reversed, the effect of the Washington trial court decision will not materially affect its sales or long-term earnings. Headquartered in Taylor, Michigan, Masco Corporation is one of the world's leading manufacturers of home improvement and building products as well as a leading provider of services that include the installation of insulation and other building products. ### Statements in this press release may include certain forward-looking statements regarding Masco's future sales and earnings growth potential. Actual results may vary materially because of external factors such as interest rate fluctuations, changes in consumer spending and other factors over which management has no control. Additional information about our products, markets and conditions, which could affect our future performance, is contained in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


