FILE:MAS/MAS-8K-20030205171529.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Item 5.  Other Events.
       On February 5, 2003 the Company issued a press release announcing the unexpected passing of its President, Raymond F. Kennedy.  A copy of the press release is included as Exhibit 99.
Item 7.  Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits.
(c)  Exhibits
                        99   Press Release dated February 5, 2003
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
February 5, 2003
99   Press Release dated February 5, 2003
Exhibit 99
       Taylor, Michigan (February 5, 2003)  Masco Corporation today sadly announced the passing of Company President and Chief Operating Officer Raymond F. Kennedy.
       Ray was a leader who was loved, admired and respected by all who knew him. He will be greatly missed by his family, many friends and business associates, said Masco Chairman and Chief Executive Richard A. Manoogian.
       Mr. Kennedy, 60, passed away unexpectedly from an apparent heart attack at his home in Michigan last evening.  Funeral arrangements are pending. 
       Mr. Manoogian, who previously served as President and Chief Operating Officer will assume Mr. Kennedy's responsibilities on an interim basis.  Mr. Manoogian commented, "Ray has developed and trained an outstanding management team over the years and we expect a smooth transition of responsibilities."
       Headquartered in Taylor, Michigan, Masco Corporation is one of the worlds leading manufacturers of home improvement and building products as well as a leading provider of services that include the installation of insulation and other building products.
Statements contained herein may include certain forward-looking statements regarding Masco's future sales, earnings growth potential and other developments.  Actual results may vary materially because of external factors such as interest rate fluctuations, and changes in consumer spending, and other factors over which management has no control.  Additional information about our products, markets and conditions, which could affect our future performance, is contained in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


