FILE:MAS/MAS-8K-20061207142819.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
     (d) On December 4, 2006, the Board of Directors increased the size of the Board to ten directors and unanimously appointed Lisa A. Payne as a director of the Company. She will also serve on the Audit Committee of the Company's Board of Directors. Ms. Payne, 48, is the Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer of Taubman Centers, Inc. She currently serves on the board of directors of Taubman Centers, Inc.
     There are no understandings or arrangements between Ms. Payne and any other person pursuant to which Ms. Payne was selected as a director. There are and have been no transactions either since the beginning of the Company's last fiscal year or currently proposed, regarding Ms. Payne that are required to be disclosed by Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K. As part of the compensation arrangement applicable to all Company directors, Ms. Payne will participate in the Company's equity compensation programs for directors as described in the Company's Proxy Statement dated April 7, 2006.
     A copy of the press release announcing Ms. Payne's appointment is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (c) Exhibits
     99     Press release of Masco Corporation dated December 5, 2006, regarding the appointment of Lisa A. Payne as a director.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
December 7, 2006
 
99     Press release of Masco Corporation dated December 5, 2006, regarding the appointment of Lisa A. Payne as a director.

 
Exhibit 99
     Taylor, Michigan (December 5, 2006)  Masco Corporation (NYSE:MAS), announced that its Board of Directors has appointed Lisa A. Payne, 48, Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer of Taubman Centers, Inc., as a new Director. Ms. Payne also serves on the Taubman board of directors. The Taubman Centers, Inc. is engaged in the ownership, development, acquisition and operation of regional shopping centers.
     Prior to joining Taubman in 1997, Ms. Payne was a Vice President of Goldman Sachs' Investment Banking Division, focusing on real estate. In addition to serving on the Taubman Board of Directors, Ms. Payne is a trustee of the Munder Funds and is on the Board of Governors for Cranbrook Schools.
     "Masco is pleased that Lisa Payne has agreed to join its Board of Directors. Her strong financial and real estate expertise will enable her to provide valuable input and guidance immediately," said Richard A. Manoogian, Masco's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "I and the other members of our Board look forward to working with her."
     Ms. Payne's ongoing service as a Director will be subject to approval by Masco shareholders at the Company's next annual shareholders' meeting in May 2007.
     Headquartered in Taylor, Michigan, Masco Corporation is one of the world's leading manufacturers of home improvement and building products as well as a leading provider of services that include the installation of insulation and other building products.


