FILE:MAS/MAS-8K-20070731133544.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     On July 26, 2007, the Board of Directors of Masco Corporation increased the size of the Board to eleven directors and unanimously elected Timothy Wadhams as a Director of the Company. As previously reported, Mr. Wadhams, 59, was elected Chief Executive Officer effective as of July 1, 2007.
     Mr. Wadhams joined the Company in 1976, initially serving in several financial capacities prior to transferring in 1984 to Masco Tech, Inc., a publicly-traded affiliated company, where he ultimately became Executive Vice President  Finance and Administration and Chief Financial Officer. In 2001, Mr. Wadhams returned to Masco as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and was promoted to Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in January 2004.
     There are no understandings or arrangements between Mr. Wadhams and any other person pursuant to which he was selected as a Director. There are and have been no transactions either since the beginning of the Company's last fiscal year or currently proposed, regarding Mr. Wadhams that are required to be disclosed by Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K. Because Mr. Wadhams is an employee of the Company, he is not receiving any additional compensation as a Director. Mr. Wadhams had not been, and is not currently expected to be, named to any committees of the Board of Directors.
     A copy of the July 31, 2007 press release announcing Mr. Wadhams' election as a Director is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated by reference.
     (c) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
July 31, 2007
 

 
Exhibit 99
 Masco Corporation (NYSE: MAS) announced that its Board of Directors has elected Timothy Wadhams, 59, as a new member of the Board. Recently Mr. Wadhams was elected as Masco's Chief Executive Officer, succeeding Richard Manoogian who became Executive Chairman of the Company.
TAYLOR, Mich., (July 31, 2007)
Mr. Wadhams joined Masco in 1976, initially serving in several financial capacities prior to transferring in 1984 to MascoTech, Inc. (a publicly traded affiliated company) where he ultimately became Executive Vice President  Finance and Administration and Chief Financial Officer. In 2001, he returned to Masco as Chief Financial Officer and was elected Chief Executive Officer effective July 1, 2007.
Mr. Wadhams serves on the board of trustees for the Arbor Hospice Foundation and recently completed a term on the board of trustees for the Ann Arbor Area Community Foundation. He began his business career in 1972 as a CPA with the accounting firm, Coopers & Lybrand. Mr. Wadhams holds a bachelor's degree in economics and an MBA from the University of Michigan.
"During his more than thirty years with Masco, Tim Wadhams has time and again proven his ability to lead during periods of growth as well as during our more challenging times," said Richard Manoogian. "He has played an integral role in shaping our corporate strategy. His insights and experience will be a valuable addition to our Board of Directors."
Headquartered in Taylor, Mich., Masco Corporation (NYSE: MAS) is one of the world's leading manufacturers of home improvement and building products, as well as a leading provider of services that include the installation of insulation and other building products.


