FILE:MAS/MAS-8K-20100426213350.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     Attached and incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 99 is a copy of a press release dated April 27, 2010 reporting Masco Corporation's financial results for the first quarter of 2010 and certain other information and supplemental information prepared for use in connection with the financial results for the first quarter 2010. On April 27, 2010, Masco Corporation will hold an investor conference call and web cast to discuss financial results for the first quarter 2010.
     This information, including the Exhibits attached hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.
Item 2.05 Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities.
     As previously announced in February 2010, the Company is combining its Builder Cabinet Group and Retail Cabinet Group to form Masco Cabinetry. In connection with this combination, the Company anticipates that it will close two manufacturing facilities associated with ready-to-assemble and other non-core in-stock assembled product lines in the first half of 2011. For further information, please see the first paragraph under the caption "Subsequent Event" in our earnings release. A copy of our earnings release is attached as an exhibit to this Current Report on Form 8-K and such paragraph is incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits.
99 Press Release of Masco Corporation dated April 27, 2010 reporting Masco Corporation's financial results for the first quarter 2010 and certain other information and supplemental information prepared for use in connection with the financial results for the first quarter 2010.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
April 26, 2010
 
99 Press Release of Masco Corporation dated April 27, 2010 reporting Masco Corporation's financial results for the first quarter 2010 and certain other information and supplemental information prepared for use in connection with the financial results for the first quarter 2010.

Exhibit 99
Maria Duey Vice President  Investor Relations 313.792.5500
Investor / Media Contact
maria_duey@mascohq.com
          
2010 First Quarter Commentary
Masco Corporation (NYSE: MAS) today reported that net sales from continuing operations for the quarter ended March 31, 2010 increased three percent to $1.9 billion compared with $1.8 billion for the first quarter of 2009. North American sales were flat and International sales increased 16 percent. In local currencies, International sales increased nine percent compared with the first quarter of 2009.
Taylor, Mich., (April 26, 2010) 
The first quarter of 2010 results were positively affected by increased sales volume of plumbing products and windows, a more favorable product mix of paints and stains, and the improved relationship between selling prices and commodity costs. First quarter 2010 results were also positively affected by the benefits associated with business rationalizations and other cost savings initiatives. Such increases were partially offset by lower sales volume of installation and other services and lower selling prices for certain products.
(Loss) from continuing operations was $(.02) per common share in the first quarter of 2010 compared to (loss) from continuing operations of $(.24) per common share in the first quarter of 2009.
"We are very pleased with our first quarter 2010 financial results. Excluding the benefit from foreign currency translation our sales increased modestly from the first quarter 2009  the first positive quarterly sales comparison in the last several years. While the quarter started slowly, business activity picked up as the weather improved in both North America
 
and Europe and we have strong momentum going into the second quarter, particularly on the retail side of the business," said Masco's CEO Tim Wadhams. "Innovative new products drove market share gains and we continued to drive strong incremental margins in the quarter. We are proud of the Masco Team, worldwide, as we continue to focus on strengthening our leadership brands and enhancing customer experience with our products and services through innovation and quality while continuing to drive lean principles to improve our execution," said Tim Wadhams.
We continue to focus on the rationalization of our businesses, including business consolidations, plant closures, headcount reductions, system implementations and other initiatives. During the first quarters of 2010 and 2009, we incurred costs and charges of $14 million pre-tax ($.03 per common share, after tax) and $24 million pre-tax ($.04 per common share, after tax), respectively, related to these initiatives.
The unusual relationship between pre-tax income and tax expense in the first quarter of 2010 principally reflects $9 million ($.03 per common share) of additional tax expenses related to previously established accruals for changes in uncertain tax positions. In the first quarter of 2009, although the Company had a loss before income tax of $61 million, tax expense was $17 million ($.05 per common share) reflecting income tax liabilities in certain jurisdictions where losses provided no tax benefit.
We retired $300 million of floating rate notes that matured in March. On March 10, 2010, we issued $500 million of 7.125 percent ten-year notes. As a result, the Company's interest expense is expected to increase by approximately $30 million ($.05 per common share, after tax) for the full-year 2010.
Subsequent Event
As previously announced in February 2010, the Company is combining its Builder Cabinet Group and Retail Cabinet Group to form Masco Cabinetry. Masco Cabinetry continues to review its product offerings and has determined in late April that it will discontinue the manufacture of ready-to-assemble and other non-core in-stock assembled product lines as they are not consistent with Masco Cabinetry's strategy of growth through brand building and innovation. These product lines had aggregate annual sales of approximately $200 million in 2009. The Company anticipates it will close two manufacturing facilities associated with these products in the first half of 2011. The Company expects to incur approximately $115 million (principally recognized ratably over the next 15 months) of pre-tax charges related to the anticipated plant closures including approximately $90 million related to non-cash charges principally associated with property, plant and equipment and approximately $25 million of other cash charges. These charges, including the previously announced integration charges of approximately $40 million, will result in aggregate pre-tax charges of approximately $155 million related to the integration of the Builder and Retail Cabinet groups into Masco Cabinetry.
Based on the incremental actions outlined above, the Company anticipates that full year 2010 rationalization charges will aggregate approximately $140 million compared with the previously announced $70 million.
 
Outlook 2010
We expect that business conditions in 2010 will continue to show modest improvement compared to 2009. While we are concerned about the impact of current unemployment levels, foreclosure activity and access to financing, we believe that housing starts will improve in 2010 and will increase to a range of 600,000 to 700,000 units from 554,000 units in 2009.
While we anticipate that expenditures on repair and remodel activity will improve modestly in 2010 from 2009 levels, we believe that big-ticket items will continue to be deferred, in the short-term, until general economic conditions, credit availability and home prices improve.
We are confident that the long-term fundamentals for the new home construction and home improvement markets are positive. We believe that our strong financial position, together with our current strategy of investing in leadership brands (including: KraftMaid and Merillat cabinets, Delta and Hansgrohe faucets, Behr paint and Milgard windows), our continued focus on innovation and our commitment to lean principles will allow us to drive long-term growth and create value for our shareholders.
Headquartered in Taylor, Michigan, Masco Corporation is one of the world's leading manufacturers of home improvement and building products, as well as a leading provider of services that include the installation of insulation and other building products.
The 2010 first quarter supplemental material, including a presentation in PDF format, will be distributed after the market closes on April 26, 2010 and will be available on the Company's Web site at .
www.masco.com
A conference call regarding items contained in this release is scheduled for Tuesday, April 27, 2010 at 8:00 a.m. ET. Participants in the call are asked to register five to ten minutes prior to the scheduled start time by dialing (913) 905-3226 (confirmation #5831344). The conference call will be webcast simultaneously on the Company's Web site at and supplemental material, including the financial data referred to on the call and a reconciliation of non-GAAP information provided on the call, will also be available on the Web site. A replay of the call will be available on Masco's Web site or by phone by dialing (719) 457-0820 (replay access code #5831344) approximately two hours after the end of the call and will continue through May 4, 2010.
www.masco.com
 
Masco Corporation's press releases and other information are available through the Company's toll free number, 1-888-MAS-NEWS, or under the Investor Relations section of Masco's Web site at .
www.masco.com
Statements contained herein, or otherwise made available, that reflect the Company's views about its future performance may constitute "forward-looking statements" under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These views involve risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict and the Company's results may differ materially from the results discussed in such forward-looking statements. For further information, refer to our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K (particularly the "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" sections) and to any subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, all of which are on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Certain of the financial and statistical data made available are non-GAAP financial measures as defined by the SEC's Regulation G. The Company believes that such non-GAAP performance measures and ratios used in managing the business may provide users with meaningful comparisons between current results and results in prior periods. Non-GAAP performance measures and ratios should be viewed in addition to, and not as an alternative for, the Company's reported results under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Additional information about the Company is contained in the Company's filings with the SEC and is available on Masco's Web site.
 
 
Masco Corporation
Key Financial Data As Reported  Unaudited
Q1  2010 and 2009
(In Millions, Except Earnings Per Share)
 
Masco Corporation
Key Financial Data As Reported  Unaudited
Q1  2010 and 2009
(In Millions, Except Earnings Per Share)
 
 
 
Please see page 2 for Notes.
 
Notes:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


