FILE:MAS/MAS-8K-20110516165754.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     On May 10, 2011, the Board of Directors of Masco Corporation (the "Company") elected John P. Lindow, 47, to serve as Vice President  Controller of the Company effective at the close of business on May 13, 2011, and designated Mr. Lindow as the Company's principal accounting officer. Mr. Lindow was employed as a Group Controller of the Company from 2000 to 2006, and then served as Vice President Administration  Plumbing Products Platform until 2009, when he became the Vice President  Controller, Corporate Accounting.
     Effective at the close of business on May 13, 2011, William T. Anderson, 64, stepped down as Vice President  Controller and principal accounting officer of the Company. Mr. Anderson will continue on a part-time basis to help ensure a smooth transition as Mr. Lindow assumes the role of Controller and principal accounting officer.
     The Company held its Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the "Annual Meeting") on May 10, 2011 at its corporate offices in Taylor, Michigan. At the Annual Meeting, Company stockholders voted on four proposals. A brief description of the proposals and the final results of voting on each proposal are set forth below.
 The re-election of three Class II Directors to serve until the Annual Meeting in 2014. Votes were cast as follows:
Proposal 1
 A non-binding advisory vote to approve the compensation paid to the Company's named executive officers, as disclosed pursuant to the compensation disclosure rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Compensation Discussion and Analysis, the compensation tables and the related material disclosed in the Proxy Statement. Votes were cast as follows:
Proposal 2
 
 A non-binding advisory vote to recommend the frequency of future stockholder advisory votes on the Company's executive compensation. Votes were cast as follows:
Proposal 3
     - The ratification of the selection of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP to act as independent auditors for the Company for 2011. Votes were cast as follows:
Proposal 4
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
May 16, 2011


