FILE:MAS/MAS-8K-20121205165628.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(d) On December 4, 2012, the Board of Directors of Masco Corporation (the "Company") appointed Donald R. Parfet as a director of the Company. He will serve on the Audit Committee of the Company's Board of Directors. Mr. Parfet, 60, is the Managing Director of Apjohn Group, LLC, a business development company, and a General Partner of Apjohn Ventures Fund Limited Partnership, a venture capital fund. He currently serves on the boards of directors of Kelly Services, Inc. and Rockwell Automation, Inc.
There are no understandings or arrangements between Mr. Parfet and any other person pursuant to which Mr. Parfet was selected as a director of the Company. There are and have been no transactions, either since the beginning of the Company's last fiscal year or currently proposed, regarding Mr. Parfet that are required to be disclosed by Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K. Mr. Parfet will receive the compensation and participate in the programs applicable to all non-employee Company directors as described in the Company's proxy statement dated April 5, 2012, including the Company's Non-Employee Directors Equity Program.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
December 5, 2012


