Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Outlook for 2004 below. 19 Table of Contents In addition to patents and regulatory forms of exclusivity, the Company also holds intellectual property in the form of trademarks, on products such as EXCEDRIN, ENFAMIL, THERAGRAN, KERI and BUFFERIN. Trademarks have no effect on market exclusivity for a product, but are considered to have marketing value. Worldwide, all of the Companys important products are sold under trademarks that are considered in the aggregate to be of material importance. Trademark protection continues in some countries as long as used; in other countries, as long as registered. Registration is for fixed terms and can be renewed indefinitely. Specific aspects of the law governing market exclusivity for pharmaceuticals vary from country to country. The following summarizes key exclusivity rules in markets representing significant Company sales: United States A company seeking to market an innovative pharmaceutical in the United States must file a complete set of safety and efficacy data to the FDA. The type of application filed depends on whether the drug is a chemical (a small molecule) or a biological product (a large molecule). If the innovative pharmaceutical is a chemical, the company files a NDA. If the medicine is a biological product, a Biologics License Application is filed. The type of application filed affects regulatory exclusivity rights. A competitor seeking to launch a generic substitute of a chemical innovative drug in the United States must file an Abbreviated New Drug Application (ANDA) with the FDA. In the ANDA, the generic manufacturer needs to demonstrate only bioequivalence between the generic substitute and the approved NDA drug. The ANDA relies upon the safety and efficacy data previously filed by the innovator in its NDA. Medicines approved under an NDA can receive several types of regulatory data protection. An innovative chemical pharmaceutical (also known as a new chemical entity) is entitled to five years of regulatory data protection, during which an ANDA cannot be filed with the FDA. If an innovators patent is challenged, as described below, the generic manufacturer may file its ANDA after the fourth year of the five year data protection period. A pharmaceutical drug product that contains an active ingredient that has been previously approved in an NDA, but is approved in a new formulation or for a new indication on the basis of new clinical trials, receives three years of data protection. Finally, an NDA that is designated as an Orphan Drug, which is a drug that gains an indication for treatment of a condition that occurs only rarely in the United States, can receive seven years of exclusivity for the orphan indication. During this time period neither NDAs nor ANDAs for the same drug product can be approved for the same orphan use. Because a significant portion of patent life can be lost during the time it takes to obtain regulatory approval, the innovator can extend one patent to compensate the innovator for the lost patent term, at least in part. More specifically, the innovator may identify one patent, which claims the product or its approved method of use, and, depending on a number of factors, may extend the expiration of that patent. There are two limits to these extensions. First, the maximum a patent can be extended is 5 years, and second, the extension cannot cause the patent to be in effect for more than 14 years from the date of NDA approval. A company may also earn six months of additional exclusivity for a drug where specific clinical trials are conducted at the written request of the FDA to study the use of the medicine to treat pediatric patients, and submission to the FDA is made prior to the loss of basic exclusivity. This six month period extends all forms of exclusivity (patent and regulatory) that are listed with the FDA at the time the studies are completed and submitted to the FDA. Currently, generic versions of biological products cannot be approved under U.S. law; however, the FDA is taking steps toward allowing generic versions of biologics, and these laws could change in the near future. Competitors seeking approval of biological products must file their own safety and efficacy data. Beyond the minimum period of regulatory exclusivity provided by U.S. law, many (but not all) innovative drugs are also covered by patents held by the NDA sponsor. The innovator company is required to list certain of its patents covering the medicine with the FDA in what is commonly known as the Orange Book. Absent a successful patent challenge, the FDA cannot approve an ANDA until after the innovators listed patents expire. However, after the innovator has marketed its product for four years, a generic manufacturer may file an ANDA and allege that one or more of the patents listed in the Orange Book under an innovators NDA is either invalid or not infringed. This allegation is commonly known as a Paragraph IV certification. The innovator then must choose whether to file suit against the generic manufacturer to protect its patents. If one or more of the NDA listed patents are successfully challenged, or if the innovator chooses not to sue, the first filer of a Paragraph IV certification may be entitled to a 180 day period of market exclusivity as against all other generic manufacturers. From time to time ANDAs, including Paragraph IV certifications, are filed with respect to certain of the Companys products. The Company evaluates these ANDAs on a case by case basis and, where warranted, files suit against the generic manufacturer to protect its patent rights. 20 Table of Contents Several recent developments in the United States have increased the likelihood of generic challenges to innovators intellectual property, and thus, increased the risk of loss of innovators market exclusivity. First, generic companies have increasingly sought to challenge innovators basic patents covering major pharmaceutical products. For a discussion of one such litigation related to patent challenges by generic companies, see Item 8. Financial Statements Note 22. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies PLAVIX* Litigation. This is a reflection of the statutory incentive to challenge patents six months of semi exclusivity in certain situations as described above. Second, new statutory and regulatory provisions in the United States limit the ability of an innovator company to prevent generic drugs from being approved and launched while patent litigation is ongoing. Third, the FDA is actively considering abbreviated regulatory approval processes for drugs that are similar to, but not generic copies of, innovative drugs. As a result of all of these developments, it is not possible to predict the length of market exclusivity for a particular Company product with certainty based solely on the expiration of the relevant patent(s) or the current forms of regulatory exclusivity. For more information about new legislation, see Government Regulation and Price Constraints below. European Union In the EU, most innovative pharmaceuticals are entitled to ten years of regulatory data protection if marketing approval is obtained via the centralized procedure. Consequently, regardless of whether or not the innovative medicine is covered by patents, generic copies relying on the innovators data usually cannot be approved for a minimum of ten years after approval. For innovative pharmaceuticals that gain marketing approval using the non centralized mutual recognition procedure, this period is six or ten years depending on the individual EU member state. However, regardless of regulatory exclusivity, competitors may obtain approval of an identical product on the basis of their own safety and efficacy data at any time. For more information regarding the regulation of pharmaceutical products in the EU, see Government Regulation and Price Constraints below. Patents on pharmaceutical products are generally enforceable in the EU. However, in contrast to the United States, patents are not listed with regulatory authorities. Generic copies can be approved after data protection expires, regardless of whether the innovator holds patents covering its drug. Thus, it is possible that an innovator may be seeking to enforce its patents against a generic competitor that is already marketing its product. Also, the European patent system has an opposition procedure in which generic manufacturers may challenge the validity of patents covering innovator products within nine months of grant. As in the United States, patents in the EU may be extended to compensate for the patent term lost during the regulatory review process. Such extensions are granted on a country by country basis. In general, EU law treats chemically synthesized drugs and biologically derived drugs the same with respect to intellectual property and market exclusivity. Japan In Japan, medicines of new chemical entities are entitled to six years of protection for approved indications and dosage. Patents on pharmaceutical products are enforceable. Generic copies can receive regulatory approval after data protection and patent expirations. As in the United States, patents in Japan may be extended to compensate for the patent term lost during the regulatory review process. In general, Japanese law treats chemically synthesized and biologically derived drugs the same with respect to intellectual property and market exclusivity. Rest of World In countries outside of the United States, the EU and Japan, there is a wide variety of legal systems with respect to intellectual property and market exclusivity of pharmaceuticals. Most other developed countries utilize systems similar to either the United States (e.g., Canada) or the EU (e.g., Switzerland). Among less developed countries, some have adopted patent laws and or regulatory exclusivity laws, while others have not. Some less developed nations have formally adopted laws in order to comply with World Trade Organization (WTO) commitments, but have not taken steps to implement these laws in a meaningful way. Enforcement of WTO obligations is a long process, and there is no assurance of the outcome. Thus, in assessing the likely future market exclusivity of the Companys innovative drugs in less developed countries, the Company takes into account not only formal legal rights but political and other factors as well. Marketing, Distribution and Customers In the Companys Pharmaceuticals segment and in its ConvaTec and Medical Imaging businesses, the Company promotes its products in medical journals and directly to health care providers such as doctors, nurse practitioners, physician assistants, pharmacists, hospitals, Pharmacy Benefit Managers (PBMs), Managed Care Organizations (MCOs) and government agencies. The Company also markets directly to consumers in the United States through direct to consumer print, radio and television advertising. In addition, the Company sponsors general advertising to educate the public about its innovative medical research. For a discussion of the regulation of promotion and marketing of pharmaceuticals, see Government Regulation and Price Constraints below. 21 Table of Contents Through the Companys sales and marketing organizations, the Company explains the approved uses and advantages of its products to medical professionals. The Company works to gain access to health authority, PBM and MCO formularies (lists of recommended or approved medicines and other products) and reimbursement lists by demonstrating the qualities and treatment benefits of its products. The Company also works with MCOs and PBMs to assist them with disease management, patient education and other tools that benefit patients by improving their medical treatment routines. Marketing of prescription pharmaceuticals is limited to the approved uses of the particular product, but the Company continues to develop information about its products and provides such information in response to inquiries from doctors and other medical professionals. All drugs must complete clinical trials required by regulatory authorities to show they are safe and effective for treating one or more medical problems. A manufacturer may choose, however, to undertake additional studies, including comparative clinical trials with competitive products, to demonstrate additional advantages of a compound. Those studies can be costly and take years to complete, and the results are uncertain. Balancing these considerations makes it difficult to decide whether and when to undertake such additional studies. But, when they are successful, such studies can have a major impact on approved marketing claims and strategies. The Companys operations include several pharmaceutical sales organizations. Each sales organization markets a distinct group of products and is typically based on particular therapeutic areas or physician groups. These sales organizations often focus on selling new products when they are introduced, and marketing to physicians is increasingly targeted at specialists and high value primary care physicians. The Companys prescription pharmaceutical products are sold principally to wholesalers, but the Company also sells directly to retailers, hospitals, clinics, government agencies and pharmacies. In 2003, sales to three pharmaceutical wholesalers in the United States, McKesson Corporation (McKesson), Cardinal and AmerisourceBergen Corporation (AmerisourceBergen) accounted for approximately 15%, 12% and 12%, respectively, of the Companys total net sales. In 2002, sales to AmerisourceBergen and McKesson each accounted for approximately 14% of the Companys total net sales and sales to Cardinal accounted for 13% of the Companys total net sales. In 2001, sales to AmerisourceBergen, Cardinal and McKesson each accounted for approximately 14% of the Companys total net sales. Sales to these U.S. wholesalers were concentrated in the Pharmaceuticals segment. Apart from these instances, none of the Companys business segments is dependent on any one customer or group of related customers. The Company experienced a substantial buildup of wholesaler inventories in its U.S. pharmaceuticals business over several years, primarily in 2000 and 2001. This buildup was primarily due to sales incentives offered by the Company to its wholesalers. These incentives were generally offered towards the end of a quarter in order to incentivize wholesalers to purchase products in an amount sufficient to meet the Companys quarterly sales projections established by the Companys senior management. In April 2002, the Company disclosed this substantial buildup of wholesaler inventories in its U.S. pharmaceuticals business, and developed and subsequently undertook a plan to work down in an orderly fashion these wholesaler inventory levels by reducing the amount of sales made by the Company to wholesalers relative to the amount of sales made by wholesalers to customers thereby reducing the inventories of the Companys products held by wholesalers. For further discussion see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Restatement of Previously Issued Financial Statements. In 2003, the Company took steps intended to moderate investment buying by U.S. pharmaceutical wholesalers, which can result in sales fluctuations unrelated to consumer demand. In 2003, the Company entered into new inventory management agreements (IMAs) with AmerisourceBergen, Cardinal, McKesson and other wholesalers. The agreements have terms of 2 years, cancelable by either parties after 1 year. The IMAs generally establish limits on inventory levels of BMS pharmaceutical products held by the wholesalers, permit limited buy ins of BMS pharmaceutical products by the wholesalers after price increases, at pre price increase prices and require the wholesalers to provide the Company with data in association with the wholesalers sales and inventory levels of BMS pharmaceutical products. OTN acts as BMSs exclusive sales distributor for BMS oncology products to office based oncologists. OTN believes that its extensive customer base, coupled with its overall competitive pricing and customer service, make it attractive to drug manufacturers that wish to serve the office based oncologist community through a focused distribution channel. OTN provides services to manufacturers that include support for product launch, customer specific marketing programs, data services and rapid market research. In 2001, the Company entered into an agreement with McKesson under which McKesson acts as the exclusive distributor of pharmaceutical products to OTN. Under the terms of the agreement, McKesson provides warehousing, packing, shipping, purchasing and inventory management and administrative support services for BMS products and other pharmaceutical products, which are marketed, promoted and sold by OTN. OTN recognizes revenue under the terms of the McKesson agreement using the consignment model as described in 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. The Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations set forth in this Item 7 has been revised to reflect the restatement. Summary For 2003, the Company reported annual global sales of $20.9 billion. Sales increased 15% from the prior year level, reflecting volume increases of 9%, net price increases of 2%, and a 4% impact from foreign exchange fluctuations. U.S. sales increased 14%, partly due to the impact on 2002 sales from the workdown of non consignment wholesaler inventory, while international sales increased 18%, including a 10% favorable foreign exchange impact. In 2003, the Company had two product lines with sales of over $2.0 billion each PRAVACHOL and PLAVIX*. PRAVACHOL sales grew 25%, including a 7% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $2.8 billion, and PLAVIX* sales grew 31%, including a 3% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $2.5 billion. In addition to these two products, the Company had 45 product lines with more than $50 million each in annual sales, including 29 product lines with more than $100 million each in annual sales, of which six had annual sales in excess of $500 million each. Earnings from continuing operations before minority interest and income taxes increased 70% to $4,694 million in 2003 from $2,761 million in 2002. Net earnings from continuing operations were $3,106 million, or $1.60 and $1.59 per share on a basic and diluted basis, respectively, compared to $2,067 million, or $1.07 and $1.06 per share each on a basic and diluted basis in 2002. While the Company expects exclusivity losses and new product mix to challenge its margins, the Company remains committed to investing in its businesses to maximize key growth drivers and to advance its pipeline. Several items affected the comparability of the results between 2003 and 2002, as discussed below under Earnings and Outlook for 2004. At December 31, 2003, the Company held almost $5.5 billion in cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities. Approximately $5.4 billion of such cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities were held by the Companys foreign subsidiaries, which the Company does not expect to repatriate in the foreseeable future. In 2004, the Company expects cash generated by its U.S. operations, together with borrowings from the capital markets, to sufficiently cover cash needs for working capital, capital expenditures and dividends in the U.S. Repatriation to the United States would require additional tax provisions not reflected in the consolidated financial statements. For a further discussion of this matter, see Critical Accounting Policies Income Taxes below. The Company and its subsidiaries are the subject of a number of significant pending lawsuits, claims, proceedings and investigations. It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the final outcome of these investigations or litigations. Management continues to believe, as previously disclosed, that during the next few years, the aggregate impact, beyond current reserves, of these and other legal matters affecting the Company is reasonably likely to be material to the Companys results of operations and cash flows, and may be material to its financial condition and liquidity. For additional discussion of this matter, see Item 8. Financial Statements Note 22. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies. Long term debt increased to $8.5 billion at December 31, 2003 from $6.3 billion at December 31, 2002 primarily due to the $1.0 billion of fixed rate notes and $1.2 billion of floating rate convertible debentures issued in August 2003 and October 2003, respectively. The proceeds from these issuances were used to repay short term borrowings and fund the cash needs of the U.S. operations. Cash provided from operating activities was $3.5 billion in 2003, and working capital was $4.4 billion at December 31, 2003. The Company paid dividends of approximately $2.2 billion, which provided a dividend yield of 4.4% in 2003. In 2003, consistent with the Companys mission to extend and enhance human life by developing the highest quality products, the Company invested $2.3 billion in research and development, a 3% growth over 2002. Research and development dedicated to pharmaceutical products, including milestone payments for in licensing and development programs, was $2.1 billion and as a percentage of Pharmaceutical sales was 14.2% compared to 16.5% in 2002. The compound annualized growth in pharmaceutical research and development spending was 9% over the past five years. Restatement of Previously Issued Financial Statements The Company is restating its consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2002, and consolidated statements of earnings, cash flows, and comprehensive income and retained earnings for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, and its financial statements for the first, second and third quarters of 2003, including comparable interim periods in 2002 (the 2003 Restatement). The restatement affects periods prior to 2001. The impact of the restatement on such prior periods is reflected as an adjustment to opening retained earnings as of January 1, 2001. The restatement is reported in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2003 and will be reported in amendments to our Quarterly Reports on Form 10 Q for the quarterly periods ended March 31, 2003, June 30, 2003, and September 30, 2003. The 2003 Restatement (i) corrects certain of the Companys historical accounting policies to conform to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and (ii) corrects certain errors made in the application of GAAP. 37 Table of Contents As previously disclosed, the Company experienced a substantial buildup of wholesaler inventories in its U.S. pharmaceuticals business over several years, primarily in 2000 and 2001. This buildup was primarily due to sales incentives offered by the Company to its wholesalers. These incentives were generally offered towards the end of a quarter in order to incentivize wholesalers to purchase products in an amount sufficient to meet the Companys quarterly sales projections established by the Companys senior management. In April 2002, the Company disclosed this substantial buildup, and developed and subsequently undertook a plan to work down in an orderly fashion these wholesaler inventory levels by reducing the amount of sales made by the Company to wholesalers relative to the amount of sales made by wholesalers to customers thereby reducing the inventories of the Companys products held by wholesalers. In late October 2002, based on further review and consideration of the previously disclosed buildup of wholesaler inventories in the Companys U.S. pharmaceuticals business and the incentives offered to certain wholesalers, and on advice from the Companys independent auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, the Company determined that it was required to restate its sales and earnings to correct errors in timing of revenue recognition for certain sales to certain U.S. pharmaceuticals wholesalers. Since that time, the Company has undertaken an analysis of its transactions and incentive practices with U.S. pharmaceuticals wholesalers. The Company determined that certain incentivized transactions with certain wholesalers should be accounted for under the consignment model rather than recognizing revenue for such transactions upon shipment. This determination involved evaluation of a variety of criteria and a number of complex accounting judgments. As a result of its analysis, the Company determined that certain of its previously recognized U.S. sales to Cardinal Health, Inc. (Cardinal) and McKesson Corporation (McKesson), two of the largest wholesalers for the U.S. pharmaceuticals business, should be accounted for under the consignment model, based in part on the relationship between the amount of incentives offered to these wholesalers and the amount of inventory held by these wholesalers. Following that determination, the Company also determined that it would correct its historical accounting policies to conform the accounting to GAAP and known errors made in the application of GAAP that were previously not recorded because in each such case the Company believed the amount of any such error was not material to the Companys consolidated financial statements. In addition, as part of the restatement process, the Company investigated its accounting practices in areas that involve significant judgments and determined to restate additional items with respect to which the Company concluded errors were made in the application of GAAP, including revisions of inappropriate accounting. Senior management set aggressive targets for each of the Companys businesses. The errors and inappropriate accounting which are corrected by the restatement arose, at least in part, from a period of unrealistic expectations for, and consequent over estimation of the anticipated performance of, certain of the Companys products and programs. In March 2003, the Company completed the restatement of its financial statements for these items and restated its financial statements for the three years ended December 31, 2001, including the corresponding interim periods, and the first and second quarters of 2002, including comparable prior interim periods in 2001 (the 2002 Restatement). After completing the 2002 Restatement, the Company continued to identify and implement actions to improve the effectiveness of its disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. In connection with this effort, the Company (i) has substantially strengthened the organization and personnel of the senior financial and control functions, (ii) adopted more rigorous policies and procedures with respect to its balance sheet review process, (iii) focused its internal audit function on financial reporting controls, (iv) engaged a consultant to assist in the evaluation and documentation of certain financial reporting and disclosure processes throughout the Company, in particular with respect to designing standard operating procedures and implementing tools to ensure that disclosure issues are effectively identified, managed and controlled globally and (v) engaged a consultant to assist the Companys personnel to conduct a comprehensive and detailed review of certain of the Companys tax reporting and accounting, in particular with respect to developing more effective processes for establishing and monitoring deferred income taxes, valuation allowances and the Companys annual effective tax rate. In addition, at the request of the Companys Audit Committee, the Companys independent auditors performed more extensive procedures with respect to the Companys interim financial information during 2003 and, based on the auditors assessment of the Companys risk profile, expanded the scope and amount of field work to be performed for certain areas in connection with its audit of the Company for 2003. These actions contributed significantly to the Company identifying additional errors relating to prior periods not reflected in the 2002 Restatement. For a discussion of the individual restatement adjustments, see Item 8. Financial Statements Note 2. Restatement of Previously Issued Financial Statements for Years Ended December 31, 2002 and 2001. In connection with their audits of the 2002 Restatement and the Companys consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2002, the Companys independent auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC), identified and communicated to the Company and the Audit Committee two material weaknesses (as defined under standards established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants) relating to lack of adequate resources and processes to ensure timely identification and recognition of matters to be considered in connection with the determination of the appropriate accounting and public financial reporting of significant matters and to lack of processes to ensure proper initial recording and management review and oversight of certain accounting matters, including certain liabilities and other income and expense items. In addition, at that time, PwC identified and communicated to the Company and its Audit Committee a reportable condition (as defined under standards established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants) relating to the Companys internal controls over its financial reporting for income 38 Table of Contents taxes. In 2003, as described above in the preceding paragraph, the Company dedicated substantial resources to improving its controls over its accounting and financial disclosure and reporting, and the auditors have not identified material weaknesses in connection with their audit of the 2003 financial statements. In addition, the Company has devoted substantial resources towards remedying the reportable condition in relation to taxes. The Company also retained a consultant to assist in a comprehensive and detailed review of certain aspects of its tax accounting and reporting. The Company examined its financial reporting for taxes in each significant jurisdiction where the Company or one of its subsidiaries was subject to tax. As a result of this review, a number of prior period errors were identified, which are reflected in the 2003 Restatement. In addition, the Company undertook a review to evaluate certain issues that had been raised concerning the manner in which the Company determined its provision for income taxes. The Company has determined that prior to 2000 there were certain inappropriate adjustments to tax contingency reserves made for the improper purpose of recording a provision for income taxes consistent with the Companys projected effective tax rate. In addition, there may have been inappropriate adjustments in 2001 and 2002. The Company has completed a review and has not been able to determine whether or not any of the errors relating to its tax contingency reserves being corrected in the restatement are related to inappropriate accounting. In connection with the audit of the Companys consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2003, PwC has advised the Company and its Audit Committee that the reportable condition in the income tax accounting area remains, and the Company expects to complete remediation of this reportable condition by the end of 2004. The SEC and the U.S. Attorneys Office and a grand jury in the District of New Jersey are investigating the activities of the Company and certain current and former members of the Companys management in connection with the wholesaler inventory issues and other accounting issues referenced above. As part of these investigations, among other things, documents have been produced by the Company and individuals have appeared for interviews and testimony. The Company is continuing to cooperate with these investigations. The investigations could result in the assertion of civil and or criminal claims against the Company and or current and or former members of the Companys management. The Companys understanding is that the SEC, the U.S. Attorneys Office and the grand jury are investigating possible violations of the federal securities laws and other laws. The SEC has the authority to seek civil remedies and the U.S. Attorneys Office and the grand jury could bring criminal charges. In the fourth quarter of 2003, the Company established a reserve of $150 million in relation to these investigations and litigation related to the wholesaler inventory issues and other accounting issues referenced above and other matters, all as discussed in 
 
